A          DIT NUMBER 1082-IN
Development Credit Agreement
(Second Madras Urban Development Project)
between
INDIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                             , 198_


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1082-IN
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                  li >       , 1981, between
INDIA acting by its President (hereinafter called the Borrower)
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Project will be caused to be carried out by the
State of Tamil Nadu with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of
such assistance, the Borrower will make available to the State of
Tamil Nadu the proceeds of the Credit as hereinafter provided;
and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions hereinafter set forth and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith between the Association and the
State of Tamil Nadu.
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The partI.es to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Tamil Nadu" means the State of Tamil Nadu, acting
by its Governor, a State of India and any successor thereto;


﻿-2-
(b) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and Tamil Nadu of even date herewith, as the same may
be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules
to the Project Agreement and all agreements supplemental to the
Project Agreement;
(c) "Corporation" means the Madras Municipal Corporation;
(d) "SIDCO" means the Tamil Nadu Small Industries
Development Corporation;
(e) "PTC" means the Pallavan Transport Corporation;
(f) "First Credit" means the Development Credit Agreement
(Madras Urban Development Project) dated April 1, 1977, between
the Borrower and the Association;
(g) "First Project Agreement" means the Project Agreement
(Madras Urban Development Project) between the Association and
the State of Tamil Nadu dated April 1, 1977; and
(h) "MMDA" means the Madras Metropolitan Development
Authority.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to thirty-two million six hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 32,600,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Association, for
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed


﻿-3-
out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be governed by the
provisions set forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of the Project
Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 1986
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on February I and August 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each
February 1 and August 1 commencing February 1, 1991, and ending
August 1, 2030, each installment including the installment
payable on August 1, 2000, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of
1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to
be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) Without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the Borrower shall cause Tamil Nadu to perform in
accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement all the
obligations therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken
all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services
and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable Tamil Nadu
to perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be
taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such
performance.
(b) The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit
available to Tamil Nadu in accordance with the Borrower's standard
arrangements for developmental assistance to the States of India.


﻿-4-
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Association
Section 4.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) Tamil Nadu shall have failed to perform any covenant,
agreement or obligation under the Project Agreement; and
(b) an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall
make it improbable that Tamil Nadu will be able to perform its
obligations under the Project Agreement.
Section 4.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (d) thereof, namely, that any events specified in
paragraph (a) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement shall occur and
shall continue for a period of 60 days after notice thereof shall
have been given by the Association to the Borrower and Tamil
Nadu.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association, namely, that the Project Agreement
has been duly authorized or ratified by Tamil Nadu, and is legally
binding upon Tamil Nadu in accordance with its terms.
Section 5.02. The date fV'r';ti% , is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. Any Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint
Secretary, Director or Deputy Secretary to the Department of
Economic Affairs in the Ministry of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.


﻿-5-
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purpose of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Secretary to the
Government of India
Ministry of Finance
Department of Economic Affairs
Ner Delhi, India
Cable address:
ECOFAIRS
New Delhi
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INDIA
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿-6-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category                  SDR Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Equipment and                                 100% of foreign
materials:                                   expenditures and
100% of local
(a) procured                6,840,000        expenditures
through                                 (ex-factory)
international
competitive
bidding
(b) other                   1,640,000        55%
(2) Civil works                 15,120,000        55%
(3) Shelter and home
improvement loans           5,350,000        40%
and small business
loans
(4) Technical assistance         1,090,000        100%
and training
(5) Unallocated                  2,560,000
TOTAL       32,600,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for goods


﻿or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in
compliance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds
of the Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes
levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or
services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or
supply thereof; to that end, if the amount of any such taxes
levied on or in respect of any item to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit decreases or increases, the Association
may, by notice to the Borrower, increase or decrease the dis-
bursement percentage then applicable to such item as required to
be consistent with the aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the alloca!tion of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in
paragraph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated
that the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category
will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all
expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by notice
to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category, to the
extent required to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds of
the Credit which are then allocated to another Category and which
in the opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other
expenditures, and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet
the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals
under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way
restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the


﻿-8-
Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice
to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the
Association's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such
expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
Part A:   Sites and Services: (i) Development of about 15,000
residential plots on two sites totalling about 180
hectares, including provision of on-site and off-site
infrastructure, core housing, construction loans for
beneficiaries and community facilities; and (ii)
provision, on the said two sites, of about 200 plots
and about 100 sheds for small-scale enterprises, along
with loans for machinery and for shed construction.
Part B:   Slum Improvement: (i) Construction of and improvements
in, on-site and off-site infrastructure, and provision
of land tenure, home improvement loans and grants and
community facilities for about 50,000 slum households;
and (ii) provision of medical centers and of home
improvement loans and grants in slums improved under
the First Credit.
Part C:   Transport: Acquisition of about 550 buses, construction
of one depot, and provision of maintenance equipment for
PTC, construction of about 6 km of the Inner Ring Road
and general improvements to about 14 km of the Madras-
Tiruvellore Road.
Part D:   Solid Waste Management and Maintenance:  (i)  Construc-
tion of about 8 vehicle depots and a solid waste
transfer station and acquisition of vehicles and
equipment for the Corporation to allow it to improve
and test alternative systems of solid waste management
and to introduce waste disposal by sanitary landfill;
and (ii) provision of civil works and equipment to
carry out the initial recommendations of a study on
improving the infrastructure maintenance capacity of
the Corporation.
Part E:   Technical Assistance and Training:       Provision   of
technical assistance to MMDA, SIDCO, PTC, and the
Corporation for the carrying out of special studies to
identify priorities for medium and long-term investments
and for strengthening the planning and implementation
capacity of these agencies.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1985.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the    4      day of          ,
19811.
FOR SECRETARY


