Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCAuL USE ONLY
RortNa. P-3925-KO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Tv THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT E?UIVALENT TO US095 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF KOREA
FOR A
METROPOLITAN REGION WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
January 14, 1985
Thi doumDet hs a restricted distnbution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
tbftmficmil dues Its contents may not otherwise be dicosed widhou World Bank authorrizaon.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of November 1, 1984)
Currency unit    =  Won (U)
Won              =   0.00125
US$1.00          =   800 Won
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
meter (im)                           =   3.28 feet
kilometer (km)                       =   0.62 miles
square kilometer (sq km)             =   0.39 square miles
hectare (ha)                         =   10,000 square meter
cubic meter (cu m)                   =   264 US gallons
cubic meters per second (cu m/s)    =   22.82 million US gallons per day
Gigawatt hour (GWh)                  =   1 million kilowact hours (kWh)
liter (1)                            =   0.26 US gallons
liters per capita per day (Ipcd)    =   0.26 gal'.ons per capita per day
milligrams per liter (mgll)          =   parts per million (ppm)
metric ton (Mt)                      =   2,205 lb or 1 cubic meter of water
metric tons per day (mtpd)           =   2,205 lbs per day or 264 US gallons
per day
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADS            =   Asian Development Bank
DRP            =   Design Review Panel
EPB            =   Economic Planning Board
ERR            =   Economic Rate of Return
ICB            =   International Competitive Bidding
INC            =   Inter-Ministerial Committee
ISWACO             Industrial Sites and Water Resources Development
Corporation
KECC           =   Korea Engineering Consultants Corporation
KEPCO          =   Korea Electric Power Company
4MOC           =   Ministry of Construction
MOHA           =   Ministry of Home Affairs
MOHSA              Ministry of Health and Social Affairs
OOE            =   Office of the Environment
UNDP           =   United Nations Development Programme
WB             =   Water Bureau



FOR OFFICA  US ONLY
KOREA
METROPOLITAN REGION WATERK SUPPLY PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:       Republic of Korea
Beneficiary:    Industrial Sites and Water R2sources Development Corporation
(ISWACO).
Amount:         $95.0 million equivalent, incLuding the capitalized front-end
fee.
Terms:          Repayable in 15 years with 3 years of grace, at the standard
variable rate. ISWACO would bear the foreign exchange risk.
Project
Description:   The proposed project would provide 1.3 million metric tons per
day (mtpd) of water to 25 municipalities around Seoul City and
within the Metropolitan Region. This would improve water
service to about 5 million persons and provide the capacity to
serve 1.1 million additional persons by 1991.
The project would extract xater from the Han river, upstream
of Seoul, to be treated in three treatment plants before
distribution to the municipalities. The project includes two
water intakes, three booster pumping stations, two treatment
plants, some 175 km of pipes (1,000 to 2,400 mm in diameter)
and 14 km of tunnels, and construction supervision. Studies
would be carried out to improve the organization of water and
sewerage services in the Metropolitan Region, to establish
corporate planning within ISWACO and to set policies for bulk
water tariffs at a national level.
On completion of the project, assets and debt service liabili-
ties, plus a service charge of 0.05% p.a.. would be
transferred to ISUACO.
Risks:          There are no special risks in the project.  The Government has
provided assurances that complementary works necessary to
utilize the water produced by the project would be completed
before the project is commissioned in 1988
This doc_mt has a esiced dibution uad may be used by rcipents only in tb performance
or tbe offical dutiets contents my no ohewi be dbckml wibout Wo dk Bu



Project Costs:                                       Local      Foreign    Total
($7 million)
Civil Works                                      78.0        30.6     108.6
Materials and Equipment                          26.2        46.2      72.4
Land & compensation                               9.9          0        9.9
Eng. & Technical assistance                       4.5         1.2       5.7
Base cost                                     118.6       78.0-    196.6
Physical contingencies                           11.9         7.8      19.7
Price contingencies                              18.4        17.4      35.8
Total Project Cost /a                         148.9      103.2      252.1
Interest during
construction                                     -        14.0       14.0
Front-end fee                                      -         0.2        0.2
Total to be Financed                          148.9      117.4      266.3
Financing Plan:
IBRD                                               -        95.0       95.0
Government equity                               148.9       22.4      171.3
Total Financing                               148.9      117.4      266.3
Estimated
Disbursements:     Bank FY            1985   1986   1987   1988   1989   1990
Annual                              0.2   10.7   25.0   33.0   25.0    1.1
Cumulative                          0.2   10.9   35.9   68.9   93.9   95.0
Rate of Return:  14%
Staff Appraisal Report: No. 5233-KO
Map: IBRD 18420
/a   IncLuding duties and taxes estimated at $11.5 million equivalent.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE REPUBLIC OF KOREA
FOR A METROPOLITAN REGION WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
for the Metropolitan Region Water Supply Project, Republic of Korea, for the
equivalent of $95 million, including the capitalized front-end fee.  The loan
*     would have a term of 15 years, including three years of grace, and would bear
interest at the standard variable interest rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The latest Economic Report entitled "Korea's Development in a Global
Context" was distributed under cover of Sec M84-570 dated June 21, 1984. The
following summary is based on this Report. The Country Data Sheets are
attached as Annex L.
3.        Past Performance.  Twenty years ago, Korea was one of the poorest
developing countries, heavily dependent on agriculture, with a weak balance of
payments position financed aLmost entirely through foreign grants. But the
ability to sustain a growth rate of 8X p.a. from 1960 onwards raised Korea's
per capita income from $80 in 1960 to $1,700 in 1982 (both in current prices),
with more than 80% of the population above the poverty line, and enabled her
to join the ranks of the semi-industrial nations. During this period, the
share of the manufacturing sector in GNP rose from 14% to 29% whiLe the share
of agriculture fell from 39% to 17%. Merchandise exports, principally
manufactured goods, accounted for almost 41X of GNP as against a mere 4% two
decades earlier and the balance of payments position had been considerably
strengthened.
4.        Rapid industrial growth also brought about a marked shift in the
structure of employment. In the early sixties well over half the Labor force
had been employed in agriculture. By 1982, employment in this sector had
fallen to a third, while manufacturing absorbed over 22% of the employed.
Heavy migration from the rural areas to the cities combined with deliberate
Governmeht policies to improve the agricultural terms of trade 6nd a steady
increase in agricultural value added helped to ensure growth in per capita
rural incomes more or less in line with the rest of the economy through the
1970s.
5.        Adjustment to Oil Crises and Domestic Shocks, 1974-82.  Foreign
borrowing, an increase in public sector savings, and export diversification
resulting from an ambitious industrial policy enabled the country to negotiate
the first oil crisis without faltering, and thereafter, to grow by 10Z p.a.
until 1978. However. the very success of the Korean planners in stimulating
the economy generated serious infLationary pressures. Real wages rose at an
average annual rate of 182 between 1975-78, well in excess of the growth in
productivity, and by 1978 the Consumer Price Index (CPI) was increasing at



-2-
over 18Z p.a., compared to a rate of 10% in 1977. In addition, the large
volume of subsidized credit which was made available to the heavy and chemical
industries by the financial system under the Government's direction, brought
about an excessive expansion of capacity in subsectors faced with weak demand
while the traditional light industries were frequently starved of funds. This
trend was in line with the Government's view of Korea's chan-ing comparative
advantage, but it created structural imbalances in the manufacturing sector
and in conjunction with exchange rate rigidity and a rising price level.
dampened export growth in the latter part of the 1970s.
6.        The Government announced, in April 1979, a far reaching program of
stabilization-cum-restructuring to contain price pressures and revive exports,
but it was overtaken by a series of unexpected shocks. The oil price adjust-
ment by OPEC raised Korea's petroleum import bill from about $2.3 billion in
1978 to $6.2 billion in 1980 with the price-induced increase equal to nearly
62 of GNP in 1980. In October 1979. President Park Chung Hee, the chief
architect of Korea's "economic miracLe" since the mid-sixties, was assassina-
ted. This was followed by a period of the severest politicaL uncertainty and
social unrest in twenty years, with the situation returning to normaL only
after a new Administration under President Chun Doo Hwan was installed in
September 1980. On top of these developments, unfavorable weather reduced
agricultural output by about 22 in 1980, or over 4Z of GNP, and a 202 decline
in investment led to a worsening of deflationary pressures that outweighs the
10Z growth of export volume. As a result, GNP fell by 6.22 in 1980,
unenoloyment increased to 5.22 from 3.22 in 1978 and the higher costs of fuel,
raw materials and foodstuffs pushed up consumer prices by 292.
7.        To stabilize the economy and promote external adjustment, the
Government attempted, with some success, to restrain wages. It aLso adopted a
system of managed float, as a consequence of which the effective exchange rate
was cut by 302 in 1980. Improved competitiveness and weak domestic demand
allowed export volume to increase by 102 in 1980 and a further 17X in 1981.
This sizeable expansion in trade brought about a narrowing of the current
account deficit from $5.3 billion in 1980 (9.4Z of GNP) to $4.6 billion (7.4Z
of GNP) in 1981. Meanwhile a 0.32 cut in real wages foLlowing on the heels of
a 52 drop in the previous year, together with some levelling off of import
prices, led to an easing of inflationary pressures. These favorable develop-
ments continued through 1982, a year which saw inflation declining to 7.3Z and
the payments deficit to 3.92 of GNP, largely because of movements in the terms
of trade favoring Korea, modest success on the wages front and rather more
conservative fiscal and monetary policies.
8.        While these changes in key macroeconomic indicators offered hearten-
ing evidence of progress with adjustment, growth in 1982 (5.32) was appreci-
ably below expectations, as consumer and investment demand increased only
moderately, and the 62 rise in exports came largely from a surge in sales of
ships. Hence, in the first half of L983 the Government moved to stimulate
domestic economic activity by concentrating a larger proportion of the total
budgeted public expenditure in the earlier part of the year. This served to
stimulate construction activities in. the public sector, but the expectations
generated by the Government's counter cycLical action together with the pros-
pects of a revival in international demand, also triggered a boom in the
.~~~ c                             _



-3-
private housing and real estate markers, and in the industries supplying
inputs for construction activities. The recovery in export demand for
electronics, machinery and transport subsectors from about the middle of 1983
helped to sustain the tempo of economic activity through the last two quarters
with the result that GNP grew by over 9%.
9.        Medium-Term Prospects.  As was the case during the 1970s. Korea's
rate of growth during the 1980s will be determined largely by the performance
of exports on the one b-and and savings on the other. The revised version of
the Fifth Plan aims for a growth rate target of 7.5% which is to be achieved
via an export growth rate of 10% and a national savings rate of 29%. All this
is to be accomplished in an environment of stable prices and equilibrium in
the balance of payments. The proposed targets are ambitious and the self-
imposed constraints are tight. Hence. careful macroeconomic management wiLl
be required over the next few years.
10.       Export performance over the last-eighteen months has been very
encouraging. Merchandise exports grew by 12% auring 1983 and present indica-
tions are that this rate has been surpassed in the first half of 1984.
However, this performance has been tied largely to the U.S. economic recovery
and the continued strength of the U.S. dollar. Exports to the U.S. grew by
32.1% in 1983 while exports to the European countries rose only 6.9% and to
Japan only 0.5%. Theref_-.e, if the U.S. recovery falters, or if protectionist
sentiment increases, it is very likely that Korea's exports will grow more
slowly and the pace of GNP growth slacken. Korea is aiming to soften the
impact of such eventualities by investing in domestic R&D an- in upgrading the
skills of its labor Eorce so as to be able to diversify its export base.
11.       National savings are being promoted partly through a process of
financial liberalization which raised real rates of interest for depositors of
up to 5% in 1983, partly through budget surpluses arising from restrained
government expenditure and partly through measures to increase efficiency in
public sector activities. The savings rate stood at 24.4% in 1983, up from a
recent Low of 21.9Z in 1980. However, a savings rate of 29% and a level of
fixed investment of about 31% will be needed if growth is to be maintained at
7.5% without pressure on the balance of payments. On the basis of past
aggregate savings performance, it is likely that the Koreans will attain their
savings target. However. the process may be more difficult in the future than
it has been i'; the past.  There has been a marked shift up in the demand for
consumer durables in recent years.   While the burden of increasing savings
will largely be met by private savings as a resuLt of rising income and profit
levels, Government is also taking action to raise further the contribution of
the public sector to savings.
12.       Korea has adopted price stability as a major objective in recent
years and has sought it through restrictive fiscaL and monetary policies.
Money supply growth has been restricted to around 12% over 1983 and all
indications are that the restraint wilL continue over the next few years. So
far, the measures adopted seem to have been successful. Consumer prices rose
by only 3.4% in 1983 as compared to 7.2% in 1982 and 18% in 1979. Preliminary
results suggest that 1984 will be a year of low inflation as well. Korea's
ability to maintain a low rate of inflation in future years wiLl depend upon



-4-
its ability to sustain sound fiscal anc monetary policies and to keep wages
from outpacing the growth of productivity.
13.       External Resource Balance.  While total debt is high ($40.4 billion
in 1983, 54% of GNP), the debt service ratio, including interest on short-term
debt, remains a manageable 20%. The share of short-term maturities in total
debt is, however, high (at 35%), and is a cause for concern. This aspect of
its debt and the continuing uncertainty in international financial markets,
which has led to high and volatile interest rates, has persuaded the Koreans
to hold their new foreign borrowing at about $6 billion per annum through 1986
and to seek balance of payments current account equilibrium by then. Our
assessment is that this level of borrowing is reasonable, and that while a
significant proportion of official assistance should be continued, Korea is
likely to move increasingly towards reliance on private flows to meet external
capital requirements. This assessment was endorsed recently by the
Consultative Group for Korea which met on July 16, 1984 in SeouL. At that
meeting, the Consulta:ive Group, recognizing the rapidly evolving character of
Korea's economy and the trends in external assistance, concluded that its role
as a forum for aid coordination and enhanced mobilization of external capital
is now being fulfilled by Government. Accordingly, it was agreed that the
Group should be formally dissolved. Nevertheless, the Government explicitly
indicated its need and its intention to continue with a substantial program of
borrowing from the Bank and its wish to continue with an active economic
dialogue that would provide a vehicle for continued advice on matters of
economic policy.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
14.       As of September 30, 1984, Korea had received 73 Bank loans (includ-
ing one Third Window Loan) and 8 IDA Credits, totalling $5,170.88 million in
loans and $115.58 million in credits (taking into account cancellations and
the refinancing of one IDA Credit in a subsequent Bank loan). As of that
date, $1,261.23 million remained undisbursed on effective loans, mostly from
commitments in the past two years. Annex II contains a list of outstanding
Bank loans, IDA Credits, and IFC Investments as of September 30, 1984.
Progress on project impLementation is generally satisfactory. Although
implementation delays had occurred in several projects - mainly irrigation,
highways and population - due primarily to shortfalls in Government budgetary
contributions resulting from cost overruns during a period of high domestic
inflation, they have been addressed and resolved. The Government has taken
measures to increase local funding of Bank-financed projects. However, &. the
Covernment's budgetary situation continues to be tight, the status and plans
for counterpart contributions will remain an integral part of country
impLementation reviews held jointly with the Government. Nevertheless,
despite the recent delays, Korea's disbursement rate remains the highest among
major gank borrowers in East Asia.
15.       The current pipeline of projects in the lending program for Korea
reflects an evolution in the Bank's strategy from lending for discrete
,,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ _



-5-
projects concerned with micro-institutional issues increasingly to making sec-
tor loans which are aimed at addressing broad-based policy and institutionaL
issues. This gradual change in the Bank's lending approach, made possible by
the relatively sophisticated Korean institutinns, is working well. Sector
loans have already been made for Highways, EduLation and IndustriaL Finance
and others are under preparations The Bank has also made two StructuraL
Adjustment Loans (SALs), which complement this approach by concentrating on
issues that have macro and multi-sectoral impact.
16.       Bank lending for the industrial sector is aimed at helping improve
Korea's trade and industrial incentives policies, at improving the performance
of the financial system and at developing the technological capabilities of
*      Korean enterprises.  So far trade and incentives issues have been addressed
through two SALs. Issues pertaining to the strengthening of the financiaL
system are being addressed under the Bank's lending for industrial finance.
For example, the Industrial Finance project approved by the Board in June 1983
supports the Government's ongoing program'of financial sector reform. The
Bank's technology enhancement objectives are being pursued through two proj-
ects approved in 1982, one for the Korea Technology Development Corporation
(KTDC) which finances research, development and engineering and the other for
the machinery industries which is designed to provide financial and technical
assistance to raise the productivity of small and medium machinery firms.
Future Lending planned for industry in Korea would include continued support
for the financial sector -eform, for KTDC and for the small and medium-
industry subsector which is expected to play an important role in the growth
of the skill-intensive industries which are crucial to the next stage of
development of Korean industry.
17.       Future Bank lending for agriculture is expected to be limited
reflecting the completion of major infrastructure works. A planned fourth
credit Loan would address a number of policy and institutional issues related
to Korean agriculture which have been defined in a sector survey. This would
complement public finance issues relaLed to farm subsidies and the restructur-
ing of agro-industries that were included in the second SA..
18.       The Bank has played a major role in assisting the Government to
modernize and expand the transport system through lending for the railroad,
highway construction and improvement, and port expansion.  The Highway Sector
loan approved in March 1984 as well as future operations would address
sectoral and subsectoral issues such as improving the integration of invest-
ment planning, energy conservation and transport efficiency related to
regulation and road user charges. Those transport issues which involve
macroeconomic policies affecting other sectors of the economy, such as
relative fuel prices, are being handled within the context of the second SAL.
19.       TIe Bank Group has been involved in helping to meet the requirements
for skilled technical manpower, a precondition of up-market industrial diver-
sification. The Bank's first sector loan for education, approved in 1980, was
aimed at improving engineering and management education and technician train-
ing. A second sector loan, approved in May 1984, will support measures
designed to improve qualitative aspects of secondary and higher level science
and technology education.



6-
20.       The Bank's recent lending in the urban sector invoLves support for
three regional development projects, two low-income housing projects and two
water suppLy projects. The Bank is assisting Korea to increase the availabil-
ity of basic services such as housing, water supply under the proposed
project, and transportation in the cities. New projects in urban transport,
local government finance and water supply are under preparation. Continuation
of the policy improvement and institution-building efforts initiated under
ongoing projects is planned by moving gradually to a sector approach.
PART III - WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION SECTOR
21.       Country Background.  Korea's population in 1983 was 40 million.
Its population density of almost 400 persons/sq km is one of the highest in
the world; it is also one of the most urbanized of the developing countries.
The overall population growth rate has decreased from 3X in 1960 to about 1.5Z
at present. The urban population in the 187 largest municipalities, which
represents 60% of the total. has been increasing by 5% p.a. or about three
times the estimated growth rate of the total population. By the end of the
certury, the population Living in municipalities of more than 50,000
inhabitants is expected to include about 80Z ef the total popuLation. This
rapid urbanization, equivalent to doubling the urban population every
14 years, has stretched all urban services, especially water supply. Coupled
with accelerated industrial growth and the relatively low priority given to
the sector earlier, this has resulted in a decline in the quality of the
environment and water shortages with rationing in many cities. Since the
1970s, the Government has given increased priority to social services, which
has resulted in significant improvements in the water supply and sanitation
sectors and contributed to improvements in public health. Waterborne diseases
have declined steadily since 1971. The crude death rate declined from 13 to 7
per thousand persons between 1960-81, while life expectancy increased from 53
to 66 years in this period.
22.       Sector Organization.  There is no single agency in charge of overall
planning and programming of the sector. At the central Covernment level, four
Ministries are directly involved in the sector with some overlapping responsi-
bilities . The Ministry of Construction (MOC), the main agency for the
sector, through its Water Resources and Urban PLanning Bureaus, is responsible
for the planning, design and construction of major water and sewerage works
and for collecting hydrological data, issuing licenses for abstraction uf
water from the major rivers and planning multipurpose dams. The Industrial
Sites and Water Resources Development Corporation (ISWACO), a semi-autonomous
public corporation under MOC, is responsible for the operation of bulk water
systems serving groups of municipalities and for the development of multi-
purpose dams. The Ministry of Home Affairs (MOHA), through its Local Finance
Bureau, oversees the operation of municipal Water Bureaus (WBs), including the
approval of bonds, Loans, tariffs and the expansioh of distribution and
storage facilities. The WBs are semi-autonomous organizations, responsible
for the design, construction and operation of water works under the municipal
governments. They maintain separate budgets and accounts. The Ministry of
Health and Social Affairs (MOHSA) is responsible for setting standards and



-7-
quality control of drinking water and for implementing ruraL water supply
programs. The Office of the Environment (OOK), under MOHSA, sets standards
for pollution control and regulates and coordinates pollution control activi-
ties. The OOE also has to approve, under powers vested in it by the
Environmental Preservation Law, projects which have an important impact on the
environment. Finally, the Economic Planning Board (EPB) sets guidelines for
tariff increases through its Price Policy Bureau and aLlocates counterpart
funds for MOC's foreign funded projects.
23.       Sector Financing and Tariffs.  Investments in production and distri-
bution of bulk water supplies to municipalities under regional arrangements
are financed from MOC budgets and foreign loans. Such projects after
completion are handed over to ISWACO for operation and maintenance and ISWACO
also assumes the corresponding debt service. ISWACO bulk water tariffs are
approved by MOC and EPB and are the same country-wide. About 25-40% of the
investments by municipaL WBs are financed by funds budgeted by MOC, and provi-
ded to the WBs as Loans, at commercial rates, through the Korea Development
Bank. The balance of investment funds required is provided by the WB's
internal generation (15-35%), by sales of municipal bonds (20-40Z), and
foreign loans. MOHA approves water tariffs set by the municipalities, which
in general cover the costs of operation, debt service and some contribution rt
capital investment. EPB provides guidelines for maximum annual tariff
increases which reflect macroeconomic policies. In the rural sector, a
successful rural water supply program, scheduled for completion in 1986, is
being implemented with the provincial governments, the villages and MOHSA each
financing one third of the costs. Sewerage is financed from municipal
revenues and Government and foreign loans. Sewerage tariffs are presently
levied in the three largest cities with all cities scheduled to start levying
sewerage tariffs, varying from 20-50% of water tariffs, from 1985.
24.       Service Levels.. About 55% of Korea's population was served by piped
water in 1980, compared with 33Z in 1970 and 17% in 1960. Service levels are
better in larger cities, where high population densities and polluted aquifers
leave no alternative to publicly supplied water. However, many municipaLities
suffer from restricted supply, water rationing and frequent low pressure. The
quality of treated water is uneven. Water produced by municipal systems
averages about 260 liters per capita per day (Ipcd), of which about half is
for industrial, commerciaL and government consumption. In an effort to reduce
water losses, many municipalities are now implementing leak detection and
control programs, supported through two ongoing Bank-financed projects (para.
29), including rehabilitation of oLder distribution networks.
25.       Only 8% of the population are connected to sewerage systems with
sewage treatment. The rest use septic tanks and night soil collection sys-
tems. Most of the wastewater from residential and industrial premises is dis-
charged untreated or partially treated into street drains. This, combined
with high leakage and the possibility of infiltration, exposes distribution
systems to the risk of contamination. Increased emphasis is now being given
to sewerage and waste disposal (paras. 26 and 52) which is resulting in some
improvements. Seoul and Busan, the two largest cities, and several other
municipalities have established combined sewerage systems and night soil
treatment plants serving about one third of their populations. The OOE and



-8-
the municipalities are also enforcing pollution control measures on industry
and commerce in an effort to improve the quality of receiving waters and to
clean up the environment.
26.       Sector Development.  Sector investment in 1983 prices increased from
$218 million in the Third Plan (1972-76), to $530 million in the Fourth Plan
(1977-81) and is forecast to reach $1,442 million for the Fifth Plan (1982-
86), with about haLf being Government expenditures. Government objectives
*       during the Fifth Plan include preservation of water quality, replacement of
obsoLete equipment, and expansion and construction of new sewerage and water
suppLy systems and treatment plants.  The target for 1986 is to increase the
population served by piprd water from 55Z to 70X. Given the high rate of
urban population growth, maintaining even the present coverage requires sub-
stantiaL investments. The Fifth Plan provides for a number of environmental
pollution abatement measures including an Environmental Master Plan Study of
the Han River Basin (completed in 1984), expansion of combined sewerage sys-
tems and the building of night soil and sewage treatment plants in some
100 cities and towns. Government plans to increase the percentage of popula-
tion served by sewage treatment plants from 8Z to 35Z and sewage treatment
capacity from 0.5 million metric tons per day (mtpd) to 8 million mtpd during
the period 1980-1991.
27.       Sectoral Issues and Constraints.  The main sectoral issues, on which
a dialogue has been established with the Government, are summarized below:
(a)  Financial.  A. present Korea does not have a well-developed system
for mobiLizing and ailocating resources to the sector. Although water supply
projects require lengthy construction periods and do not reach their full
capacity until several years after commissioning, the investment funds avail-
able to most municipalities are short-term bonds, internal cash generation and
annually approved government contributions. This results in project invest-
ments with relatively short design horizons being favored, while high priority
and more cost-effective, but longer-term investments are delayed for many
years. This could be improved with the establishment of financial mechanisms
that would give Water Bureaus access to longer-term finance. The lack of
financiaL criteria for setting WBs' tariffs and ISWACO's bulk water tariffs
also creates uncertainty about their capacity to assume debt service
liabilities and finance long-term project investments. Some projects are
financed by grants from Government even when they could generate sufficient
revenues to service debts. ISWACO's bulk water tariffs for treated and raw
water have a national impact and affect many municipalities. Assurances were
obtained during negotiations that a country-wide study of the bulk water
tariff policy for raw and treated water would be undertaken by ISWACO, in
consultation with the Bank, and presented to the Bank for comments not later
than June 30, 1986 (Section 2.06 of the draft Project Agreement). This study
would be implemented and financed by ISWACO in coordination with EPB and MOC.
(b) Deficient Organization of Inter-urban Areas. The WBs are generally
well operated and maintained. However, municipal water systems are indepen-
dently planned and operated even after growth has resulted in several conti-
guous municipalities becoming physically integrated. The main problem in this
regard is in the Metropolitan Region (para. 32). The Bank has advocated the



-9-
establishment of a better organization (for example a Water Authority), for
the Metropolitan Region. This would increase service efficiency, eliminate
unfairness in the access to water or sewerage services, eliminate duplication
of investments and reduce dependence on Government grants. An initiative has
already been taken by MORA which has engaged the Korea Public Administration
Research Institute to prepare a -feasibility study of the organization of water
supply services country-wide. including the Metropolitan Region.  This study
would review the feasibility of establishing a Water Authority for this
Region. After the feasibility study is completed in 1986: it would be sub-
mitted to the concerned Ministries and to the Bank for discussion.  The
reorganization of water and sewerage services is a sensitive political issue,
particularly for the largest municipalities in the Regica.  Quick decisions
and changes should not therefore be expected. MOHA would, after consensus had
been reached, have to undertake a detailed study to implement the conclusions
of the feasibility study for the Metropolitan Region. Terms of reference for
these studies have been discussed with the Bank and assurances have been
obtained that these studies would be compteted and would be made evailable to
the Bank for comments not later than December 31, 1986.
(c) Fragmentation of Responsibilities. The fragmentation of responsi-
bilities among four Ministries has resulted in a lack of coordinat,on in
sector planning, leading to a duplication of efforts in certain areas and the
neglect of other activities. This also results in difficulties in preparing
or financing projects, and in imbalances between the expansion of production
capacity and the construction of distribution facilities. An Inter-
Ministerial Committee (INC) was established under Loan 2072-KO to discuss
these problems and improve coordination gradually (para. 30). It is expecredi
that the work of IMC will be strengthened after the recent decision to include
EPB in its deliberations.
(d) Scarce Water Resources. A major difference between Korea and many
other countries is the lack of adequate water sources. Per capita surface
water runoff is only about 40% and 12Z of the respective values in Japan and
the United States. Since two thirds of che annual precipitation of 1,160 mm
occurs during the rainy season from July to September, increased water demand
requires the construction of multipurpose dams to store water and regional
water transmission systems. These regional systems require long transmission
pipelines and expensive pumping. The cost of these regional systems is also
increasing rapidly due to the shortage of suitable dam sites, increasing land
compensation costs, and long transmission pipelines. It is now very important
therefore to improve the planning and utilization of water resources,
especially for the four largest river basins - Han, Nagdong, Geum and Yongsan
- which contain 70% of the industry and urban population of Korea. These
plans would include the implementation of water conservation programs in the
municipalities, master plans for and controls over the allocation and use of
water in the rivers and adequate pricing policies, close to the marginal cost,
to discourage water wastage and help curtail water demand.
(e) Independent Water and Sewerage Organizations. Both at thet centra;
level in MOC, and at the municipal level, the responsibility..for water and
sewerage rests with two separate Bureaus. Increasing urban population and
density, higher water consumption, and industrialization now require a large



- 10 -
effort to improve sewerage services and reduce pollution. A better inte-
gration and planning of the two services has been recommended to the INC.
Specific proposals by MOC and MfOHA to achieve this are presently under
consideration by Government.
(f) Air and Water Pollution. -High population density, increased owner-
ship of vehicles, the use of coal for heating and especially the wastes gener-
ated by Korea's rapid industrialization result in a deterioration of air and
water quality. The Government enacted the Environmental Preservation Law in
1981 and the OOE and the municipalities are starting countrywide programs for
sewage treatment and control of industrial air and water pollution.
28.       Bank Objectives and Lending in the Sector.  The Bank's objectives in
the sector are to: (a) promote adequate and reliable water and sanitation
services and improved environmental conditions; (b) ensure that the benefits
of water and sanitation reach the poor, by the extension of the coverage for
these services and the implemmentation of affordable tariffs; (c) help
strengthen sector institutions and improve their coordination; (d) develop a
solid financial basis for the sector, including co;t recovery through better
pricing policies and access to-long-term financing; and (e) optimize and
improve the efficiency of the use of water resources. The Bank liaises
closely with other international agencies supporting this sector, in partic-
ular with ADS (which is financing several sewerage works and some water supply
works); OEC-F (which is financing sewage treatment plants); and UNDP (which is
assisting in pollution control programs).
29.       Direct Bank involvement with the water supply sector in Korea is
very recent. The First Water Supply Project (Loan 2072-KO, approved in 1981),
is financ.'g the expansion of the water supply systems in five cities (Daegu,
Gwangju, Masan, Changweon and Jinhae). The project is being executed
smoothly, and four cities have already completed their works. MOC has, based
on information available on manpower in the water sector and on training
needs, prepared a training program to be implemented in 1985-86. Additional
training programs for the sector will be based on further studies envisaged
under the current ADE-financed Small Towns Water Supply Project. The Second
Water Supply Project (Loan 2350-KO, approved in October 1983), is aimed at
increasing water availability for municipalities in the Nagdong basin and is
progressing satisfactorily. Both of these projects have contributed
significantly to strengthening sector institutions and are addressing some of
the key constraints in the sector development discussed in the previous
paragraph.  Programs to introduce accrual accounting using microcomputers. and
to apply appropriate leakage control technology for WBs are being implemented
under Loan 2350-KO. A study for the establishment of an Urban Fund to finance
urban development including municipal water supply projects is being prepared
under the Jeonju Regional Project (Loan 2388-KO approved in 1984).
30.       As part of the sector dialogue and at the request of the Government,
the Bank prepared, in late 1983, a paper providing recommendations to improve
sector coordination which is being discussed by the IMC established under the
First Water Supply Project.  This is a complex issue that,will take time to
resolve. The proposed project would also allow the continuation of this
dialogue with Government and the main sector institutions and the gradual
implementation of sector reforms.



- 11 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
31.       Project origin and Formulation.  The proposed project is an impor-
tant part of Government plans to upgrade and expand water services. The proj-
ect was first identified in 1981 during the preparation of the First Water
Supply Project (Loan. 2072-KO). The feasibilitv studv was financed by that
loan and completed in 1983. recommended the construction of a raw water -
transmission system with individual municipalities constructing and'operati-ng
their own treatment facilities. This foll)wed traditional practices adopted
for two previous bulk water systems in the Region.  The Bank, however,
recommended the construction of a mainly treated water system, with only three
jointly operated treatmeat pLants, providing water to groups of municipalities
because such a svstem would be more economical to build and operate. and wouLd
lay the foundation for development of an integrated regional water system.
After excensive discussions, the Government accepted the Bank's
recommendations, which now form the basis for the proposed project. The
proposed project now excludes Seoul City which is constructing on its own
account additional water systems, which would satisfy economically its water
demand until the mid-1990's. The Project was appraised in June-July 1984.
Negotiations were held in Washington from October 1-4. 1984. The Korean
delegation was led by Mr. Choi Myong-Kon, Director, Economic Cooperation
Division* Ministry of Finance. The Staff Appraisal Report (No. 5233-KO) is
being distributed separately. A supplemental project data sheet, including a
time table of key events and a summary of special conditions, is attached as
Annex III.
32.       Project Area and Demand.  The proposed project would serve 25 muni-
cipalities in the Metropolitan Region. The population growth in the Region
has been high, averaging about 5Z p.a. over the last 20 years, or more than
twice the-country's population growth during this period. Several municipal-
ities included in the project are experiencing rates of growth in excess of
10% p.a. Water sho-tages, low pressures and rationing are being experienced
by most of the project municipalities. Given the population and industrial
growth of the Region, these water shortages wouLd continue to increase until
the project is completed.  The water demand in the 25 municipalities is
projected to increase from 0.7 million mtpd in 1983, to 1.2 million mtpd in
1988 and 1.7 million mtpd in 1991. These projections include about 0.3
million mtpd for three new industrial development zones which have priority
within the Government's development plans. Average water consumption,
presently 173 lpcd, is expected to increase to 230 lpcd by 1996 for the larger
cities, and 180 lpcd for smaller municipalities because of industriaL and
commercial demand, higher standards of living and the increase in the use of
water consuming househoLd appliances.
33.       Project Objectives.  The project is an integrated solution for the
water needs of municipalities within the Region which do not have other
sources.  The objectives of the ;rojecr are to:



- 12 -
(a) relieve water shortages and expand the water supply to satisfy the
residential and industrial needs of 25 municipalities in the
Metropolitan Region, thus improving services to 5 million persons
and providing bulk water for 1.1 million additional persons by 1991;
(b)  establish the basis £pr an integrated, treated water system;
(c) improve the efficiency of water services in the Metropolitan Region;
and
(d) strengthen the organization of ISWACO, and provide a more rational
policy and criteria for nationvide tariffs for raw and treated bulk
water supply.
Bank involvement in this project has already resulted in the adoption of a
more economic and better technical alternative for a major capital invest-
ment. The project would lay the physicat and institutional basis for devel-
oping an integrated metropolitan system. It would also provide a vehicle for
a continued dialogue with key Ministries to -improve sector coordination and
efficiency.
34.       Project Description.  The proposed project, the third bulk water
supply system in the Metropolitan Region, vould extract water from the ban
River, which would, upon completion in 1985 of the Chungju Dam, have suffi-
cient water to satisfy demand at least up to the year.2000. The proposed
project would provide 1.3 million mtpd of water to 25 municipalities around
Seoul City and within the Metropolitan Region (MEap IBRD 18420). The Project
includes the constructing and equipping of:
Ca) a main water intake and pumping station for 1,200,000 stpd at
Paldang, water transmission pipelines about 11 km long and 2,200 m
in diameter, and three tunnels 6.5 km long and 3,800 m in diameter,
delivering water to three water systems described in (b) to (d)
below;
(b) the Incheon water system serving five municipalities to the west,
including a booster pumping station 560,000 mtpd capacity, water
transmission pipelines 29 km long and 2,400 mm to 1,650 m  in
diameter, and three tunnels 6.5 km loug and 3,000 m  in diameter
(the treatment plant for this system would be built, owned and
operated by these municipalities);
(c) the Seongnam treated water system serving ten.municipalities to the
south and including a water treatment plant of 425,000 mtpd
capacity, a booster pump station, and a treated water transmission
pipeline about 48 km long and 1,800 mm to 1,350 m  in diameter;
(d) about 215,000 mtpd raw water supply to three municipalities and the
new Banweol development area;
(e) the Euijeongbu treated water syscem serving six municipalities to
the north and including an independent water intake from the Han
_ 



- 13 -
River, a water treatment plant of 100,000 mtpd capacity, a booster
pumping station; a treated water transmission pipeline about 24 km
long and 1,100 mm to 900 mm in diameter and a tunnel 1.0 km long and
2,200 mm in diameter; and
(f) technical assistance for Project construction, design, supervision
and management.
During project execution, studies would be carried out to:
(a) improve the organization of water and sewerage services in the
Metropolitan Region; (b) establish corporate planning within ISWACO; and
(c) set policies for bulk water tariffs at a national level
35.       Complementary Works.  Six project cities, (Incheon, Seongnam,
Suweon, Banweol, Bucheon and Gwangmyeong), and the Pyengtaek development area,
would use about 80Z of the water supplied by the Project. These cities, with
consultant support, are preparing Master Plans and staged programs for
improvements and expansions of existing distribution systems. Incheon,
Bucheon and Gwangmyeong would construct a jointly owned treatment plant with
ADS financing. Other beneficiary municipalities in the Region have also
prepared feasibility studies to utilize the water supplied by the project.
These expansion programs are being coordinated by MOHA and will cost about W
95 billion, financed from internal revenues, bonds and loans. Distribution
expansions and treatment plants have been implemented satisfactorily in the
previous two bulk water supply systems, with the water capacity provided being
fully utilized in less than four years. Assurances were obtained from the
GoveOrnment during loan negotiations that not later than December 31, 1988:
(a) Incheon, Bucheon and Gwangmyeong would complete the construction of a
jointly owned treatment plant; and (b) all project municipalities coordinated
by MOHA, would expand their distribution systems, to use the water supplied by
the project (Section 3.06 of the Loan Agreement).
36.       Implementation.  The project will be implemented by a Project Unit
already designated for this purpose under MOC's Seoul Regional Construction
and Management Agency and would be coordinated by MOC's Director General,
Water Resources Bureau who would also provide liaison with the Bank. HOC has
considerable experience in implementing large foreign assisted projects.
37.       The project is in an advanced stage of preparation, bidding docu-
ments for two of the four major contract packages are complete and the remain-
der would be completed before June 1985. The project would be implemented
between August 1984 and December 1988. The first contract, for which bidding
documents were reviewed by the Bank, was awarded in November 1984, following
ICB procedures. Land acquisition and compensation are proceeding satisfac-
torily. The Project Unit, with consultants' support, would be responsible for
construction supervision. The bulk water tariff study and ISWACO's financial
management study would be financed and implemented by ISWACO through local
consultants. The study for implementing the reorganization of water and
sewerage services in the Metropolitan Region would be financed and undertaken
by MOHA with the assistance of the Korea Public Administration Research
Institute. The municipaLities, with MOHA support, would implement their



- 14 -
complementary distribution works with the assistance of local consultants.
Consultants for construction supervision and and adequate initial staffing for
the Project Unit have been mobilized.
38.       About 30 man-months of foreign consultants, and about 52L' man-month
of local consulants' assistance would be provided for construction supervi-
sion. MOC has appointed an expert Design Review Panel (DRP) to review designs
and advise on technical problems encountered in the project. The panel ==n-
sists of a water supply design expert and a pipeline engineering expert. The
DRP has reviewed the feasibility studies and preliminary designs. Their
recommendations have been incorporated in the final designs. ISWACO will
participate in the review of final designs and operational arrangements.
39.       Project Cost.  The cost of the project, including physical and price
contingencies, is estimated at $252.1 million of which $103.2 million (or
about 41%) is the foreign exchange component. Taxes and duties are estimated
at about $11.5 million equivalent. The base cost is expressed in January 1985
prices. The project cost estimates are based on detailed designs MOC's
annually updated rates and prices for estimating similar works and bid prices
for the first contract award. The studies on Bulk Water Tariffs and the-
organization of the Metropolitan water supply systems are being financed
locally. Physical contingencies have been estimated at IOZ of total base
costs. Expected price increases over the project period amount to 17% of
total base costs plus physical contingencies. Price increases for foreign
costs were estimated at 8Z for 1985 and 9Z for 1986-88. Government efforts to
curtail inflation are likely to hold local inflation somewhat below these
levels and price increases for local costs were estimated at 2.5% for 1985 and
5.5% for 1986-88. For the calculation of price contingencies, it is assumed
that exchange rate adjustments will, on the average, maintain "purchasing
power parity" during the project implementation period.
Financing Plan
40.       The proposed Bank loan of $95.0 million would finance 39.5Z of total
project costs excluding taxes, or 35.7Z of the gross costs of $266.3 million,
including interest during construction. Government equity would finance
$171.3 million (64%). The front-end fee would be capitalized. The financing
plan was reviewed during loan negotiations and Government contributions were
confirmed. On project completion, all project assets and debt service liabil-
ities would be transferred to ISWACO (Section 3.07 of the draft Loan Agree-
ment).
41.       Procurement and Disbursement.  All civil works and equipment for the
project, estimated at about $142 million and $92 million respectively, will be
procured through ICB following Bank guidelines. However, a provision has been
made that urgently needed goods, as agreed with the Bank, estimated to cost
the equivalent of $0.25 million per contract, aggregating not more than $5.0
million equivalent, may be procured by local competitive bidding. The con-
tract packaging for the project ensures efficient project implementation.
Advance contracting has been included at the Government's risk given the
urgency to start construction of the water intake during the 1984 dry season,
and to avoid delay in project completion. The proceeds of the loan would be



- 15 -
disbursed against: (a) 40X of the total expenditures for civil works; (b)
100% of the foreign expenditures and 10OZ of ex-factory local expenditures for
equipment and materials; and (c) 55Z of the cost of consulting services. Dis-
bursements under contracts for equipment and materials costing $100,000
equivalent or less each will be made on the basis of statements of expendi-
ture. A Special Account of $1.$ million will be established to facilitate
loan disbursements against eligible expenditures incurred. Given the advanced
stage of project preparation, scheduling of construction and Government prior-
ity to complete the project before end-1988, disbursements of the proposed
loan are expected to take 4.5 years, somewhat faster than the average time
indicated by the country disbursement profile, but in line with the experience
of the First Water Supply Project.. The Closing Date would be December 31,
1989.
42.       Financial Performance.  ISWACO's main source of revenue is the sale
of water to municipaLities by its Water Division and of power to the Korea
Electric Power Company (KEPCO) by its Dasis-Divisions. It also receives reve-
nues from the sale, at cost, of industrial sites. Assurances were received at
negotiations that both the Water Division and the Dams Division of ISWACO
would raise sufficient revenues to cover the costs of operation, maintenance,
administration, depreciation and taxes and also to provide a minimum rate of
return on revalued assets of 4% in 1985 and 5% thereafter (Sections 4.03 and
4.04 of the draft Project Agreement). This rate of return would permit some
15% of ISWACO's huge investments to be financed from internal resources in the
period 1985-88. To further protect the financial position of ISWACO, assur-
ances were also received at negotiations that ISWACO would manage its debt
position so as to ensure that its projected debt service coverage does not
fall below 1.3 (Section 4.05 of the draft Project Agreement). It was further
agreed that: i) ISWACO's future investment plans, including five-year projec-
tions would be furnished to the Bank every year; and ii) a financial monitor-
ing system would be established for both the Water and Dams Divisions and that
financial monitoring indicators would be furnished to the Bank semi-annually
(Sections 4.06 and 4.07, respectively, of the draft Project Agreement).
43.       The cash position of ISWACO is satisfactory but, in 1984, it is
estimated that the rate of return on revalued assets for both the Water and
the Dams Divisions was about 2.7%, thereby falling short of the 4% rate of
return convenanted under the second water supply project (Loan 2350-KO).  The
shortfall reflects an adjustment probLem during this first year. When the
problem came to the attention of ISWACO, bulk water tariffs were raised by 10%
which is sufficient to ensure that the Water Division will be in compliance
with the rate of return covenant in 1985.
44.       In the case of the Dams Division, the shortfall in the rate of
return for 1984 was caused, in large measure, by an uncommonly large revalua-
tion of assets which had doubled the value of assets in the previous year. In
that context it was difficult to achieve a 4% rate of return on revalued
assets even though bulk power tariffs were 72% above their 1982 levels. In
1985, however, a major new source of hydro-power (the Chungju dam) will come
on stream and this is projected to increase the revenues of the Dams Division
sufficiently to achieve the convenanted 4% rate of return on revalued assets
in 1985. Beyond 1985, the tariff increases needed to maintain compliance with



- 16 -
tUe rate of return convenant are within the reasonable ability of the Govern-
ment to implement.
45.       The organization of ISWACO would also be strengthened through
financial management studies. Assurances were obtained during negotiations
that ISWACO would study and submit to the Bank, not later than December 31,
1986, ways to improve its financial management, consolidating its financial
operations, presently dispersed under independent divisions, strengthening its
financial and planning section, and improving its management reporting system
(Section 2.05 of the draft Project Agreement).
46.       Operation and Maintenance.  'SWACO, which is already responsible for
nine regional water supply systems, would own and operate the project works.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that suitable maintenance and
inspection program for the overall regional systems would be sent by ISWAGO
for Bank review not later than December 31, 1986. ISWACO's proposal would
incLude a description and schedule of the baintenance and inspection program
with particular reference to prevention of corrosion and incrustations in the
pipelines (Section 2.04 of the draft Project Agreement). The raw water system
and transmission pipelines which represent 92X of projects costs would be
operated by ISWACO. The cities of Incheon, Bucheon and Gwanymyeong would
jointly operate their treatment plant, which would be financed by these cities
and the Asian Development Bank (ADB). The organization for the joint
operation of this plant is being studies by consultants under a technical
assistance grant from ADB. The Government is studying the benefits of ISWACO
or the municipalities operating the other two treatment plants included in the.
project. After project completion, the corresponding assets and liabilities
(including the corresponding portion of the Bank loan) would be transferred to
ISWACO or the respective municipaLities. Assurances were obtained that a
Transfer and Operations Agreement, a draft of which would be presented to the
Bank for comments by December 31, 1987, would be signed with ISWACO prior to
completion of the project (Sections 2.02 of the draft Project Agreement and
3.07 of the draft Loan Agreement).
47.       Accounts and Audit.  MOC's accounting procedures and systems are
satisfactory. ISWACO's 1982 and 1983 financial statements have been satisfac-
torily audited. Assurances were obtained that within six months from the end
of each fiscal year (a) MOC would submit the project cost accounts, as audited
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank (Section 4.02 of the draft Loan
Agreement); and (b) ISWACO would submit their financial statements, audited by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank (Section 4.02 of the draft Project
Agreement).
48.       Justification and Benefits.  The proposed project meets urgent needs
for water for 25 municipalities in the Metropolitan Region. The project gives
emphasis to the application of sound financial policies, which are expected to
increase efficiency in the allocation and use of water resources. The project
also provides for institutional development in finaneial, tariff and organiza-
tional areas. These components are expected to have a large impact and may
eventually lead to the establishment of-,a regional water authority in the
metropolitan area, which would improve operating efficiency over the presently
fragmented system.
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



- 17 -
49.       Upon completion of the project, 5 million persons in 25 municipali-
ties would have an improved water supply, be free of rationing and low water
pressures, and would be able to increase their usage of water for residential,
commercial and industrial purposes. After completion of the municipalities'
distribution networks, the project would make water available to 1.1 million
additional persons by 1991 and 2.3 million persons by 1996. It is estimated
that about 26% of the incremental population to be served with water are below
the relative urban poverty threshold. This would mean that by 1991 the number
of poor with house connections would more than double. Since most of the
urban poor now are either unserved, or have less reliable or Less convenient
service (standpipes, low pressure, water rationing, etc.) they would be
benefitted by the expansion of water supply, the improvement of service and
the increase in house connections from 77% in 1983 to 87% by 1988 and 92% by
1991, with practically everybody having house connections in the main project
cities. Financial projections for a sample of the beneficiary municipalities
show that no major tariff increases are expected at the consumer level as a
result of the project. Water charges are affordable to the whole
population. This is because tariffs are progressive, with large residential
consumption charged up to six times the minimum rate. Water charges for a
minimum consumption of 10 to 15 tons per family is W600 per month ($0.75),
representing less than 1% of the monthly household income of the lowest
percentile.
50.       The Economic Rate of Return (ERR) for the project, based on existing
water tariffs, and the total cost of providing water for the households served
by the project, is estimated at 14%. Sensitivity analysis shows that a 10l
increase in the investment cost, or a two year delay in completing the project
would reduce the ERR to 13%, and that the ERR would be 11% even if the invest-
ment and operational expenses are increased by 15Z. The Project would, for
the first time, provide water to extensive areas within the Metropolitan
Region, allowing residential, industrial and commercial development. The ERR,
including the project benefits expected to be reflected in real estate values,
is estimated at 19%. The internal rate of return, based on ISWACO's charges
for treated water to the municipalities is 10%, indicating that bulk water
tariffs are somewhat lower than the marginal cost of water. These rates of
return underestimate the economic benefits of the project, since they are
based on the average charges for treated water, which only partially represent
the consumer willingness to pay for water (as evidenced by excess .ua3umption
charges up to three times higher than the average tariff). Furthermo -e, these
rates of return also exclude other iwrpcrtant benefits which are difficult to
quantify, like the provision of better service to present consumers ard the
improvement of living standards and the health and general welfare of the
population. The water provided by the project is the only source for most
municipalities and is therefore essential for the Region's development.
51.       Project Risk.  There are no special risks in the project.  The
Government has given assurances that it will furnish sufficient and timely
counterpart funding. There is a risk that complementary works could suffer
some delays aLthough the Government has provided assurances that the
beneficiary cities will complete these works by December 31, 1988.



- 18 -
52.       EnvironmentaL Aspects.  The project serves the main urban conurba--
tion in Korea and would improve the environment and living conditions of this
population. Since about 92Z of the population is served satisfactorily by
septic tanks and nightsoil disposal systems, combined waste and storm water
drains and garbage collection and disposal services, pollution of the neigh-
borhood environments would be avoided. Government is also concurrently
implementing satisfactory programs for sewerage and sewr3e treatment, and
night soil treatment, and pollution control, based on an Environmental Master
w       Plan Study of the Han River Basin, completed by consultants in 1984.  Sewer
interceptors being constructed under the Han River Development Project will
contribute to reducing the pollution of the main water courses. OOE has also
started programs to control industrial waste pollution of the waterways and
atmosphere by establishment of effluent and ' -sion standards and monitoring
systems. All these measures will result in a gradual improvement of the proj-
ect area environmental conditions and ensure that the additional wastewater
resulting from the project would not result in environmental deterioration.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
53.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Korea and the Bank,
the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and ISWACO, and the Report of
the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of
Agreement are being distributed separately to the Executivo Directors.
Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of Annex III.
54.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
55.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachment
January 14, 1985
Washington, D.C.



-19-                                            ANNEX I
T A I L   34                                     FPAC I
-     asIIIL ic U     ICof  -  m Iaca zaxCaroSs  DATA IEEET
1111. ESPUELIC  OF                  fhlhlRn-E cRoun (ZnUD AVEACIS) 
UST llD(MS  ICUK  ESTMDATE) 
L960-b    1970Q0! ETtm-U           ASIA & PAIIC           LAT. *hCA a CAR
AU  CTmWUNI  I. M)
TOTAL                                9.          9
AGRICULTURAL                         20.4        23.2      22.4
crP R  CAPITA (9s6)                    UO.0        *30.0   1910.0             10t1.2                   210a.e
mT  WlUjrfhO   M  CAPI
(KILORMS OF OIL EQUIVALENT)         143.0       493.0   1104.0              367.3                    993.3
romuAntm.min-tu (THOUSAnUS)    23003.0    32241.0  39336.0
gum POPULATION ( or TOTAL)           21.7        £1.1     61.3               34.7                     64.3
*            -         OFULanTIOS mrcnons
POPULATTOS IN MW   2000 (IL)                             50.5
s                       sAsarto POnUTIo  (ILL)                                    c0.2
POMUlATION lONlIlt                                       1.1
FOPllTtOW
(                     vomanou Dalsm
FPR SQ. EN.                       233.9       327.4    393.2              2.1.9                     33.7
F  SQ. EN. ACIt. tAilA           1223.2      1387.3   1730.3             1735.1                     92.4
POPUTTION SEZ 3RUCTUEE (I)
0-1.4 URs                         42.9        42.1      33.1              39.0                     39.9
15-4 IRs                           53.7        54.6     6Z.6               37.6                     56.0
65 AND ABOVE                        3.3         3.3      4.1                3.3                      4.1
POPULATION GR0111 EATr CZ)
TOTAL                               2.1         2.5       1.7               2.3                      2.4
u m                                 4.7         6.7       5.1               *.3                      3.6
CRUDE 3t131  RATE (PR TR;            42.L        30.4     22.3               30.1                     31.3
CRE DEATH RATZ (PR TI00S)            13.7         9.6      6.4                9.5                      3.1
GROss RPoODUcou llArt                 1.6         2.1       1.5               2.0                      2.0
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS. ANAL (TS)                 ..       671.0     66.0 /c
USERS CI OF NARKIES SOtU)            ..        25.0       54.0             521_                     40.3
INDEX OF POOD MD. PE  CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                         s.0        99.0    125.0              123.0                    116.3
rER CAPITA SPLYT OF
CALORIES (Z OF EEQUSeLETS)         98.0       109.0    126.0              114.4                    110.6
._DTEINS (GAMS PER DAT)            37.0        64.      14.0               57.0                     67.3
or WICN AxDMAL AND PuLSE          7.0         8.0      14.0 Id           14.1                     34.1
CHILD (ACES 1-4) EAT6 RATE            8.6         4.0       1.9               7.2                      5.7
I&ALTH
LIFE EUPECT. AT MIRTH (MEARS)        53.9        59.1      67.3              60.4                     66.7
INFANT "'HT. RATE (P  THUDS)         76.3        30.1     32.0               66.3                     60.6
ACCESS TO Sll WATm (-7OP)
TOTAL                              12.1        58.0      71.0 le           37.0                     65.4
URBNA                              18.6        84.0     63.O 7;            54.8                     76.1
RRL                                 9.5        33.0      s4.9 7;           26.4                     46.2
ACCESS TO FXCRETA DISPOSAL
(I OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                *-        25.0      64.0 le           41.3                     52.9
C                       URA.                                           39.0      80.0W             47.4                     67.0
_RURAL                               ..          ..     30.0W 7            33.3                     24.5
POPULATION ma FSICIA               3540.0      2240.0   1440.0             7749.4                   1917.7
POP. ?ER NURSING PESOS             3240.0 fL  1790.0k&  350.0              2460.4                    815.3
POP. PMEROSTTAL RED
TOTAL                            2310.0      1950.0    640.0 lb          Ia44.2                    367.2
URBAN                            1230.0 if  1100.0    730.0 7r            651.2                    411.5
RURAL                                ..          ..        ..            2596.6                   2636.3
AISSIUS m   OSPITL   S                 ..        14.9        ..              27.0                     27.3
NURSING
AVERAGE SICN OF H ILD
TOTAL                               5.6         5.2       4.5
URAN                                3.4         4.9       4.4
RURAL                               S.6         5.3       6.7
AVERAE N0. OF PEPSOSIRON
TOTAL                               2.3         2.3       2.0 Ic
URBA                                2.3         2.7       2.1 7.                    
ROM                                 2.4         2.2       2.0                ,                        ..
ACCESS TO ELECT. (N OF PIELIUGS)
TOTAL                              23.4        49.9
JUR                                67.3        92.4
RURAL                              12.4        29.9      64.9 id



-20                                             ANNEX I
a~~eoLkT 137                            (361 333!*            I.
IIOIUt, ~ ~  ~      ~     ~     MWZ IU1.2 03IO -    0          S1UT
&-L                                                IIOT-"0T } 
£31119730 UOLLNSW 1*1206 ~  ~        ~         0CLL                                 ABUM.L
u*ioG      * 7o?d    UnTam          mu aZ   m lm           LI. SnCA b CPA
PINIl?;  TTAL                       94.0  'I 102.0    107.0                102.0                    105.4
NAUI                     33.0       104.0    106.0             L1S.3                     106.3
n361.                    6.0        103.0    105.0                 .s2                    104.5
SECOUART TOTAL                      27.0       42.0      35.0                e.0                      3.2
*                                MALI                      23.0        50.0o33.0                   43.1                     42.3
136*13  14.0  32.0   10.0               43.1                     44.5
VOCA?IOUL (I 0W  IOOIST)              14-.       14.3      13.5               17.5                     32.6
PUnL-TIAOI3R RATIO
1111*!                               6.        57.0      464.               31.6                     20.1
130030*1?                           24.0       37.0      23.0               23.3                     16.3
AULT L2UELACT LUZ (3)                 70.4       67.4      96.0               72.9                    7*.5
co   UIcmoSe                             .s         l         s                 e. 
14313301  CAN/IM/UUAID 309            0.5         1.9       6.5               10.1                     44.0
AD10 RJCEIIlN0U3UD 9                 31.3      124.4    SIS3S               113.6                    22.6
TV ISCEzvI/rInOu3S P0                  0.3       13.0    1WJ                  50.1                    107.2
UEWSVAIZR (-DALT GVXERAL
1nRU)  CICUuATrol
m  MoU   m 7.0WUUO  tX@.3                     136.3    173.1 1              33.3                     63.5
CIROANN AT1. ITAhULIChMTA              4.1        5.2       1.J7               2.4                      2.6
TOrAL LAM01 FORM (1 )               450.O    11285.0  15414.0
73N=  (3cc0r)                       26.1       32.7      32.5               33.5                     23.2
*   'ICILURE t(IEcxIT)             660        50.0      .4.0               32.2                     31.5
113173 (tlS662)                     7.0        17.0      23.0               17.9                     22.-
WAMITILA?IOU SATE (3310331
TOTAL                              *3.2        35.0      39.2               36.7                     32.2
NILE                                49.5       4.6       52.4               50.                     40.3
IrNALE                              17.2       23.0      25.7               24.6                      5.2
103041 DfPhUgUC  RATIO                 1.4        1.3       0.9                1.1                      1.4
-BCp or uuzZuuuou
WESTT s or EUSEUOLD                   ..       17.1      16.1 J             22.2
1I1016 201 or30033 3                  ..       4.5       65.3 71            4.0.
*LOEST 2m   oF N0113311                         7.1       5.7 71             -.*
LOWEST 40x3 or  3us01                 ..       1.7       16.9               15.5
Bowa    TARI 400111
ESTIAD A43UO   POVEt   Iowa
LSEL (USS M  CAPITA)
..                                              ..    320.0 h             16.                         .2
RUAL                                 ..          ..    270.0 i152.0                                O1640
LEE  (t36M  CR12)
URBAN                                 ..         .      3 70.0A           177.9                    522.6
RURAL                                 ..         ..       10.0o            164.6                    372.4
-mD  0. mm  "Sam
TovEST 13002 LEVEL (2)
coam                                                      IBO r                .4
1RA                                   ..         ..      15.0 h             25.4                       .
3                     RURAL                                ..          ..      11.0               37.7
MrO AVAILAMLM
ROT *FIUCAILE ~ ~     ~      ~      N    TI 
/he roop  eus   for each luileater are pv tIt ou-wI~ htdwtht5a  _e. Cae,P GE ceum    Swi  the
luicatou iiemib  a- _      b2uq of date    Lu Ist n    fo  .
A   1.     otbelan     et*. _at. Me  1f40 teNe to e   ow Ietu"ae 1 r   1        Data for 1920" ber nie 1970 amni
1971 and dam  f 9I'Mm  beast Itstes' batwee    O lU 1962-
e975;  i_ 19771    L1       I   162;  L RsaftteW. eat an weatIeS. La th  oaat&71    1973; &  1574.
Ju,  M6



-21-                                                                        ANNMEX I
Page 3
1.1.,  OISs.sk 55 44, Ia 4  m91.l1    g.rSi.da   1wm   ...........  "ISCARd. to .1NM5d ..1w 5.6. -1" 5  SIia                      a -i -.1w1510.A
s.p.1  k   d..  .5IMO. .*9 Dlo.   t1.WA. 41551. ..I   151.9     -W 5 .dbw 1 r315.5.9  We~.  .4:1.9la.uk    5.1w.h..  ...l..  msI.
.h.I.   ..li*.55 - [ "   _111a  5l.  .11 1995. -* g..  PM5  ~5.             1-a  1.91  4911-.. l.  flaldd   IM.-a a.  h-.. k.-..  .5              -[-.....Itla.
d.p g.ss. ... I.  M.1 s.V.s.-ss j.   19-4  155  --laca 15   .519.   19585. .1016644c   .1p6    Ill,59  n1.4511514 In  4si          .1. lat 115.557       15 5  1519I
.115915akIa 5  *.-- 5._51.. l.05 -.5       D.a    55l51 1 In9 515  5d19.. Paa       4 it  .p.       PAC  *55.1-55 It    WI.5. .   a.. RC5.5. Paimak5 Ch liatW
5.m  .s.a.. ..p.. .1-  1.9594. I  l..1wf.50.1 491191  *5l19511195 II 5.1'5165. 51.. .5  -  5411444  11549 It In91If
I.W  -   ..d I-I W                                                   1~~~~~~~~~~~~~.n.e. ..1.51.. tI   ..s
19* eaI  55 ..5d 0                                                                                                 as9nl    PW   -. ..rh...d"a     PInliSE ft--."W
'hr411tasrs    1 MI at  .4.5. .155.l    .9.     015. 1,11-d..                             ..*I. 14.1 I. p.155. C.491-1.. cs--I4 1.4  P.p.&. .5.4         .1 .14
*b  1..I 155146"  P..a69                h.1   .R-  ..51I   I..5. .sa..  a1 9i.9, I59.4h  * p57.6"5.                               am.8 .9 * 5105
,ad 5ll1w1.1 11551p1  I. blifn..l .  .55.qlaS   P.. ..Ptt.1 I955.                            919.k4.4 55345.4 51595p0   4.1      6.55111....t-
NDM . CRd                                                                                                              t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l.~5d5....  ~1.95S1.hI. .5p 1n .8hard
M.el  Il     .    5. I-S9I F        hU-k Ofl11.....951p,5l.lit       pa.       a.           .  1 e a.   1  -S..s S-a b.9*.ar bkw -F                 lat .9 1.5 In lia t9.1
1ps  I  9 50. ..40   adn  1it. do1.1~   a95I 1.           1                      lb. .. W511 ISi.  65 l, ."-.5.11£5es..-pa
*5.5p. .p MP. 1.11 ll. W5 task.. d1.5It  9l ftai   iI..lip.PRP11s.IImrl
n_1.3.lSI.             C.155 1  101,41.4p ra4l. .1w kw. th  .6  I hnI.   as*5  151. CftP191 W  1. 4151a9.a9In1    951.,5am 
Pt-." 111   .15. 15101.  .-., s.s.Iag.. as..            ..saa  .4  -Is.                     5          .5.a.Il..I..15.94                       59    n
=  5  5  59.1 4.5.4 .k.5. ilittys.  t.. a1  j1.15s  5,5-1w Pak-i.   ,na9.515I.1  41C.. 1.1   1915      *5*d-.5.   .19
252..1.w..a dalSas .  9..aaIs  5.5.5 sst  I..95 d..d                                      .4.1.95. ssq.11.  -  IllI       -1.s  a.-. G.P5.   pI. s -   616.5919.l.
51 115. 5.94   141 MORRI  %L.  .5.1  1         IlSIn                     I5551   1.1.1   R..se. P- slrvlank Isaa.5.5.1= 
PlaIn-d-15 15- 5.5 sl.11..-af  .e alc...saR.    5.95 M   2..a.4   saa.ls  ..I  5  29      ...*0    .114.
a..*5 .55.  k.s.   fdls1. aCo 5..W.     r...dgls.1..91.5l. .a54 f.4.                                             .mUDRCI.     ca,d 211A
.W  .aq-I  .  .p.145a  .0.p.   V-110.. t           .. al. alagf.1  skI                1.ss.  .s...s1t   Sa.--If  45 ..5.1.-1 -   ,= 4.                 Id 111515..6
MPIC  F       . W   s..l.t5   5 5.    ..la    a 5k.Il a.~ j. r5Ia"'4    ebSS   11.51.I  .a   5.11   15   llI
low. 4.4.195."1If. l 5   i 9.551  r11111.54   na.l5..    511 .. _Pal l,  *15             5..14.lS M       .4151V11~.514     .l-'nsI5115IIe
P,,  i.  491II ..                                                                       l. aSill,  .(Is... b"-I  -d   1115.t - al.-I.d~adr  .Ingalls 1.5.ah al,55. f-
1.iSsS*55.., fl...5.55*I al han.RM.-i I".- it .1 115  541.1.-5                                                          5a col 5 -.5~                an.sIa5
451.. .   On- 14V11  .511.  .   q..I 1.1.5d -it.55 1.. It.                                 .-P-.1 I.shSs   ...
5415.115  90.5455   n  05  .1..4.3  l514Mnet.51411  -9 e.5   4.5.95..  ..4   .14.1. 
5.5 -.  .       *45s5..1    ID:?(111 - 1-    4.a11..s5.S515                               . e-14.W  ar 1..  .4.15'p- .1.5   Ind  5...   n  lS
51  .1..-.isd*         -        99    M- Isl...  g45. 1-                                      ..  ar55.. a..1.a.t -9.1151  51-dnfl   n
51In1511. 5..t-,. I1. ;.1.l.s)-59sl ad- .  Wn M           1.915551C-.551   5111
9151 95511161.1IO  1958.  "99 In "a 5 4"..                                                 1.51.111.  1w51..4 15s159
(114-  C..95  95   199  (-!=I.   - 1.s.L -119 M-t .95 5.tbnn 4     -      t*4-I            wli9..'r af.915k.ln .1.6.)-I   159161534.1a
71 1            C1.  5pl, 9"59.-9151141166-0 .1    1In7"2Sin50.911                         "I..1.. Qb-t l16..  las51I1 I.-..aI      Alt  m,a   51w c5           -  idd
-s. kISk.5. .55.  4.14 C    .11.p1 . .1 =50951 lInl- p111                      (.1. 1..1.1 £151911  9. -                   5.   5...- ,15.1 .1,5 -04  .9-  aa
ISs11911     5115 d.4ll1 -.ARN   I   511, Pa  910-clail  65 1.11114                  TV .591. .1115.bDwal  f
ps.sts.t.w  ~~ 5... .9 s..11.415.S.l ..ID.or                                                                            D1 ..     ..  5="P11
.lId-1.111  n l   95.5.2 -A-. 0    51.49   .  "'Pa"15051    b    K.1 5=                -aliII thI!! W9W.Pj&1qd-  Pagagt-all 1991. " ln Cll. 1.15451t.5
vnRalf, "Na-v.0m1Lls  159.195 I                                      Ing")56
___ ___ __ ___ ____      _ 11     C   940Il.   "g      1.    vle.95   1 1955. -lsP 1%                t     t at 959.    1414    C.15  1 p SIln~     41    15     1
ts...l91.41551. ..5fl~I111WW .ts5.  .1.1.91. P        1. In                   Dia inJif   -15  119I    h115  55.1.  A51111s I`
95.4In   .1.  .1.4.,'III5.11..   56g ...1  we.   1.4  9l..          5.aa.  -   .C.sm  .11.1 55...9.1.. 15M.5950 In50                         DR19
.ms      II19.54159   511.1   n...5                       s.4  1..s. lF .41.~ -I.a.s.6 -  1551.5s551   191.1s.                                        95I14n
1.1. n5.5   111.2.5541P.455.9   .1   I5711C199157.1S1  n1.1    51.51I5.9   .595=;551.59
15119199551  11l      -- 1PRWP1 C1. .11 --&W 1*99. 190   n   I                         n50191
9.1115....14II  In P5=1315.In 5.In  . 41911415..  15151.            p1 1-5115.415 411.  SInL.191*-  A.                  lat
In In  -15.5115a91. 9 P~19l5l... 14 111.5.953p141A9  -.1 In95'-                                   o. 
-                              l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~as.aral-..! Elr-   .51.1 MR 511   9 D.t                                                               Z 019   =9   9D..95  9s.*a95..ls.  145.  n554     1.I   1.51
-   1y .5   5 957 41 .I- .1 ;s    . 1951.                   .    .                   pa..1.  505= 70  111.1. 951.11 1lad5.5fIn                111         I.55 wl
45119 PI    .115=151.41555   II Sm P5551  II  CI                                           1.1l-2 t.                      P..4.1I%     PPi    e 
.1                                1I1.11a1.a II 50 elm  .9 191.1 pIssI'cdA l 1951 45111b In25 OIn 19 119.   Ind ea-
1.1 =s5s .s..d ...1 f     5.. ffil-A Ins. Pl   -   50. 1.4trli.Ill5 %.I917- . .9   5          I1i       f0       -  -tI9.   7     -ll     1.1., 59.94.
4t11ir, SIl51. In    9511.9DI'  5.  Inlpia   4511 1055.41ci. 596in 59, -go".                        15   1.0... 41.6,54- ....l5. I.in.ta    .5510
-014  W.. an4 6=..k 1.1 falsnsl   .W                   10 p.sra lInI   559sI14115. 5.1r15=t.1919.et95)-.5   I .a
PC ft41 , 111 I.-I.   55t~.. 1.15.:9 11950 I1  5961 419.                                   p..11I .141   197.  11  0 Il                     a S   91          55.
919*5.19                          1F-. . dfla1- 11 1.111115 15                                                       P-.55   M195  5l).ina      (1.5.g95,)4 p-a, l
.U,  5 .1145  1511* 4117  - £0110 or am P-la 19 11. 11.1                               9 514-51.1  95595 1,6.n.5l  11   n1.1
95111:  a9t0 an5 In 105 ne,D]. fialtPPfy-   0S                  1 lfcl
1931.5351.9.We.. (511611   .59 a19 lic -  gm"h5  549". .14  2355
_I R9519t11         --l. 1111 In  lb5.5  .511d  1lll.   FD1..5   M010111-9-1    --  Cailrh. CIPPRA.-                                          s5   n  .5.94511
C",1  931(5111   591   1519r  -al9 so     In.61   5                                                                             55    1151  nIIISm6aSn
Ss1.. km..y  5. 9.155419.44M. 15515                                                                dolt 1l   ...1 --1-   1gal-antk.5
Ckdl.  50 31-1 N-h      1. I    .  ml  =4-117 559m 95. tk           I.-  S. 1t                      *-1         ~
55.   195.115.4   115   11 111J.4 .I 419.165                      9Laws                                    "P9
411.1111 9*5595. l6I~~~~~51.1 (..m"" 5                                                  -_ 11 1~              AInt G5Ng 
In: .115=117 1;1. A11   al                 I. 111-51  fWPla 95111I
.919l1159S1111511.5m.n                        AW  Clcl



ANNEX I
Populetion:  39,331 (mid-1982, thousands)                  -  22 -                                                   Page 4 of 5
GrOP Pr Capita-  U8$1,679 (1982)
KORA -ECONOHIC INDICATORS
Amount
(llLon 0S$ at                      Annual growth rates (Z) at constant prices
current pricea)                            Actual                               Projected
Indicator                                 1982 /a            1978      1979      1980      1981      1982                198
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross domestic product                  68.418             11.3       7.1      -3.5       7.1       5.3                 7*5
Agriculture                           11.185             -4.0       6.7    -22.0       22.0        3.8                4.0
Industry                              26.747             20.8       8.4      -0.1       5.3       6.1                 8.5
Services                              30.486             11.0       6.0      -2.4       3.6       4.8                 8.0
Consumption                             51.487              11.0      7.4      -1.0       3.7        3.6                6.7
Cross inveat_nt                         17.514             35.9       17.5    -24.4        5.0       0.1                7.5
8xports of CNFS                         26.575             17.5      -3.6       9.9       17.2       4.6                9.5
Imports of CNFS                         27.215             29.1       8.6      -7.7       8.5      -0.1                 S.t
Gross national savings                  14.531              14.1       3.7    -17.7        3.0      18.2                9.4
PRICES
CDP deflator (1975 - 100)                                 164.6     197.4    246.7    286.2    309.1                  464.1
Exchange rate (US$1 -)                                    484.0    484.0    607.6    681.0    731.1
Export price index (1975 - 100)                           135.4    161.8    170.3        174.5    167.1               238.7
Import price Index (1975 - 100)                           105.8    129.2    163.9        171.7     158.4              233.3
Terms of trade Index (1975 - 100)                         128.0      125.2    103.9      101.6    105.5               102.3
Share of CDP at market prices CZ)                   Aversge annual Increase (2)
(at current  nrtce.. (at con-one erices)
1960    1970    1975    1980    1985    1990     i960-70   1970-75   1975-8   1980-85   13985-90
Cross domestic product          100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0             8.6        9.B       8.2       7.0       7.5
Agriculture                    36.7   26.9    24.5    16.5    15.9    12.4         4.3       4.9      -1.2        7.3       4.0
Industry                       20.1    29.5    33.8    61.3   44.4   49.2          17.4      15.3      13.5      8.5       8.4
Services                       43.2   43.6    41.7   42.3   39.7   38.3            8.1       7.7       7.6       6.7        7.7
Consumption                    85.3   83.0    80.1    76.4   65.7   58.1           6.7        7.8      7.1        5.7       7.0
Gross investment               11.0   26.9   29.0    30.2   33.2   33.8            23.6      11.2      14.6       6.0       7.5
Exports of CNFS                 3.4    14.3    27.6   35.7    43.7   49.6         Z9.3      25.4      16.1       9.8        9.5
Importd of CNFS                12.8   24.1    36.3   42.7   42.6    43.9          20.2       15.8     17.0       6.8       8.9
Gross national savings          8.0    19.5   20.6   21.7       -       -          17.2      14.6      9.0       12.7       9.2
As Z of GDP                    Labor Force in 1980           Millions    (2)
1960      1970      1975      1980
PuBLIC FINANCE                                                                       Agriculture                   4.7      32.2
Current revenues                       18.5      17.8      17.9      19.9          Industry                      3.9      27.1
Current expenditures                   14.3      13.1      15.4       15.6         Services                      5.1       35.5
Current surplus                         4.2       4.7       2.5       4.3          Unmployed                     0.7        5.2
Capital expenditure                     3.4       6.4       6.4       5.9
Foreign financing                       ...       1.0       1.3       1.0              Total Labor Force         14.5    100.0
1960-70         1970-75          1975-B0          1980-85          1985-90
OTHER INDICA1ORS
Annual CNP growth rate (Z)                              8.7             9.0              7.9              7.0               7.6
Annual CNP per capita grovth rate (S)                   5.9             6.9               5.2              5.5              6.1
Annual energy consumption growth rate (2)              14.2             9.6               8.7              5.7              6.0
ICOR                                                    1.9             2.7              5.4              4.2              4.2
Marginml saving  rate                                   0.3             0.3              0.3              0.3               0.3
Import elasticity                                       2.2             1.6              2.0               1.2              1.2
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
Februarv 1986



-23-                                          WIe  
Pa5   5
PasIda    39,331 (id-191  ch.-*
GP Per  api Vta: VW679 C1912)
aOR - 3AM OF PAD0. IAL CAPrITL A- OfM
Cmuil.ineW USCa curren yernms)
Indicator                                                        Actual                            Po
1970   1Y73    S7sS    1979   1980   1591    192Z
3ALA3M OF h1S
E Cs of goodsad services,               1.379  5.909  17.124  19-52   22.587 2i.552  28.50         70.972
Of wbichd ereedime f.nob.              38Z  5.02   167  14.694  17,220 20.93  2D.961             52.145
im1acs oftad and secwice               2.180  7.992  1l.651 2.115  28,360 32.476 31.500            74.003
lb                           Of wbhih mercbu.di.e f.o.b.           1.804  6.671  14.436  19.236 21.604  24.337 23.361          58.616
L                          Nec trensfers                             178    225    47    439    449    506   4*3                 500
C.screut accoa.c balane                 -623 -158 -1 060 -.4 53 -s 325 -4 7418                     -2 531
C: of G -)                             (Z7   (-9.2) T )             )
DICt i       _vest                       36      53      61      17     -5      59    100            250
mu lam  (ne)                             242   1.252  2.216  2.94    2.096  4.26?  2.051            2.29
ufficial                               147    486    663    85Z    689  1.337    880                635
?rivate                                 95    765  1.552  2.093   1.O4  2.929   1.171            1.659
Odchr capitaL (Inl. arrams  calaslou)  3m2    929   -510  2.090   3.770    367    48                1,643
Change in reasrves                       -57   -376   -07    -896   -536   -275    -9t            -1,657
In1e tia  rsrs (F ass)                   606  2,012  S,40S  6.303  6,S39  7,114   7.212            14.387
Reserves as intba Impots                 3.3    3.0    3.5    3.1    2.9    2.6    2_7                2.3
WSALL CIWrTAL AD OM
Crmss dLsbursmtms
Officialrant&                            -       -       -       -      -       -      SO
caacessinaal Loans                      123    !23    184    193    133    159    143
DIC                                   122  I 6O       WF   1T3 3     iir    T%      T"
OPEC                                   -       -      13      20      17      1       -
1     14       3       -      -       -       _
Otber                                   -      I       -       -      -       -       _
-      ---ess1- loan                    317  1,511  3        4448   3,655  4,779   3,937
Official export credts                 is    5SI    219              306    844    532
low                                    7    187    321    426    254    306    438
Ocher mItiateal                         5     87      19      91      90    IW.    116
Prvate                                287  1.083  3.101   3.591   2.705  3.525  2.851
mimeia- and Long-Tern Debt
Debt outstandIn  and disbure          1.797  5.540  11.937 14.553  16.274  19,964  22.006
Offieia                              613  2.657  5.016  5.667  6.496   7.702  8.572
PrIvate                             1.185  2.883  6.921  8.386  9.776  12.263  13.433
sndLsbwrsed                            902   1.679  6.294  5.337  7,072   5.996  5,324
Debt Service on MT Loan
Total sezwice payments                 268    667  1.825  2.578  2.762   3.597  4.199
Integvt                              70    283    657    680   1.310   1.777  2.164
Paymets as  :parta                     19.4   11.3   10.7   13.2   12.2   13.0   13.5
Shwt-Term Debt
Debt oucstandin  and dsbured             .  2.409  3.575  6.279  10.047  13.658  14.100
Iatrest paymets                         -_     _       236    377    907  1,810   1.528
Interet as   exports                    ...    ...    1.4    1.9    4.0    6.7    5.3
Averaze loteres aso lSew Loars (:)
Ohfficar                                                          4.5    7.9    7.4    7.6    7_5    8.4    8.0
Private                                 7.1    9.3    9.7   11.4   14.0   13.6   1:.7
Average Maturity Of New Loana (years)
Official                              28.0   19.3   19.6   16.8   19.6   15.3   15.5
Private                                10.9    5.7   10.9   10.7   11.2   13.1    8.1
As Z of debt outctanding
at end of most recn
year (1962)
maturity structure of debt outstanding
Maturities due within  5 years                      61
maturitles due witbhi 10 Years                     103
snteret structure of debt outstandng
Interest due withln fIrst yer                        9
East Asia mod Paciftc Regionsl Office
Febinarw tO99



- 24 -
ag  I of 2
MHE STATUS OF BDA  GROUP OPERATIONS IN 71H REPOUC OF KMR   /a
A. Statement of Dank loans and MA Cedits (as of September 30, 1984)
Loan or                                                                          Aout (S liom)
credit    Calendar                                                              (les cancelltise)
Nuber       Year         Borrower              PuDonk                             TD             U sbW Id
Forty-four loans and eight credits fully dIsbursed                     2.640.78   40.00   115.58
1319        1976    ADC                 Irrii.stir4n                      29.0                          0.28
1364        1977    ADC                 Irrig&tioL                        95.0                          3.52
1503        1978    ADC                 Agricullu-re/Irrigation           36.0                          8.31
1530        1978    Republic of Korea  Firal Infrastructure II           95.0                           0.34
1666        1979    ISWACO              Chzngjp iltipurpose              125.0                         10.57
1676        1979     Republic of Korea  1lectronics Tecbnology            29.0                          8.44
1758        1979    Republic of Korea  Second Guangin Regional            65.0                         15.86
1774        1979    Republic of Korea  Population I                       30.0                         21.44
1788        1979    Korea flectric Co. Powr                              115.0                         15.23
1800        1980    Republic of Korea  Edbcation V                       100.0                          5.80
1836        1980    Republic of Korea  RNalway VTI                       94.0                           4.67
1851        1980    AFDC                Agriculture II                   50.0                           5.00
1932        1981    KITCB VIlI          Div. Flinne Co.                   90.0                          5.02
1933        1981    XDB IV              Div. Finance Co.                 100.0                          0.16
1980        1981    Republic of Korea  Nat. Urban Land S Hodng           75.3                          22.38
2004        1871    SNUV IV             DPs. Finance Co.                  60.0                          6.02
2072        1982    Republic of Korea  Water Supply                       90.0                         37.47
2111        1982     -epubliL of Korea  Agricultural m1rketig             "1.3                         s0.78
2112        1982    _OC                 Technology Developmet             50.0                         18.88
2144        1982    CNB                 DFC                               30.0                         15.42
2215        1982    RepubL:c of Korea  Machinery Indsstry                 70.0   -                     64.75
2216        1982    Republi  of Korea  Nat. Urban Land and Sbusig        100.0                         92.95
2228        1982    Republ-c of Korea  ProvlncalW   4 County Rands       125.0                         92.29
2267        1983    Republic of Korea  Coal and CeeAnt Distribution      122.0                        121.54
2309        1983    Republic of Korea  Industrial nuance                 255.0                        Z13.38
2350        1983    Republic of Korea  Second Water Supply                78.5                         71.22
2388        1984    Republic of Korea  Jeonju Regional Development        60.0                         59.85
2392        1984    Republic of Korea  Highway Sector                    230.0                        227.91
2427        1984    Republic of Korea  Education Sector                  100.0                         99.75
Total                                                     5,170.88  40.00   115.58    1,261.23
of which has been repaid                                  716.19   L.92      6.58
Total now outstanding                                     4,454.69  37.08   109.00
Amount sold                 8.83
of which has been r,aid   8.83                               -       -        -
Total now held by Bank and IDA
(prior to exchange adjustment)                          4,454.69  37.08   109.00
Total undisbursed                                         1.261.23    -         -        w61.23
/a  The status of the projects listed in Part A are described in a separate report on all Bauk/IDA-fluanced
projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly and circulated to the Exemctive Directors on April 30
and October 31.



-   -~25-
ANUU II
Page 2 of 2
B. Statement of IFC Investments (as of September 30, 1984)
Fiscal                                                    Amount (S million)
Year       Obligar           Types of Business           Loan EuLty Total
1968    XDFC                  Development Financing         -     0.7    0.7
1969    Honan Silk Co.        Textlles                     1.4   0.3    1.7
'1970    Atlas Paper          Pulp and paper               4.5   0.5   5.0/a
1971    Korea Investent
Finance Corp.      Capital Market Development   -      0.7   0.7
1974    KDFC                  Development Financing         -     0.4    0.4
1974    Kore Invstment
Finance Corp.      Capital Market Development   -      0.3    0.3
1975    Cold Star & Co. Ltd. Electronic Products          16.0    1.3   17.3
1975    Korea Securities
Finance Corp.      Capital Market Development  5.0   0.6    5.6
1975    Tong Yang Nylon
Company. Ltd.      Synthetic Fibers             6.9   2.1    9.0
1975    Rhe Un DBe Develop-
ment Company Ltd.  Tourism                      2.8    0.7    3.5
1976    Korea Investment
Finance Corp.      Capital Market Development   -      0.4   0.4
1976    Chonju Paper Mfg. Co. Paper                        S.0    0.8    5.8
1976    Korea Zinc. Co. Ltd. Zinc                         15.0   4.0   19.0
1976    RDFC                  Development Financing       17.8    -    17.8
1976    Gold Star & Co. Ltd. Electronic Products          10.0   0.4   10.4
1977    Gold Star & Co. Ltd. Electronic Products            -     0.2   0.2
1977    RDFC                  Development Finaneng         -     0.3    0.3
1977    Korea Securities
Finance Corp.      Capital Market                -     0.5    0.5
1977    Korea Development
Leasing Corp.      Capital Market              15.0   0.4   15.4
1978    KDFC                  Development Financing         -     1.1    1.1
1979    Gold Star & Co. Ltd. Electronic Products            -     1.7    1.7
1979    KIFC                  Capital Market                -     0.6    0.6
1979    Korea Development
Leasing Corp                                     -     0.2    0.2
1979    Cold Star & Co. Ltd. Electronic Prtducts            -     1.5    1.5
1980/84 Gold Star & Co. Ltd. Electronic Pro.Sclts           -     5.3   5.3
1980    Korea Investment
Finance Corp.      Capital Market                -     0.6    0.6
1980/   Korea Securities
(                   82/84    Finance Corp.                                     -     2.3   2.3
1980    KDFC                  Development Financing         -     2.2    2.2
1981    Taihan Bulk Terminal
Co. Ltd.           Grain Port Terminal          7.0   2.5   9.5
1982    KIFC                  Capital Market                -    0.6   0.6
1982    K-TAC (Korea Technology
Advancement Corp.)  Research & Development       -     0.6    0.6
1983    KDIC                  MDmey & Capital Market        -     0.9   0.9
1984    Ealla Cement          Cement Const. Material       4.4   3.9   8.3
1985    Korea Fund            Maney & Capital Market        -     9.1   9.1
Total gross conuitment                          110.8  47.7  158.5
less cancellations, terminations
repayment and sales                            94.7  14.7  109.4
Total commitments now held by IFC                16.1  33.0  49.1
TOTAL undisbursed                                 4.4   3.9   8.3
/a Cancelled at the request of the Coup-ay.



ANNEX III
-26-                               Page 1
KOREA
THIRD WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Supplementary Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken by -he country to prepare the project:    3 years
(b)  Project preparation' egency:                            mOC
(c) Date of first presentation to Bank, and Bank
consideratiun thereof:                                February 1983
td)  Date of departure of appraisal mission:                 June 10, 1984
(e)  Date of completion of negotiations:                     October 4. 1984
if)  Planned date of effectiveness:                          February 1985
Section II: Special Implemencation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
Ci) studies of the bulk raw and treated tariffs would be presented to
the Bank for review not later than June 30, 1986 (para. 27a);
Cii)  a study to improve the organization, of warer and sewerage services
within the Met-opolitan Region wouLd be completed not later than
December 31, 1986 (para. 27b);
(iii) Incheon and the other project municipalities in the Metropolitan
Region would implement the specified complementary water works not
later than December 31, 1988 (para. 35);
(iv)  ISWACO's Water and Dam Divisions would obtain a rate of return, on
revalued fixed assets in operation, of not less than 4Z in 1985 and
5Z rhereafter (para. 42);
(v) ISWACO would carry out a study to strengthen its financial manage-
ment and present it to the Bank to review not later than June 30,
1986 (para. 45);
(vi)  a program for maintenance and inspection of the Yetropolitan
systems would be presented to the Bank for review before December 31,
1986 (para. 46); and
(vii) a draft Transfer and Operations Agreement would be presented to the
Bank for review not later than June 30, 1987, and would be signed
with ISWACO (para. 46).



,~~~~~~~  a)   *.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~                                                                       a 
0 41~~~~~~~
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   M  ~~~     a                                                          O
~~~~~~<I~~~~~~~~L
. . ...........     I 7iii
lb~






