Document of
The World Bank
FOR OmFCIAL USE ONLY
Repot No. P-5984-RU
MEMIRANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPM
TO THE
EZECITIVE DIECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED WAN
IN AN AMOUNT OF US$610 MILION EQUIVALENT
TO THE
RRUSSIAN FEDERATION
FOR AN
OIL RHbILIT&TION PROJECT
MAY 26, 1993
MICROFICHE COPY
Report No. :P- 5984 RU    Type: (PM)
Title:  OIL REHABILITATION PROJECT
Author: MCPHERSON, C.
Ext. :32854 Room:H 3135 Dept. :EC3IV
TITLED CHANGE AT FINAL COVER
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used bv recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALEN
Unit of Currency = Ruble
Rubles per US Doliar
Moscow Inter-Bank Foreign Currency Exchange/Foreign Exchange Auclion Maket (VEDB) rates
Period Avera2o                   End of Period
1990                                19                               23
1991                                62                              169
1992
1Quarter                         177                              160
n Quarter                         134                              144
m Quarte                           178                             254
TV Quarter                        396                              415
1993
I Quarter                        580                              684
II Quart  (as at May 18)          801                              934
WMoGM AND MEASURE
bbl     = US barrel (42 US galons)
bpd     = barrl per day
mnbpd  = milion barrels per day
ton     = metric ton (tonne - 1,000 kg)
tpd     = tons per day
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
API             -        American Petroleum Instbute
cIS             -        Commonwealth of Independent States
CMEA            -        Council for Mutual Economic Assistance
EA              -        Environmental Assesm
ECA             -        E3xport Credit Agency
FDI             -        Foreign Direct Investment
PSU             -        Former Soviet Union
GKI             -        State Commitee for the Management of State Property
KNG             -        Koglymneftcgas Producer Assoiation
ICB             -        International Competitive Bidding
LIB                      Limited Internaonal Bidding
LIBOR           -        London Interbaik Offer Rate
NGDU            -        Russian Acronym for Ol and Ga i Producion Unit within Producer Assocation
NGL             -        Natural Gas LiUqds
NGO             -        Non-Governmenal Organization
PA              -        Producer Assocation
PNG             -        Purneftegas Producer Association
PIU             -        Project bImlementafion Unit
PPF             -        Project Preparation Pacilit
RAICD           -        Russian Agency for Intation  Cooperation and Development
SCL             -        Single Currency Loan (IBRD)
SEU             -        Socio-Ecological union
TCA             -        Technical Cooperation Agreement
VNG             -        Varyeganneftegas Producer Association
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OMCI1L USE ONLY
RUSSLAN FEDERATION
OIL LREIABLITATION PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMNUAY
Borrower:    The Russian Federation
Guarantor:   The Russian Federation
Beneficaries: The followin, Producer Associations in Western Siberia:
- Kogalymneftegas
- Purneftegas
- Varyeganneftegas
Amount:       US$610 million equivalent
Terms:        US dollar Single Currency Loan for 17 years, including 5 years grace, at the Bank's
standard variable interest rate for US dollar denominated Single Currency Loans.
Onlending:   The proceeds of the loan would be onlent to the Producer Associations: Kogalymneftegas,
Purneftegas and Varyeganneftegas. Maximum maturity periods under the onlending
arrangements are 12 years including 2 years grace. Funds onlent carry an interest rate
equal to the Ban's lending rate plus a premium of 75 basis points.
Finacing Plan:
(US$ million equivalent)
Financing source       cImal  Foreip    Total  S of Total
I.B.R.D.                 -      610     610       59%
E.B.R.D.                 -      250     250       24%
Grant(DutchGovt.)        -       6        6        1%
Producer Aociaionsm    119      SO      169       16%
TOWal                  119      916    1,035     100%
Percet Of Total        12%     88%    100%
Econonic Rate
of Retrn:    Greater than 50 percent for all project components.
Financal Rate
of Return:    42 percent real after-tax for the aggregate project.
Staff Apprai
Report:       No. 11556-RU
Maps:         IBRD24146: Russia: Main Petroleum Basins and Crude Oil Trunk Lines
IBRD24145: Main Petroleum Producer AssocLitions of Western Siberia
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise he diaelona  With,o,t WnLui R.t ...*k.3:.



TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page no.
PART I. COUNTRY POUCIES AND BANK GROUP ASSISTANCE
S TEGY  ...........................................ATY                                1
A. Recent Economic Performance  .............................    I
Macroeconotrmc Perfbrmance During 1992  ...................    1
Progress on Strcmt    Reforms  ..........................    3
Lessons for 1993 and Beyond ............................   5
B. External Financing Requirements and the External Environment ....          .....   6
C. Development Policies and Objectives  .........................    9
The Outiook for Stabilization ............................   9
-Triorities for Stuctural Reforms ..........................   10
Priorides for Sectoral Reforms ...........................   15
Priorities for Institutional Reforms .........................   18
D. The Bank's Country Assistance Strategy  .......................  19
Objectives and Prioriies for Bank Assistance ..................  19
Macroeconomic Stabilization ............................  20
Market-Oriented Activities and Private Sector Development ....        .....  20
Sectoral Programs ...................................  21
Social Safety Net and Other Social Programs ................  .  22
Donor Coordination and Mobilization of External Financing  ....        ....  22
Portfolio Management Performance ........................  23
Lending Volumes and Trigger Conditions ....................  24
E. Risks and Uncertainties   .................................  29
F. Summary of Issues for Board Consideration  .....................  30
PART 11.  THE PROJECT               ....................            ......................   32
A. Background to the Oil Rehabilitation Project ....... ..           ............  32
B. Project Objectives  .................                ....................   32
C. Project Description .................                ....................  33
D. Project Implementation                            ..                             34
E. Lessons Leaned From Previous Bank Involvement  .                .34
F. Rationale for Bank Involvement ............ 34
G. Actions Agreed    ..35
H. Environment   ..35
I. Program Objective Categories .36
J. Project Benefits .36
K. Project Risb    ..36
L. Recommendations    ..37



MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMNDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FPOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED OIL REHABILITATION LOAN
TO THE RUSSLAN FEDERATION
1.           1 submit for your approval the following report and reco ion on a proposed Oil
Rehabilitation Loan to the Russian Federation for a US dollar single currency loan in the amount of US$
610 mfllion equivalent to finance a program of investment to increase oil production from currenty
producing fields. The loan would be at the Bank's standard variable interest rate for US dollar single
currency loans with a maturity of 17 yemrs, including 5 years of grace. Co-financing would be provided
by the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (US$ 250 million equivalent) and bilatera
grants (US$ 6 million equivalent).
PART I. COUNTRY POLCES AND BANK GROUP ASSISTANCE STRATEGY
A. Recent Economic Performance
2.           The economic situation in Russia up through August, 1992 has been described in the red
cover Country Economic Report, "Russian Economic Reform: Crossing the Threshold of Structural
Change," that was distributed to the Board in September, 1992. An initial review of the Bank Group's
country assistance strategy for Russia took place during the Board meeting on the Rehabilitation Loan in
August, 1992. This report focuses on changes that have occurred in Russia since the middle of 1992 and
their implications for the Bank's country assistance strategy.
3.           Backgm wnd. Following the dramatic political events of 1991 that culminated in the
collapse of the former Soviet Union (FSU) and its dissolution into 15 independent states, the Russian
Government launched a radical program of economic reform to replace the remnants of the command
economic structure with a market-oriented economy based on private ownership of property. From the
beginning, this effort took place in decidedly unfavorable conditions. Previous partal efforts at reform
had succeeded in loosening controls on state enterprises without, however, imposing financia discipline.
The breakup of the Council of Mutual Economic Assistance (CMEA), as well as growing disruptions in
inter-republican trade, led to a sharp decline in imports and exports. Political tensions between the
Union-level govenmment and the republican governments fuiled a huge expansion in the fisc  deficit,
contributing to monetary overhang and an acceleration in inflation, estimated at 144 percent for retail
prices in 1991. These events contributed to a growing crisis in production and distribution that led to
chronic shortages during the latter part of 1991.
Macenomic Perfornance D g 1992
4.           The liberalization of most wholesale and consumer prices in January 1992 resulted in a
three-fold increase in prices that eliminated most demand-related shortages. Following the initial burst
of inflation, the Government maintaind generally tight fiscal and monetary policies throughout the first
half of 1992 which succeeded in reducing monthly inflation to single-digit levels by July. In August,
however, there was a substantial increase in the rate of credit formation by the Central Bank (argely in
the form of loans direced to state enterprises), accompanied by a weakening in the fiscal position. As



-2-
a result, inflation incroased to the range of 25-30 percent on a monthly basis throughout the final quarter
of 1992 and into 1993. This contributed to a rapid depreciation of the exchange rate from approximately
135 rubles per dollar during April-June to 415 rubles per dollar at the end of December 1992 and 934
rubles per dollar as of May 18, 1993.
5.             Rapid inflation was caused in large parn by financial transfers to state-owned enterprises.
Directed state credits were provided on a non-market basis from the Central Bank and the Government
on the order of 23 percent of GDP. In addition, subsidies amounting to 29 percent of GDP were
provided to enterprises in the form of import subsidies and lump-sum transfers and subsidized interest
rates on directed credits through the Central Bank. Besides their adverse implications for internal and
external financial stability, these large transfers contributed to widespread domestic price distortions and
weakened incentives for enterprises to restructure.
6.             The problems on the domestic front were m-irrored by a sharp deterioration in Russia's
external performance during 1992. Exports and imports with countries outside the FSU, fell by 30 and
22 percent in volume terms, leading to a decline in the non-interest current account to $1.1 billion in
1992. The external balance was further worsened by massive capital flight on the order of perhaps $10
bfllion or more.  As a result, Russia was unable to meet its debt repayment obligations, and it
accumulated arrears to foreign creditors reaching $12 billion by the end of 1992. Intensive negotiations
were held throughout the second half of 1992 with extetnal creditors, leading to a comprehensive
agreement on debt rescheduling with the Paris Club in April 1993.
Table 1: Rwssa. Key Econonic Indicators, 1990 - 1992
19Wi 11   1992   ow:Ql Q2    Q3    Q4
1. Red GDP growh 1/                                   0.4    - 9.0  -19.0  -11.6  -18.5  -22.0  -23.8
2. Prices at end of peiod 1/
Conumer pricoes 21                                ..      143.9 2,318  1,082  1,012  1,366  2,318
Producerprice. in industry                        ..      236.3 3,275  1,237  1,957  2,120  3,275
3. Pisad accounts (Percentag of GDP)
GCyvernent revenues + balance of exanbud4getiyfunds    ..  ..    36.5   21.4  24.4   32.9   48.4
Government expenditues 3/                         ..      ..    50.7   29.4  38.5   51.8   61.4
Enlarged fiscl balnce3/4/                          ..     ..   -28.0  -34.2  -26.7  -26.0  -27.9
4. Money and credit (Bf3iions of rubles at the end of period)
Domestic credit                                   ..       895  8,286  1,305 2,258  6,000  8,286
Broad money                                       679    1,201  11,644 1,633 2,400  6,849 11,644
S. Etonal trade S/ (Bilons of US dollas)
Expmos exudiSng gold sdes                          ..     51.0  40.0   8.8   8.8    10.1   12.2
Imports                                           ..      45.1  36.9   8.8   9.4    9.0    9.7
Trade balance                                    ..       5.9   3.1   0.0  40.6      1.1    2.5
Notes: 1/ Perontage change.
2/ Urban oonsumer price index in 1992, retail price index of goods and services in 1991.
3/ Commitment basis.
4/ Including unbudgeted import subsidies.
51 Excluding trade with e suwessor staes to the USSR.
Souroes: RodKomsts, Cental Bank of Russia, Miisty of Finance and IMP.



-3 -
7.           The decline in foreign trade, as well as a sharp cutback in public investment and defence
expenditures at the beginning of 1992, led to a fall in real GDP by a further 19 percent in 1992,
represeting a cumulative decline of about one-third since 1989. Gross agricultural output declined by
approximately 8 percent, primarily reflecting a sharp drop in livestock production, whereas grain
production inreased by 20 percent due to favorable climatic conditions. A major area of concern is the
contiuing decline in oil production, which fell by 15 percent in 1992.
8.           Recent survey information indicates that, as a result of rapid inflation and the continuing
contracton of the economy, up to one-third, or possibly 50 million people, may have fallen below the
poverty line in late 1992, based on an austere definition of the minimum subsistence level in which 68
percent of income is spent on food.1' The largeFt number of poor households are headed by employed
people-the 'working poor'-whose wages and benefit packages do not meet minimum subsistence needs.
The next largest group of poor are the elderly, with more than one-third of retirees below the poverty
line. Within each of these vulnerable groups, a significant proportion of households face severe hardship,
with incomes less than 50 percent of the minimum subsistence levels. Less than half of the poor receive
assistance from existing cash benefit programs, including pensions.
Progres  on Structual Refonns
9.           Entsode  WJorm.  The Government made significant progress in the area of
privatization, especially with regard to the mass privatization program for medium and large state
enterpis.  Some 5600 enterprises were slated for privatization in the first phase of the mass
privatization program out of 23,800 enterprisa or nearly 90 percent of the total number of me1ium and
large scale enterprises. By the end of 1992, 1560 enterprises had registered as joint stock companies and
issued stock for sale. In addition, another 1600 enterprises had their privatization plans approved by GWa
(the State Committee for the Management of State Property) but were not yet registered as joint stock
companies by the end of 1992. In order to build support for the privatization program, the Government
issued vouchers (of which 96 percent had been distributed by end-Jamnay 1993) to be used by individuals
either separately or through roughly 300 investment funds established to participate in the privatization
program. Pilot voucher aucdons began in December in four major cities, and by April 1993 about 600
enterprises had been privatized through voucher auctions in more than 30 oblasts throughout the country.
10.          Recent estimates prepared by GKI indicate that about one-third of the roughly 250,000
small scale enterprises (i.e., entities employing less than 200 people) had been privatized by the end of
1992. Regional and local authorities are responsible for the privatization of small enterprises, and there
has been considerable variation in performamce, with some regions and cities divesting up to 60 percent
of their small units while others have done little or nothing at all. Farm privatization made limited
progress during 1992, with most large farms (both sovkhoz-state farms-and koekhoz-collective farms)
choosing to re-register under collective ownership. Although housing privatizaion began late in 1992,
over 2.6 million apartments (around 8 percent of the total) have been privatized, most of which have been
given to residing tenants at almost no cost.
1/ Basd on ptiinazy resuts of a survey of 5000 households in Autun, 1992. Theimtesars prviionaand coud
change bs    y.



-4 -
11.           _ndi Sector Re,fonns. There are over 1700 independent commercial banks in Russia
at the present time, almcst all of which have been created within the last two years. Around 700 of the
banks are spinoffs from former state-owned specialized banks, while the remaining 1000 banks are
generaly very small and serve mainly to provide payment services for enterprises or groups of enterprises
that own them. About ha;f of the expansion in bank credit during 1992 was funded through directed
credit programs, in which commercial considerations were negligible, while the remaining bank lending
was funded mainly from enterprise deposits, most of which were on-lent on a short-term basis. Structural
rigkities in the payments system, which can result in vewy long delays for clearances, have contributed
to an increase in working capital requirements as well as growth in pre-payment and barter arrangements
between enwtprises.  Thus, changes in the macroeconomic environment, as well as technical
improvements in financial infrastructure, may result in very rapid changes in the commercial banking
system. Within the current structure, a core of 20-30 banks appears to be emerging that can evolve into
sound commercial banking institutions in the context of an appropriate legal and regulatory environment.
12.          Socdl &fety Net. Privatization and enterprise restrue"iring have not yet led to
significant unemployment in Russia, as most enterprise managers have chosen to reduce working hours
and cut real wages before laying off workers. As of end-February 1993, registered unemployment had
reacbed 700,000, or 1 percent of the labor force, of which two-thirds of the unemployed were receiving
benefits. In anticipation of a more rapid increase in unemployment, the Government has begun to
strengthen the capaciy of the Federal Employment Service to deliver unemployment benefits and to
provide pro-active employment services. Up to now, the Employment Fund, which is financed through
a 2 percent tax on payrolls, has run an overall financial surplus because of the low volume of cases and
relatively meager benefits (which are based on historical earnings during a time of rapid inflation). This
situation is not expected to continue, especially if the pace of enterprise restrucuring and privatzation
ncreases, and regional deficits in the Employment Fund may become an increasing problem.
13.          The current system of social protection is marked by a fra ation of funding sources
and responsibilities. In 1992, expenditures through the four mam extrabudgetary federal funds (Pension
Fund, Employment Fund, Social Insurance Fund, and Fund for Social Support of the Population)
represented about 7 percent of GDP, substantially less than what is spent on social protection by most
Central and Eastern European countries, and half of what some Western European countries spend on
pensions alone. During 1992, the Government transferred responsibility for most social assistance, health
and education programs to lower levels of government (the 88 oblaut and 2200 ayraons). This was not
matched by an assigment of adequate revenues, with the result that local authorities are under serious
and worsening financial pressure. There has been a significant drop in average health and education
expendhures; for example, per capital real expenditures on health and education have fallen by 42 percent
and 35 percent respectively since 1990, with considerable variation around this trend in different parts
of the country.
14.          Thde and Paments Anngement. The substantia devaluation of the ruble in both real
and nominal terms during the second half of 1992 did little to improve trade performance, while
contibuting signifiaty to macroeconomi instability. On the export side, most exporters recuived
relatively limited benefits due to quantitative controls and high export taxes. As a consequence, however,
exports are taking place through unofficial channels and the proceeds are not being properly remitted:
capital flight thus limits the potential financial returns to the country. Most imports continued to take
place at prices substantially below world levels because of the widespread use of import subsidies,
especially on food, medicine, and industial inputs. As a result, exchange rate depreciation was reflected



in increased budgetary subsidies. The foreign exchange market (such as the Moscow Inter-Bank Foreign
Currency Exchange) has remained relatively thin, limited largely to consumer goods imports. This has
increased the vunerability of the exchange rate to speculative pressures.
1S.          Russia's trade with other countries of the FSU during 1992 was marked by: (i) a
continued movement of prices toward world levels, resulting in substantial changes in the terms of trade
in favor of energy producers; (ii) a continued net outflow of resources from Russia to other FSU
countries, based in large part on political considerations; and (iii) greater freedom for enterprises to
export to the FSU under indicative quotas. During the first half of 1992, central banks in the other
fornmer republics were able to expand credit in rubles to finance imports of goods from Russia, which
contributed significandy to inflationary pressures. After mid-1992, the Central Bank began to enforce
payment settements through correspondent accounts, which limited credit expansion. As a result, trade
arrangements within the FSU have moved increasingly toward pre-payment and barter arrangements.
Russia has been negotiating free trade agreements and modified trade afrangements with other FSU
countries, which may increasingly govern trade within the region.
Lessons for 13 and Beyond
16.         The past year has demonstrated some important lessons that need to be included in the
design of future reform efforts. These include:
e     Achieving internal and extenal fincal stabilty will be a difficult and protracted
process in view of the large structural distortions in the economy that must be addressed.
This process is complicated by the figmented polil s=tctwe that has itade it
difficult to reach a workable consensus on priorities for reform.
X     Progress on stractul refonn will be uneven. Most successful so far has been the
privatization program; but large state enterprises have been able to use their political
influence to demand massive subsidies and directed credit programs, thus destabilizing
the macroeconomic situation. Much of the potential benefit of the initial wave of price
liberazaon has not been achieved because of continuing subsidies and a wide variety
of direct and indirect controls on prices and trade.
*     Growing responsibility for key aspects of the structural reform program is devolving to
the regions, which have been able to gain increasing authority in the unsettled political
situation. In addition to most aspects of the sockil safety net and socid prograns,
regional and local authortes have a major influence on the pace of the p r*atadon
prograw, r,tdwta l  of state entrkses, and a   fcutwl reform. Large regional
variations in the pace of reforms and differences in access to natural resources are likely
to lead to growing income inequalities, which may become a problem in the future.
*     The current _istional stWd    is a major bottleneck to the implementation of
economic reforms. Key institutions needed for management of a market economy, such
as the Minttiy of Fance and the Centrul Bank, require major institutional upgrading
in order to be able to perform their roles effectively. Ambiguities and a lack of



-6 -
transparency in the legal system significantly impede the inflow of vitally needed foreign
direct investment. Enterprises are poorly equipped to prepare strategies to adapt to the
rapidly changing economic environment. Whila foreign techncl assistance can help
address some of these problems, the needs are immense and must be met largely frem
Russia's own resources.
17.          At the same time, numerous indicators point to rapid and profound changes in the Russian
economy, despite the unstable macroeconomic environment. As noted earlier, there was rapid progress
during 1992 on privatization of enterprises and housirg, and the most recent estimates indicate that
roughly 13 percent of GNP is generated by the private sector, which is a remarkable change for one of
the most centralized and collectivized economies in the world. Many small and medium scale enterprises,
encouraged at times by activist local governments, are using the breakdown in the comnmand system to
search for new markets and develop the horizontal linkages to supplier3 and customers that are at the
heark of a market economy. Given its immense natural resources and high level of human capital
development, Russia has the potential for achieving rapid and sustained economic growth, if it is able to
weather the initial trauma of its transformation process.
B. Externl Flnancing Requirements and the External Environment
18.          The outlook for external financing plays a critical role in determining the prospects for
the reform program in Russia. In the near term, Russia requires access to massive amounts of official
financing. This situation cannot continue for an extended period, nor are the amounts that are likely to
be available from official sources sufficient to meet Russia's needs in the medium term. A primary goal
of external assistance must be to return Russia to full creditworthiness on commercial terms as soon as
realistically feasible. The speed at which this can be accomplished depends on the determination of the
Russian authorities to push forward with economic reforms and financial stabilization. The slower the
reform program, the larger will be Russia's external financing requirements, (with correspondingly
greater stress on international financing channels) or the slower will be Russia's resulting growth
performance, with its attendant risks for social and political unrest.
19.          Prospects for the Bace  of Pa sents. The challenges faced by the Government in
establishing a viable external financing framework can be summarized as follows:
*     Rapid export growth is critical. In the initial years, export growth will be concentrated
largely in the oil and gas sectors. Russia has good prospects to develop non-traditional
exports in the medium term. There are, however, exter  barriers to Russian exports
among OECD countries. It is essential that these be reduced or eliminated.
*     Russia must aim to generate a substantial surplus on its non-interest current account
within the next five years. This is necessary to rebuild foreign currency reserves and to
begin servicing debt in a fimely manner as payments resulting from the recent debt
rescheduling agreement and new borrowing begin to rise.
*     This implies that the availability of imports will remain relatively compressed for the next
several years. Russia will need to change the composition of its import requirements by



reducing the demand of the agricultural sectot and limidng Investment by the public
sector. Emphasis should be placed on investments with short gestation periods and high
returns.
*     Large scale capital flight must be reduced as quickly as possible, which will require rapid
progress on financial stabilization. Russia must aim to generate a significant increase in
foreign direct investment and other capital inflows within the next several years.
Reforms in the legal framework and taxatirn policies and the elimination of impediments
to foreign investment are needed.
*     Even with these actions, additional external financing of an exceptional magnitude will
be required for the next several years to fill the financing gap. The responsibility for this
will fal mainly on existing creditors, who will need to continue to reschedule part of
their payments due, as well as on international financial institutions and export credit
agencies (EiCAs).
20.          Given the size of Russia's financing requirements, it is essential to have an agreement on
burden-sharing among the international financial institutions, export credit agencies and bilateral agencies
(including Russia's major creditors) for the program to succeed. This requirement has been recognized
by the international community, and a framework for accelerated assistance to Russia was announced at
the meeting of Foreign and Finance Ministers of the 07 in Tokyo on April 14-15, 1993. As part of this
framework, the Bank has been called upon to take a major role in providing support for long term
stuctural and sectoral reforms. Assistance by the Bank could include up to $4 billion in new
commitments over the next 15 months, including the Oil Rehabilitation Loan. The Bank's program is
included in a larger package of assistance totalling roughly $43.4 billion, consisting of $15 billion in debt
rescheduling, $13.1 billion from the IMF (icluding a Currency Stabilization Fund of $6 billion), $0.5
billion from the EBRD to establish a fund for small and medium enterprises and to co-finance the Oil
Rehabilitation Loan, and $10 billion in loans and loan guarantees from export credit agencies. Additional
bilateral assistance is expected to be added to this program by the time of the meeting of the G7 Heads
of State and Government in July. Implementation of this program is dependent on progress by the
authorities in achieving financial stabilization, based on a framework to be agreed with the IMF in the
context of the Systemic Transformation Facility and leading to a higher level credit tranche arrangement
later in 1993.
21.          Provided that the Government makes significant progress on stabilization and structural
reforms over the next several years, the non-interest current account could increase from a projected
deficit in 1993 and 1994 to a surplus of perhaps $8-14 billion by the end of decade, based primarily on
the growth of oil exports (reflecting a 30 percent drop in domestic consumption) and gas exports.
Russia's debt service payments will increase significantly in 1995 when the grace period on rescheduled
post-cutoff debt expires, and there will be an even larger increase toward the end of the decade when
repayments on pre-cutoff debt begin. Depending on the progress of reforms, Russia may be able to begin
attracting significant inflows of foreign direct investment by 1996 (assuming various forms of security
arrangements are available). Nevertheless, even with good progress in all of these areas, Russia's debt
service and external financing requirements will remain uncomfortably high. In the balance of payments
scenario set out in Table 2, which is based on the High Case assistance program described below, the
ratio of debt service due to export receipts remains above 50 percent throughout the rest of the decade
period. At the same time, there is only a nominal provision for reserve accumulation. Therefore, the



- 8 -
possibility that additional cash flow relief may be needed during the latter part of the decade cannot be
ruled out.
22.            Russia's external financing requirements are vulnerable to external shocks, especially with
regard to energy prices. Russia will be deriving 30-40 percent of its foreign exchange earnings from oil
exports for the next several years at least. In Table 2, international oil prices are assumed to increase
from around $17.5 per barrel in 1993 to $19.5 per barrel in 1996. If prices instead fail by the same
margin, oil revenues in 1996 would be around $5 billion lower than projected, but still $7 billion higher
than in 1992. This would prolong the need for exceptional new money financing. Changes in
international interest rates could add $650-800 million to annual interest costs for every one percentage
point increase. Since a large share of interest payments have been rescheduled, however, this will push
the problem to the outer years of the decade. On the positive side, Russia could realize large surpluses
on its trade with other FSU republics if oil exports move toward world prices and trade balances are
settled in convertible currencies.
Table 2: Russi: Extenw  Fnancing Requireens (US$ bion)
1992         1993      1994      1996         199
Reqadrewrd
Non-inteet  Current
Deficit Account 1/         -1.1           3.0       4.4      -4toO       -10 to -5
Debt Service Due               19.0          32.5      20.7       33           36
Princpal                 (8.9)        (14.1)    (13.3)     (23)        (25)
Interest                (5.4)          (6.6)    (7.4)      (10)        (11)
Arrears                  (4.7)        (11.8)      -
Change in Reserves              0.8           4.0       2.0       2            2
Short-tm Outflows, Net          4.6                   6.3        - 
Total           233            45.8      27.1     31 to 35     28 to 33
Sources
Foreign Direct Investment       0.7           1.5      2.0        4            4
Disburieme                     12.5          18.0     16.0      11 to 13      11 to 13
Mul_iaterals V           (3-5)         (9-0)     -          -
Blaterals               (9.0)         (9-0)      *          -
Grants                          3.0           3.0      2.0        0            0
Rescheduling                    7.1          23.3       -         -            -
Paris Club               (3.6)        (13.4)
Odher Creditrs          (3.5)          (9.9) 3/   -         -
Unidentified Financing Soce 4/    -                    7.1      16to18        13to16
Total         23.3           45.8     27.1      31 to 35     28 to 33
Memo 1km
Debt Service Due as a Percentag of
ExportsofGoodsandServS es 4/  45%           84%      50%        61%          55%
1/ Minus indicaes a surplus.
2/ lnludes IMP, except for stabilizion fuind.
3/ Assung other creditors provide conmpaable terms.
4/ Before rescheduing.
Note: Excludes trade with other FSU republics denominated in rubles.



-9 -
23.          Sources of FPnancig, 1993-96. A major element in Russia's external financing plan for
1993 is in place with the recent agreement by the Paris Club to provide debt rescheduling on
exceptionally generous terms. This is expected to provide cash flow relief of around $13 billion in 1993,
and equal treatment of conmmercial bank loans could provide an additional $10 billion in cash flow relief
in 1993. Financing which is likely to be available from the international financial institutions (especially
IMF, IBRD and EBRD) may provide an additional $9 billion in 1993 (including the IMF's recently-
approved Systemic Transformation Facility). The remaining part of the financing gap will have to be met
from official bilateral sources and ECAs. Additional ECA lending is especially important, as it represents
the most important potential source of official "new money' assistance for Russia. A number of ECAs
placed Russia "off cover" during 1992 due to the build-up of arrears. While this immediate problem has
been largely resolved as part of the Paris Club agreement, many ECAs may be reluctant to extend
additional credits, especially on the longer terms required by Russia, without additional assurances.
24.          The growth and stability of Russia over the longer term depends on expanding trade to
OECD markets and the rest of the world. The pace of integration depends mainly on Russia itself, and
the Government should act promptly to liberalize the trade regime and resist protectionist pressures from
the domestic industry. The international community bears considerable responsibility as well for
supporting improvements in Russia's market access.  Currently, Russia faces serious competitive
disadvantages that stem from tariff preferences that OECD countries extend to developing countries and
to each other. Non-tariff barriers are also an important constraint to trade, including restrictions such
as quotas and variable duties, as well as countervailing and anti-dumping actions. The latter are
becoming a major problem, as Russia fuces special anti-dumping procedures that allow the authorities to
construct reference prices on the basis of "surrogate" firms in market economies using technology similar
to that of Russian firms. This approach is cumbersome, and the resulting "margins of dumping" are
arbitrary. Although various communiques from the OECD acknowledge the need for industrial countries
to improve trade access for countries such as Russia, more vigorous and specific measures need to be
taken to remove trade restrictions.
C. Development Polides and Objectives
25.          Economic transfcrmation in Russia presents an unusually difficult and daunting set of
challenges. Rapid changes are needed simultaneously in a number of critical areas, especially pricing,
private sector development, enterprise reform and resuring, private sector development, financial
sector reforms, expansion of the social safety net, and trade reforms. Complicating this situation is the
highly unstable macroeconomic environment, which has diverted most of the attention of the Government
into short-term crisis management. The political divisions between the various branches of government,
including the local authorities, severely hamper efforts to address these problems in a logical manner.
This problem is fundamentally the responsibility of the Russian leadership and the people to resolve. In
order to make progress in this situation it is essential to identify the highest priorities for structural reform
and ensure that efforts are focused on finding practical solutions that can be successfully implemented in
a highly uncertain environment.
The Outlook for Stabilization
26.          The starting point for the reform program must include macroeconomic stabilization,
although the success of stabilization is ultimately dependent on rapid progress on structural reforms. The
Government recedy outlined its program for macroeconomic stabilization in 1993 at the meeting of G7



- 10-
Foreign and Finance Ministers in Tokyo in April 1993. The Govermment's program seeks to reduce the
monthly rate of inflation to single digits by the end of 1993 and limit domestic financing of the budget
to be consistent with these stabilization objectives. Actions to be taken under the Government's program
include:
O     Agreement by the Central Bank to limit the quarterly growth rate of new credits during
1993.
e     Reductions in import subsidies and exemptions from export taxes and customs duties, and
inclusion of all interest rate subsidies in the budget.
*     Reductions in loans to other FSU countries.
*     Adjustments in the Central Bank discount rate.
0     Liberalization of the access to export markets for energy and other commodities.
These are important steps which, if fully implemented, will go a long way to stabilize the macroeconomic
situation. In order to sustain these measures, it is essential for the Government to take equally bold
measures to restructure the state enterprise sector along the lines of the framework outlined below.
Priorities for Slructwal Reforns
27.           It is widely recognized that privatization and enterprise reform are at the heart of Russia's
transformation into a market economy. The Government has already launched an ambitious program for
privatization of the vast majority of state enterprises, and this effort deserves continuing strong support
for the next several years. It is understood that the majority of newly privatized enterprises will need
to be restructured to some degree, but the Government's philosophy is that such decisions are best left
to the new owners following privatization and that additional investment should be financed from internal
resources or through the commercial banking system. Given tho vast number of state-owned enterprises
and the urgency to proceed very rapidly with privatization to ensure that market reforms become
irreversible, this approach is both prudent and realistic.
28.           Nevertheless, this past year has demonstrated that there are a number of enterprises where
rapid privatization is not practical, especially very large enterprises or those involved in highly sensitive
sectors (e.g., high technology or defense) or enterprises with special social and/or political characteristics
(e.g., one-enterprise towns, coal mining, etc.) Unless the restructuring needs of these enterprises are
addressed in a more direct and transparent fashion, they are likely to continue to demand large subsidies
and financial transfers that will undermine prospects for financial stability. Based on this experience, a
consensus is developing on the principles that must underlie a successful approach to enterprise reform,
including the following elements:
*     An appropriate _wentve regime to guide enterprise reform.
*     Support for continued priwtlaon and creation of a positive business environment for
recently-privatized and newly-emerging private sector enterprises.



- 11 -
o     Institutional arrangements for preparing selected state enterpn'ses for privatization or
liquidation, or as restructured entities to be retained in the public sector. This effort may
include the establishment of restrucriwng agenckes to address the investment needs of
an increasingly large number of privatized enterprises.
0     Development of a Jfncil sector capable of channeling funds to private sector
enterprises on a commercial basis.
o     Strengthening of the sockd sqfety net to ensure a minimum level of protection for
individuals severely affected by enterprise reform and to ensure the continuity of key
social services as they are shifted from enterprises to local authorities.
o     Reform of tade and payments arrangements with the outside world to expose Russian
enterprises to international competition and provide opportunities to develop export
markets and attract foreign private investment needed to support the restructuring
process.
A vaiety of proposals are currently being discussed within the Government and the international
community for implementing various parts of this program. At this point, the design of the program and
the role of the Bank within this effort are still evolving, but the broad outline of the reform agenda that
will be needed is now relatively well established.
29.          Incentive Regime. Despite the initial success of price liberalization in eliminating
artificial shortages in the distribution system, the price system in Russia continues to be highly distorted
because of a wide variety of formal and implicit constraints on trade and pricing. An appropriate pricing
system is at the heart of a market economy, and the process of enterprise restructuring needs an efficient
pricing system to provide incentives and guide investment decisions. Price reform is closely linked with
the process of trade liberalization, and the starting point shiould be to align domestic and world prices for
tradable commodities more closely. This can be achieved in large part by increasing the relative price
of energy and raw materials through the removal of export quotas. For some goods, the Government
has decided to phase in price increases in order to allow adequate time for the domestic economy to
adjust. In such cases, export taxes should preferably replace volume controls, with very limited
exemptions. At the same time, the scope and level of import subsidies needs to be reduced substantially.
Import tariffs can be justified on both fiscal and protection grounds during the transition period.
However, import duties should be made more uniform (m the range of 15-25 percent), and exemptions
should be strictly limited. Aside from the potential gains in improving the efficiency of domestic resource
use, moving toward world prices will also enhance Russia's trading opporunities by lessening the
possibility of anti-dumping actions in foreign markets. In addition, the authorities should act vigorously
to eliminate restrictions on domestic trade and remove the remaining internal constraints on pricing, such
as the limitation on profit margins for a wide variety of enterprises.
30.          Price reform will reduce the justification for the wide variety of compensating subsidies
and directed credit programs that are the primary cause of financial instability. In combination with price
reform, the Government should phase out almost all directed credit programs through the Central Bank.
To the extent that some of the existing credit programs are being used to support social programs, such
costs should be transferred to the budget. There is likely to be a continuing need for directed credit in
support of specific enterprise restructuring programs, but the administration of such programs should be
separated from the overall conduct of monetary policy and subjected to limitations on credit expansion



- 12 -
that are consistent with the overall macroeconomic program. The remaining subsidies through the budget
should be converted to explicit lump sum transfers and subjected to a strict overall ceiling that is
consistent with the Government's fiscal targets.
31.          Privation and Pvate Sector Development. The privatization program has been the
success story of the reform effort so far, but it is still in the initial stages and the task ahead is mammoth.
Already the demand by enterprises to proceed through the process of corporatization and privatization
has exceeded the capacity of the local property management committees, and actions to strengthen the
institutional capacity of the mass privatization program are of the highest priority. The privatization of
small-scale enterprises has been shown to be one of the best tools for quickly creating a substantial private
sector with a vested interest in maintaining reforms. The Government has set the objective of completing
the bulk of the small-scale privatization program in two years. This goal is broadly achievable with
renewed efforts, especially focusing on regional and local authorities that have resisted the program so
far. The methodology of small-scale privatization has been shown to be workable, and practical models
are available for use in Russia; the issue now is to pursue implementation in a vigorous manner. As a
complement to this effort, targeted efforts to accelerate farm restructuring and housing privatization
deserve support as additional means for expanding private sector activity.
32.           An efficient market system requires competition to control costs and encourage innovation
and ensure that market power is not used to exploit consumers. One of the best means for achieving this
objective is to establish a positive business environment for the entry and growth of new private
enterprises. This will limit the social costs of restructuning state enterprises by the creation of alternative
sources of employment and output growth. Necessary actions include: (i) reforming and streamlining the
legal framework, including business registration, property rights, bankruptcy procedures, and a
mechanism for the resolution of commercial disputes; (ii) establishment of a commercial real estate
market, including the spinning off and leasing of assets of the state enterprises; (iii) business promotion
and advisory services, including marketing; and (v) a simple, transparent, and reasonably stable system
of business taxation.
33.          For larger enterprises that can benefit from management and technology transfer as well
as capital investment, promotion of foreign rect Invesbtent (FDI is an effective tool that can make a
significant contribution to the balance of payments in the medium term. The Government has taken some
important steps to promote foreign investment by the removal of discrmintng exchange rates and
various clarifications of the legal framework for foreign investing. These actions have been offset,
however, by erratic changes in taxation and legal and bureaucratic impediments to completing
agreements. There has recently been a proliferation of governmental and quasi-governmental bodies with
unclear prerogatives for FDI, so that potendal investors face a confusing situation. While a stable
macroeconomic environment is the single most important requirement for promoting FDI, a great deal
of work needs to be done on taxation, legal arrangements and investment promotion activities as well.
34.          Enterprise Refonn and Restrctrng     While the mass pivatization program can move
rapidly for the majority of medium and large sized enterprise-, the largest state enterprises (about 1000)
and enterprises in activities such as fuel and energy, extraction of natural resources, communications,
etc., will need to be privatized (and/or liquidated) on a case-by-case basis, after a systematic review of
their privatization proposals. In addition, a number of firms (e.g., large utilities, defense plants, and
certain other strategic industries) may remain in the public sector for an extended period, and it is
important th they begin operating in a more efficient form. Enterprise restructiring is an enormously
difficult task, not only because it will involve huge financial and managerial resources, but also becase



- 13 -
the signals emanating from the restructuring process will have a decisive influence on the pace of reform,
the scope for privatization, the behavior of enterprises, and the kind of private sector that will develop
in Russia. Because the potential financial demands for enterprise restructuring will far exceed the
resources likely to be available from either domestic or foreign sources in the near term, it is important
to have clear guidelines on sharing the costs for passive and aclve restructuring.
O     Prior to privatization, restructuring efforts should focus on passive restructuring of
enterprises-downsizing, spinning-off parts, reducing debt, restructuring the capital base,
and reducing employment-especially for those enterprises or parts of enterprises that
represent the most severe drain on budgetary resources.
*      Active restructuring involving new investments to increase efficiency and to enlarge
and/or redirect existing capacity should only be carried out after privatization.
35.           Experience with the mass privatization program so far demonstrates that newly privatized
enterprises are gradually restructuring and adjusting output in response to market opportunities. Most
of the cost of restructuring (much of it prior to privatization) has been financed from the resources of the
nterprises, with limited recourse to bank credit. This approach will be increasingly difficult to maintain
as the pace of the mass privatization program picks up, and it is likely that the commercial banking
system will not be ready to respond adequately to the emerging demands of privatized enterprises. In
the absence of a well-developed banking system, the establishment of specialized restructuring agencies
may be appropriate and could play a decisive role in speeding up the privatization process. This effort
would need to be supplemented by a special agency or fund designed to assist oblasts in taking over the
responsibility for key social services currently provided by enterprises until such time as the local
governments are able to finance these programs out of their own resources.
36.           The Government will also have to address the restructuring needs of enterprises that must
be privatized and/or liquidated on a case-by-case basis. These will tend to be the largest enterprises, and
some of them will be in single-enterprise towns. Such enterprises typically provide a significant level
of social services. Given their size and special circumstances, it is likely that privatization of such
enterprises will take some time and many of them will require significant restructuring before they can
be privatized. In such cases, restructuring should be limited primarily to passive restructuring costs and
downsizing, including the divestiture of important social functions currently provided by the enterprises.
T'he bulk of these costs should be covered on a grant basis through specialized agencies of the
government, rather than financed through the banking system. In many instances, assistance will need
to be directed as well to the local authorities that must absorb the initial negative impact of restrucuring.
37.           For enterprises expected to remain in the public sector for an extended period, the most
urgent action is the creation of an appropriate structure of coiporawt govewnce in order to exercise the
state's ownership rights over the enterprises. At present, the legal ownership responsibility rests with
GKI and the State Property Fund, but giving portfolio management responsibilities to GKI would burden
it with an enormous task and could distract it from privatization. Once ownership rights have been
established, priority should be given to establishing a financial monitoring system to set borrowing limits,
targets for the reduction of arrears, and targets for financial results, as well as a clearly defined system
of rewards and penalties to encourage enterprises to comply with the targets.
38.           Flnww  Sedor Refonn. Once the Central Bank has relinquished its responsibility for
directed credit programs, it should begin to regulate commercial bank liquidity through less intrusive



- 14-
methods, such as a discount window (at an interest rate that will ration credit) and/or credit auctions.
This will provide the necessary framework to develop a structure of banks that can allocate credit
increasingly on a commercial basis. One of the first priorities is to improve the financial infrastructure;
i.e., the body of laws, regulations, accounting, public institutions, training institutes, and processes and
systems that constitute the environment in which financial institutions operate. This should include: (i)
completion of the updating of the legal framework, including the adoption of laws dealing with central
banking and commercial banking activities; (ii) modernization of the payments system through accounting
improvements and introduction of modern data-processing equipment; (iii) improvements in banking
regulation and supervision; (iv) rationalization of the deposit insurance scheme so that it focuses only on
the protection of small depositors; (v) devtlopment of accounting and auditing; (vi) training of bankers;
and (vii) development and regulation of securities markets.
39.          Given the long time needed to train qualified bank supervisors, the Central Bank is
developing an interim program, generally referred to as the Intentaondl Standard Bank program, to
encourage banks to voluntarily improve their operations in line with sound banking practices, focusing
on the 20-30 banks that appear to be developing in this direction already. This would provide Russia
with a group of banks that would form the core of the banking system in the future. In addition,
consideration needs to be given to restructuring the existing specialized state banks, especially those which
can provide the elements of an extended branch banking system, and possible creation of apex institutions
to meet the needs of thL emerging private sector, especially in industry (including small and medium sized
enterprises), agriculture, and housing.
40.          Sochl Safety Net. Most Russian state enterprises are overmanned, and privatization and
enterprise restructuring in an environment of increasing competition is expected to lead to higher
unemployment. Estimates vary, but it is widely believed that unemployment, still less than one percent,
could rise to or exceed 4-6 percent-a quarter of the enterprise work force-in the early stages of
restructuring. Conceivably, unemployment could rise to as much as 10 percent, as experienced in other
Eastern European countries. Such developments would aggravate an already serious poverty problem
nationwide and put further pressure on the existing social safety net arrangements. Moreover, as
enterprises shed the burden of providing social services to their workforce, the responsibility will fall
increasingly on local authorities that are currently ill-prepared both financially and administratively to
assume this task. The ability of the central budget to redistribute revenues from the relatively prosperous
to poorer regions is very limited. It is therefore going to be difficult to maintain minimum levels of
services and finance unemployment benefits, let alone provide proactive labor and retraining programs,
in those parts of the country hardest hit by enterprise closures. The problems will be particularly serious
in the case of single-enterprise towns where the primary enterprise has litde or no prospects for achieving
commercial viability.
41.          In order to strengthen the system of social safety net programs, the Goverment will need
to adopt the following measures:
*     Allocate additional budgetary resources as needed to programs such as unemployment
benefits that are intended to help those affected by economic transition.
*     Provide support to local governments severely heated by economic restructuring, or
where social services previously provided by enterprises are being transferred to the local
authorities, specifically through (i) targeted social assistance programs at the local level;
and (ii) special programs to safeguard social services, especially health and education.



- 15 -
O     Reallocate and supplement public expenditures, both at the national and local level, to
ensure that: (i) the most vulnerable groups, such as the elderly and handicapped, do not
fall into poverty; and (ii) priority social services continue to be delivered.
0     Strengthen administrative capacity to carry out these programs, and in particular to
develop further the pro-active employment policies of the Federal Employment Service.
These programs will require the reallocation of a substantial share of resources, on the order of 3-5
percent of GDP, to the social safety net. This objective can be met, and at the same time reduce the
fiscal deficit, by reallocating a share of the existing budgetary subsidies to targeted social safety net
programs. Indeed, a large share of the existing budgetary transfers are intended to reduce prices or
maintain employment levels in the absence of an effective social safety net; targeted programs can achieve
the same objectives more efficiently and at lower budgetary cost.
42.          lhde and Payments Amagements. The adjustment in domestic prices toward market
levels will facilitate the dismantling of state trading arrangements with the countries of the FSU. Bilateral
trade agreement may need to be maintained on a temporary basis for products subject to price controls.
However, such agreements should limit obligatory list trading to those products (e.g., oil and natural gas)
that are adjusting to world prices on a gradual basis. The movement to world prices has already led to
a deterioration in the terms of trade for some countries of the FSU. This has been mitigated by Russia
providing energy and other products at less than world market prices. Such subsidies should be
implemented in a more transparent manner, with Russia providing credits through the budget that will
help ease the transition to the higher amounts of financing that these countries will need. The authorities
should also do more to coordinate fiscal and monetary policies within the ruble area and improve the
payments system for countries with new currencies. This would include making operational the Interstate
Bank (for multilateral clearance of trade payments) and by encouraging direct contacts between enterprises
by means of correspondent accounts with commercial banks in different countries.
43.          As most Russian enterprises have been isolated from international markets for a
considerable period, support for export promotion is highly desirable. Expanding non-traditional exports
to third country markets is a demanding task because it requires improved quality control and enhanced
marketing efforts. Increased collaboration with foreign private trading and manufacturing companies,
including no-investment forms of cooperation such as technical marketing agreements, sub-contracting
and franchising, can make a significant contribution to increasing non-traditional exports. Expanding
such collaboration will require improvements in the legal and administrative framework. Consideration
should also be given to early privatization of state trading companies, diversification of their current
product specialization, and the development of joint ventures or other arrangements with foreign
companies. Trade will also be facilitated with the introduction of modern mechanisms of payments such
as letters of credit, and by incentives given to commercial banks to encourage their use. This will pave
the way for expanding short-term trade finance, which will help expand both international and interstate
trade.
Prorities for Sectoral Reformn
44.          Bherg. The energy sector is expected to make a major contribution to financing the
restucturing of the economy in the coming decade. At present, production is falling in every sub-sector.
Ihis problem is especially critical in the oil sector, where crude oil production has fallen by 30 percent
since 1988 (from 570 million tons to 396 million tons in 1992), and oil exports are down by about one-



- 16 -
third from their 1988 peak. Natural gas production registered its first decline in 1992, falling by 3
percent in the second half of the year as compared to 1991, and there has been a modest decline in gas
exports as well, largely due to decreasing demand in Eastern Europe. Coal production in 1992 was 15
percent below the level recorded in 1990.
45.          An immediate priority in the oil sector is to rehabilitate some 13,000 idle oil wells and
associated facilities that have been shut-down for lack of adequate investment, at an estimated cost of
about $6 billion over the next few years. In order to stabilize oil production at the estimated 1993 level
of 350 million tons will require up to $50 billion in investment between now and the year 2000 in new
fields ready for development. In order to mobilize the necessary resources, early action on policy
reforms is needed to generate revenue surpluses and promote foreign investment by: (i) raising domestic
oil prices to world levels; (ii) rationalizing the system of taxation by reducing excessive tax burdens and
shifting from revenue-based to profit-based taxes; (iii) establishing an oil law to provide a legal basis for
foreign investment; (iv) reforming the Producing Associations to make them more autonomous and
commercial in their operations: and (v) promoting international tendering of known oil fields that have
not been developed due to a lack of domestic funding.
46.          Russia is well-positioned to meet incremental markets for natural gas in Europe over the
medium term. Priority in the gas sector should therefore focus on: (i) increasing the availability of gas
through energy efficiency enhancements and reduction of gas flaring; (ii) rehabilitation of the existing gas
network to maintain flow capacity; (iii) debottleneck existing export capacity (in concert with downstream
transit countries); and (iv) maintain or increase gas production from existing fields, enabling the deferral
of new geographically remote fields. In order to support these objectives, policy actions are needed in
pricing, taxation, investment planning, and institutional and legal reforms to promote commercialization
and private ownership, including greater scope for market competition. Priority in the coal sector should
focus on reducing the large burden of subsidies, estimated at 1.2 percent of GDP in 1992 and expected
to increase substantially in 1993. In addition to price liberalization, the immediate priority should be the
closure of the highest cost mines. Recently, 42 mines have been identified for closure, involving a loss
in employment for roughly 100,000 workers (split roughly in half between production personnel and
"social infrastructure" workers), provided that adequate social safety net arrangements can be put in
place. In thepower sector, a special area of concern is the safety of existing nuclear power stations. The
most vulnerable plants (in terms of safety) are concentrated in the heavily-populated central (Moscow)
and northwest (Saint Petersburg) regions, at considerable distances from alternative resources such as gas,
coal and hydropower. The Government is working with intnational agencies to examine the possibilities
for improving safety of the existing nuclear reactions and the investments that would be needed to ensure
reliable and economical supplies to meet future electricity demands, if the Government decides to shut
down selected nuclear power units before the end of their design life.
47.          Agrkultre. After years of distorted signals arising from the command economy, Russian
agriculture is highly inefficient in almost all aspects, including the mix of outputs, factor productivity,
suitability to local environmental conditions, and openness to improved technology. The Government
provided direct budgetary subsidies to the sector amounting to almost 12 percent of GDP in 1992. Over
half of this amount was channeled to consumers in the form of retail-level subsidies and subsidies on
imported food, while the remaining amount was channeled to producers through a variety of mechanisms.
In addition, another 10 percent of GDP was channeled to the sector through directed state credit programs
and grants for capital investment. Agricultural and food imports accounted for about $8 billion in imports
in 1992, or 25 percent of Russia's total import bill, while agricultural exports were negligible, accounting
for only 1 percent of all exports outside the FSU. The excessive size and inefficiency of the livestock



- 17 -
sector alone was responsible for about $3 billion in grain imports. The Government has not yet
articulated a consistent vision for agricutural reform, and the following issues will need to be addressed:
0     Farm Resdr*ntwhg and Land Reform. By March 1993, 215,000 private family farms
accounting for over 3 percent of total agricultural land had been established, and the
majority of state and collective farms bad registered as either joint stock companies or
cooperatives. Restrictions on the transfer of land continue to discourage private farm
ownership, and the process of farm reorganization and restructuring needs to be
accelerated.
*     Tzde and Marketing Refonrs. State procurement and input distribution organizations
continue to play a large role, with substantial monopoly powers, at both the national and
regional level. Actions to further reduce state orders, increase competition across regions
and facilitate market entry by new enterprises would do a great deal to improve efficiency
and reduce overall distribution and marketing costs.
48.          Environment. Industrial development in Russia had a number of especially damaging
environmental characteristics, including: (i) a preponderance of pollution-intensive heavy industrial
enterprises concentrated in enormous complexes, often located upwind and too close to urban areas; (ii)
shielding of strategic industries from environment  regulations; (iii) inefficiency in energy and raw
materials extrion and end use; and (iv) inadequate investment in less-polluting technologies and
pollution control equipment. Given this legacy, structural reforms should be matched with institutional,
regulatory and economic measures to ensure that enterprise restructuring does not simply result in a
continuation of past polluting practices. In some cases, price reform by itself will encourage more
environmentally-sound practices; for example, reductions in gas flaring and oil leakages can generate
large financial returns as well as improve environmental conditions. In other sectors such as non-ferrous
metals, iron and steel, oil refining and petrochemicals, and chemical and allied industries, the
Government will have to play a more active role in enforcing sound environmental practices. In regions
that are already heavily contaminated as a result of past industrial or military activity, the initial focus
should be on low cost containment measures rather than on costly clean-up activities.
49.          Russia possesses a wide range of environmental assets that need to be managed and/or
protected. The taiga forest, covering 700 million ha., is as large as the combined forest resources of
Canada, USA, Indonesia and Zaire, and contains 25 percent of the world's wood resources. However,
some of the rich forest resources of eastern Siberia are already experiencing unsustainable levels of
extraction and degradation, due to the increased demand for forest products from rapidly expanding East
Asia economies. Approximately one percent of Russia has been set aside as nature reserves or national
parks, which is well below the widely accepted target of 3 percent Fiscal restraint has resulted in a
drastic reduction of funding for the maintenance of protected areas, which could result in degradation of
unique areas of biological diversity.
SO.          Trnpo,laon and Tekcouwwdeatlons. The transportation and telecommunications
sectors will undergo fundamental changes as a result of the restructuring of the enterprise sector. The
current transport system is dominated by rail, which is facing a rapid fall in demand as the command
economy recedes and enterprises begin to build new linkages with suppliers and customers on a horizontal
basis. These factors will increase the importance of flexible and decentralized transportation modes,
especially road haulage. Fiscal restraint, however, is undermining both maintenance and investment
budgets, increasing the importance of both carefiul investmnent planning and cost recovery measures to



- 18-
make the best use of existing resources. A market-oriented economy will place a premium on faster and
more decentralized information flows, which will require a massive expansion of the telecommunications
system in order to improve internal and extenal communication linkages.
51.          Homusng and Urban Services. Improvements in housing and urban services would be
one of the most direct and effective means for demonstrating to the bulk of the population, three quarters
of whom live in urban areas, some of the beneficial results of the reform program. Privatization of the
public housing stock has recently started in earnest, but a number of issues still need to be addressed,
such as the disposition of the housing stock managed by state enterprises (about 46 percent of the total).
In order to develop an active private sector housing market, attention needs to be given to the legal
framework for real estate property rights, privatization of the housing construction sector, and the
development of banking services for the housing and real estate markets. Transitional measures are also
needed to ensure the maintenance of essential urban services such as garbage collection, water, sewerage,
district heating, and urban transportation. In the medium term, many of these services should be
established as self-supporting revenue earning entities, but there may be serious problems relating to
ability to pay in the short term.
52.          Trainng and Education. Russia has one of the most extensive educational and training
systems in the world. However, there are critical gaps in skills related to a market economy, such as
accounting, financial management, marketing, and small business management, and there is an urgent
need to build capacity for such training in Russia. Job retraining will become more important as the level
of unemployment increases, and the Federal Employment service has begun to develop pro-active training
programs. The Government is also examining ways in which the huge vocational training system can
be restructured to meet the needs of a market economy more effectively.
53.          Health. Even before the recent fiscal crisis, public expenditures for health care averaged
about half of OECD levels as a percentage of GDP, resulting in generally lower health standards. This
problem has been compounded by the rapid decentralization of health care to financially-strapped local
authonties, such that about 85 percent of total health expenditures are now financed at the sub-national
level. In this situation, the priority issues that need to be addressed in the short term are: (i) health
financing and management; (ii) redefining the relationship between federal and local agencies; and (iii)
strengthening primary health care, especially in the critical area of immunization.
Priorities for Institutional Reforms
54.          Legal Framework. The introduction of a market economy places a high priority on the
establishment of a clear legal;. aywork to delineate property rights and provide a framework for the
resolution of conflicts. This framework, still largely missing in the Russian context, must be built in
tandem with the process of privatization and private sector development. New market-oriented legislation
has been passed at a rapid pace both by the Supreme Soviet and in the form of Presidential decrees. Key
measures taken in the second half of 1992 include the law on bankruptcy, the law on currency regulation,
a_mdments to the Labor Code, and various enactments on aspects of privatization, key laws on
intellectua property. Drafts in various stages of preparation include securities, joint-stock companies,
partnerships, securities regulation, oil and gas legislation, accountancy, foreign investment, land reform,
and others. In addition, a second generation of legislation will be required to implement many of the
provisions of existing legislation. There is a need for improving coordination to ensure that the various
laws and judicial and regulatory powers allocated to various bodies are mutually consistent.



- 19 -
55.          Lo  wand Regional Goven ints. Particular attention needs to be given to strengthening
the institutional capacity of local and regional govermnents, which are taking on increasing responsibilities
and authority as a result of the devolution of key government services (especially in the social sectors)
and political decisions regarding the realignment of power between the central and local levels. Local
governments vary widely in terms of their receptivity to economic reform and their prospects for renewed
growth, given the huge spatial differences in resource endowments, population and dependence on
existing industries. One of the most important actions, therefore, should be to reach agreement on a
revised approach to batergovemmenta Jiscal reLions, which. would match revenue and expenditure
obligations more closely and provide opportunities for shifting resources between regions to meet varying
requirements relating to the economic restructuring program. There is also an increasing awareness that
the focus of external assistance efforts needs to shift increasingly to the level of oblass and rayons in
order to meet individual needs more effectively.
D. The Bank's Countiy Assistance Stratey
56.          The reform program in Russia has reached a critical juncture. The results of the recent
referendum demonstrate that a majority of voters continue to support President Yeltsin and his economic
policies, although this support could erode in an outburst of hyperinflation or through continued inability
to come to grips with Russia's shrinking economy. The continuing constitutional crisis is also a major
concern. At the same time, economic liberalization and the rapid pace of privatization have begun to
generate a new class of entrepreneurs, especially among the young, that can provide a growing
constituency for further reforms. While much of Russia's infrastructure requires immediate attent nt (for
example, in the oil sector), it has not yet deteriorated to the point where the cost of rehabilitation is
prohibitive. Perhaps most importantly, the easing of international tensions and the growth of democracy
have fostered broad-based international support for an extraordinary program of financial assistance to
help Russia over the initial trauma of economic reforms. The Bank has an important role to play in this
international effort.
Objectives and Priorities for Bank Assstance
57.          Over the past year and a half, the Bank has undertaken a substantial program of economic
and sector work designed to provide an increasingly firm basis for the formulation of a coherent strategy
for Bank operations. Although there are still major gaps in our knowledge, the broad outlines of the
framework for assistance have emerged. These include:
e     Support for macroeconomic stabizaton;
     Strengthening market-oriented  ti*tdions, including the private sector,
Q     Achieving a quick supply response in key sectors of the economy;
o     Support for expansion of the s?dal safety net and other essential social services; and
*     Assistance in donor coro,uiion and mobiling externalAfn4nce.
In support of these objectives, the Bank has identified 12 priority lending operations that could be
prepared over the next 12-15 months, as well as a range of economic and sector issues and technical



20 
assistance needs that the Bank would address largely from Its own resources. The following discussion
describes this program in greater detail.
Macroeconomic Stabilzation
58.           Stabilization is essendal to allow structural reforms to succeed, and stabilizadon cannot
succeed without further progress on structural reforms. Within the overall framework for macroeconomic
stabilization developed by the Government and the IMF, the Bank has been giving dose attention to
issues involving pricing (especially in the energy and agriculture sectors), enterprise reform, the financial
sector, and development of a social safety net. The Bank and the IMF have recently prepared a joint
strategy paper for reducing subsidies and directed credits to sta-owned enterprises.1' In addition, the
Bank has taken a leading role in analyzing the foreign trade and payments regime, the composition of
public expenditures, and intergovernmental fiscal relationsy, all of which are important parts of the
framework for improving financial discipline. As regards lending activity, the Bank provided support
for the Government's initial efforts at stabilizution and structural reform  in the conte  of the
Rehabilitation Loan, which laid out targets for 1992 in the key areas of eneprise reform (mcluding
privatization), pro-competition and anti-monopoly policies, foreign direct investment, financial sector
reforms, and the social safety net. If the Government reaches agreement on a macroeconomic program
supported by the IMD's Systemic Transformation Facility, the Bank is prepared to support further
stuctural reforms to strengthen stabilization efforts with a Second Rehabilitation Loan in FY94 centered
on enterprise restructring/privatization and liberalization of the price and trade regime. It would also
support initial measures to facilitate the preparation of follow-up adjustent/credit operations in the High
Case lending scenario (para 69). Fast-disbursing assistance by the Bank can play an important role in
the stabilization effort by providing non-inlationary ex al finacing to offset domestic imbalances
during the transitional period.
Market-Oriaded Activities and Pivate Sector Development
59.           The Bank's strategy in this area would center around the complex set of issues related
to successful enterprise reform and support for the emerging private sector. The priority issues in this
area include pricing and trade reform, further progress in privatization, restructuring and post-
privatization assistance for state-owned enterprises, support for private sector development, especially for
small and medium-sized enterprises, and financial sector reforms. The Bank's initial operation in this
area, the Privatization Implementaton Assistance Project ($90 million), will support the initial phase of
the privatization program, including pro-competition policies. Preparations were recoy started on an
Enterprise Reform Project to provide a financial framework to channel resources to state enterprises in
sUpport of privatization/restructuring programs, including: (J) cation of an Enterprise Restuctring
Fund to support the restrucurig/privation process; (ii) creation of an Oblast Support Fund to assist
local authorities severely impacted by the process of enterprise reform; and (iii) improvemenu in the
system of corporate govermance for enterprises remainmg in the public sector. In addition, a Trade
Reform Loan to support the process of trade liberalization is expected to be developed in the near future.
J lhis paper was disiunt to the Boards of both insdtudons, as wel as the G7 Commiee and the Russian auhorities, on
March 17, 1993.
3/ -Rusa: ItergoventmFal iscal Reaions in dte Russman Federsation," Grey Cover Repot No. 11302-RU, December 18,
1992.



- 21 -
60.          A key element of the Bank's strategy for enterprise reform is to channel resource flows
increasingly through viable financial institutions operating according to commercial principles. The Bank
has recendy prepared a sector report on the commercial banking system that is expected to provide the
basis for a Financial Infrastructure Project in FY94. In addition, the Bank is working on a Business
Finance Project, as well as a possible Oblast Industrial Finance Project, to establish credit lines to provide
working capital and term investment finance for small and medium private enterprises, as well as to
support private sector development activities at the local level. The Bank is also working with the
Government to strengthen training in critical market-oriented skills in the context of a Management and
Financial Training Project. Finally, the Bank is discussing with the authorities the possibility of a Legal
Reform Project that would help coordinate efforts to update and draft new legislation in areas critical to
market reforms.
Sectord Progrn
61.          The Bank's strategy is to achieve a quick supply response in the oil and gas sector, and
to support a limited number of high priority investments in other sectors that are important to sustainng
economic growth. In the energy sector, the Bank has indicated to the Government that with continued
good progress on policy reform, we would envision annual operations in the oil and gas sectors for the
next several years, of which the Oil Rehabilitation Loan represents the first such effort. In the gas sector,
the main producing and transmission entity (Garprom) has relied to date on bilateral export credits for
the import of new equipment. In the meantime, we are working with the gas distribution company to
develop a project to strengthen local gas distribution networks, many of which are in urgent need of
rehabilitation and to free up gas for export through energy efficiency investments. In the coal sector, the
Bank has provided assistance for a limited amount of critical import needs through the Rehabilitation
Loan, including an initial sector overview and a review of environmental issues. Depending on the
Government's response to the ongoing study of the electric power sector, the Bank may be prepared to
participate in the financing of some of the investment proposals resulting from the study.
62.          The Bank has prepared a widely-circulated study that sets out a clear strategy for reform
of the aagu e sedro?&. An outline of the proposed Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan has been
discussed with various agencies responsible for agricultural policy in Russia. While there is general
agreement on the Bank's analysis of the issues, the multiplicity of interests has made it difficult to reach
a consensus on a specific program of reforms. In this situation, the Bank is examining possibilities for
approaching the major issues in the sector in smaller slices, moving ahead with projects relating to land
management, farmer and market information systems, hybrid seeds development, expansion of wholesale
markets, and agricultural support programs at the obla level, and the Bank will continue to revise its
lending program to respond in a positive manner where appropriate.
63.          The Bank has recently completed a major survey of the tranpoflotin sector that
identifies likely changes in modal requirements resulting from the economic reform process (for example,
declining demand for rail and the need to promote private sector involvement in the trucking industry),
the need to reduce subsidies to transport sector enterprises (especially in rail and air transport), and the
general problem of excess capacity prevailing in the transportation sector, implying very low priority for
major new investments except for maitenance and selected rehabilitation projects. In line with this
4f *Pood and Agriculurl Policy Refrm in The Former USSR: An Agenda for the Trnion," Suioe of Economies in
Trat  Wrld Baik, Sepemb 1992.



- 22 -
strategy, the Bank is focusing its initial involvement in the transport sector on spare parts and equipment
for urban transport and port operations as part of the Rehabilitation Loan and highway rehabilitation and
maintenance. Subsequent involvement in the sector may include expanded program of assistance for
urban transportation, which is a critical indicator of the quality of public services for much of the
population.
64.          The Bank is planning to expand its involvement in housng and urban serices as part
of the economic reform process. The initial operation in this area will be a Housing Construction Project
to address problems relating to the dislocation of people resulting from the break-up of the Soviet Union.
Future projects would address problems of housing sector reform (especially related to privatization
issues) and key urban services such as district heating and water supply.
65.          In the area of envbmoment, the Bank is preparing a program to reduce gas flaring in oil
fields, which would have very high returns from an environmental standpoint and, based on preliminary
evaluations, would provide adequate financial returns as well. In addition, the Bank is working with the
Government and other donors on the preparation of an Environmental Management Project that will
address a broad range of institutional issues, including regulatory reform, nature protection, introduction
of sustainable forestry and agricultural practices, and a strategy for biodiversity.
Social Safety Net and Other Soda! Prgrams
66.          The Bank's strategy is to ensure a minimum level of social protection for all individuals
during the transition process, strengthen the ability of local institutions to sustain social programs from
domestic resources, improve labor market flexibility, and prevent the decline of critical social services
such as health. To date, the Bank's involvement has included: (i) the Employment Services and Socidal
Protection Project, which is intended to strengthen the capacity of the Federal Employment service to
process an increase in applications for unemployment benefits as a result of economic restruct; and
(ii) critical imports for the health sector (medicines, raw materials for the production of pharmaceuticals,
and medical equipment and spare parts) as part of the Rehabilitation Loan. The Bank has recently
completed a major sector report on social protection that is expected to provide the basis for a Social
Safety Net Loan addressing critical policy issues involved in the management and financing of the major
social funds and social programs. This program would complement specific interventions to support
oblasts affected by enterprise restructuring in the context of the Oblast Support Fund mentioned earlier.
In addition, a follow-on Social Protection and Employment Services Project would strengthen the
institutional capacity of key social protection agencies to manage their programs more effectively. The
Bank is also preparing a project aimed at addressing critical issues relating to the management and
financing of health care services in Russia.
Donor Coordination and Mobilization of External Fhanciug
67.          The Bank has taken several actions to assist the Government in mobilizing additional
external resources, including:
S     The Bank has agreed to convene a Consultative Group meeting on June 8-9, 1993 to



- 23 -
discuss priorities for structural reform and related technical assistance needs.Y' This
meeting wil1 include representatives of ECAs, following which modalities may be
established to improve coordination between the Bank and ECAs for Russia.
*     The Bank's lending program for the coming year has been designed to provide a platform
for other donors, including ECAs and other international institutions, to provide financing
in support of well-defined programs relating to the reform effort. The Bank will actively
encourage co-financing and other supplemental forms of financing in conjunction with
Bank operations, including parallel lending operations in different parts of the country.
O     The recent revision to the Bank's negative pledge waiver policy should, provided Russia
becomes eligible in terms of its provisions, facilitate the external financing by commercial
sources of high priority projects, particularly in the energy sector.
*     At the same time, the Govermnent needs to strengthen its capacity to deal with external
financig agencies and reduce bottlenecks to timely decision-making. The Bank has
advised the Russian Agency for International Cooperation and Development (RAICD) on
international "best practices" in the coordination of technical assistance programs. It is
essential that a clear definition of responsibilities among various agencies should be
reached in the near future to facilitate work on the accelerated assistance program for
Russia.
Portfolo             Performae
68.          The Bank has approved three operations in Russia to date - the Rehabilitation Loan ($600
million), Employment Services and Social Protection Project ($70 million), and Privatization
Implementation Assistance Project ($90 million). Of these loans, only the Rehabilitation Loan has been
declared effective, following a five-month delay during which the Government sought clarification on the
Bank's policy on waivers of the negative pledge condition. After a fairly slow start-up period, the
Rehabilitation Loan is now performing well (disbursements of $298.1 million as of May 18, 1993) and
is expected to be largely disbursed by the current closing date of December 31, 1993. The Employment
Services Project (Board approval November 24, 1992) has not been signed as yet, pending approval by
all concerned agencies, while the Privatization Loan (Board approval December 17, 1992) has been
signed but has not yet been declared effective pending a decision by the Supreme Soviet. This experience
has demonstrated the following lessons to guide future Bank implementation arrangements:
*     The Government's internal procedures for the approval of Bank loans, including the
requirement for approval by the Supreme Soviet, are extremely time consuming and
cumbersome, resulting in substantial delays that can undermine project objectives
(especially for time-sensitive projects such as the Privatization Loan). The Bank has been
exploring options with the Government to streamline the approval procedure.
e     Project implementation is critically dependent on the availability of high quality local staff
to resolve problems as they occur. The establishment of Project Implementation Units
5I  he Govenmed and the Bnk have preared a joit report for the meeting - Strucwal Reform in the Russian Fderation:
Progress, Propects, and Priores for Dnorw Sport, Ap  20, 1993.



- 24 -
(PIUs) will be necessary for at least the initial wave of Bank projects to ensure the
availamlity of adequate staff and to concentrate project supervision efforts.
o     There is limited experience in Russia with open competitive procurement procedures, and
the adoption of standard Bank procurement documents (which are being translated into
Russian to assist PIUs) and use of procurement advisers will be essential. A Country
Procurement Assessment Review for Russia will be prepared during FY94.
*     Intensive Bank supervision is needed during the start-up period for new projects,
including the use of Project Launch Workshops, strengthening of the Resident Mission
in procurement, disbursement, and project accounting, and regular training missions and
Country Portfolio Implementation Reviews.
LEnding Volums and Trigger Conditions
69.          Over the period FY94-96, the Bank will aim to commit up to $9 billion in Russia,
including up to $3.5 billion in new commitments during FY94. This High Case lending scenario is
consistent with the accelerated program of assistance to Russia announced at the meeting of the G7
Foreign and Finance Ministers in April, 1993. The Bank's ability to move ahead rapidly with the
program depends on:
3     Satisfactory progress by the Government on macroeconomic stabilization, such as would
be demonstrated by a series of agreements with the IMF leading toward increasingly
higher level credit tranches. The key issues that need to be addressed are to curb
monetary expansion, reduce the fiscal deficit, and bring monthly inflation down to single-
digit levels within a reasonable time period.
*     Availability of adequate exernal financing, such as provided by the recent Paris aub
agreement on debt rescheduling and the agreement on burden-sharing reached by the 07
countries in Tokyo.
*     Resolution of Russia's domestic political differences to the point where a consistent set
of economic policies can be implemented, particularly regarding a continued commitment
to rapid privatization.
e     Strengthening of collaborative arrangements between the Government and the Bank to
make it possible to prepare and deliver a lending program of this scope and complexity.
70.          These conditions represent the minimum necessary requirements to justify and implement
an accelerated lending program of the magnitude described above. The Bank's lending program would
focus on the set of inter-related problems centered on enterprise reform, including pricing and trale
reforms, privatization and private sector development, enterprise restructuring, financial sector reforms,
and strengthening of the social safety net. In addition, the Bank would assist in achieving a quick supply
response in the energy sector, as well as well as providing support for a limited number of high priority
investment projects and instiuon-building initiatives in other areas. Fast-disbursing loans would
represent about 40 percent of new commitments in the first three years of the program, including up to
$1.6 billion in FY94, in the form of balance of payments support and/or financial credit operations.
These operations would play a critical role in the stabilization process by providing non-inflationary



-25 -
external financing for priority budgetary expenditures that would otherwise have to be financed by
inflationary domestic credit expansion. Table 3 outlines the conditions for moving forward with
individual Bank operations in the High Case scenario, especially for operations intended to support
significant structural or sectoral reforms.
71.          If the conditions for fast-disbursing lending do not materialize, either because of
insufficient progress on macroeconomic stabilization or because the Government is unable to implement
major structural reforms at the national level, the Bank would move toward an Intermediate Case lending
program in the range of $1.5-2.0 billion annually which Is less dependent on the success of stabilization
in the short term. In addition to continuing support for the energy sector, emphasis would be placed on
assisting local level reform efforts, including key institutional changes, strengthening of the social safety
net, and avoiding the deterioration of essential infrastructure. Privatization, legal reform, and
improvements in the banking sector at the local level to provide support for the private sector would also
be emphasized. In agriculture, the program would focus on land management and support for the
emerging private sector, as well as infrastructure programs at the oblast level. Lending would also be
considered for the transportation sector, housing and urban services, and environmental protection
projects. In the social sectors, it would include operations to support social programs at the obla$ level,
particularly in health. This approach raises difficult issues regarding the availability of loan guarantees
from the central Government for Bank lending to local authorities, implementation capacity at the local
level, the difficulty of mounting Bank operations in a number of localities, and financial constraints at
the local level resulting from deficiencies in the intergovernmental fiscal system.
72.          The Low Case program of around $0.5 billion annually would result from an inability
by the Bank to engage policy makers in a credible reform effort and little progress on the macroeconomic
front, both at the central and local level. In that case, the lending program would focus on technical
assistance and improving the capability of agencies to implement reforms, so as to be ready when political
consensus can facilitate the execution of sound policies.
73.          B1RD Exposuw. Table 4 illustrates the implications of the High Case lending program
on Bank exposure in Russia. If the Bank provides commtnmen  of $3.5 billion during FY94 and
thereafter scales back lending to $2.5 billion annually by FY96 (with adjustment lending eliminated by
FY99), the Bank's exposure for Russia would reach about 8.1 percent of the portfolio by FY98 and peak
at around 9.5 percent of the portfolio in FY2001. Net flows would increase to around $2.4 billion by
FY97, thereafter declining to around $720 million by FY2001. Debt outstanding would reach $13.1
billion by FY2001. Debt service to the Bank would be about 2.3 percent of exports by FY2001, and the
preferred creditor ratio would be about 17 percent. This implies that the Bank's exposure to Russia is
manageable under the High Case lending program, but lending would need to be scaled back in the event
of substantial deviations from the High Case reform program in order to contain the Bank's financial risk
and preserve flexibility to support the resumption of reforms at a later date.



TABLE-3: IMGGER CONDMONSYFQR BIN LENDIG
Key 8tements of Scenatio
Mareconoatic 8vironment             Structural Reform                   Setoral Reform                   Bank Res
Hlsh Cas      Stabe                                   nterisornt                        la=:                             Adiu
* Macro-stabilization prgram leading   RApid progress on privatization.  I Sustined progres in raising       Fast-isbursing
toward an upper level IMF credit        Restructuring progms started for   enew  price to market levels.  sectoll struul
tranche is implemnted successfuly over   large enterprses.                  Aggessive emphasis on FDI.    adjus t and
12M5 months.                          I Vigorus promotion of private    Aeticultu e:                      financial
29S:                                  sector development and pr-             Substantial reduction in subsidies  intennediation loans
* Comprehensive agreement on debt    competiton policie                 and directed credits to agiculture.    up to 40 percent of
rlief; ao futedw acmultion of        Finaneial Scstor:                   ' Rapid privatuzation of input and    lending progrm.
sam                                   *  limination of almost all dired  distibution channels.            tavest  ad TA:
fi,xULS iFlm3I:                       credit programs through CBR and      Rapid farm privatization.       * Invesent and
I Agrement on extel finacing flows   rets    on credit emission         Other Sectors:                   institution building
and burden-sharng fuiUy implemeanted by   coanistent wih mareoconomic    - Public investment focAsing     loans up to $2 billion
FIs, ECAs, and bWated agencies.      program.                            primarly on essential maitenance    annualy.
Socisl Safetyr Net:               and rehabilitation.
* Agreement on financial fkamework    ncreases in fee and chag
to sUpport key soial safety net    moving toward cost recoveq.
programs, inctuding
intrgovernmental fiscal relations.
P?ricins and Trade:
* Elimination of almost all import
subsidies.
* Phased elimination of export
licna in combination with pAce
liberalization.
* Strong emphasis on export
promotion and FDL
Intrmediate    Stabi                                Ed             :                    Bylgo:                           Adiusnint:
Case           I Sporadic progress toward financial  * Moderate progress on             * Slower progress in raising          No quick-
stbiit; ecomy is stabilized over a 3-   privatization.                  enwgy price to market levels.     disbursing adjustment
4 yor period.                         * Limited restructuring of large sate    * Positive approach to PDI, but  leanding.
Dee                                  enterpdses, resulting in excessive  insufficient for long-term needs.  &mven an TA:
* Agrement on debt reshduing with   subsidies.                          Aculture:g up to 2
official and comrial creditors, but   * Gradual progess on private sector    * Patal reduction in agricu-lt  billion for investmen
astear may contnue to emerge         development ad pm-competition       subsidies.                       projects and
8xtainenull rin:                     poliies.                                Gradual liberaliation of     instituion building
I Coordination problems hamper       Financial Sector:                  marketing and distribution,       loans in support of
mobilizadon of external financing.    * Reduction in slected directed    * Some farm privatization.       specific sector and
cedit programs, but credit emission  Other Sect:                    project-related
coatinues at excessive rate.       * Lack of agreemnt on            reforms.
Socil Safety Net:                 investmetn  pdorities, resulting in
, LWcal governments unable to beer   consfrained maintenance budges.
fil COt of sooial ptograms, causing  h'Moderate progress on cost
detedoration in criticl services.  recovery.
I?dintl amdTa*
* Gral progress on reducing
import subsidies and libalization of
expot licenses.
Lovw Case     Stabi o                               Ente     Reform:                   Eaem:                             Invetand- TA:
* Contiuued macroeconomi intability,     Poltical opposition deUs         I Prices emain well below market        Lending up to
including spo adic hyperinflation.   privatizaton prm                    levels.                          $500 milion amnually
12AWE;                                * Little or no strucuig of larp    * Failure to attract signifcant  for instituion
* Paris Club agreemen is not renewed    state enterpris.                FDI.                              building depending
or coniues on a temporary (3-6        * Constrsint on private sector agBul:                               on wilngness of
month) basis, with incresse in debt  activites nd FDI.                   * Limited progress in subidy     Govermnt to
service arrn .                        Finanec                            removal.                         bonrow.
Exitnat  F :                          * Cental Bank maintains lrge         Restraints on competition in
* External financing flows do not    emisson of directed credits at     input and distibution channels.
materaiaze due to lack of progress on  subsidized interest rates.        * Littlo farm privatization.
policy reform.                        Socidl SafWt Nt:                   Other Sors:
* Continued bail-out of sate       * Public invtment directed to
enterpriss to main amploymnt.    showcase projects; massive neglect
PriCine and Trade:                of maintenae needs.
* Latge import subsidies and       * ULmitd cost tecovery.
restraitts on exports.



- 27 -
Table 4: IBRD Exposure to Russia (US$ miUhon)
FY93  FY94  FY95    PY98         FY2001
High Case Lending Proom
Commitments                    1370  3500  2800       2,500    2,500
Net Flows                      300   1300   1700       1,970     720
Debt Outstanding               300   1600  3300       10,040   13,120
Exosure Indicators (percentage)
Portfolio Share l/             0.3    1.5   3.0       8.1        9.5
WB Debt Service to Exports     0.1   0.3   0.6         1.2       2.3
WB Debt Service Ratio 2/       0.2   0.7    1.2       2.4        5.3
Preferred Creditor Ratio 2/    2.9   6.2   8.0        11.0      16.8
1/ Debt outstanding as percentage of total IBRD portfolio.
2/ As percentage of total public debt service.
74.   Cre,dtwoiness. As the foregoing analysis notes, financing the external requirements projected
for FY1994-96, will require substantial levels of official support since access to private capital markets
and foreign direct investment is expected to be quite limited. An important objective of the reform
program will be to create the conditions necessary for Russia to regain full access to international capital
markets and to facilitate inflows of private investment on an increasing scale over the medium term.
Restoring full creditworthiness will, however, take some years. Macroeconomic stability is essenial to
bring down the rate of inflation, restore positive real interest rates and establish currency convertbility.
Simultaneously, reforms are needed to increase export earnings for which policies to increase energy
exports are central, as well as to establish the basis for resumed economic growth. Given Russia's
resource endowments and the quality of its labor force, successful implementation of macroeconomic and
structural adjustment programs along with adequate support from Russia's creditors and the international
financial institutions, should restore some degree of creditworthiness for commercial borrowing in the
medium term. Subject to the risks discussed in paras 83-86, Russia is considered creditworthy for Bank
lending in the amounts expected over the next several years. Russia's creditworthiness for Bank
borrowing will be kept under regular review.
75.          Role of FC. Russia completed the membership process for IFC on April 12, 1993. IFC
has been actively supporting Russia's privatization program, in collaboration with the Bank and EBRD,
since late 1991. While the Bank concentrated on providing policy advice, IFC drew on its transaction
expertise and focused on developing a model system of sale that could be replicated throughout Russia.
Based on its experience in Eastern Europe, IFC concentrated first on privadzation of small retail and
service enterprises, which are administratively easier to privatize than larger firms and have positive
demonstration and job creation effects. IFC assisted the first small business auctions in Nizhny Novgorod
in April 1992, followed by auctions in Volgograd and Tomsk later in the year. The Nizhny auction
method, and variations developed in Volgograd, are now national policy. An IFC-prepared manual
summarizing the method has been disseminated to local officials throughout Russia by GKI and is now
being emulated widely.



- 28 -
76.   The success of small business privatization increased pressure to break up monopolistic
distribution channels. IFC worked in Nizhny Novgorod during 1992 on the divestiture and privatization
of an 8,000 truck regional trucking monopoly. Additional competition was created by auctioning twenty
percent of the trucks (1,600) to the highest bidders. Tle truck auctions started in October 1992 and
marked the first time privaization vouchers were used in Russia. Russia's Ministry of Transport wishes
to apply the approach used in Nizhny throughout Russia.
77.   Finally, with respect to privatization of medium and large enterprises, IFC, at the request of
Deputy Prime Minister Chubais, has helped organize the "First Wave" of voucher auctions in five oblasts
in early 1993.  As a complement to its voucher auction work, IFC is advising a special Steering
Committee in GKI on the development of capital markets. These markets will play an important role
initially by facilitating orderly secondary trading of shares and by starting a process of enterprise
ownership consolidations. A report on IFC's work on privatization in Russia was discussed with the IFC
Board earlier this yearY
78.   IFC expects to present its first investment project to its Board in June, 1993 - a project to
enhance recovery from existing oil and gas reservoirs in western Siberia Other than the energy sector,
there is limited intrest by private investors in projects that would be suitable for IFC financing, as
evidenced by the small number of potential projects that have been generated so far. IFC's involvement
in Russia for the near term will therefore focus principally on technical assistance activities fimanced from
grant resources, including:
X     Continuation of IFC's work with GKI, including: (i) expansion of the voucher auction
program (148 enterprises in 4 regions had been announced for sale with IFC assistance
up to April 19, 1993); (ii) continued assistance in the area of small-scale and trucking
privatization; anJ (iii) expansion of IFC's activities in the area of capital markets
development to provide evidence of ownership and facilitate secondary trading of stock.
*     Design and implementation of a pilot privatization program for agricultural land.
79.          Role of MIG4 and PMS. Russia completed the membership process for MIGA on
December 29, 1992. The MIGA Board has already approved the first guarantee for a project in Russia,
a steel processing operation approved on February 24, 1993. In addition, a pipeline of 40 preliminary
applications from investors was available as of March 31, 1993, representing potential investments of
over $1 billion. Given the high degree of political uncertainty, MIGA's political risk insurance can play
a catalytic role in promoting foreign investment in Russia, well in excess of the current per-country
exposure limit of $150 million. MIGA is examining various forms of reinsurance and co-insurance
arrangements with selected national insurance programs to pool capacities for large project exposures in
Russia. In addition, MIGA is examining whether it can use the provisions of its Convention to create
a Sponsorship Trust Fund, which would provide a mechanism for member countries to "sponsor"
particular investments by agreeing to cover losses through a Trust Fund arrngement, into which
insurance premiums and interest would accumulate. MIGA is currendy reviewing this concept to see how
it could be formulated and implemented in practice.
1 IFC Work on Pfivatiation in die Russaan Federaton and Ukrsinqe, Repoat No. IPC/SecM93-3?, Febmay 8, 193.



- 29 -
80.          FIAS provided a diagnostic study to the Government in August, 1992 on the environment
for foreign direct investment (FDI). Based on this analysis, FIAS has been providing assistance to
RAICD on the role and functions of the portion of the Agency dealing with FDI, including the
development of an investor service function within an investment promotion center to be jointly
established by RAICD and GKI. Finally, FIAS has been approached by the Supreme Soviet for
assistance in reviewing possible amendments to the law on FDI.
81.          Cooperation with the IMF. The Bank has worked closely with the IMF on a number of
issues relating to the role of structural reforms in the stabilization process, including the preparation of
the recent joint paper on reform of subsidies and directed credit programs for state enterprises. In
addition, there has been cooperation in the design of social net programs (where the IMF has been
particularly interested in the possible fiscal implications of various approaches), assistance to the Ministry
of Finance in strengthening expenditure management and tax administration functions (including assistance
to the recently-established Treasury Department), and assistance to the Central Bank in improving the
financial payments and settlement system. The Bank has offered to finance projects to implement major
parts of the institutional reform program, including the Financial Infrastructure Project mentioned earlier,
and a possible Inter-governmental Fiscal Systems Project that would provide assistance to the Ministry
of Finance in tax administration, expenditure management, and improving fiscal relations with local and
regional authorities.
82.          Cooperaton with Other Mugateral and Bilateral  titutions. The Bank has worked
closely with EBRD in a number of areas, and EBRD has co-financed two of the Bank's first four
operations (the Oil Rehabilitation Loan and the Privatization Implementation Assistance Project). The
EC has recently agreed with the Bank to work in cooperation on selected technical assistance programs,
and the Bank has been working with the OECD to upgrade its register of externally-financed technical
assistance programs. The Bank is also collaborating closely with a number of bilateral agencies in
providing support in areas such as privatization, energy, financial sector development, housing, f.scal
reform, and environmental management.
E. Risks and Uncertainties
83.          The reform program in Russia, and in consequence the Bank's participation in the
accelerated assistance program, is subject to substantial risks and uncertainties. The international
community has recognized, however, the important implications for the rest of the world of a successful
outcome to the reform program in Russia, and the Bank's response represents an effort to support this
process actively in association with the Russian Government. This effort entails enormous financial and
technical risks for the Bank, and the outcome of the process is unlikely to be evident for a extended
period. Most important are the poltical dsks associated with far-reaching and fundamental changes
taking place in the economic and political institutions that govern the Russian economy. The continuing
constitutional crisis, as well as long-standing ethnic and economic differences within the country, are
contributing to a realignment of power between the central and regional governments. This provides
opportunities for a regionally differentiated approach to reforms that can provide local examples of
success and failure and be a powerful mechanism for spreading innovation. At the same time, the
unresolved division of responsibilities between the various bodies of government increases the likelihood
that the Government will be unable to carry-out its policies, or that special interest groups will be able



- 30 -
to exploit divisions to gain access to resources and subsidies, or that regional governments will be
unwilling to share fully in current and future revenue sharing mechanisms.
84.          For now, the Government should be able to continue pressing ahead with reforms, based
on the vote of confidence in President Yeltsin and his economic policies in April. However, social
discontent could increase with the emergence of large scale unemployment that is likely to accompany
privatization and enterprise restructuring. Success of the fiscal program in mobilizing sufficient resources
to pay for an increase in the social safety net will be key to containing this risk. A longer-term issue will
be how the population deals with the political implications resulting from the dissolution of the Soviet
Union and the loss of job security and familiar institutions built up over three generations. These changes
are likely to be a source of continuing uncertainty for a number of years to come.
85.          Russia's external ialncing requirements will be strongly affected by the pace of
economic reforms. Several risks can be identified, including: (i) continued high inflation contributing
to capital flight; (ii) slippages in reforms for the energy sector, leading to slower export growth and
difficulty in attracting foreign direct investment; (iii) lack of reform in the agriculture sector, leading to
a continuation of high import demand; (iv) lack of progress in trade policy reforms, especially regarding
the reduction of import subsidies and excessive taxation of exports; (v) difficulties in maintaining debt
service payments, leading to arrears and reduced lending by ECAs as well as reluctance of the major
creditors to reschedule debt obligations in a medium-term framework; and (vi) slippages in policy
implementation that delay disbursements by the international financial institutions.
86.          Delays in developing an ntinusonal capady to prepare and implement investment
projects could cause problems in realizing a successful outcome to the accelerated assistance program.
This will involve efforts to establish good working relationships with sector ministries and regional and
local governments, as well as with central coordination bodies. The Government also needs to make a
serious effort to reduce cumbersome internal approval procedures and to strengthen collaborative
arrangements with the Bank.
F. Summary of Issues for Board Consideration
87.          The Government of Russia has embarked on an ambitious program of reform and
economic restructuring. The initial stages of this process have been traumatic, and the Bank faces
unaccustomed risks in supporting this difficult process. As demonstrated during 1992, agreement on
macroeconomic and financing targets without a clear understanding of the mechanisms by which they will
be achieved, including specific structural reforms and their implementation requirements, would be
counter-productive for both the Government and the international community, as it would raise
expectations that are unlikely to be realized. For this reason, this paper has concentrated laWgely on the
Bank's program for the coming year; it will have to be updated and modified on a regular basis as we
see how the situation develops. The core of the Bank's strategy will emphasize the following key
structural reforms:
o     Adoption of a credible framework for macroeconomic stabilization, including appropriate
monetary and fiscal targets and a viable external financing plan.



- 31 -
o     Pricing and trade liberalization to provide an appropriate incentive framework.
O     Strong support for the privatization program and promotion of new private sector
enterprises, including viable financial institutions.
O     Establishment of an institutional framework to manage the process of restructuring state
enterprises, including the divestiture of social services to the local authorities.
*     Rationalization of trade and payments arrangements to open the economy to international
competition and foreign direct investment.
e     Strong commitment to expansion of the social safety net, including rationalization of
inter-governmental fiscal relations.
*     Rapid progress on reforms in the energy sector, including promotion of foreign direct
investment, and support for structural reforms in the agricultural sector.
*     Creation of an institutional capacity within the Russian Government to work with the
Bank in all aspects of the above program, including the design, preparation and
implementation of critical reform programs.
88.          Substantial uncertainties remain about the detailed design of the Bank's assistance
program. The Bank has outlined an ambitious program of ESW and project preparation activities over
the next 12-15 months to address these issues and to facilitate the development of the High Case lending
program. At the same time, there are uncertainties surrounding the capacity of the Government to
prepare this program and effectively implement it. The Board may therefore wish to address the
following subjects during their discussion:
*     The content and composition of the lending program in the High Case scenario, aiming
for commitments on the order of $3.5 billion during FY94;
*     The trigger conditions in Table 3 for moving to the Intermediate and Low Case lending
programs, the actions needed for moving forward with specific loans with a strong policy
content and the focus on selected regional and local governments in this scenario;
O     The proposed increase in the Bank's exposure for Russia and its impact on available
headroom over the medium term; and
*     The institutional requirements for preparing and implementing this highly complex and
difficult program.



- 32-
PART I. TBE PROJECT
A. Background to the Oil Rebabilitatlon Project
89.          The abundance of energy in the form of oil, natural gas, hydropower potential, coal and
uranium, has made Russia the world's largest producer and exporter of petroleum (oil and gas combined),
as well as a substantial exporter of coal, electricity and uranium. There are vast unexplored areas which
have potential for significant oil and gas discoveries. Further, many oilfields have been discovered but
remain undeveloped. The energy sector is at a critical juncture and is presently faced with a host of
complex issues affecting its performance. Perhaps the most urgent of these is the rapid decline in oil
production that is jeopardizing both the country's foreign exchange earning potential and its fiscal base,
thereby exacerbating the worsening economic situation and hampering the implementation of economic
reform and 1iberization. During the peak production year (1987) oil accounted for 8 percent of GDP
and 35 percent of Russia's export earnings.
90.          Total oil production of the Russian Federation has declined from a peak of 570 million
tons (11.4 mmbpd) in 1987 to 396 million tons (7.9 mmbpd) in 1992, an overall drop of 30 percent.
Production is now declining at an annual rate between 13% and 15%. Without rapid remedial action,
this dramatic trend will worsen in the next one or two years. The decline is the result of a number of
factors, including: (i) rapid natural production decline in the old fields which have accounted for the bulk
of Russia's production to date; (ii) suboptimal technology and reservoir management; (-ii) management
and coordination difficulties; (iv) breakdown in traditional equipment supply arrangements (e.g., from
Azerbaijan and the Ukraine); and (v) lack of finance for mainenance and well workover operations
and/or to develop new oilfields.
D. ProJect Objectives
91.          The proposed project would fund specific investments in oil production operations with
the objectives of: retarding the rate of decline of oil production and exports in the near term;
strengthening the managerial and technical capabilities as well as the financial viability of selected oil
producing enterprises; and mobilizing additional financial resources for the sector through commitments
to cofinancing and through the demonstation effect of the project.
92.          A further important objective of the proposed project is to support Russia's policy reforms
in the upstream oil sector which are essential pre-requisites to private sector investment. Given the
amount of fimancing required (up to US$50 billion between now and the year 2000 just to arrest the
production decline) it is clear that funding from international financial institutions, the Government, or
self-financing by Producer Associations, is insufficient to achieve a turnaround in Russia's oil production.
The solution, both in terms of funding and transfer of technology and commercial management practices,
lies with the private sector and there are strong indications that the private sector would be forthcoming
on the scale required if the Russians succeed in establishing an acceptable investment framework. Price
and tax reform, acceptable petroleum legislation, clarification of institutional responsibilities and
international tendering procedures are critical component of such a framework.



- 33 -
93.          Beyond their positive effect on investment, sector reforms are expected to have a major
near-term impact on macro-economic stabilization. Demand and supply responses to aggressive price and
tax reform have been estimated to potentially yield incremental revenues of US$11 billion in the first
year.-
94.          Finally, through policy and project components, the project would promote a more
efficient and environmentally sustainable use of Russia's petroleum resources.
C. Project Description
95.          The most effective investment in the petroleum sector, in terms of early economic
benefits, is the provision of essential inputs to support existing oil production operations. Russian oil
production is concentrated largely in the region of Western Siberia and the proposed project focuses on
three Producer Associations in this region. Key criteria for selection of these Associations included: (i)
the prospects for suitable workover operations; (ii) the openness of management towards innovation and
their willingness to work with international companies; and (iii) early response of the Association to
approaches by the Bank. Based on a technical overview of the geology of individual fields, and a well-
by-well assessment of the work programs planned to be undertaken by the three Associations, the
following components are included in the project: (i) workover, completion and rehabilitation of 1,300
production oil wells including provision of specialized oifield technical services; (ii) in-fill drilling of 84
new wells in existing fields; (iii) replacement of over 1,000 km of oil gathering lines and production flow
lines which would reduce oil leakages and thus address an important environmental concern as well as
recover oil currently wasted; (iv) provision of a topping plant to produce refined products for oil field
operations and natural gas liquid extraction units to recover hydrocarbon liquids and reduce flaring,
thereby reducing CO2 and particulate emissions; and (v) technical assistance, data processing facilities and
training.
96.          In view of the fundamental importance of an acceptable investment framework, the project
also includes technical assistance to provide continued stapport for Russia's oil sector reform program.
97.          The total financing required for the project is estimated at US$1,035 million, including
a foreign exchange component of US$916 million equivalent (88 percent). Schedule A gives a breakdown
of costs and the financing plan.
98.          Amounts and methods of procurement and disbursements, and the disbursement schedule
are shown in Schedule B. Project implementation, beginning in the fourth quarter of 1993, could be
completed in approximately two years. A timetable of the key processing events and the status of Bank
Group operations in Russia are given in Schedules C and D, respectively. Maps showing the locations
of the Western Siberian oil basin and Producer Associations are attached. The Grey Cover Staff
Appraisal Report No. 11556-RU of May 26, 1993 is also attached.
2/    Russia Economic Reform, World Bank, September 1992, Chapter 11.



- 34 -
D. Project Implementation
99.          The Ministry of Fuel and Power, as the responsible sector ministry, would be the main
contact point for the Bank and would play a lead role implementing technical assistance to sector policy
reforms. The responsibility for implementing specific project components would lie with the participating
Producer Associations. Project Implementation Units (PIUs) would be established at each of the
Associations supported by Field Technical Units. Each PIU would be strengthened by technical, financial
and procurement consulting services to be provided under the proposed loan. In order to ensure that the
goods and services included in the project are deployed in wells that provide adequate returns, screening
of wells is essential. This will be accomplished by review and monitoring of work plans by the
consultant technical specialists and Bank supervision.
E. Lessons Learned From Previous Bank Involvement
100.         The proposed Oil Rehabilitation Loan would be the Bank'. ..st petroleum loan to Russia.
However, the Bank has considerable experience in financing petroleum projects elsewhere in the world.
Since 1980, the Bank has approved 104 petroleum loans in 56 countries. The total amount of these loans
is US$6.7 billion and the total cost of the projects is US$24.7 billion. Project completion reports have
been prepared for 89 of these loans. The financing of petroleum operations is conditioned by a number
of special characteristics, including: (i) high risk projects, which are normally inappropriate for public
funding; (ii) large scale, capital intensive investment requirements; (iii) rapid and continuous evolution
of petroleum technology; (iv) environmental sensitivity; and (v) broad scope, under appropriate terms and
conditions, for attracting private equity investment and commercial bank lending, particularly for oil.
Taking these special characteristics into account, and drawing on its own experience, the Bank has
developed a set of guidelines or criteria for petroleum lending which have heavily influenced both the
policy and project design aspects of the proposed Oil Rehabilitation Loan. These criteria, which are of
both a general and project specific nature, include: pricing and tax policies; legislation; institutional and
enterprise reform; sector policies to attract uew investment; financial appraisal; technology transfer;
contracting services; procurement; environment; and financing. Reflecting these criteria in the project
will ensure its institutional and financial sustainability.
F. Rationale for Bank Involvement
101.         Bank involvement in this project is justified on the following grounds. Firstly, by
reducing the decline in oil production and export capability, the Bank's assistance would help stem
deterioration in the Federation's economic and social infrastructure. Secondly, Bank support to Russia's
petroleum policy reforms, institutional development, and other reform measures will help to create an
environment conducive to attracting international private sector investment - which should become the
primary source of capital for future petroleum operations. Thirdly, the proposed project, together with
support from other international donors, would assist in reducing external financing imbalances and
contribute to financial stabilization in the short to medium terms. Fourthly, the Bank's assistance in
establishing a model for oil rehabilitation projects in Russia is expected to be a catalyst to other donors.



- 35 -
G. Actions Agreed
102.         The Government and the Producer Associations have made significant progress on the
preparation of the project for implementation and on sector reforms to encourage investment.
103.         During Negotiations, the Producer Associations agreed to the following future actions
with respect to project implementation: maintenance of a 1.5 debt service ratio; appointment of external
auditors acceptable to the Bank; provision of quarterly reports on procurement and project progress; and
annual submission of audited project accounts and financial statements.
104.         Project actions, which need to be taken prior to loan Effectiveness, are submittal of
subsidiary loan agreements and legal opinions ratifying loan documentation.
105.         Project co-financing armngements are expected to be completed by October 31, 1993.
106.         The Government has submitted a Letter of Intent to the Bank dated April 23, 1993, in
which the Government agrees to continue the practice of at least quarterly consultations with the Bank
to achieve mutually satisfactory results with respect to: (i) a path for increases in domestic oil prices; (ii)
petroleum taxation to provide incentives for new investment; and (iii) petroleum legislation. The Letter
fnuther expresses the expectation that oil prices will increase by at least the average rate of inflation until
May 1994, with subsequent increase to average European levels. By explicit reference, the Letter
supplements the Government's earlier Letter of Development Policy, dated July 20, 1992, which was
included in the documentation of the Bank's Rehabilitation Loan to the Russian Federation (Loan No.
3513-RU, November 16, 1992) and calls for an increase in domestic energy prices to world levels within
two years.
H. Environment
107.         As required under OD 4.01, the Oil Rehabilitation Project has been assigned Category
A, which calls for preparation of a comprehensive Environmnetal Assessment (EA). The draft EA was
circulated to the Bank's Executive Directors in October 1992, prior to Appraisal of the projet. During
the EA process, a mnmber of NGOs, local groups and indigenous people were consulted in a series of
v-eings held in Western Siberian oil cities. The EA indicates that, in general, environmental practices
,ii oil and gas operations in Western Siberia are well below the standards employed under similar
conditions in North America. Adverse efects include excessive atmospheric emissions and liquid waste
discharges. In addition, indigenous people are affected by oil operations due to their dependence on the
fragile ecosystem for nutrition, clothing, housing, and natural products which provide an important source
of income. The project components related to drilling and workovers, located on exsting fields and
involving western equipment, will be more benign to the environment than present oil operations. Two
other components, namely the replacement of oil gathering pipelines and the instatlation of NOL
extcon units, will have beneficial effects on the environment by reducing the risk of leakages and
curtailing the amount of gas and liquids flared. Additionally, the project provides for the strengthening
of environmental mitigation and monitoring units in the participating Associations through the provision
of clean-up equipment, laboratory supplies, training and technical assistce for environmental studies.
Based on their review of the EA, the Ministries of Fuel & Power and Ecology & Natural Resources have



-36 -
jointly determined that, given the nature of the project, there are no objections, on environmental
grounds, to implementing the project.
I. Program Objetive Categories
108.         The proposed project supports several aspects of the Bank's program objectives including:
strengthening of infrastructure by rehabilitating idle oil facilities in Western Siberia; promotion of the
commercialization of public sector enterprises; development of a policy framework conducive to private
sector investment; and reduction of environmental pollution by curtailing gas and liquid emissions and
oil leakages.
J. Project Benefits
109.         At peak production the project would provide 12 million tons per annum (240,000 bpd)
of increment oil representing a 3 percent increase in national output which would generate additional
gross revenues of US$1,500 million per year. Economic rates of return for each component of the
project would exceed 50 percent and the benefit-cost ratio for the aggregate project is estimated to be 2.3
at a real discount rate of 15 percent.
110.         The project would generate acceptable financial returns to the Producer Associations and
over the project life would provide aggregate net present values of approximately US$250 million in
after-tax cash flow to the Producer Associations and roughly US$1,500 million in taxes and payments
to the Russian Government.
K. Project Risks
111.         It is expected that all project components would generate strong economic returns and,
under current price and tax conditions, acceptable financial reurns. However, untin  in expected
well production due to the state of the reservoirs, potential downhole problems or poor well records,
present some risk for well workovers and rehabilitation. ITis risk is acceptable given the large nmber
of idle wells potntially to be rehabilitated (over 4,000 in the the Associations) and can be managed
through careful well screening and review during project implementation.
112.         While lower inernational oil prices would reduce project returns, the overall project is
still economic at border prices as low as US$91 per ton (US$12.5 per barrel). Project costs do not pose
a significant risl. The uncetinty surrounding local cost components due to changing economic
conditions in Russia is minimized due to the relatively small share of local equipment, matrials and
services within the overall project.  Delays in implementation during the project life would not
significanty affect n erall project reu, due to fact that the project is made up of a series of self-
contained and rapidly completed components.
113.         Producer Associations are eligible for a Bank Single Currency Loan (SCL) which will
eliminate the foreign exchange risk that the Associations would have faced with a currency pool loan.



- 37 -
While the LIBOR interest rate basis of the SCL is more volatile than oil prices which poses interest rate
risk, on balance, the benefits of reduced currency risk outweigh the interest rate risks.
L. Recommendations
114.         1 am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles of Agreement of the
Bank and recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Lewis T. Preston
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
May 26, 1993



- 38 -
Schedule A
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
OIL             ILITATION PROJECT
ESTIMTED COSTS AND FINANCING PLAN
A. Estimated Cost:
(US$ million equivalent)
Poject Component                    Local    Foreign    Total 11      Foreign   Component
as a %       as a %
of Total     of Total
Well Wor*overs/Rehabilitation         70       548          619         89%          64%
ln Fill New Wels                      35       141          176         80%          18%
SuaurcePipeReplacement(km)             14       77           90         85%          10%
NaL Units (tpd)                       -         13           13        100%           1 %
Topping Plant(pd)                     -          9            9        100%           1%
Genal Olfield Equipment                -       62           62        100%           6%
Sub-Total2/                             119      850         969         88%          100%
interest During Constr. & Fees         -        56           56        100%
Fin| ning Required                      119      906       1,025         88%
Sector Reform TehnicalAsisnc           -        10           10        100%
Tobl Fmancing Required                                     1,035         88%
1/ Cots include 10% physical confingencies plus average price contigencies of 6.5%.
2/ Numbers way not add due to rounding.
B. Fnancng Plan
(US$ million equivalent)
Jiaeing Source                             Local            Foreigo          Total           % Of Total
I.B.R.D.                                                         610            610                59%
E.B.R.D.                                                         250            250                24%
Grant (Duch Govt.)                                                  6              6                1%
ProducerAssions                                  119              50             169               16%
Total                                            119             916           1,035              100%
Perent of ToalW                                  12%             88%            100%



-39 -
Schedule B
Page 1 of 2
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
OIIL REHEABILTATION PROJECT
PROCUREMEN  MKMOD AND DISBUJRSEN!T
A. Procurement Method
(US$ million equivalent)
Goods and Services                         HOW Fimancing    N.B.P. I/         Total
ICB       Other                   Cost 2/
1. BquIpmt & Matedia
1.1 Worover Rip                             52           -           18             70
12D dhingMateals                            16           -            .             16
1.3 Flowlines                               76           -           17             94
1.4 CalnlTgi                               113           -           28            141
1.5 Pumpi4 Equlpment                       117           -          115            232
1.6Ptocea Bguqipmen                          8           -            1              9
1.7 Support E*uipmnen                        7           -           32             38
1.8 as/Oll Proc  Falities                  22           -            -             22
1.9 Spares Bq ApSvic)                       41           -           30             72
Totl Equipmnt and Mails                     452           -          242            694
2. Commodities
2.1 Chemicals                                3           1            0              5
3. Sevices
3.1 Technial Service                          -         95           64            159
4. Consling
4.1 TehnialAsstanc                                      is            6             21
4.2 Govt. Technicl Asistanc                             10             _            10
5. Loal Cogs
5.1 LiaboufConstrion                                                 74             74
52 Eng.& Management                                                   2              2
6. Locl Tnspot                                                           14             14
7. InportD De (15%) /3                                       -            -              -
8. Intd Dht g Coastr. & Fes                                34            22            56
9. Tot                                         455         155          425          1,035
NGW
1/ N.BF.' means 'Not Bank finad*'. Ih amouns show  In the N.B.P. colum  include USS250 million to be provided by the Buropa
abk fr Rec        on nd bwvelopment, US$169 million fiom the Pducer Asocitons      US$6 mion in grn  frm  the Dutch
Govenent. Thmethods of prouan in the Otere  lumn inclue L1 (US$96 miion) and selcon of conuant (US    miio
accoding to h Bank's Guidi for ft  Us of Conwsltan.
21 Nunba may not add due to rounding.



- 40 -
Schedule B
Page 2 of 2
B. Disbursent of the IBRD Loan
(US$ million equivalent)
ICatgs                                      Amont/             Dibursmen
1. Equipmenti                                452              100% of Expenditures /3
2. Commodities (Chemicals)                    4                100% of Expenditures /3
3. Services: Technical Oilfield              95                100% of Expenditures
4.1 Consulting: Producer Technieal Assistance  14             100% of Expenditures
4.2 Consulting: Poliqy Technical Assisan      10              100% of Expenxitures
S. Project Preparation Advance                I                100% of Expenditures
6. Intrest Duing Construction and Fees       34
7. Total                                     610
1/       Numbers may not sdd due to rounding. Costs shown in the table were rounded for Negotiations.
2/      Incuding: workover rigs, flowlines, casing, tubing, pumping ad processing equipment, and genetal oilfield equipment.
3/       100% of foreign expediures 100% of local expenditures (ex-fadtoy cost); and 70% of local expenditues for oder items
procured locally. If local bidders are successful, the Dank will finance local expenditure as nec1ssay.
Disbursement Schedule
(US$ million equivalent)
Bank Fiscal Year (ending June 30)
1994/1         1995       1996
Annual                                334           253         23
cumulave                             334          587        610
1/ During FY1993, approxitly US$0.3 million is expected to be disbursed
under a PPP for pro_urem  consuldng services.



-41 -
Schedule C
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
OIL REHABILITATION PROJECT
TIMABLE OF KEY PROCESSING EVENTS
(a)    Time taken to prepare:            14 months
(b)    Project prepared by:              Participating Producer Associations/Bank
(c)    First IBRD mission:               March 1992
(d)    Departure of Appraisal Mission:   October 1992
(e)    Negotiations:                     April 1993
(f)    Planned Date of Effectiveness:    July 1993
(g)    List of Relevant PPARs:           Not Applicable



-42 -
Schedule D
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
OIL REHABILiTATION PROJECT
TIHE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN RUSSIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDffS
(As of May 18, 1993)
County: Russan Federation                                                 Amount in US$ million
(PFDBR25: LOA Date as of 4130193 - MIS Data as of 05/I193)               Oeas cancellations)
Loa or                      FsCIal   Borrower            Purpose              Bank      IDA    Undis-    Closing
Credit #                    Year                                                                bursed    Date
0 Loan(s) Closed
L35130-RUS                  1993    Russian Federation   Rehabilitation Loan   600.00            301.9    12/31/1993
L31320 RUS**                1993    Russian Federation   Employment Serv.      70.00             70.0    04/30/1995
L35460-RUS **               1993    Russian Federation   Privatization          90.00             90.0    06/30/1996
Tota of 3 Loans                                                                760.00            461.9
Total "*                                                                       760.00
of Which Repaid
Total held by Bank and IDA                                                     760.00
AMOUNT Sold
of which Repaid
Total Undisbursed                                                                                461.9
* Not yet effective
Not yet signed
***Tota Approved, Repayments, and Outstanding balance represent both active and inactive Loans and Credits.
m indicates formaly revise Closing Date.
(8) indicates SALtSECAL Loans and Credits.
The Net Approved and Bank Repayments are historical value, aU others are market value.
The signing, Effective, and Closing Dats are based upon Loan Department officil data and are not taken from the Task Budget file.
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVVESTIENTS
(As of May 18, 1993)
none



IBRD 241461
RUSSIAN FEDERATION                                                                                                                                                                                               U.S.A.
OIL REHABILITATION PROJECT                                                                                                    bs   200    46    1b MLSI
MAIN PETROLEUM BASINS AND CRUDE OIL TRUNK LINES                                                                                                                                                                         I
-      PETROLEUM BASIN BOUNDARlfS                   CRUDE OIL TRUNK UNES:           RIVERS \
PETROLEUM BASS IN THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION    E- BXISTING                        NA7                                                                                                                                   |      
WESTERN SIRERIAN BASIN               -       P--    LANNED OR UNDER         CAPITAL
CONSTRUCTION                NERNATIONA1                                                                                                                           '
OTHER BASINS                               SELECTED PIPEUNE TERMINALS       BOUNDAIES               A R   7 .        ,
N-111-\Norweglon Sru
No.i' rel :S   NORWAY                     -
X ^                      4Rv vi SWEDEN           J
GERMANY 7                                                                                        -
FINLAND
OA. I k  .
ST
POLAND                                                                                                                                                                                zENUUNLN                                                           ;
BELARUS
4)UKRAI
2   '  g   >>8 .  IX \    A     X)  \._   <       5           C H I NA              -o             v.sotHcAsn^N                         i tAD>KIUuRKH^vsKH}    X,x tE^v,truY S^(EASTeC H I N A 
TURKEY 
MONGOLIA                                                 PETROLEUM BASINS
I. VORE-CARATHAN                   VI. NORTH USFTUR           XV. 1TSKAN PECHORA
I                   \I. DNBIpRR-DONBTS PEIIPYAE                                                                                               BX AMU-DARYA                XVI. WEST SBEPIAN
IRAQ                                                                               I             r'"               *                                       Ili. CRIMEANNORTN CAUCASUS*DMANGYSHLAX(  X..AST AMA            X\q. YEtNSEY-KWAANrA
I  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I,KOLKHIRA DEPRESSION                                                            ATURGAY                    Xvui LENA-TUJNGUSKA (EASTERN SIBERIAN)
V. SOUTH CASPIAN          ~~XII CHU-SARYSU           XIX. LENA-VILYUY
1  L                               C H I N A              N            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~VI PRE-CASPIAN  XfiIITADZNIK (SUJRENANVA(H  XXI AMUR
\  ISLAMIC'REP. OF   N           -                      1                                                                                      vii. VOLGA-UIRALS                   XIV. FERGANA               XXI. OKHOTSK REGION-NORT SAKHALIN
MAY 1993



IBRD 241 45F
.owd.s.~hm             of(          ~            C=)      O   Yostri                                      RUSSIAN  FEDERATION
M dv.wGAZ g                                                                                                 OIL REHABIUTATION PROJECT
^"cs           X      /                  ~~~~~~~~~~~0                                                MA44 0  IN PETROLEUM PRODUCER
(2                       /                         we 0 X 0 X 4 tASSOCIATIONS OF WESTERN SIBERIA
0                               t0                           PRODUCER ASSOCIATION BOUNDARIES
= X X (3 go               U    \ a e   HEADQUARERS OF PRODUCER ASSOCIATIONS
, \ Cs NaY*B(iOSKtiAZ          <,, OIL AND GAS FIELDS
jvJ  ~~~~      Q~C)           -PROVINCE BOUNDARY
tZ   <  0  o   o / <   /~~C:D                                                                            RIVEPS
T Y   >+\ E N                *NOYABRSK        0 o                                       R
0 0  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~* NATIONAL CAPrrAL
C (E;;7 0              o                     ,,>ng a t3 ;t X/VARYEGANNEFTEGAZ   | |-INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
8^*           ~~~~~SURGUTNEFTEGAZ          \  <&      r_        b         /)      f           )
F~~~~~~~~~~~~~Tt ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KILOMETES
C)                    ZH                               0~      ~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 100  200
*<~~~~~~~~~~~<    3n0&K>A(;        t                                   ) R
CO           Q~~~~~~C    0IZHNEVARTOVSKWEFaGAZ                                            11  \U.SAIOm
%<"''v_ < w 4 Si- I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ilI
URAINEFTEGAZ                 0 <                                                        TOMSKNEFTEGAZ     c   0            o ro o
to c                                                                             EX RUSSIRN FEDERATION
C  TYUt6ENNEFTEGAZ                                                                               H
AA1993



