Dcuwmmt of
The World Bank
FOR OMCLAL tSE ONLY
Reput N. 12005
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
THIRD DOUALA PORT PROJECT
(JWA  2259-CM)
JUNE 30, 1993
MICROGRAPHICS
Report No: 12005
Type: PCR
Infrastructure Operations Division
Occidental and Central Africa Department
Africa Regional Office
Tis document has a sticted ditibuion and -my be used by repients only in the perormace of
thdr official duties. Its conteuts My not otherwie be disosed witwo Wodd Bank authodrzation



CURRENCY EXCHANGE RATES
Name of Currency: CFA Franc (CFAF)
1983 ......    US$ = 381
1984 ......    US$ = 437
1985 ......    US$ = 449
1986 ......    US$ = 346
1987 ......    USS = 301
1988 ......    US$ = 298
1989 ......    US$ = 336
1990 .......    US$ = 285
1991 .......    US$ = 283
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYM
AISC Africa Information Services Center
CNIC Louala Dockyard/Chantier Naval et Industriel du Cameroun
ERR   Economic Rate of Return/Taux de rentabilit6 economique
ICB   International Competitive Bidding/Appel d'offres interional
OECF Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund
O.NPC Cameroon National Port Authority/Office National des Ports du Cameroun
PCR   Project Completion Repor/Rapport d'achbvement de Projet



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Offtce of Director-Goaeral
Operations Evaluation
June 30, 1993
MEMORAIDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESiDENT
SUBJECT:   Project Completion Report on Cameroon
Third Douala Port Project (Loan 2259-CM)
Attached is the "Project Completion Report on Cameroon -- Third
Douala Port Project (Loan 2259-E$R)" prepared by the Africa Regional Office. Part
II is missing.
The Loan (US$22.5 million equivalent of March 1983) was to provide
additional capacity, to improve navigational safety and access to the port, and
to strengthen administrative and operational efficiency. Project preparation was
adversely  affected  by  the  desire  to  accelerate  processing.    Important
conditionalities, related to port operations and management, were eliminated
between appraisal and negotiations. Bank mission teams did not include the
skills needed to process such a complex project. Notwithstanding experience from
the First and Second Port Projects, _.t was assumed that the port authority would
operate as an independent entity; in fact, the port authority had no financial
autonomy.
Implementation suffered a two and a half year delay, traffic
forecasts were overoptimistic, facilities built under the project are
underutilized, financial covenants were only partially complied with, and
maintenance is being neglected. The economic rate of return ls less than 102.
The project is rated as unsatisfactory, its sustaiuability unlikely and its
institutional impact as negligible.
The PCR is thorough and candid about th. nhortcomings of the
appraisal and supervision.
No audit is planned.
This documt has a  restricted distribution and may be used by recipients onty fn the performce of
thefr officiat duties. its contents mey not otherwise be disclosed without Wortd Sank authorization.



FOR OFCL4 USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
TIRD DOUALA PORT PROJECT
LWAAN 2259-CM
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CONTENTS
Page No.
Prefae
Evaluation Summary
PART I.  PROJECT REVIEW FROM BIANK'S PERSPCTIVE
1.  Project Identity  .........        .......................              1
2.  Backgound  ..........            .........................               1
3.  Project Objecives and Descripion  ....................                  2
4.  Project Design and Organization ......................                  2
5. Project Implementation  ...........................                      4
6.  Project Results ..........         .......................              6
7.  Project Sustanabiity ..............................                     9
S.  Bank Performance  ..............................                        9
9. Borrower Performance ............................                       12
10. ProjectRelationship  .............................                     14
11. Consuting and Contractual Services  ...................                15
12. Project Documentation and Data ..... ....  ............                15
PART U. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S sRSPECTIVE
PART Il[. STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1. Related Bank Loans and Credits ......................                   18
2.  Project Timetable ............................ 4..                     19
3.  Loan Disbursements .............................                       20
4.  Project Implemenion  ...........................                       21
5.  Project Costs and Financing  ........................                  22
6. ProjectResults .................................                        24
7.  Compliance with Loan Covenants .....................                   35
8.  UseofBankResources  ...........................                        37
Maps - IBRD N° 15995, 15996RI and 16193
I Tis document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their ofcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise b. disclosed without Wortd Bank authoization.



RDPIUC OF CAMROON
THID DOUALA PORT PROJECT
LOAN 2259-CM
IPROJECr COMPLEFION REPORT
PREFACE
Ihis Is the Project Completion Report for the Third Douala Port Project in Cameroon,
for which Loan 2259-CM in the amount of US$22.5 Md equivalent was approved on March 31,
1983. The Loan was closed on aine 30, 1991, two years behind the original schedule. An
amount of US$1,820,738.66 was canceled from the Loan account on October 16, 1991.
IThe PCR was prepared in the Infstructure Operations Division of the Occidental and
Central Africa Department on the basis of tie Staff Appraisal Report, the Loan Agreement, the
Guarte Agreement and IBRD correspondence files, and the Borrower (Part I).



REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
TRD DOUALA PORT PROJECT
LOAN 2259-CM
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Objectives
i.    The project had three objectives: (a) provision of an additional capacity enabling the Port
of Douala to handle increasing traffic volumes under improved conditions, with reduced ship
waiting time and service time; (b) improvement of navigational safety and access to the port; and
(c) improvement of the administrative and operating efficiency of the 'Office National des Ports
du Cameroun" (ONPC), the national port authority (para. 3.01). The project consisted of
physical components (procurement of equipment and construction of a marginal berth) and of
non-physical components (studies, management improvements and technical assistance) (para.
3.02). Of aU studies, the dredging study (technical and economic) was particularly important for
the port, since Douala is a river port with an access channel of limited draft.
Implementation Experience
Hi.    Berth constmction works met with some problems regarding physical execution, but they
were overcome. Procurement of equipment went smoothly. Except for the procurement of a
tugboa, the physical components were completed with approximately a one-year delay. Studies
were delayed. Implementation of the management information system was slow due to the poor
perormance of the consultant in charge. This component was not entirely completed at the date
of closure of the Loan. The Borrower generally conducted the project affairs well, but reporting
was uneven (paras. 5.01 to 5.07 nd 9.03).
Results
iii.   The project was based on a rapid development of containerization. Traffic did increaae
at the begining of project execution, but, due to the difficult situation of the Cameroonian
economy, has been stagnating or decreasing since 1986 as has the rate of containerization. At
present, facilities built under the project are becoming underutilized. Some aspects regarding
ONPC's management have improved, but the agency remains weak on dredging, the most
pressing problem facing Douala Port. Its lifrited autonomy hampers adjustment (e.g., staffing),
adaptation to changing circumtances (e.g., controlled tariffs), and optimization of resources (e.g.
services of an inefficient Government-owned shipyard which ONPC is forced to use, although
the Bank succeeded in preventing ONPC to operate directly the dock) (paras. 6.01 to 6.03).
iv.    Ihe financial covenants were only partially complied with. The rate of return on fixed
assets remains well below the value specified in the Loan Agreement. Assets are not annuly
revalued. The amount of receivables has been regularly increasing due to the general liquidity
crisis in the economy, and ONPC has large bank overdrafts. Exchange rwe losses on borrowing
are additional causes of financial deficits. Cosu are being controlled, out to the detriment of
mantenance (paras. 6.04, 6.05, 9.02 and 9.05).



- ii -
V.    The act  project cost was US$29.06 M equivalent, wbile the estimated project cost was
US$33.0 M. The underrun of 12.2% is attributable mainly to lower bids than expected on major
item such as civil works and purchase of a tugboat, and to the US$ appreciation during the
construction period. Some cemponents of the project were procured in advance, eventually
without compliancs with Bank GvJdelines (pm. 5.03). Due to traffic shortfal, the overall ERR
of the project is between 5 and 10%, versus an estimated 27%. Detailed data o ships waiting
time are missing for a more accurate recalculation of the ERR. The physical items derive a
negative ERR, while the other items had a positive impact, measurement of which is difficult to
calculate (para. 5.04 and 6.06).
Susanability
vi.   In view of the low ERR and the disappointing past and present financial and operational
performances of ONPC, the project is hardly sustainable. However, the reasons for this lack of
sustainability are not coming from the components of the project themselves but from the
weakns of ONPC's management. Actions taken to improve this management would have made
the project sustainable. hIprovement in financial records is considered sustainable (para. 7.01).
FJndng and Lessons Leaned
vii.   A number of important conditionalities, generally related to port operations and
management, which had been adequately identified dunng preparation and appraisal, and
roposed for action and/or for covenants, were omitted between appraisal and negotiations,
without clear management decisions recorded on the matter (para. 8.01). This was apparently
due to acceleration in processing the project, in order to reach lending targets for the year.
Unfortnately, these omissions had a negative impact on the quality of project execution and its
sustainability.
viii. Traffic forecasts over the life of a port remain highly conjectural. The project was
processed at a tie when emnomic prospecs for Cameroon seemed genrally favorable.
Although Bank estimates for port traffic were below those by the port, traffic forecasts proved
inaccurate over the Project period, which gives a degree of uncertinty to the exercise (paras.
6.01 and 8.03). This uncertainty should be removed by sensitivity studies (paras. 6.01 and 8.04).
ix.    Government's and Bank's views on the nature of ONPC, its autonomy and its institutional
role differ widely, and the issue was not openly addressed during the project's preparation. This
third project rested on premisses - and on covenants - which proved less than realistic. The
instiutional analysis adequately covered a good financial analysis and a review of management
issues, but less adequaWey legal and political country issues found in port operations and
management. These issues should have been dealt with by drafting efficient plans for reform
(pars. 8.07). Issues such as that of tariff increases were overblown in comparison to the basic
issues of cost cutting, and devolution of commecial and operational activities to the private sector
(pra. 9.05).
X.    Review of this project showed uneven supervision reports and a lack of coherent and
easily-accessible sets of data on the project (para 12.04 to 12.06).



REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
THIRD DOUALA PORT PROJECT
LOAN 2259-CM
PROJECT COMPETIMON REIPORT
PART I. PROJECT REVIEW F ROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.    Project Identity
Project Name        : Third Douala Port Project
Lon  Number         : 2259-CM
RVP Unit            : Africa Region
Country             : Republic of Cameroon
Sector              : Transportaion
Subsector           : Ports
2.    Badround
2.01.  The Port Sector. The Bank Group has been associated in the development of the port
sector in Cameroon since the early seventies. In 1979, when the Second Douala Port Project (see
part M.1) was still incomplete, the Bank started discussions of a third port project with the
Government and its natonal port authority, the "Office National des Ports du CmeoW
(ONPC). The economy of this oil-producing country was then buoyant, with an estimated GNP
annua growth rate of some 8.1%. Port traffic at Douala, the main port of the   ui*ty, had
increased by 7% annually during the last four years, reaching some 3.0 M tons. Shi'; of general
cargo traffic from break-bulk to container and roll on/roll off traffic was rapid. Continer traffic
was reaching 1.2 M tons annually. Ship characteristica were changing, and, Douala being an
estay port at some 20 m}les from the sea, dredging its acoess channel to adequat depth became
essentdal but was ostdy. Relocation of banana traffic from a berth exposed to cement dust air
pollution to a new and more convenient berth was needed, but this necessitated a specialized shed
and new fruit conveyors.
2.02 ONPC had a complex and expensive development plan of its facilities. Its finances were
reasonably good. The rate of return on fixed assets was 4.0% in 1978, a good figure since
ONPC did not provide cargo handling services, usually the most profitable element in port
operations (here left to the private sector), and was subsidi2ing secondary ports and some river
navigation activities. It had a strong cash flow, but there was a risk that these resources would
be used in uneconomi, investments, such as the relocation of some port activities, exension of
an industrial quay, dredging the access channel to 9.0 m, and, later, procurement of heavy
contaier handling equipment. Its management appeared satisfictory, despite overstaffing of the
agency. However, ONPC staff seemed to be somewhat carried away by an excessively optmistic
prospect of the Cameroon economy, and the Bank had to play a restraining role in this respect



-2 -
2.03  7lanpon Sector. While the planning and management capacity of the port authority was
considered satisfactory, capabilities in the transport sector were in general limited. As a
consequence, the Bank's sectoral objectives, agreed by the Government, were: (a) strengthening
of management and improvement of operations in the sector; (b) provision of an additional
capacity to sat*If the demand; and (c) development of a transport planning capacity. The Third
Douala Port Project focused on (a) and (b) and was in line with the strategy. At the same time,
the Fift Highway project (Loan 2180-CM) took care of (c), and a national transport survey was
in progress.
3. Project Objectives and Description
3.01   Project Objectives. 'The main objectives of the projett were: (a) provision of an
additonal capacity enabling the port to handle increasing traffic volume under improved
conditions; (b) imuprovement of navigational safety by replacing an old tugboat, acquiring
electronic equipment and upgrading buoyage; (c) imn rovement of ONPC's management system
and administative and operating efficiency; and (d) improvement of its financial situation by
reducing receivables, increasing tariffs, eliminating bank overdrafts, etc. The project was part
of the 1982.1986 ONPC investment plan, geared to extending port capacity following the
expected taffic increase as well as improving secuity of access and improving quality of service
to landlocked countries.
3.02   Project DescrOipon. The Tbird Douala Port Project (Loan 2259-CM) provided for:
(a)    construction of: (a) two marginal berths for containers and for banana traffic
(plus an optional berth of 200 m, see para. 4.01); (b) a banana warehouse; and
(c) access roads and paving storage areas;
b)    procrement of: (a) mobile banana conveyors; (O) one 1,700 hp tugboat; and (c)
electronic and buoyage equipment;
(c)    establishment of a management information system, acquisition of equipment and
techncal assistance for evaluation of computer requirements, operation and
traig; and
(d)    consulting services for: (a) supervision of civil works and procrement of
equipment; (b) staff evaluation, planning and admnistration; (c) records office
organization; (d) port sector stdy; (e) dredging studies; and (t) navigation aids
study.
4.    Project Design and Orn on
4.01 Project Concept and Preparation. Except for the information systems component, the
project was a  tradidonal port investment project, prepued on the basis of studies conducted by
ONPC and consultants. Project scope and scale appeared adequate. Identification and
preparation took place from November 1978 to Nov mber 1980. The Bank insisted on a carel
selection of investments such as dredging the access channel to an uneconomcally justified 9.0



-3-
m dejth, procurement of a new dredger and two container cranes, and set aside non-essential
items, such as the relocation of the traffic of the aluminum Industry, modification to the existing
banana berth, construction of a refrigerated banana warehouse. This insistence delayed the
appraisl but benefitted the project. Cautiously, the Bank reduced forecasted container traffic by
consultants and ONPC from 3.5 M tons in 1990 to 2.2 M tons, wh!ch the Borrower considered
too conservative but which finally proved overestimated (see para. 6.01). As a consequence of
this uncertnty regarding the future level of traffic, the Bank gave a conditional approval to the
construbion of an additional 200 m of wharf, but only if, within seven months after the stat of
construction, it were justified on the basis of updated traffic and productivity data. The Bank also
recommended technical, financial and economic studies on channel dredging, which were
included in the project. The weak point in the project concept was in not identifying growing
needs in port maintenance and rehabilkation. One and a half years after the start of the project,
the Bank was pressing ONPC on the issue of growing delayed maintenance, which indicated that
the problem had developed earlier than appraisal.
4.02  Apraisal. The project was appraised in April 1981, some 29 months aftr identification.
Traffic continued to increase rapidly, by some 10.0% per year, especially container traffc which
increased by 34% over 1980/1981. Despite good cargo handling productivity, ship waiting time
was ineasing and the berth occupancy rate reached an uncomfortable 75%. Container traffic
growth made necessary a new berth design, and rendered obsolete some of the older berths of
the port. Consequently, timing of the project, which included extension of facilities, appeared
adequate. However, in this interim, ONPC's financial situation had deteriorated. 1/
Rceivables reached four months of revenue, and cash flow was now negative. ONPC's
contrbution to investments had declined to zero, investments being financed by borrowing,
foreign aid and capital subsidies from Goverment. Working expenses and staffing were
Increasing and so were bank overdrafts (CFAF 440 M or US$1.8 M).
4.03 Preparation and appraisal were generally complete, except for the evaluation of needs for
oomputer equipment (an innovative item) left to be executed by consultants during project
execution. The technical role of the institutions and agencies responsible for the project were
clearly defined: (a) poor technical and financial productivity of ONPC's ship repair activities
remained a major issue. The Bank required the creation of a separate company to take over these
activity, which financial viability was very much in loubt. This was done in order to protect the
port of this unecessary burden; (b) measures for improved manpower planning and training at
ONPC were included in the project; and (c) it was decided to secure long-term contracts with
users before procuring the equipment at port authority's costs, because fruit loaders, to be
financed by the Bank, were to be leased to private operators.
4.04   The twenty two-month delay between appraisa and negotiations was excessive. It was
causd by the slow reaction of the Governmen to the conclusions and recommeions of the
appraisal mission and the issues meetng, as well as the need for further preparation work after
appraisa (economic and financial justification of tugboat, final scope of project, etc). Various
issues were overlooked, even though this was the third port project, and the Bank was familiar
with ONPC: (a) ONPC's weakness regarding maintenoce dredging was not clearly identfied;
1/    Rther tn a net profit of CFAP 482 M in 1978 and 32, in 1979, therm had been a net less of
CPAF 284 M in 1980.



-4 -
(b) the actual implementation of ONPC's Articles of Agreement, especially as regards ONPC's
autonomy vis-&-vis the Government, and the composition and role of its board of directors, which
had an impact on management and financial policies, were not explored; (c) the quality of
ONPC's management was probably overestimated; (d) the Government's reluctance to increase
port tarlft, and long delays before acceptance were not expected; (e) regarding ONPC's financial
account, the impact of Govemet capita subsidies, which artificially improved financial results,
and, more seriously, reduced the depreciation allowance, was disregarded (these subsidies
weakened the cauh flow and sent the wrong signs' as regards the level of necessary tariff
inceoases); and (f3 two major risks were not identl.ked: (i) that tiaffic projections would now
materialize; and (ii) that the Government might make such decisions as massive salary increases
(which would run contrary to ONPC's management plans, an issue related to ONPC's lack of
autonomy). An Action Plan for Organizational Development and a Financial Action Plan were
elaborated during the project's appraisal. However, that did not include performance indicators
other th  the standard financial ratios.
4.05   Economic and Financid Rates ofRetum. Based on expected improvement in productivity
at appaisal, the project's economic rate of reun was estimated at 27% (34%, 18% and 27%,
respectively, for the container berth, tle tugboat, and the technical assistance and data
processing). Tbe expected financl rate of retum was 9.1% in 1990, on the historical value of
assets, and 4.7% on reviued assets. At first sight, these financial returns should have appeared
very good for a port authority with the profile of ONPC (a large dredging bill, subsidies to
secondary ports and no cargo handling activity) and given its financial history.
5.    ProJe  Ipla        on
S. 01  Loan Effctiveness and Project Start-p. The Loa was approved in March 1983, signed
in SWe_ber 1983, and became effctive in December. The three-month period between
signature and effectiveness was sadsfactory at a time when the Government was being
reorganized. To ascerain project costs, bids for civil works were called for before Board
presetion, and were found lower than expected. The Government, under advice from ONFC,
took the decision to incorporate in the bid the optional berth, expecting lower cost if built at the
same time as the other two. In April 1984, one year after negotiations, ONPC pi ,vided the
rvised economic justification of this berth, confirmation of which disbursement und-t that item
was subject to. However, no trace of this document can be found in project files.
5.02  Impleentaton Schedule. Project implementation was to take five years and the project
to be completed by the end of 1988. The project was substantially completed by the end of 1990,
with a delay of two and a half years. Main issues which delayed completion during project
implementation, were:
(a)  conuction problems with part of the container berth retaining wall, resulting partdy
firom poor soil conditions and partly from the contraucor not adhering to design standards.
A major contractr's claim in that respect was rejected and latew dropped by the
contractor;



5-
(b) design, selection, and procurement of equipment for fruit loading, and the conclusion of
long-term contracts with operators took longer than expected;
(c)  underestimatd delays necessary to execute the information systems component (ONPC
canceled the consultant's contract after one year and moved to othei consultants); 21
(d)  ONPC's general manager, who was familiar with the project, was replaced after two
years of project exection,f due to mismanagement; ONPC moved to new premises; and
(e) the preparation of studies, particularly dredging, took longer than expected and so did
recruitment of some consultants.
5.03   Procurement. Procurement was not delayed becase the Borrower went ahead rapidly
on civil works. But the Bank had difficulties impressing on the Borrower and the Guarantor to
follow Bank's procurement guidelines. Tre Borrower did not accept the public opening of bids,
and the Bank, under internal as well as external pressure, gave up on this point. Despite the two
parties expressed in the minutes of negotiation their intention to reopen the discussion latr, the
issue was no more raised during project execution. ONPC's General manager was so eager to
start works early oa the container berths that he signed civil works and supervision cotracts
without the Bank's prior review and comments on the draft documents. This should have been
sanctioned by a formal protest, of which no record can be fiond. Procuremen of the tugbou
raised no issue. Further on in the project, difficulties developed regarding compute, something
at cap. be considered inherent to the procement of this type of specialized equipment. There
was no problem with consultants' contracts. Altogether, the procurement performance can be
conside:-ed fair.
5.04  Project Costs. Based on Bank disbursemens and the percentage of foreign exchange used
at appraisal, the project cost was US$29.06 M compared with US$33.0 M estimated at appaisal.
this amount includes US$1,820,738.66 canceled from the Loan accouns at Loan dose.
Detailed project costs are given in Table A of Section 5 of Part m.
5.05  Disbursements. From the start of the project, disbursements were slower than expected
because of the delays in procuring equipment and, more generally, in transmitting disburment
documents to the Bank. There were repead complains from contractors because of late
payments (e.g. the shipyard responsible for building the 1,700 hp tug boat). Disbursement lag
was more than 50% at times and fell only at the end of project execution. Esimated and actual
disbursm ts are given in Section 3 of Pat M. Ihe Loan account was closed on October 16,
1991, after two extensions of the Cloing Dae, and US$1,820,738.66 equivalen was canceled
fom. the Loan accounts. The Bank had made a third extension conditional on Government's
dr.ision to postpone procurement of container cranes, to be financed by OECF, which the
Government did not accept (see para. 9.04). Non-compliance with this condition of the Loa
Agmen and general sus ion of Cameroon at the time of decision led the Bank to close the
Loan. There was no problem with the provision of countpart fimds by ONPC.
I/   IThis contract ,as being financed redoacvely by the Bank.



- 6 -
5.06  IoanAllocadton. The original and revised allocations and actual disbursements are shown
in Table B, Section 5 of Part m. In 1990, some US$1.5 M of Loan funds was reallocated fo'
urgent rehabilitation works on the port premises, reflecting deferred maintenance. However, due
to the closure of the Loan, most of the amount allocated to tIese works was not disbursed.
5.07   VarIancefrom Appraised Project. The project after completion differs from the initial
project by onty a few variances: (a) paving in the project area was added to the original civil
works item, and financed from savings on the main contract. These works were economically
justified and complemented the original project (they had not been included originally as a matter
of caution given the uncertainty of costs); (b) item B(d) of project description (equipment for
buoyage) was deleted in 1988 (see para. 6.02) ; and (c) urgent rehabilitation works mentioned
in para. 5.06 above were added to the project, but Loan closure stopped early disbursements.
6.    Project Resu
6.01 Project Objectiws. The first project objective was to provide additional port capacity
geared to heavier traffic which did not develop. The average amual growth rate forecasted
between 1980 and 1990 amounted to 8.1%. The Bank considered this realistic and perhaps
somewhat conservative, because the comparable average annual growth rate had been 10.1%
during the 1975-1980 period. However, sensitivity of the forecasts to the main macroeconomic
variables - the price of oil, of agricultura exponrs and imports (mainly from Europe) - had not
been tested. J/ The unexpected change in the general international economic conditions, the
decline in the purchasing power of exports as well as the chadged outlook for the Cameroonian
oil and gas production and exports had a negative impact on actual and potential growth in
income and exports, and, hence, on imports. From 1983 to 1986, the growth rate was efratic and
averaged 3.2%. Traffic peaked at 4.4 M tons in 1985 (pardy oue-time emergency food imports),
against a forecasted 5.9 M tons. In 1990, it had declined to 3.9 M tons, less than half the
eapected 8.0 M tons. Container traffic reached a peak in 1985 with 101,000 boxes and 922,000
tons but then declined. In 1990, it was 80,000 boxes for 746,000 tons, compared to the
"conservatives 2.4 M tons (220,000 boxes) estimated for that year. Productivity in tons per
shipday did not improve as expected but went down. It has been particularly disappointing for
reefer vessels loading bananas with equipment financed from the project. Although privatized,
the performance of operators (planters, truckers, etc.) is poor. Table A of Section 6 of Part m
summarizes traffic during the years of project execution.
6.02 The second objective was to improve safety and ship handling, and was met. The new
tugboat was delivered. Radiolocation and other equipment for sounding data are in place and
operational. Regarding upgrading of buoyage, it proved to be more complex and more costly
from the start than had originally been envisaged. While US$200,000 had been included in the
project for the procurement of miscellaneous buoyage equipment, subsequent ONPC esfimates
XI    When the project was appraised in 1981, projeteins of commodity prices we optimistic. By
end 1982, before negotations, Bank proectios for 1990 were for an increase in oil prices of 20%, ian
finiber prices of 14% and in tropical products (coffee, cocoa, etc.) of some 10%. The colapse of
commwdity primes came lster.



-7-
for a larger project amounted to some US$12.0 M equivalent. The Bank cautioned ONPC on
such an expense, which was deferred but later financed by bilateral aid.
6.03 The project's third objective, to improve ONPC's management information systems and
its administrative and operating efficiency, was partally met. ONPC now has a management and
financial inbormation system, and there is an adequate flow of information. Financial documents
have improved. They are more frequent, more informative and better presentd. However,
much remains to be done for tht system to be fully utilized. For example, ONPC is unable to
counter- check the collection of cargo dues by Customs, despite the fact that it has the necessary
documentation, staff and computer equipment. As a consequence, the agency does not know
whether the sums paid to it by Customs are what they should be. X/ Planning has been
improved with the establishment of a five-year strategic rolling plan. Extensive studies on
staffing have been conducted; while they permitted better staff management, they did not seem
to bring about a reduction in overstaffing. Despite an internal reorganization, ONPC is sfill a
large institution, divided into 162 different sections under six departments. Staffing has been
reduced by 15% since 1985, achieved by attrition, but mainly by transfer of ship maintance
and repair activities to the newly formed Chantier Naval et Industriel du Cameroun (CNIC),
which is operating an underutilized Government-owned 10,000 t floating dock. Costs have been
cut, but this has been achieved through deferred maintenance and sometimes artificially-low
depreciation allowances rather than through reduction in staffing. Consequently, after reaching
a peak in 1985/86, dredging productivity has been declining and general maintenance in the port
is insufficient. Despite the development in training, many staff are underqualified and not
motivated, placing a strain on a relatively thin (10% of staff) management stff. Since ONPC's
management does not take necessary actions to dismiss inefficient staff and to eplace it by better
staff, overall quality of the agency can only improve slowly.
6.04 Port FYnance. Port finances were expected to improve during the project. However,
ONPC's financial position deteriorated soon after Loan effectiveness, even before traffic showed
signs of decline. In 1983, net result was a surplus of CFAF 339 M against a forecasted 733.
In the following seven years to 1990, only two years showed a profit. From 1986 to 1990,
acumulaed net losses amounted to CFAF 3,089 M (US$11.2 M) against accumulated surpluse
of CFAF 12,547 M (US$45.6 M) projected. In 1990, receivables represent 4.4 months of
revenue, of which 39% are bad debts or bounced checks, part of which may never be recovered
despite ONPC's effors. Bank overdrafts are at present some CFAF 2,500 M (US$10.0 M).
Tariff increases, despite repeated requests from ONPC to Government, did not follow the pace
of inflation. I/ Wbile prices increased by 241% from FY83/84 to FY90/91, tariffs on ships
41    Notig discrepancies beween an increase in pot tariffs and its actwl impact on port autoity
revene, the auditors specifically requested m their FY1988 report that ONPC should be dictly
respomible for collecting port dues on cargo. No action was taken on this poit, which the Bank
appaenty did not pick up.
A/    However, Goverment financed expenses which shoud have been financed by ONPC. For
example, a Dutch Govemment Loan for dredging (US$10.0 M equivalent) has not been onlet to ONPC,
which is equivalent to.a subsidy to ONPC. On the other side, ONPC has to subsidize money-losing
activities considered broad economic interest (e.g., the fishing sector.) Despite a clear legislation, fnacial
rdaions between Goverment and ONPC are not clear. They are also orratic, which discoura  proper
plUmng.



lncreased only by 41.6% and tariffs on cargc by 15.5%. During PY89/90, ONPC's operating
tio was 1.22. n addition, foreign exchange loss on borrowing, including IBID borrowing,
bave been substaal, amounting over seven years to some CFAF 400 M anmually (US$1.5 M).
6.05   The ftlowing measures would have considerably improved the situation and permitted
ONPC to balance its accounts and derive a surplus: (a) relatively modest tariff increaes, even
below Inflation; (b) licensing of the ice and cold storage plant to a private operator (ONPC loses
anmnly some CFAF 900 M (US$3.3 M) on this activity, more than its total net iosses); (c)
management of foreign exchange risk, if possible, given the lack of ONPC's fincial autonomy;
and (d) contracting dredging works instead of using force account, which is both costly and
inefficen  It is important to mention that considerable deferred maintenance of all facilities has
accunulated. The port authority is losing its substance, which the balance sheets do not reflect,
and which artificially Increases the added value which ONPC generates. Rates of return on fixed
asset claimed, on assets at historical cost, must therefore be accepted with caution. ONPC is
a capital-intensive vente with a high percentage of fixed assets, heavy debt and high
maintenance costs and is a public port authority with little possibility of dismising staff at short
notice. Therefore, it has little chance of reducing its expenses very soon or in the near future.
Its management improved during project execution regarding accountg, day4o-day financial
procedures, and financial productivity (the added value ratio went up from 65.5% in PY83184
to 85.0% in PY89/90), 6/ but ONPC's finanal autonomy still needs to be improved. In this
respect, the respective inrastructure ownership rights and financing responsibilities of the
Government and ONPC should be clarified. y/ Table B of Section 6 of Part m summaizes
ONPC's financial siution during project execution.
6.06  Econo-a*c Perfrmace.  The absence of data severely limits the recalcuation of the
economic rate of return of the project. To a certain extent, the shortfall in traffic had an
economic impact. A major problem at Douala port is the increasing obsolescence of most berths.
Therefore, some of the berths built under the project at Douala port are necessary, even if traffic
stges, because of the changes in ship technology (more roll-onlroll off vessels, car carriers,
etc.). The investments in the project contributed to the reduction of berth occupancy, which went
down from 65% to 50%. Based on actua costs and benefits as determined at appraisa, auming
hat 20% of planned benefits to derive from savings on general cargo service dime were obtained,
and ta the benfits from improved banana handing conditions have been obtained (an optistic
asumption - see para. 6.01), the container and multi-purpose berth derives a return of 7.2%.
On assumption that the benefits on handling conditions of bananas were obtained after a five-year
delay, the rate of return would fall to 4.0%. However, it is not realistic that traffic will contin
to stgnate until the end of project life; this would ignore the cyclical nature of port traffic. If
theexpected bnefits on general cargo and conaIner traffmcincrease to 40% by 1995-a
consevative assumption - the rate of return on the berth would reach 6.5%. Other beneits
which were not meaured were improvement of safety in the port due to the presence of the new
£/l    Added vale he  is equal to trnover minus expss for goods and services, but exclding
saaies and benefits, depreciation and intereat.
71    ONPC beieves Govnment, not ONPC, hould finance   nel maintenance, whichis inaccure.
Whaver their magnitude, dredging cost ar pOlt cos.



-9-
tugboat and benfits derived from technical assistance and data processing. Altogether, one may
assume that the global rate of rehlrn, at present, is between 5 and 10%.
7.    Projed Susalunability
7.01 In view of the low ERR, the disappointing traffic and the poor financial performance, the
main item of the project - that is civil works - is not immediately sustinable. In additon, a
flour mill and grain silos are now being budlt next to the container terinal, an uneconomic
planning choice. This is likely to jeopardize future development of containerized traffic. The
safety item (tugboat and radiolocation equipment) is well sustainable, so is the central data
processing systm. Improvements in financial reporting and bookkeeping and management also
are susainable.
S.    Bank Performance
8.01   4ppralsal and Negodadons. The Bank gave much attention to this project before, duting
and after appraisal. As reported above (para. 4.01), it resisted pressure to develop a lager
project. It gave full attention to procurement, terms of reference for consultans, selection of
contractors and consultants, etc.. However, when the draft appraisa report was issued, some
staff seemed especially anxious to have "a greatly reduced number of legal conditions for this
rather straightforward operation involving a generally well-managed and basically sound financial
institution," j/ an optimistic view of the project and the Borrower. The concer was Ihat the
project should be processed swifUy, and if possible, its board presentation be put forward in the
fiscal year. As a result, some of the conditions decided on during the decision meeting were
eliminated from the final documents such as: (a) plan of action for reducing container storage
time; (b) transfer of the collection of port charges from Customs to ONPC (certainly a major
issue); (c) acquisition of a new sttionary dredger; (d) Government budget fiuds to be provided
to ONPC on a loan, not on a grant basis; 2/ (e) obligation to evaluate the studies on workshop
and repair facilities with the Bank IQI; and (t) no disbursement on hardware and software
computer equipment unless the detailed elements proposed were justified by a study to be
conducted by consultants. I1/ Only the deletion of conditions (a) and (b) above were
M/    Memoandum dted September 14, 1981, Leg  File Coarpondenoe, Volume 1.
The eiminaton of that ssue from leding conditions was probably a good thing  However,
ONPC's finana siuation deterioratd so rapidly that, two years later, Bank missions deplored
Government's not increasing its equity contributions to ONPC's capital by the amounts expecte  Since
Government obtains no return on such equity, these contributions are, in ct, large investm bsidis.
1I/ This was watered dow in a clause by which the borrower 'will consult with tie Bak before
falizing any anungemant whereby a third party would patcipate in the sip repair yard activities."
,/    The only condition left i that respect was that ONPC would cruit a quaified computer specialist
by a date stipulated in the Action Plan atthed to the loan agreement.



- 10-
submitted to RVP's approval, on the basis of optimistic information. 12/ The format of
progress reports was also not agreed upon at negotiations. The format to be followed was
communicated to the Borrower only one year later.
8.02   Project Excuton. Completion of civil works was delayed by one year due to unexpected
constuction difficulties, but this had no economic impact because traffic did not develop as
ewected. Projec execution was satisfactory regarding procurement of the tugboat. Procurement
of the fruit conveyor was delayed because an agreement had to be sought with its future private
uers; equipment selected proved parly ill adapted when installed and had to be complemented
at the end of the project. All studies were delayed by the slow drafting of terms of refece (to
which the Borrower added eventually beyond what the project encompassed) and recruitment of
consultants. Suspension of disbursements (Sept. 18, 1991) and Loan Closure (Ocober 16, 1991)
interrupted eventually procurement and implementation of some of the softwares.
8.03   Mcain Lessons.  it could be argued that the Bank did not react quicldy enough to
changing circumstances and did not realize when traffic started to level off, that this was not
accidental, but the beginning of a changing tide and a long period of crisis. There was, indeed,
a geneal optimism about the fwture of Cameroon's economy, which influenced decision making
on project processing. Indeed, at the time of negodations, two years after appraisal, there was
no sign of traffic decline. Once the project was strted, little could be done regarding its scope.
Civil works, the main item, could not be stopped. The construction of the third berth was not
unsound, since it eliminated a hiatus in the continuity of the quay wall (see Map 15996). The
ugboat, a major element in a port, was necessary. During the first three years of project, the
ontion given to civil works execution by the project manager may have seemed excessive
compared to other aspes of the project, but his excellent engineering qualifications as well as
his knowledge of constuction and dredging problems, were most instrumental to the success of
the important dredging study.
8.04   The Bank's atention, however, should have been drawn to ONPC's financial
deterioration, which had started long before taffic stagnated or declined, reflecting weaknesses
in ONPCs management. A sensitivity analysis, stricter conditionality, and more cautious
financial projections would have been in order. Project files also indicate that some issues of
day-to-day management IJ had been missed, probably because Bank teams, limited to
engineers, economists and financial analysts, rarely included specialists familiar with port
operations and day-to-day management of wharfs, teminals, marine services, etc.. For the
preparation of th; follow-up project in progress (ransport Sector Project), the ONPC's main
weaknesses in that respect should be identified. Institutional aspects also necessitate expert
advice. The Bank should take an interest in the basic problem of ONPC's legal statutes, their
enforcement and interpretation, and related issues. 14/ For example, project fies indicate
IV     See 4WA2DR Memo to RVP, November 16, 1982.
1/   Deterio    of secuity conditons, poor matenoe of facilites, nadequate users contol, poor
organiation of storage areas, absence of parking rules, accmulon of tah  and garbage in port areas,
etc.
j4/   Iho matter was dealt with in eardy 1990 in a consultant report on the mtim  sector of
Cameroon, financed by the Bank under the public enteie project.



- 11 -
tiat, in 1989, ONPC's tax status was modified to a considerable extent, the agency not paying
customs duties any longer. These types of modifications or decisions should be routinely
reviewed and discussed in detail with the Borrower and the Guarantor, becese of macroeconomic
impact and impact on government finance.
8.05   Project Supervislon. Except during one year after the Bank's 1987 reorgalzation, the
supevision effort was substntial (see Section 8 of Part m for staff inputs). Most aide-memoires
left with Borrowers are complete and detailed, especially from 1987 onwards. TMere were four
task managers on the project. Two were engineers (1984-1987), one was a financial analyst
(1987 to 1991), and one was a transport economist (1991 to the end). During the last stages of
project supervision, a port specialist with experience of operations, as well as a computer expert
joined the missions.
8.06 The Bank did not impose the adequate discipline to the Borrower regarding reporting,
finance, management, operations, and, generally, compliance to Loan conditions. It did not react
strongly enough to the absence of audited accounts and poor-quality audits or to covenants being
overlooked (see Part m, Section 7). Financial covenants, were not enforced as they should have
been except at the end of the Project when US$1.8 was cancelled (see para. 9.04). The
terminology used in letters to ONPC and to the Government on tariff increases and other financial
issues was weak. It is doubtfiu that these helped the Borrower to internalize the clauses of the
Loan Agreement and to take them seriously. Given the early and rapid deterioration of the
finanial situton, a stronger stand should have been taken on: (a) unne sary expens; (b)
money-losing activities (on which the Borrower has been permanently in breach of Section
5.04(d) of the Loan Agreement); (c) the deficit of secondary ports; and (d) the poor performance
in respect to dredging (which has been plaguing the port of Douala for decades). The issue of
transfeing revenue collection from Customs to ONPC, considered important at appraisal, was
not covenanted (see para 8.01). 'Me situation is still the same in that respect, still unsatisfacto-
ry. So has been the issue of duration of stay of containers in the contamer terminal. 15/
8.07 Main Lessons. The assumption made by the Bank that ONPC would operate as a
decentrized autonomous authority, never came true. ONPC is more a government department
run by civil servants, lG/ with a board formed mainly of civil servants and chaired by a
Minister. All Board decisions are formally approved at Government level, creating long delays
before their implementation, rather than being implicitly approved after a short waiting period
as spulated in statues. Major decisions are also taken in consultation with the Government
ONPC has no real financial autonomy, its financial commitments have little meaning, and it lacks
business tradition. Where the Bank sees an economic organization with a precise jurisdiction,
commercially operaed and establishing its tariffs freely, Government sees a closely controlled
U/    This is not owy due to iadequat cstom procedues, as the apprs mission believed. In tict,
traders deliberately leave their containers in the terinal until cargo has been sold on the maket, and
ONPC is lax on applyng penlties, offerig rebats on amout due encouraig the traders to peri i
using the port as a long-term stora  depot. Typically, this point was clarfied in 1990 by a port opetons
conadtanL
j/I    While ONPC's snior mnagers ar czvil servants seconded from the regular civil service and in
diect and easy contact vith the suevsory minsties, other staff are under common law concts with
ONPC, a dichotomy which is not without influenoe on  t attitudes.



- 12-
stt-owned utility, used as an instrument in its broad development, national and social policy,
and granted with a purely functional independence. Both close control, and indifference to
fncial losses result from such an approach 12/ as does the hesitation to open the authority's
bord of directors tO the private sector, stll largely expatiate. Not only are tariff adjustments
decided by Government well after ONPCs requests, but they are also always lower ta
requested.  Staff salary increases, sometimes mansive, are also decided unlatrly by
Government. Government equity contributions, while rather substanta in the past, are at present
lagging behind, and the Port Authority is under-capitalized. II/ It is therefore unreasonable
to build a project on the assumption that tariff increases will take place when and where they are
requested, unless one is fully decided to stop disbursements as soon and as often as necessary.
Before implemenfing a new project, the issues of tariff adjustments, restructuring, reduction of
staff and elimination of money losing activities, need to be addressed. The role and responsibili-
ties of ONPC as an institution have to be clearly defined and agreed upon by the Bank and the
Goverrment.
8.08 Port Projects have become increasingly complex and the traditional threesome engi-
nw/economist/financial analyst was not sufficient. If the project was to be successful, port
operators, training, computer and institutional speciaists were needed in appraisal and supervision
teams, even for projects that appear to be simple. Legal implications of institutional work needed
to be appraised and supervised. Consistency between Loan covenants and the law of the land
and their relationships also needed to be assessed. 12/
9.    Borower Performance
9.01   Physkal Execution. The Borrower started the project enthusiastically, fully confident
that traffic would develop even faster than the Bank anticipated. Significandy, during
negotians, ONPC committed itself to eliminate its bank overdrafts six mont  earier th
orginaly stipulated in the draft Loan documents. This proved to be too optimistic. The
Borower also wanted to expand the scope of the project, which the Bank resisted. While the
Bank agreed to the use of savings from civil works to pave some storage areas, it cautioned
aganst adding an automatic depth measuring device to the navigation aid system. This was
considered unjustfied and too costly. This investnent was, however, fianced from bilatera aid,
which is typical of the difficulties met by the Bank regarding investment discipline. Geerly,
with things related to physical implemenaion, studies and technical matters, the Borrower was
active and imaginative and well in control. This included the handling of a major claim by the
main contrctor. Docments on physical development and engineering were carefully prepared.
However, concete performance on dredging by force account was inadequate, to the point of
jeopardizing the dredging works completed under contract in 1q88. Because the port dredger was
IV    In lat 1991, Govaent made it comulsoiy for ONPC to contra with the ineffict and costly
Governmnt-owned CNIC for the overha  of floating craf, despite t  fact that ONPC had specificaly
reected CNIC's prposa aftr a stndard call for bids.
jjl    See note 7 above for a qualification.
12/   A case at hand is the peial conflict on asset revaluation



- 13 -
unable to dredge its part of the channel, siltation developed in the dredged section. lhis was due
pardy to the poor services of the local govemment-owned shipyard, and to uneven perfomance
by ONPC In the ater of dredging, a perennial problem over the last twenty-five years, a
problem which still ne=ds to be firmly addressed.
9.02  Fhnance and Management.  Presention and quality of ONPC's accounts have been
steadily improving during project execution, with the introduction of new documents such as the
budget execution report. The finance department, which remained for a time without a
deparment's head, was slow in producing accounts. Audited accounts were cotmmunicated late
to Ahe Bank. Audit was not up to intenational standards at the start, but improved during project
execution. The deterioration of the financial situation did not escape ONPC's atention and it
proposed solutions, such as tariff increases to the Government, which acted late and inadequately
or did not act at all. ONPC had questionable investments, such as in CNIC, that have been, until
now, non-revenue earning capital assets with chances of becoming a total loss. ONPC cant
recover amounts due by Government of quasi-public agencies (e.g., Chamber of Commerce).
ONPC's operaing expenses have been reduced to the detriment of maintenance, and becase it
has been unable to opeate its dredger. Contractors' and consultants' bills were paid with
considerble delay. Maintenance continued to be poor, not only because of money shortage, but
also because of mediocre day-to-day management. Lack of qualified and efficient middle-level
supervisory staff has been evident. To the credit of ONPC's present management, it should be
mentioned that the change in general manager at mid-project was followed by an intWnal audit
and a number of correcting measures to rectify the situation left by an earlier dynamic but at
times haphazard management.
9.03  Reporting.   Progress reports were uneven and there were interutons in their
production.  he original format communicated to the Borrower was not followed. Two years
after the start of project execution, a Bank mission agreed that quarterly progress reports would
be in the form of computerized tables. Their format could have been more comprehensive, and
they lacked complementary information.
9.04   Covenas. Ihe Borrower generally complied with the Action Plan for Organizational
Development covuenanted under Section 4.01 of the Loan Agreement It also complied with
stndr covenants on accounting, employment of consultants, and auditing. But it is in defaut
on other covenants. The financia rate of return covenanted was not obtained and most of the
financial action plan agreed upon was not implemented. Tariffs were not revised to reflect the
full cost of port services, which was pardy due to the delay in issuing the consultant report on
tariffs. 2QI None of the covenants related to dredging were complied with (maintenance
dredging plan, study on deepening of the channet, consultation with the Bank before undertalddg
works related to the deepening of the channel). Delays in payment of contractors and consultants
did not reflect the sound administrative and management practices which were covenanted. More
importanty, no container crane was to be acquired without an economic and financi justfication
acceptable to the Bank. In 1990, in developing earlier proposals, the G'vermuent contemplated
acquirng two container cranes without such an acceptable justification. The Bank informed the
Goveme  hat it would consider this acquisition contay to the Loan Agreement, and, on this
basis, would not be inclined to extend for a third time the Closing Date of the Loan beyond June
22    Rport issued in Febrwuy 1990.



- 14-
30, 1991. Commens In Setion 6-B of Part m  give details on the Botrower's general
compliance with the Financial Action Plan. Section 7 of Part III gives the sts of the
Borrower's compliance with the Loan Agreement
9.05 Mai Lessons.
(a)    ONPC should do more in terms of promotion, planning, monitoring and less in
terms of direct involvement in port activities. 21/ Like many other port
authorities, ONPC sfill uses too much force account and, therefore, is overstaffed
in quantity and understaffed in quality in the low grades.
(b)    Transfer of ship repair activities to CNIC was basically sound but did not address
the issue of the shipyard itself;
(c)    Dredging should be contracted out, and the cold and ice plant transferred to the
private sector. What happened on towage is a striking example of a wrong
policy-making decision. Originally, it was private, under a license. It was a
profitable, tax paying, self-financing activity. The license was revoked in the
70s, and towage was taken over by ONPC. Government lost the proceeds of
taxation, and present profit from towage was used (and still is) to subsidize
ONPC's money-losing aetivities. ONPC was forced to borrow from the Bank
to replace its tugboat, and, in 1992, proposed more borrowing to acquire another
tugboat. The consequences are a net loss to ONPC and to the counry's
economy. ONPC now rejects suggestions to privatize towage on the ground that
it is making profits. But, as long as this continues, there will be no incentive to
reduce or eliminate the money-losing activities;
(d)    Contracta  arrangements with private operators should include minimum
perfomance clauses, and the right for ONPC to monitor these peformances; and
(e)    As regards consultan  and contractrs, the Bank should seriously consider the
perennial problem of Borrower's delays in paying bills, including advance
payments after contract signature.
10.   Project RaMonship
10.01  Relonship between the Bank and the Borrower/Goverment were good. Ihe Borrower
provided Bank supervision missions with well prepared and complete mission files. There were
no cofinanciers.
al/   It is fair to mention that, conty to some dher port autoities in die region (Nigera, Ghan,
Zaire, etc.), ONPC, similar to Abidjan Port in Met dIvoire, leaves a major role to the privat, sector,
espciy reading ao handling ad storage.



11.   Cosulng and Contracual Servicms
1:.01  Except for a Bank-financed onn  whose oa  for cmputer and inomion
sevces had to be canceled becaus of unsatsfactory perfomace, thote were no major problems
with consltant sevices.
11.02 The contractor for civil works did not follow the origina design exacty. Ihis, and poor
soil conditions, cau   difficulties and a delay in quay construction, so additioa works were
necessary. The coactor placed a claim. The matter v/as to be settled by a lump sum offer
from the owner, which the contractor disregarded until it was too late to finance it from the
Loan, whose accous were being closed.
12.   Projet Do t aion d Data
12.01 LegqAl4reement. IA agreements were very qmch boiler plate. As indicated in par
8.01, the elimination of covenants agreed upon during a decision meet  had a signifcat  impact
on the project. Not enough precautions were taken regarding the investment limation ClauSe
stipulated in Section 5.06 (b) of the Loan AFeement (container cranes). ITe crmes are epected
to be procured by Governmnet in late 1992 and Installed on port premises in 1994. They would
have been included in port asset and been depreciae by ONPC, which is equivalent to an
acquisition by ONPC. The Botrower, however, interpret the letter of the Loan Agreemet
sricly (if not its spirit), and considers the cranes a Governmen acquisition and not one by
ONPC directly. A stricter wordig of Section 5.06 (b) would have discouraged such a narrow
technical ineretation.
12.02 S&4a4fpraUa Report. The staff appraisal report provided a usefil framework for
projectimplementation. ltwsupdatedbeforefinalizatitorelletformation obtaedbetween
apraisal and negottions. Some Important elements of appraisal were omitted from the report,
such as projectons of number and types and size of ships calling at Douala over the reviewed
period. Also, it was not fully updated between green and buff and does not reflect exacdy the
final agreement between the Banka md the Borrower, nor does it include a list of project files.
12.03 Suersion Repor.   Early supevsion reports, with relevant annxes, pemitted
following up on project execution. Supeviion report reduced to Form 590 and to the ae-
memoire are inadequate for that pupose. Amexes are not coherent during the life of the project,
madng it difficult to follow project execudon, traffic development, financsI, etc.. However, the
aide-memoires were subsal documents, not waered down. Ihey apparly reflect the
mission's views, not a negotated repre ot
12.04 Main Lessons. Experience from tis project indicates that the compression of
supervision report must not be excessive. The following annexes 2/ are neceary for an
adequate follow-up and post evaluation of the project: project execuidon followig the format of
project description, sus of covenans, traffic, performance indicators as agreed at apprisal,
22!   Which may not be printed, but ket on diskettes nd printed only when needed.



- 16 -
fimaci  tables 221 and any other tbles specific to tke project. This sud be fized at
negodaio, so that the fotmat of Borrower's progress reports adhere as closely as possible to
the format of tables in appraisa and supervision reports, and later In the PCR.
12.05 PCR Data. General files kept in the Africa Information Services Center (AISC) are
complete as ae most progms repot. Details of economic calculations are absent from Project
files. Some consultam reports, but mainly documents and reports brought back by supevision
missions, were not logged in W4/ and were found in the individual files of the successive
project managers.
12.06 M4in Lessons. There is a need for a project-oriented system of logging at Divisional
level, in liason with the AISC system. MaJor documen kept in staff memben offices should
be logged, in order to be located easily. Also, at project closure, and when there is a follow-up
project, the Division should inform the AISC on wbich documents (ma'uly consultat reports)
should be transferred to the Documen Files of the new project, and not stt to permanent long-
distance storge. Thme few points of good adminition would help save staff time during
supervision and PCR witi.
21A    Not all ficial analyts hae the sam  accountIg stunards gad prsetaio  Staff roato
durins psoject implemeaionmes follow-u diffiicult b1us of clges in fom
71    Or, worse, do_ments weo not st to AISC although logged on Form 2124 in dth Divisio.



- 17-
PART 11. PROZLT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
I.    Background
Between 1970 and 1980, the Cameroon National Port Authority (CNPA), implemented
a large program of port development under the First and Second Douala Port Project (Douala
I and Douala UI). Ihis program was intended to address the operational TRAFFIC needs up to
the year 1990. As soon as Douala 11 was completed, the Government felt it was necessary to
consider specific additional developments to improve the overall port operation and to enhance
its administrative and operational efficiency. This led to the Tird Douala Port Project (Douala
III) which consisted essentially of:
*     the construction of a multipurpose terminal provided with the appropriate
equipments for storage and handling of fruit and general cargo;
*     the establishment of a Management Information System;
*     the procurement of a seafking tugboat; and
e     the necssary consulting services for improvement of the record office organiza-
tion, for staff administration and evaluation, for dredging studies, and for
improving coordination in port development operations.
H.    Fing
The initial cost of Douala m was FCFA 5.9 billion, but its execution amounted to a total
of about FCFA 10.1 billion. The financing plan was as follows:
*      hMe World Bank lent 70% or US$22,500,000 (Loan 2259-CM of September 15,
1983) under the following terms:
*     duration: 20 years, with a 5-year grace period; and
*     annual interest rate: 10.97%.
*     The CNPA and the Republic of Cameroon financed the remaining 30%.
m.   Loan Ttmetable
*     Board approval                                 March 31, 1983
*     Loan signature                                 September 15, 1983
o     Loan effectiveness                             December 22, 1983



- 18 -
o     First disbursement                            January 10,19U4
*     Inital Lomn Closing Date                      June 30, 1989
*     Extended Loan Closing Date                    June 30, 1991
*     Loan completion                               October 16, 1991
IV.   The projed
IV.   Consulting and Contactual Servies
World Bank Guidelines were followed during the various consultation and procurement
procedures related to the project.
IV.2 avil Works
IV.2.1 Exection
The civil works consisted of the construction of a 600 m quay, called multipurpose
terminal, on the left bank of the Wouri River. A sheet pile wall was sunk to -9.S0 m in the
undeveloped area between the harbour master office and the container terminal. These works
also included the construction of a 6670 e2 warehouse for fruit storage (quay 12), the
enbankment of a 48,000 in2 platform, and the paving of 220 m along quay 12.
CNPA contracted for these works with the Group Bouygues Offshore, Boskalls, Satom
and Razel for a total amount of FCFA 4,112,889,993 (based on the 1982 prices) with a 24-month
A lay of execution.
Teclnical difficulties during constuction (see Chapter V) and an unforeseen event on the
site led to an extension to 46 months of the duration of works, with additional costs of FCFA 372
million for the construction and FCFA 135,103,630 for the unexpected event.
Works started on June 6, 1983 and were provisionally accepted on December 31, 1987.
IV.2.2 Addiional Works
During construction, it became necessary, as funds were available, to undertake the
following additional works:
IV.2.2.1 Pavement of guays 13 and 14
These works have been executed, from February to August 1990, by the Group Razel-
Asquini and consisted of:
*     the pavement, with interlocking blocks, of a 30 m wide lane along quays 13 and
14, as a contnuation of quay 12;



- 19-
*     the erection of a 40 m lighting pole, of the same type as 'hose already in place,
equipped with 16 floodlights of 1,000 WSPH each; and
*     the installation of a water pipe in the existing technical duct.
This contract amounted to FCFA 516,451,075 and, while they were there, the same
Group was asked to undertake the urgent additional works of reshaping the quay apron of the
conainer termin  at the cost of FCFA 153,847,425. The latter works were completed in April
1991.
IV.2.2.2 D&_yigV=  f Timbe ad Vehicffi&a- Areas
An asphalted area of S ha in the timber storage yard was developed into a 2 ha storage
yard for imported vehicles and a 3 ha storage yard for sawn timber. These works were executed
from March 1990 to July 1991 by Scemar Ports at the cost of FCFA 564,351,908.
Scemar Ports was also awarded a contr  for the urgent rehabilitation of the storm water
drinage network in the timber storage yard. These works were also completed in July 1991 and
amounted to FCFA 78,985,930.
1V.2.2.3 Constrction of a Rail Connection in the Trmber Storage Yard
The development of the above mentioned yards required the installation of a rail
connecton. This operation was entrusted to the Ngie nadonae des chemba defer du Cameroun
for an amount of FCFA 48,363,224 and was implemented from December 1990 to March 1991.
JV.2.2.4 olfumin iQn.ofthe Timb§ ,&tor  Yard
Sufficient illumination of the newly developed parks was a prerequisite for efficient
operation. The erectdon of lighting poles, again by Scemar Ports, took place from January to
May 1991 at a cost of FCFA 59,527,955.
IV.3  P aUe  ofEquipments
IV.3.1 Frul Handling Equpme
A high prformance (127.5 t/h) fruit handling system, with a variable confrgaration, was
installed by CNPA at quay 12 of the new multipurpose terminal according to specifications drawn
by CNPA and the main users. SCOA was the contractor and works were executed frm October
1987 to October 1988. The total cost was FCFA 439,520,100. At the time of the provisional
acceptance of this facility, in October 1988, it was realized that some additional equipment was
needed to keep up with the evolution of banana shipping technology. Thus, a complementary
order was placed with SCOA for FCFA 29,850,000.
IV.3.2 Serlng Tugboai
In 1985, CNPA acquired a 2,000 hp seafaring tugboat, with a towing capability of 30 t,
from Ateliers et chaers de la Manche, at a cost of FCFA 890,000,000.



- 20 -
IV.3.3 Navgoaonal Aids
After a first tender was declared unsuccessfil in 1986, CNPA finally contracted BCEOM,
in September 1989, for the procurement of a radiolocation system and of an automatic system
for the procesing of hydrographic survey data. These systems cost FCFA 436,547,720 and were
inslled in July 1990.
IV.4   FaNa      intformation System
IV.4.1 Study of the System
In November 1982, CNPA contracted with Tractionel (Belgium) for the study of its
Management Information System at a cost of FCFA 27,670,000, and with a six-month deadline.
This consulting fim fell behind in its work and its reporting was inadequate. CNPA had to
intervene on several occasions to allow the study to progress. As it became obvious in March
1984-when only 35% of the services were provided after 20 months-that Tractionel was not
capable to carry the study to a successful conclusion, CNPA called on Mr. Chollet, from
ACTIM, to complete the study. Tne contract with Traction-I was cancelled in August 1984 and
Mr. Chollet took over from March to July 1984.
IV.4.2 Software Study and Procurement
These services were contracted with the IOCS-AI consulting firm in September 1988,
with a February 1990 deadline. However, after six months, in March 1989, CNPA had to draw
the attention of the consultant on the fact that the work was already one month behind schedule.
In October 1989, in spite of various reminders from CNPA, the delay increased to four months,
and at the end of the allotted time the first phase of the work was not yet completed, and the
project was practicaly at a standstill.
To revive the contract, three months ater the deadline, CNPA had lo agree to the
purchase of the software as proposed by IOCS-Al. In August 1990, CNPA agreed agai,
folowing a suggestion by the consultant, to sub-contract to SBA the supply of the finance and
accounting application software, as well as the personnel management application program.
From August 1990 to April 1991, the sub-contractor intventions were hindered by
administrive constrais related to the demand for an advance payment. IOCS-AI, going
through financial difficulties, finly accepted that a direct payment procedure be adopted, and
the SBA services could start in April 1991. IOCS-AI's persistent failure led to the canellation
of its contract in May 199I, and CNPA, finally, contracted directly with SBA in July 1992, with
a target completion date of February 1993.
The total cost of these studies was FCFA 180.452.000.
IV.4.3. Procuremem of the MIS Hardware
To install its Management Information System, CNPA purchased, in January 1986, a Bull
DPS 7 main fame computer for FCFA 148,514,461. A little later, when this computer was
operational, it was observed that it was very sensitive and very costly to operate and maintain



- 21 -
This is why the CNPA purchased a new unit, a Bull DPS 7000, better performing, better adapted
to the environment, and cheaper. Indeed, the total outlay (including the appropriate training) of
this new unit was FCFA 103,607,000.
IV.5  Consulting sevces
IV.S.1 Stuies
IV.5.1.1 Port Ass Studies
In order to optinize the utilization of the limited depth access channel, taking into account
traffic projections, fleet evolution and dredging expenses, CNPA entrusted the acces studies to
a group of consultants-Port autonome de Rouen (dredging), Laboratoire central d'hydraulique
de France (physical model), Svazek (mathematical model), and OCCR-Inter G (economic
model)-at a total cost of FCFA 481,289,500. Started in February 1985, the studies were
oompleted in July 1987. Their conclusions enabled to detemnnine the optimal and most econmical
depth of the channel and to define the improvements to implement.
IV.5.1.2 Port_SectorStudv
In order to coordinate the development of port facilities in Cameroon and to establish a
master plan for such a development, a port sector study was carried out from July 1984 to
February 1986 by the consulting firm Louis Berger, at a cost of FCFA 48 million. This study
was executed in parallel with the national transport master plan.
IV.S.1.3 Staff Adminsrti,on. E3valuaion and Motivation Study
This study, aiming at the establishment within CNPA, of a system for planning,
evaluaing, and motivating the personnel, was carried out from November 1984 to July 1989.
The total amount of the contract, awarded to SIFOR, was FCFA 144 million, i.e. FCFA 108 mil-
lion for the basic contract and FCFA 36 million for subsequently ordered additional studies.
IV.5.1.4 Improvm    of Information Trafer and Soa
SODI was awarded this study in October 1983. It was completed in March 1990 at a
totl cost of FCFA 121 million, including FCFA 44 million of additional services.
IV.5.2 Works Supervision
IV.5.2.1 Construction of the immrn s Terminal
Supervision of this component was contracted with the Group OCCR-Inter 0 - Port
Autonome du Havre for a final amount of FCFA 225,000,500, including:
e     Initial contract          FCFA 86,087,500
*     Amendment No. 1           FCFA 116,245,000
*     Price adjustment          FCFA 22,668,000



-22 -
The works were carded out from June 1983 to April 1987, i.e. during 46 months instead
of 25 months as anticipated. Amendment No. 1 was justified by the additional works resulting
of the unexpected site incident.
IV.5.2.2 MdProcurement
These services were provided, in two stages (from December 1982 to November 1983
and from October 1984 to October 1986), by SOERNI at a total cost of FCFA 24,210,000.
IV.5.2.3 Frui Handig Eaili
Supervision of this installation was made by SOERNI, from October 1987 to February
1990 at a total cost of FCFA 10,498,500.
IV.5.2.4 Radiolocaton So=t
Implementation of the radiolocation system was supervised by ERAAM, from August
1988 to July 1991, for an amount of FCFA 10,210,200.
IV.5.2.5 Tariff Std
When the access study was completed, it appred that an appropriate tariff study, in
relation with the considered investment, was necessary. Such a study was awarded by CNPA to
OCCR-Inter G. It was carried out at a cost of FCFA 33,800,000, from November 1988 to June
1991. Ihe new tariffs were introduced by CNPA in February 1991.
IV.S.2.6 Technical IJ WtiOgn of Berthi g Faciliti
In order to have a more accurate idea of the condition of the quays in the harbor complex
of Douala-BonabEri, an appraisal was requested. This survey was carried out by the German
Consultant Dr. Lackner and Partners from April to November 1991 and costed
FCFA 46,015,000.
V.   Df
By and large, the project progressed rather well, in spite of a few difficulties encountered
in dtr  areas: technical, administrative and financial.
V.1   Tecial difficmtes
During implementation of the most important component of the Douala m project, i.e.
the construction of the .iultipurpose terminal, a few technical difficulties were experienced:
a)    Quay Conmrcon
Problems resulting of siltation behind the sheet pile walls; and



-23 -
e     Problem of the excessive displaements of the two walls under the
second phase backfill (68 cm for the anchor piles and 40 cm for the main
wall), in June 1984.
b)    Warehouse Construon
e     Foundations problem during the warehouse construction, caused, among
others, by heterogeneous soils.
Ihese difficulties explain why the construction of the multipurpose terminal took 46
months instead of the 24 months anticipated and why additional works, amounting to
FCFA 372 million, were unavoidable. A second amendment, related to the additional works
undertaken following the excessive displacements of the sheet p:'e walls, is being finalized. It
reflects the agreement, reached in March 1992, with the Group of contractors to eventually sette
the dispute for the amount of FCFA 135 million, as proposed by CNPA since 1986.
V.2   Adnitatve diffculties
Most contrats amounting to more than FCFA S0 million were delayed as the result of
slowness of administrative procedures. This slowness was mainly observed in our relations with
the World Bank (approval of bidding documents, contract awards and execution, changes in
procedures, etc.) and with the Cameroonian Government (contract signing, customs procedures,
etc.).
In geneal, Dousla m has suffered from the numerous changes of professionals who
were in charge at the 1BRD, some of whom had very little knowledge of the project. This has
resulted In procedure changes (for restrucration studies) and in calling into question already
made decisions (for urgent rehabilitation works).
V.3   Thmandal diffilties
Although the World Bank has always regularly disbursed its share of the amounts due for
works and services under the Douala m project, it has not always been the same for the Republic
of Cameroon, notably in the area of civil works. Indeed, CNPA had to intervene for the
payment of the additional civil works, and this contributed to worsen its already tense treasury
situation. Moreover, the one-sided loan closing in October 1991 left the CNPA with some
FCFA 200 million of additional financial charges.
VI.   F     cial Performace
The global cost of operations under the Douala m project was FCFA 10,102,043,605.
This amount was financed as follows:
*     World Bank                FCFA 7,174,690,801
*     Republic of Cameroon      FCFA 1,910,832,929
o     CNPA                      FCFA 1,016,519,875



- 24 -
The Cameroonianr Government has already paid FCFA 1,329,746,669, or 69% of its
share. On October 16, 1991, date of the loan closing, the World Bank had disbursed
US$20,679,261.34 of the US$22,500,000 of the Loan 2259-CM, or 92% of the available credit.
llmpact of te Fluctuations in Exchange Rats
By and large, the evolution of the rate of exchange of the US Dollar during the loan
period had very expensive repercussions for CNPA. Indeed, the adoption, in July 1980, of the
currencies pool system, which accentuates exchange rate differences, had significant impact on
the very stasible fluctaton cycle of the US Dollar exchange rates as the loan disbursements
were generally made in various currencies (FF, US$, Yen, DM, SF and FCFA).
With reference to the rate of exchange on the day of the Loan Agreement signature
(US$1 = FCFA 429.48), CNPA has only benefitted of exchange gains during the mid-1984 to
mid-1985 period, when the Dollar rate was higher. Unfortunately, CNPA had not much to
disburse under the project during this period.
However, before and after this period, i.e. during more than six years, the DoUar had
a lower value (its exchange rate being inferior to that on the date of the signature) and CNPA
lost, in relative value, the expected financial potential of a loan in U.S. currencies. Thus, it has
been very unftunate for CNPA that most of the Douala m operations took place during these
years.
If a similar analysis is carried out with reference to the average rate of exchange during
the project (US$1 = FCFA 346.95), it is quicldy realized that since the beginning of 1984 and
until mid-1985 the exchange gains have been substantial. But during the following period, CNPA
has consistendy suffered losses with each World Bank funds' disbursement. As the U.S. Dollar
was weakeing, CNPA's handicap was increasing.
As far as the half-yearly reimbursements of the Loan are concerned, which started on
November 15, 1988, their burden is largely felt, in spite of the substantial exchange gains
generated by the continued devaluation of the Dollar. The amortization of the loan is actually
about US$1,000,000 every six months (instead of the anticipated US$750,000). The interest
charges, aveaging US$650,000, are also overwhelming. This means that CNPA has to pay half-
yearly to the IBRD some US$1,650,000, which is a substantia amount for the Republic of
Cameroon which is going through a grave economic crisis.
hmpact of Intwest Rates
The above comments demonstrate that the interest rates charged by the IBRD in the
framework of port projects are not adapted to thbis type of investment.
Cost Effeelive-s
rie rate of return Qf the Douala m project had been computed on the basis of an anmnal
7.5 million tons traffic during the 1988-1990 period. This objective was never reached. In fact,
the annual traflec has dramatically decreased, since 1985, and is now stagnating around
3.7 million tons.



- 25 '
On the other hand, there have been positive impacts resulting from the accompanying
studies which wer felt since 1990. Indeed, a sensible improvement of the port management has
been observed as well as a sensible reduction of the casb difficulties.
As far as port operations are concerned, the well adapted new facilities have benefitted
the port users and have contributed to an increase of the port performance.



ANNEXES



mtm Iu IH
1- mini  im mwnunw
_ - O    It              _               A .1111 .tL                    tOtlaL DaRT u30 (63l ru C_alI  (3 I
uZ MSIU*I  W    t1  St U I    1                             3 CUT   (MAI FC        WII    W          wIT   I(At    D  Fit(        Ml        .I                     eneAtlUS
o1    TOlin  Elm  1 . I' 13l6s1It- -0n0   ---I                                 b.O/1A0D/89-          1n.0.0          5.114.411.JU    3.22.80.393   I.,10.1321                I        k          e
3de IS/SIlu       W .Ul, u1*11      41.12g.11A         N  i  IUU0/                                                                                             6N,.11.4U2 IdA
3t *S                                Rh. Prix             69.523.329                                                                           I si put 1ItU
llasestalios Rie  Lt.l'0180M           IO                   9.046.566          .                    .                 .64.565        5.11O.238        .             3.38.331         bI1f
3ilfi/tMIs .   LC 1' 284/NiI    RZ,                        34.162.415          .                                   44.062.411      26.326.351                       16.6116            *.
his   &iectritue IC 1  u28/gum                             6.50..00            .                                                                                     3.141...0         .'
a2          o            UTUUT w12  U.?1AOlfloWs IU lSUl       516.451.I11     AI.II51/0/fl-N        iS:.sti.26        .66?.291.500     HUMUS                           241.a01.445
=    -M uIS SOS- i-044/lINo                                               do 3/061
a)  pd     MIIDICU&   .,r0111/9/i0 Sl                          564.351.9101     AV.1156111AOI6I1-10   1 S.1.0          641. 31M          WHI.M.806                       M A1.036.506       . 
a AIS 3Bl 3l1113         08/020                                            de 13103190
;    kliate Pu fit U.I  4113111M           SCURA 61.621.95.                                                             S9.S21.95S      31.502.612          .            2.025.343         -*.
I .    s Pare & his     is 15101191
0S    oiS   fetid.      IC riiM/uuic    aIm                     41.363.tU4                                              41..1C.2U 4      H.4A.II .                       11.A4.313
-   S   I   A   I                     .      5.364.656.115                         1.30.2     14      6.648.45.01     0.30.525         3..I.M2.35W  L12  54A. I.M 34.1aJ   S1.6



r n   1i             u 111II
ui-                        (rint    ICaKnnuwlu
E     N MMCII It                    ItAUF INITIAL                                        M T TOTAL   PMi? Slll
t       SlIuTiso    UTB $I s3t1 tlg   tUmSIs               n CONMUt (Fd          SIIUIEtS       301"Vt3  (to KV11 D: UUJIt(VCVl (l  oCil           AtT OIUC in  oil           OSitios
0 t  utisilas spi-  .1  4G0140111-S                           439.510.100    IC 11151HNlOPC
mat due u   - de sCof/                   Wu                              d   /SM                10.30.000       46S93 0.IOS     If.ts31.380       51.030.111 
lushes lFuits .
Is   huuihie D t U.15141/C14-85 n111s  ? cNN-                    N.e.I                                   .             0.000.000     50.000.00
qit               b U10911J4        flilS    u K II.                                                                                                                             stidE
en
5)   id. &Is  awig- *~IO3/M/flO    ICUI435.541.1108                                                  436.541.110     431.141.110                                      saiff
lies Isp       A-.do I31I9IS)
T5f O    I  *.                                 1.100.01.00                            21.N0.0         I.ns.gI1.m    I.144tu.I.              s51.10.111



III-         M            INA IIw;uimwI
_ 3' W~ L-u                        1i                       .Wt InnII                        .t                              uwe.
.*   .M,   3n i-slu IlT                                    3I 6C113? tSIfl.   man                MM ( Ma11111  TO TAL PUM ?CAl 3133                                                                  1 §
01. aceuitlea lti-  .1' ZtlStIt
id1 Isfeteatlqee dX qi*iiu             Iu&   .          148.514.461                                           148,1.4.4ll      l48.14.461               O                   . 11
U    Isidriel soppi- d.1- 3618 MINIM
watain            Eu 2Z1114  N"                 1 04       l.0-0.00            .                              103.601.0SQ      103.01.N0                G          ter. ptit BIRD eltn qil
3   Kod  e1 acqoise- l.5' 30IINIOPC   IOCS-AICI                10.S0.0                                              MAM.             114.31.60          36.8.400        lttch  1EC At em risihatiom
tim, de# logi-    do $1/09in                                                                                                                                       ?teatiu  pemrliai  pr
3    lIed4 ae Plea     Le 11 ofiHimC  niAbo                   231.00.080           Clow                              21.610.006       2t.00              5.53.0         krchl tractieowl iaterr ei
Iafemtiqole       do 0011112                                                                                                                                           lltude schrde par cmo
.  . 
-~  ~ ~   ,           ;                                  16O.ULGSI                                             4t.2a.UIl    48II.SIa              41.624.6



*   .           ,          *          1  -   a s  et~~~~~UV  p ig Ml UInul"
.~~~~~~~~i-                                                                 .unursu
. *   N  IlUAtON      333613            Etil  IUIIAL                                           Wil  tOA    P?l13
02   Ittiae pt gdti- 1  I1          1       131. 0                                     w)/O             00 f1. n4                                                                weld
witiew in peotso
0    sa! . "l.ioin.-   Cs i, III/mm                0C U1.00S00                   .1 3    IOIIJ         3.800.0"       12t.00.000      $2.410.040          21.510.400
lion It cousi-    toii 0ml.                                               do N,in 2123
t~Job  e is liDOtU
II..                                                   I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CE11 341010/11pC  35.bOO.OS
enill ZisW  ^  IIIISIX                                  1thIIIIS
* 64   11t65 iS SKIRP  10   310(C *11' U N         33t031        4SAO.40.U                                              46.000.000    53.I20.000           14.608.000               -
po:Maire (Aaslf- do 23101/11
sotlU It Kohl         O8lA^lZl
05   3t.4. * des As      L 81'1501145 COC, M. WU              411.31.S00        Os I*l de 141111      1.M0.000        4113.20.5     132.061.111         141.111.135
lie  1/11/O33                                                 6
N    heel. U   ldu tstat Ui  rl3301N/l'   OCR, lABig  WI .03110. .000                -                   -1.2.000                      1.612.5001.5
p(Eulde is,  ceSl in 6/0316



1*   mSIGIIu" Ilt 5?    uitr &ts    3      1 Iu11"hl                                        inpT m     a MA      PAW  B1D
p   s    ulsoanu    BARs a siOAuun  1uag1    1111135   Do COiut (WAF)   LIRMP                i?A3? Its  eRIAl Do uso     CAttru  (a  MAI         Fla  M   (ci VeAI)           oniShtloI
0 1   hod  Isifaire  ik 3- 3I3I0001
.o 4Jul5Iou              1CR            z33.880.00                               3..800.000    23.122.000                        10.41.001                        k
0    asistsce toobui I.e m' O1t 3C    som03                       4.100.00     Lv. *-1 de 311111        5.100.000       12.000.000      6.00.000          6.11.e000
Pe keergosar    do 0I113112                          .10
n    epnvisi. rweet k. s  I106/mlO
quar              de 3011.2113         1 1                 11.210.001                                 -.210.110                    1.3.30            3.411.100
10     lati ss da  ko.    4381O14wC  Prf.b,.UCMII
vtges d'aouta- do 11/00/Il           SW tP1111O             46.015.415           .s.415.415    2I.10.6t18                                           I4.tM.gt          L01C a paji ls toteliti dcc
go                                                                                                                                                                    pmutitb a      fait da   la cti
tLoe d fitt a133 I* 131101s1
kstbpltrie de    k  11' II/NIO/lC    C.C. 00IIS           26.111.310            .                                29.115.21D     20.613.36          9.2C6.334                   dSli
kth               do 26101105
It   Sw isiIs   lsi- ki a  31SCIOluC p        3131               8.811.500    UI I1 do 15131K          1.651.000       10.498.100      1.34321t9         3.121.535 S  
" ut hotes-   de Ol l0Ill
tien  dci f tis..
13   Suorwisies tMdLe k  11* 3ONlOI"PCc    138                   1.6S1.030      IC 1- 000895           3.515.30        10.210.2H0      1.045.038         3.16$.162                     o
poitiommae        do IlIt/0l                                               de 2t10110



- 32 -
XX~~-
.-~ E-  .    ,
'"~~~~~ ~~~ '-  9 .



- 33 -
PROJE? PORTOATRE DOUALA IXI
v _DR SYNTUMY
Montant                      Part
total (FCFA) Part-BIRD     Etat Cameroun  Part ONPC
(en FCFA)     (en FCFA)      (en FCFA)
I. GENIE
CIVIL     6.648.452.879 4-188.525.314 1.910.832.929    549.094.636
II.EQUIP.    1.795.917.820 1.744.287.109      _              51.630.711
ET FOURN.
III.PLAN
INFORMAT.      460.243.461   418.619.061       _             41.621.000
IV.CONSUL-
TANTS     1.197.429.445   823.259.317       _            374.170.128
TOTAL       10.102.043.605 7.174.690.801 1.910.832.929  1.016.519.815
-.   eAPIYULAYII PR$T BIJD £ 21SB-CN?
Montant Pr6t  ...........    22.500.000 dollars U.S.A
Paiement effectif BIRD au 16/10/91   20.679.261,34    -"-
Solde Prit ..........                  1.820.138,66    -"-
soit environ 525s5b millions WCFA
TAUX  CONSOMMATION CREDIT : 92X



- 34 -
PART IMI. SrATISTICAL ENFORMATION
1.  RELATD BANK LOANS AND/OR CREDITS
Credit Title:       Credit 229-CM (US$1.5 M) - Ihat Douala Port Projec
Purpose:            Construction of an industrial quay and improved log handling facilities.
Definition of a long-term development strategy. Institutional and fiancial
improvements.
Year of approval:    1971
Stats:              Completed with a two-year delay. Removed serious bottlenecks in porn
capacity. Istitonal and financial improvements obtained, but still
below original objectives.
Loan/Credit Title:    Loan 1321-CM, Credit 657-CM  (US$25.0 M) - Second Douala Port
Project
Purpose:            Consucion of a fishing port and a ship repair facility, a new log port,
two container berths and one Ro-Ro berth, and channel dredging.
Year of approval:    1976
Status:             Completed in 1983 with a two-year delay, due to delays in execution of
dredging.
In addition, the Bank Group financed four railway projects for a total of US$70.5 M; five
highway projects for a total of US$213.0 M, and one Technical Cooperation Project for
US$4.5 M.



-35 -
2.  PRQJCT TIMETABLE
__em .        Dat_    J  Ist ReiWsion    2nd RevWion          Acta
____ _Al _   Mardh 1981      June 1981
Idendficaton                                                   November 1978 h/
preparation                                                    November 1980
Appaip l            July 1980    April 1981                    April 1981
Loan Negotiation    Apri 1981                   April 1982     February 1983 c/
Board Approval                                  January 1983    March 10, 1983
IAan Siguatre                    Janusry 1982    March 1982    September 1S,1983
LoA  EffectiveneWs                                             December 22, 19834d
Loan Ciong                      June 30, 1989   June 30, 1989   June 31, 19914d
Loan Completion                                                 ctober31, 1991t/
a/    PTom the Project Brief issued August 17, 1979.
bl    There was no updated Project Brief between August 1979 and March 1981, beore appraisal.
The March 1981 Project Brief was based on information collected during a preparation
mission, November 1980. This mission, inter alia, reviewed a consultant study which aided
the project definition.
cl    The long twenty two-month delay between appraisa and negotations originated in: (a) the
delay by Government to agree on basic project scope and conditions as defined in the Issues
Paper; (b) the need for an economic and financial study of procurement of a tugboat (not
ready at apprais); and (c) the slow elaboration of tender docuent.
dl    See para. 5.02 on delays on implementation.
e/    Completion of disbusements on expenses committed before June 30, 1991.



- 36 -
3.  LOAN DISBURSEMEN1S
Cwnuladve Eadmated and Actual Disbursmnts
(US$ M)
Is S --    -   =                                              =; -  - =  
Fkcal Year             1984  198S   1986   1987   1988   1989  1990  1991  1992
Appasa Esimat.         4.9   9.7   13.6   18.2   21.8  22.5    -         -
Acaeal                 3.2   5.6    8.4   10.6   12.1  13.1   17.3  20.6  20.7
Actud as X of Estimate  64.8  57.7   61.2   S8.2   SS.5  5S8.2   76.9  91.5  91.6
, ~  ~        ~       ~       ~-                                   



- 37 -
4. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION 1/
Indicatr 1    Cvil wors: Construction of 600 m of   Civil woik completed with one year
margina berths, one ventilated ware-  delay. In addition, some paving of aprons
house and access roads.              and storage areas were completed under
the project.
Indicator 2    Poroement: Procurement of fruit     Procuremnt of fruit conveyor was com-
conveyors, of one tugboat, and elec-  pleted two yeama after schedule. Original
tronic positioning equipment.       equipment proved ill adapted and addi-
tional equipment was needed. Tugboat
procuted on schede. Electronic position-
ing equipment procured in 1991.
Indicator 3    Data procesn sstems, technical      Implementation still in progress at closure
assistance, studies, procurement of  of Loan account.
equipmet and software.                                                    l
Inicator 4           a       Development Plan:     Plan implemented quite rapidly at begin-
Reinforcemet of ONPC's Civil Wors,  ning of project execution.
Access Channel, Human resources,
Fiance, Economics, Data procesing
and Copoa   Planning Departments.
IndicatorS       anal Acion Plan: ceiling on       Except for the 5-year investment an
receivables, elimination of bank over-   financing plan, objectives have not been
drafts, limitation of staff salary inces-   reached.
es, woring ratio covenant. 5-year
invesmnt plan to be put in place.
11/    No indicator of prect execution was defined at the time of appraisal. Therefore, there was no
monitoring trough indicators during supervision. It is possible however, to establish the main objectives
of different pasts of the project and to traslt them into broad indiators of implemenation, through the
appisal rept (which was done).



- 38 -
5. PROJECT COSTS AND FiNANCING
A. Proect Costs
US$ Million Equivalent
APPRAISAL ESTIMATES Li             ACTUAL 
Item                    r            -       -             
Local     Forei    Tota    Local    orcig     Total
costs  I Exchage           Costs   Exchange
civil wos                    4.90      8.40   13.30    7.16      12.21     19.37
Cag handingEqiu4pmmt         0.10      0.80    0.90    0.17       1.41      1.58
Tugboat                                3.00    3.00     -         2.16      2.16
Elecruonic Poiion System               0.50    0.50     -         1.62      1.62
Buoyag_   __                           0.20    0.20     -         -       0.00 b/
Data processing Equipennt              0.80    0.80               0.74      0.74
Cnsbultans               _0.70         1.60    2.30    1.00       2.21      3.21
Technical Asdisance for      0.20      0.80    1.00    0.04       0.17      0.21
Data -                                   ___
Baseline Costs               5.90     16.10   22.00    8.37      20.52     28.89
Physial Contingen            0.70      1.80    2.50     -         -         -
Price Comtinencies           3.90      4.40    8.30     -         -         -
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS        10.50     22.30   32.80    8.37      20.52    28.89
Front-end Fee                          0.20    0.20     -         0.17      0.17
GRAND TOrAL                      22.50   33.00    8.37      20.69    29.06
a/    From Table in Page 17 of Appraisal Report
bl    Cancelled



- 39 -
B. Project Flbmadng
(US$ M)
Cateory                 I      Pl a          I        mi
A. LOAN 2259-CM
(1) Civil wor Pat A (a), (b), (c)                 6,170,000           12,199,594
(1) Civil Work Part A (d)                         2,230,000    _
(2) Equimen Part B (a)                             800,000             1,411,944
(3) Equipme Part B (I)                            3,000,000            2,163,291
(4) Equipmeat Part B (c)                           500,000             1,614,929
(5) Equipmnt Part B (d)                            200,000
(6) EqWpment Pat C (b)                             800,000              738,699
(7) (a) Conutan' swimcec art C (a)(i)               80,000                5,094
(7) (b) Cosutat' Services Pat C 2(aXii)            720,000              166,100
(8) Consutaft seices for Parts A, B, D and E      1,500,000            2,212,125
(9) Fron and Fee                                   167,494              167,494
(10) Unallocated                                  6,332,506 C
B. DOMESTIC
ONPC                                          10,500,000           8,375,639
TOTAL                 _                          33,000,000           29,054,910



- 40 -
6.   PROJECr RESULTS
A. Economic Impact
1. Traffce at Douala Port. 19831990
(in 000a tons)
1983                1984                 198S                1986
Project.  Actuat    Project.  Actuat   Project. Actual    Project. Actual
IMPORTS
Petroleun Products                    911      771        1000      709       1103      741        1191      737
Other butk 1/                         894      750        1010      816       1122      922        1130      850
Gendral Cargo                        1600     1313        17S9     1474       1941     1753       2255      1592
TOTAL         3405     2834        3769     2999       4166     3416        4576     3179
EXPORTS
Ticber 2/                             548      39?        565       443        582      497         599      456
Alumin1um                              57       62         58        58         59       61          54       59
Agricultural Produces 3/              370      330        363       404        404      346         413      362
Others  4/                            231       98         266       95        243      101         231      157
TOTAL         1206      887        1252     1000       1288     1005        1317     1034
eRAND TOTAL                          4611     3721 .     5021      3999       5454     4421       5893      4213
of which, General Cargo 5/          2500      2193       2680      2276       2890     2S58       3240      2256
Actual In X of projections                    80.7X                79.6o               81.12                71.52
COTAINERS
000's of boxes                        n.s       72        n.o        86       1184      101        n.a       102
Tonnage of Cargo                      n.e      71?        n.a       764        n.a      922        1230      912
G.C. Containerization Rate          33.0X     32.7X     36.0X      33.6X     41.0X     36.02     44.0%      40.4X
1987                1988                 1989                1990
Project. Actuat    Project.  Actual    Project. Actual    Project. Actual
tFPORTS
Petroleum Products                   1286      648        1389      626       1550      600        1600      s73
Other bulk 1/                        1265      757        1406      681       1562     n.a.        1635      n,a
0eneral Cargo                        2472     1298       2705      1237       2958     n.a.       3334       n.a
TOTAL         5023     2703        5500     2544       6070     2409        6569     2462
EXPORTS
Timber  2/                            61?      451        634       475        650      553        670       n.a
Aluminium                              52       48          50       69         S0       64         46       n.a
Agricultural Produces 3/              424      342        434       384        445      451        456       n.e
Others  4/                            259      137        267       145        274      105         285      n.a
TOTAL         1352      978        1385     1073       1419      1173       1457     1328
GRANOD TOTAL                         6375     3681 0     6885      3617       7489     3S82       8026      3790
of which, General Cargo 5/          3490      2096       3750      2130       4000     2090 5/    4250       n.e
Actual In 2 of projections                    57.72                52.5X               47.82                47.2X
CONTAINERS
000 s of boxes                        n.a       92        n.a        84        n.e       88         300       86
Tonnage of Cargo                      n.s      780        n.m       733        n.e      734       3100       816
G.C. Containeritatifn Rate          47.02     37.22     50.02      34.42     52.02     35.12     55.02       n.a



-41-
SOURCES: Yes 1983 and 1984: Analyse des acivlts maitmes de l 'Office Naiuond des Ports
du Cameroun, 1984 (Douala, ONPC, 1985). Years 1985 and 1989: Eud de diagnostic et
prop ksio  de restructuration des entreprises du secteur martme du Comeroun, (Port Autonome
du Hamre, France, Feb 1991). Yers 1986 to 1988: Rappor tnnuel, ONPC,1988 (Douala,
ONPC, 1989). 1990: Journcl de la Marine Mardande (Pais 1991). Nuwuber of continers from
1986 to 1989 was taken from Rapport d'acalvds, tennan conteneurs Ro-Ro, (Syndicat des
Acconiers, ITS, Douala, 1990).
a/    includes mainly clinker, grais, alumina.
bl    About 80% logs, 20% sawn timber.
c/    Coffee, cocoa, bananas, cotton, rubber.
d/    Includes agricult   produces such as cotton seeds, vegetable oil, skins, oil cak, tobacco,
cocoa cake, etc..
e/    For consistency with appraisal report, general cargo ir ludes 50% of logs from 1984
onwards, considered as containerizable.



- 42 -
2. Economkc Rate of Return
1/ COSTSs ACTUAL . BENEFITS: APPRAISAL ASSUMPTION
Year     costs       Costs      Costs    Reefer General Bananas  BenSfits   TOTAL
Investment Maintenance   Total     Time   Cargo              Total   Cash Flow
1984      -4480                   -4480                                        -4480
1985       3360                   -3360                                        -3360
1986       4480                  -4480                                         -4480
¶987      -3090                  -3090                                         -3090
t988      -2100       -600       -2100     263    2131                 2394    -306
1989      -1400       -600       -2000    546    4635    800           5981     3981
1990                  -600        -600    546    8632    800           9978    9378
1991                  -600        -600    515    10495      800       11810    11210
992                   .600         -600    515    10495    800        11810    11210
-993                  -900        -900     515    10495    800        11810    10910
1994                  -900        -900    515    10495    800         11810    10910
1995                  -900        -900    515    10495      800       11810    10910
1996                  -900        -900    515    1049S      800       11810   10910
1997                  -900        -900     515    10495   8g0         11810   10910
998                   .900        -900    515    10495      800       11810   10910
1999                  -900        -900    515    10495    800         11810   10910
2000                  -900        -900    515    10495    800         11810    10910
2001                  -900         -900    515    10495    800        11810    10910
2002                  -900        -900     515    10495    800        11810    10910
2003                  -900        -900    515    10495    800         11810    10910
2004                  -900        -900     515    10495    800        11810    10910
200!                   -900       -900     515    10495    800        11810    10910
2006                   -900       -900     515    10495    800        11810    10910
2007                  -900        -900     515    10495    80O         11810   10910
2008                  -900        -900     515    10495    800        11810    10910
2009                   900         -900    515   .10495    800        11810    10910
0.3   29.027



- 43 -
2g. Economic RAte of Retn (continued)
2/ COST8: ACTUAL . BENEFITS: O SENEFItS FROM GENERAL CARGO
Year      Costs       Costs       Costs     Reefer  General Bananas                 TOTAL
Investment Maintenance   Total       Time    Cargo                       Cash Flow
1984       -4480                   .4480                                      0    -4480
1985       -3360                   -3360                                      0    -3360
1986        4480                   -4480                                     0    -4480
1987       -3090                   -3090                                      0    -3090
1988       -2100        -600       -2700     263                           263    -2437
1989       .1400        -600       -2000     546               J00         1346     -654
1990                   -600         -600     546               800        1346       746
991                     -600        -600     51S               800         1315      715
-992                    -600        -600     515               800         1315      715
-993                   -900         *900     515               800         1315      415
1994                   -900         -900     515               800        1315       415
1995                   -900         -900     515               800        1315       415
1996                   -900         -900     515               800        1315       415
1997                    -900        -900     515               800         1315      415
1998                   -900         -900     515               800        1315       415
1999                   -900         -900     515               800        1315       415
2000                    -900        -900     51S               800         1315      415
2001                    -900        -900     515               800         1315      415
2002                    -900        -900     515               800         1315      415
2003                   -900         -900     515               800         1315      415
2004                   -900         -900     515               800         1315      415
2005                    -900        -900     515               800         1315      415
2006                   -900         -900     515               800         1315      415
2007                   -900         -900     515               8oo         1315      415
2008                    -900        -900     515               800         135       415
2009                    -900        -900     515               800         1315      415
0    -4.97f



- 44 -
2 . Economic_Rate of Retlurn (continued)
3I COSTS: ACTUAL . BENEFITS: 10X BENEFITS FROSt GENERAL CARGO
Year     Costs       Costs     Costs    Reefer General Bananas               TOTAL
Investment Maintenance  Total     lime   Cargo                     Cash Ftow
1984      -4480                 -4480                                  0    -4480
1985      -3360                 -3360                                  0   -3360
1986      -4480                 -4480                                  0   -4480
l1        -3090                 -3090                                  0   -3090
1988      -2100       -600      -2700    263   213.1               476.1  -2223.9
1989      -1400       *600      *2000    546   463.5    800        1809.5  -190.5
1990                  -600       -600    546   863.2    800       2209.2  1609.2
1991                  -600       -600    515  1049.5    800       2364.5  1764.5
1W2                   -900       -900    515  1049.5    800       2364.5  1464.5
1993                  -900       -900    515  1049.5    800       2364.5  1464.5
1994                 -900        -900    515  1049.5    800       2364.5  1464.5
1995                 -900        -900    515  1049.5    800       2364.5  1464.5
1996                 -900        -900    515  1049.5    80rf      2364.5  1464.5
1997                 -900        -900    515  1049.5    800       2364.5  1464.5
1998                  -900       -900    51S  1049.5    800        2364.5  1464.5
1999                  -900       -900    515  1049.5    800       2364.5  1464.5
2000                  -900       -900    515  1049.5    800        2364.5  1464.5
2001                  -900       -900    515  1049.5    800        2364.5  1464.5
2002                  -900       -900    515  1049.5    800        2364.5  1464.5
2003                  -900       -900    515  1049.5    800        2364.5  1464.5
2004                  -900       -900    515  1049.5    800        2364.5  1464.5
2005                  -900       -900    515  1049.5    800        2364.5  1464.5
2006                  -900       -900    515  1049.5    800        2364.5  1464.5
2007                 -900        -900    515  1049.5    800        2364.5  1464.5
2008                 -900        -900    515  1049.5    800        2364.5  1464.5
2009                 -900        -900    515  1049.5    800        2364.5  1464.5
0    4.02%



- 45 -
2. Ecopomic Rate of Return (continued)
4/   COSTS: ACTUAL . BENEFITS: 20X BENEFITS FROM GENERAL CARGO AND 5 YEAR DELAY IN BENEFIT
Year      Costs       Costs       Costs     Reefer  General Bananas                 TOTAL
Investment Maintenance   Total       Time    Cargo                       Cash Flow
1984       -4480                   -4480                                      0    -4480
1985       -3360                   -3360                                      0    -3360
1986       -4480                   -4480                                      0    -4480
1987       -3090                   -3090                                      0    -3090
1988       -2100        -600       -2700     263       426                  689    -2011
1989       -1400        -600       -2000     546       926     800        2272       272
1990                    -600        -600     546       173     800         1519      919
1991                    -600        -600     515       210     800        1525       925
1992                    -600        -600     515       210     800        1525       925
*943                    -900        -900     515      1726     800        3041      2141
1994                    -900        -900     515      2098     800        3413      2513
1995                    -900        -900     515      2098     800        3413      2513
1996                    -900        -900     515      2098     800        3413      2513
1997                    -900        -900     515      2098     800        3413      2513
1998                    -900        -900     515      2098     800        3413      2513
1999                    -900        -900     515      2098     800        3413      2513
2000                    -900        -900     515      2098     800        3413      2513
2001                    -900        -900      515     2098     800        3413      2513
2002                    -900        -900     515      2098     800        3413      2513
2003                    -900        -900     515      2098     800        3413      2513
2004                    -900        -900     515      2098     800        3413      2513
2005                    -900        -900     515      2098     800        3413      2513
2006                    -900        -900     515      2098     800        3413      2513
2007                    -900        -900     515      2098     800        3413      2513
2008                    -900        -900     515      2098     800         3413     2513
2009                    -900        -900     515      2098     800        3413      2513
0.05     7.22Z



-46 -
B. Finandal Impact
1.               _ a m
1.    The Revenue and Expense Accounts and the Balance Sheets summarized here are taken from
ONPC's audited accounts. They have been formatted to coincide with Tables 7.8 and 7.9 of Annex
4 of the appraisal report.
2.    ONPC's financial rates of return on fixed assets differ from Bank and ONPC's computation,
because the basis for calculation differs. While the appraisal report computes the rate of return on
the basis of the operating revenue (after depreciation but before interest charges), the ONPC
computes it on the basis of the net result (including non-operating revenue and expenses, written back
of provisions and depreciation, capital gains on sales of assets, etc., but not including interest
charges). Tbis gives much more favorable figures, as illustrated below:
Year         Bank         ONPC
1984          n.a.         1.5%
1985         0.2%          1.2%
1986         0.0%          1.0%
1987         -7.5%        - 5.5%
1988         -2.9%         4.6%
1989         -0.2%         2.2%
1990         -8.6%         7.0%
3.   In FY 1990, following project completion, financial accounts show massive depreciation
allowances and provisions and, conversely, massive written back of provisions and depreciation.
These are not eWlained in the financial or in the audit report. They distort both rates of retum (Bank
and ONPC's). Without these, the rate of return computed under Bank practice would have been about
flat, and under ONPC's, some 2.5%. These rates are below the 4.5% rate covenanted in Section 5.04
(a) of the Loan Agreement.
4.    ONPC enters large amouns of bad debts into provisions, which reflect the liquidity crisis in
the public and private sector in Cameroon. For example, since 1984, Government has been unable
to pay CFAF 1.0 bin (US$4.0 M). Tbe Chamber of Commerce, which is bankrupt, left a debt of
CFAF 450 M (some US$2.0 M). Provisions for bad debts and unpaid checks have been as indicated
below during recent years. The figures in the first column are the gross amount of receivables. The
second is that of provisions for bad debts. A review of accounts shows that large amounts are, in fact,
wrten off, since the recovery of such debts is low. In its amnual financial report for FY 90, ONPC's
management proposed to write off bad debts for an additional amount of CFAF 2.6 bln (US$
equivalent 10.0 M).
Year  Rweclvables  Provisions %
(CFAF M)
1985  6.28         0.88   14.0
1986  7.55         1.07   14.2
1987  6.83         1.30   19.4
1988  6.44         1.43   22.2
1989  8.12         2.0   25.6
1990  9.06         2.84   31.3



- 47 -
S.    According to the Fioancial Action Plan covenanted under Section 4.01 of the Loan
Agreement, commercial receivables should have been limited to two months of revemne. Z/ From
FY 1985 to 1990, they increased from some 4.1 to 6.2 months of operational revenue.
Commercal  In months
Year  Rlevables  of revenue
(CFAFP 
1985  2.31         2.29
19f6  3.14         3.00
1937  4.59         4.15
19,18  3.02        3.09
1981  5.63         5.31
1990  4.07         3.80
Improvements in 1988 and 1990 are only apparent. They are due to massive provisioning of bad
debts, a de facto write-off.
6.    Bank overdrafts should not have been incurred starting from December 31, 1983. In fct,
overdrafts amounted from CFAF 2.3 to 4.3 M over the project period, as indicated in the following
table.
Bank Overdrafts at end of FY
1984   1985   1986   1987   1988   1989   1990
2,320  3,120  3,785  4,262  4,129  3,016  2,757
7.    The share of personnel expenses in total operaing expenses before depreciation (not
covenanted, but of interest as a financial indicator) increased over all project years, except 1990,
which saw a sharp decline as compared to the trend since 1985. Efforts to limit total costs were at
the expense of maintnance, while staffing continued to take the lion's share, despite efforts by
management to cut cost, especially regarding perks and other benefit. In its 1990 Financia Report,
ONPC management considered personnel expenses 'under control". At best, they have stabilized as
a percentage of revenue.
Year Operati  Operating Personnel % of  % of
Expenses Revenue Expenses Exp.  Rev.
1985 8,517    12,752   3,271    38.4  25.6
1986 9,503    13,266   4,256    44.7  32.8
1987 9,303    11,981   4,629    49.8  38.6
1988 8,164    12,731   4,755    58.2  37.3
1989 7,280    12,855   4,444    61.0  34.5
1990 7,905    12,858   4,426    56.0  34.4
8.    By the end of FY 90, ONPC had invested CFAF 997 M (some US$3.7 M) (CNIC, Grands
Moulins, Societe d'Exploitation du Parc A Bois, etc.) from which it seems to derive very little
revenue, although the exact figures are not known.
21    What is mea  by revenue (operationa or total) is not indicated in th Plan.



- 48 -
2.. QNPC's Prolected and Actual Revenue and Expese Account WFV 1984-1990)
REVENUE AND EXPENSE ACCOUNT
84          85           86           87             88             89            90
Proj. Act.  Proj. Act.  ProJ. Act.  Proj. Act.  Proj.  Act.  Proj.  Act.  Proj.  Act.
Operating Revenue            12.9  13.3  14.8  12.0  17.1  12.7  19.0  13.3   21.3  12.0   23.4  12.7   25.9  12.9
Workifng Expenditure        -6.5  -8.9  -7.4  -8.5  -8.4  -9.5  -9.4  -9.3   -10.5  -8.2  -11.7  -7.3  -13.3  -7.9
Cash aeneration              6.4  4.4   7.4  3.5   8.7  3.2   9.6   4.0    10.8   3.8   11.7   5.4   12.6   5.0
Depreciation                 -3.1  -3.4  -3.6  -3.4  -4.0  -3.2  -4.3  -8.9   -4.8  -5.6   -6.3  -5.5   -5.6  -10.4 1/
Operating Reenu              3.3  1.0   3.8  0.1   4.7  0.0   5.3  -4.9    6.0  -1.8              S.4  -0.1    7.0  -5.4
tnterest                    -1.4  -1.5  -1.9  -1.8  -2.3  -1.8  -2.7  -1.9   -3.2  -1.9   -3.6  -1.5   -3.6  -1.S
Result on oprations          1.9  -0.5   1.9  -1.7   2.4  -1.8    2.6  -6.8    2.8  -3.7          1.8  -1.6    3.4  -6.9
Mon op. Revenme               0.5         0.4  1.4   0.5   1.3   0.5   1.6    0.5    5.3    0.6   2.7    0.6  12.4 1/
Non op. expense             -0.6         -0.6  -0.9  -0.7  -0.8  -0.9  -0.3   -0.8  -0.7   -0.9  -l.2    -1.1  -2.6
Net Result                    1.8  -0.5   1.7  -1.2   2.2  -1.3   2.2  -5.5    2.5    0.9    1.5   -0.1          2.9   2.9
RATIOS:
Working Ratio                 0.5   0.7   0.5  0.7   0.5  0.7   0.5   0.7          O.S   0.7      O.S   0.6    0.5   0.6
Operating Ratio              0.7  0.9   0.7  1.0   0.7  1.0   0.?   1.4            0.7   1.2    0.8   1.0    0.7 *  1.4
tnterest Coverage Ratfo      1.9  1.5   2.3  3.2   2.8  3.1    3.2   3.5          3.7   7.2    4.2   4.2    4.2 * 13.9
I/  Reason for masivo depreciation and massive written back of depreciation and of provfsions in FY 90 are not clear



- 49 -
3 . ONPC's ProSected and Actual Balance Sheets (FY 1984-199O1
SUMMRY BALANCE SHEETS
84         85          86          87            88           89            90
Proj. Act.  Proj. Act.  ProJ. Act.  ProJ. Act.  Proj.  Act.  ProJ.  Act.  ProJ.  Act.
ASSETS
Not Fixed Assets          62.3 n.a.  66.8 49.0  70.6 47.2  73.5  6S.4   76.8  61.4   80.2  62.5   83.6  62.4
Other Assets               4.6         5.2 19.4   6.3 19.7   7.9  21.8    9.5  22.3   10.2  14.6   10.7  16.6
Short term Assets          4.1         4.7  6.5   5.8  6.7   7.4   7.0    9.0   7.0    9.7   8.4   10.2   6.5
of which:
Receivables                2.9         3.2  2.4   3.5  5.7   3.8   6.2    4.1   6.3    4.5  n.a        4.8   6.2
Banks/Cash                 0.1         0.2  1.5   0.8  0.5   1.8   0.3    2.7   0.7    2.8   1.1    2.5   1.1
Total Assets        66.9       72.0 68.4  76.9 66.9  81.4  87.2   86.3  83.7   90.4  85.5   94.5  79.0
LIABtLITIES
Capitat * Retained Earninss 31.9      33.4 34.0  35.5 33.2  37.5  50.9   40.0  54.3   42.5  56.1   43.2  48.7
Long tem Oebt             30.6       34.0 26.9  36.7 24.6  39.0  27.2   41.3  20.4   42.8  19.4   44.0  24.2
short term Liabilities     4.4        4.5  7.5   4.7  9.1   4.9   9.1    S.0   9.0    5.2  10.0    5.3   6.1
of which:
Overdrafts                 0.0         0.0  3.1   0.0  3.8   0.0   4.3    0.0   4.1    0.0   3.0    0.0   2.8
Total Liabilities    66.9  0.0  71.9 68.4  76.9 66.9  81.4  87.2   86.3  83.7   90.5  85.S   94.5  79.0
RATIOS:
current Ratfo              1.1         1.0  1.2   0.8  1.4   0.7   1.3    0.6   1.3    0.5   1.2    0.5   0.9
Debt/Equity Ratio          1.1         1.2  1.0   1.2  1.0   1.2   0.7    1.2   0.S    1.1   0.5    1.1   0.6
Rate of Return            5.30X       5.69X 0.20X  6.66X 0.00X  7.21X -7.49X  7.81X -2.93X  6.732 -0.162  8.352 -8.65V.1
2/ Actualtly, thfs figure is distorted by the massive depreciation allowance of FY 90. The RoR is In fact about ftat



-so-
C. stuales
audies            ~~~PwDose as dfn  at     SANNaz 
1. LAng term             Roview  of present       Study took an early       Data processin  has
devlopmnt plan for       data prcesing sys-        start, but consultant    been improved. Bor-
a cenrl data procossw    tem  Prepafion of a      conact was canceled       rower developed  a
ing system  Sty of       long term  dvelop-        for inadequat  per-      model to follow-up
software  eqremet        ma plan. Evaluation       formance.  Other         cotm    of ox-
for manaement and        of  wftwar  requi-       consuats completd         penses. Presentaton
tecicd opeai             remen  following the      study.                   of  financial  data
review in (1) above.                              improved. A 5 year
rolling investment
pla wa eaborated.
2. M=power pla-          Review of remuner-        Completed                Gave a cleaer picture
nig and peQmel      ation  and  grding                                 of actual ONPC situa-
or-fmizat.M-             system,  personnel                                 tion. Limited impact
motivation and evalu-                             on staff. Followed by
atm, person   ora--                                a restructuring  tdy
nizatn.                                           under Public Enter-
p.iseReformPrgm
financed by Bak
(PAGE).
3. Records office        To develop a com-        Camplete                  Moderncord system
Study                    putizd system  of                                  now in place.
rocords.
4. Futuedeopmet          Long rag planning         Completed. To  be        Identified  different
Of Cmuno   Port          with review of differ-    complemetd by a          options.
Sector.                  eat  locations  for      restructuring study
fitue  pOft deveop-      of Douaa Port to staut
mealt.                   in 1992.
5. Dredging sdy          Techl,  financial         Compltod  (Marh          Permitted  establirh-
and economic evalu-      1985.Septemwr 198-        mnt of a dredging
ation  of  optimum       7).  A   calibration     proram.  ave esti-
channel depth (7.5 to    study of the acces       naut   of economic
9.0 meters).             chanel is to be con-     return of
ducted.                  diffetnnt depths
6.  Navigtion  aid       Identification of opti-   Completed.               Lays  ground  for
study                    me positioning and                                 possible fture project
navigton aid system                               but dredging mniit-
in acoess channel.                                nance of channel is a
mor pressing issue.



- 51 -
7. COMPLANCES WITH LOAN COVENANTS
Compliance with Loan Agreement
_ _As of 2/9191)
_         _A=                            _                                                                 13.  2      vs    ss   tt
Soction 3.02 (a)  ONPC to review Its present data preessing systm     31-Mar-84                     Complied with.
prepare a long-term development plan fot such yem
nd submit such plan to th Sank for approval.
Section 3.02 (b)   ONPC to take all appropriate steps to Implement suoh                             Prtiay complied with.
plan OInuclding the establishment of the central processing
________________  unit Included In Part C Ibl of the Prolect.                                 _    ___
Section 3.02 (a)  A onsultant to continue to be employed to as"it ONPC                              ComvAied with.
In (a).
$ectlon 3.03      Consultant to be employed for the supervision of Parn A  31-Dec-83                Compied with
of the Project and in oerrying out Pans S. D and I of the    014May-84           Compled with.
Prect                                             01May84           .            Compiled with.
________  ____________________________________            30-Jun-84                      CompRiled  with.
Section 3.05 (b)  ONPC to maintain adequate records and procedures to                               Compiled with.
monitor the progress of the Prolect and furnish
Information to the Sank.
Section 4.01       ONPC to implement the financial action plan and the                              Not compil  with.
action plan for organizational development.                                      Actual indicators short
of target.
Section 4.02 fbi   ONPC to furnish to the Sank a detaild maintenance  31-Mar-84     09-Feb-91       Not eompiled with.
dredging plan and to cary out such maintenane In                                 Plan to be updated.
accordance with a plan satidectory to the Bank.
Section 4.05      ONPC to consult with the Sank before finalizing any  31Ma84       09-Feb-Si      tit complid with.
arrngemenm wheeby a third paW  would paricipate in
the Borrowers worshop and ship repair sativities.
Section 4.08      The functions of director of operations to be entrusted to   31Mar84              Complied with.
a
i______________  qualified and experienced professional.                               _
Section 4.07 (a)  Study of the deepening of the Port of Douala channel to    31-De8S  09-Feb-i91    Not compied with
l!   ______  be compiemented.                                        _
Section 4.07 ib)   ONPC to consult the Sank beftore undertking any weok  31-Dec-85   _ S-Feb-SI     Not ompled w     A
related to the deepening of the Port of Douala                                   contrct wih KIW was
channel.                                                                         signed without
consutetion with the
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _   S~~~~~~~~~ian k.
Section 5.01       ONPC to maintain adequate acounting records to reflect                           Complied with.
Its oprtdons end financial condidon.
section 5.02       ONPC s aounts to be audied by Independent auditore    31-Dec-90                  Compiled with.
end ONPC to furish to the Bank financial statements and
audit repors within six mnonths of each fscal year.
Section 5.04 (a)  ONPCs annual raet of retum  not less thn about 4.5% In                            Not complid with.
fisoal year 188311984 and 198411985 and about 5.6% In                            Actwu rate 0.1% In
each subequem fiscl year.                                                        FY88. -7.S% In FY87.
-2.9% In FY88. an
-0.2% In FY88.
Section 5.04 tei  Reevluation of ONPC s fixed ases each Vear.        31-Ju-81                       Comped wh In FY87.
Section 5.04 id)  Revision of the struture of ONPC s tarItfs to rlect the                           Not complied with
fui cost of port setvices.



- 52 -
Sectdon 5.05       ONPC shell not Incur any debt unless Its net revenues                               Complied with. Redo
shall be not tess tn   .8 times the maximum debt                                    was 1.72 in FY87,
service requirements.                                                               1.73 In FY8S and 1.98
in FY89.
Section 6.08 (a)   ONPC to consult with the Bank before committing itself                              Not compleid with. Tho
to any new investment In exeess of CFAF 300.000,000.                               Government signed a
contract with Japan In
1887. on te container
terminal moderniation
project for CFAF 12 ibi.
Section 5.00 (ib   Acquidson of container cranes by ONPC subject to prior                              Proect Is financed by
economic and finanecl Jwtiflcation aceeptable to the                               Japan. The econonIcal
ank.                                                                               lusfication provided
under the feasibility
study updated I,1 1990
Is not acepteable to te
sank. imeentation
of the project I stll
being disoussed.



- 53 -
8. USE OF BANK RESOURCES
A. Staff Inputs
Stage of Project Cycle        Planned l/       Revised ai   Final
Through Appraisal                                           35.9
Appraisa tru                                                48.0
Board Approval
Board Approval
through Effectiveness                                        2.8
Supervision                                                 107.1
TOTAL                                                       203.8
Average input for supervision is 11.2 staff weeks per year.
If Staff inputs were not estimaed in the SAR



*          " t..  -        Q         U
9   '   ''    '       '        EW~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
|1Ll-t~~~~~         -       Rltg4g t



- 55 -
saf          Mont   Number of/ Days    Spoaliz Porfmanonthig Types of
YAM    Pef      fin Field   R   _siW *    SW" pg 
Supervision 2 3/84    4       5        DC,PE,EC    1/1            Delays in
FA                         data processing
plans.
Supervision 3 10/84   4       4        DCPE,EC    2/2             Slippage of
FA                         sheet pile wall
under construction.
Slowdown of tariff
increases and
disappointing
financial results.
Supervision 4 3/85    4       5        DC,PE,EC    2/2            Delays in
FA                         paying contractors.
Poor financial
siuation of ONPC.
Supervision 5 9/85    n.a.    5        PE            2/2          Managerial and
financial situadon
deteriorating.
Supervision 6 5/86    3       8        PE,FA,EC    2/2            Mangeral situation
improving.
Supervision 7 3/87    1       4        PE            2/2          Decline of traffic
and deterioration
of finances.
Supervision 8 11/87   3       7        FA,PE,EC      2/2          Decline in traffic
associated financial
losses.
Supervision 9 2/89    2       10       FA,EC         2/2          Same.
Supervision 10 7189    4      10       TE,FA,EC    2/2            Same. Last
PE(C)                      situation becoming
tight.
Supevision 111/90    3        10       EC,FA,PE(C) 2/2            Poor performance
of Bortower
regarding
dredging. Bank
overdrafts
developing.



- 56 -
Sa  of       MontW/  Nwrber of/ Days     SpiaIsn       P"fo*ano tiag Types of
pm    Ye4  eg        PeM       in Pidld   Remtrr/    tausd  bt       Palmg
Supervision 12 9190    1       8         FA            2/2           Same.
Supervision 13 2/91    2       8         EC,PE         2/2           Same.
PE=Port Engine, FA=Financial Analyst, EC=Economist, DC=Division Chief, TE=Transport
Engineer, (C)=Consultant



M A L I  f   N I G E R     ./              'UDA                   ,-                                      -\AXf C/IAOD,
. Chad                           5 w  pve-Wdh i
VOLTA  '-%f                       C        H A D           5h,W6A"5.p
j  NIGERIA                   >]<                 .o,,>  '55p5 ;,ad___
OHANF? I t                }     /' CENTRAL AFRICAN                                                       ,.N'DJAMENA
>       /bS        <      ~~~~~~~~~~REPUBLIC    ,    rI ' _12                                                                                  \
CAMEROON           X                KILOMETERS 0  20 40 60 80 100 120 140 160
001t  f   UATORIAL                     A                MILES 0   20  40  6b  50   100
GUINEA  I ~~~ONGO~  ZA IRE
A rIAWIC/ 42CEAtV    C ABON  t rJ/4 t
ArLANrIC OC(AW    . AB_N                          N  I G  E R I A               f !
CAMEROON                                                                 -
THIRD DOUALA PORT PROJECT
Project Location
O  Notional capitals                               Ov,,r,.y.
4    Project Location               *  Provincial caipitals                                                   *-..---   -9 -
* Division capitols                                     F
- oads, national           0 Subdivision copitals
Unp .,  roads, national         o District capitals                                                                                             4
---Unpoved roods, provincial           1 Other towns                                 ARoU                                                              dil
--- Unpaved roads, district           *  Airports                             '1              ;
'    Railroads                   -  -Division boundories
'Rivers                                  Provincial boundaries
4   Ports                        --lnternational boundaries
/    a~-sO,i _v'_\ %                                                               s
N I G  E  R  I A                 4                                                          AA j  lt   Nf   (               CENU           A _
C E NT SU
|   :;    ,                                S t  t  :.AX  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A F R I C A N 
itDtAt~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 0U>U                 U / T H-C                                                      R A> \g  EPUBLIC
MuJ   e    l   lxot  ' i \b¢  
1-w)" Os I<  11 bi
0PC.,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a
OCf AN 51 :                C~~~~~~    <   t_e   / N 
EQUATORIAL              EQAORA   GUINE              |                      N         3N O!
GUINE        A A                'N Eto5W
5.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
ItNSULAl _..    wt  .     . ._U--- ^,, , ,    tA._ ..- 



-CAMEROON                                                                                     O
N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
,9t76wv ~~~~~THIRD  DOUALA  PORT  PROJECT
/o,°                         ~~~~~~~DOWNSTREAM PORT E)(TENSION
- 1l- 
I                                       \~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~j ~ ~ -(Ai
J   ~~~~~~~ r~~~~~~~.~~~~~p~~~~~aof~~~% d
/  too b0,00040b,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~tUtl
*    toO  300. LWST~0 m                                         w4m       -!9
~~ttoOg. 50~~~~~~~ Oo~mn



I~~~                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~ _,&*'
IBRD 1619:
= ___ >)WOURI BRIDGE
ed=~~~~~~~~~~~~~~K                                                          's'  X
_'  -     1'             '  A         ad       "'':E--R -1
Ofl  Tronsit Suds~~       /            Alcc. 
r W 000 at/#\
Roads~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a
u. .  S   m   Lim                                      , ilst                                      a    



