Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 3803-CM
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CAMEROON
THIRD DOUALA PORT PROJECT
March 10, 1983
West Africa Projects Department
Transportation Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit  =  CFA franc (CFAF)
US$1           =           CFAF 340
CFAF 1 million =           US$2,941
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
SYSTEM OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES: METRIC
Metric                         US Equivalent
1 meter (m)                =   3.28 feet (ft.)
1 square meter (m2)        -   10.76 square feet (sq.ft.)
1 cubic meter (m3)         =   35.30 cubic feet (cu.ft.)
1 kilometer (km)       2       0.62 mile (mi.)
1 square kilometer (km2)  =   0.39 square mile (sq.mi.)
I hectare (ha)             -   2.47 acres
1 metric ton (t)           =   2,205 pounds (lb.)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BCEOM          -    French Consultants (Bureau Central d'Etudes
pour l'Equipement d'Outre-Mer)
CAMAIR         -    Cameroon Airlines
CAMSHIP        -    Cameroon Shipping Lines SA
CAR            -    Central African Republic
CCCE           -    French Economic Cooperation Agency (Caisse
Centrale de Cooperation Economique)
CCM            -    Cameroonian Procurement Agency (Commission
Centrale des Marches)
CIDA           -    Canadian International Development Agency
CY             -    Calendar Year
DCM            -    Direction Centrale des Marches
dwt            -    Dead Weight Ton
EDP            -    Electronic Data Processing
ERR            -    Economic Rate of Return
FY             -    Fiscal Year
FYB            -    First Year Benefit
GDP            -    Gross Domestic Product
LLWL           -    Lowest Low Water Level
MINE           -    Ministry of Equipment
MINEP          -    Ministry of Economic Affairs and Planning
MOT            -    Ministry of Transport
NPA            -    National Port Authority (Office National des
Ports du Cameroon)
OCB            -    Cameroon Banana Organization (Organisation
Camerounaise de la Banane)
PORTSIM        -    Bank's Port Simulation Model
REGIFERCAM     -    National Railroad Company of Cameroon (Regie
Nationale des Chemin de Fer du Cameroon)
ro/ro          -    Roll-on/roll-off



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CAMEROON
APPRAISAL
THIRD DOUALA PORT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.   INTRODUCTION ...............................................                               1
II.   THE  TRANSPORT  SECTOR .......................................                              2
A.   General ................................................                              2
B.   The Transport Network ..................................                              3
C.   Transport  Policy ........................................                            4
III.   THE  PORT  SUB-SECTOR ........................................                              4
A.   Port Organization ......................................                              4
B.   Staffing  and Training ..................................                             6
C.   Port Management and  Information  System .................                           7
IV.   THE  PORT OF DOUALA .........................................    10
A.   Port  Facilities  and  Operations .........................    10
B.   Traffic -  Past and Present .............................    11
V. INVESTMENT PLAN AND THE PROJECT                                   ..                        13
A.   NPA's  Investment  Plan ..................................    13
B.   Objectives  of  the  Project ..............................    14
C.   Project Description ....................................    15
D.   Cost Estimates .........................................    16
E.   Project  Financing ......................................    18
F.   Project  Implementation .................................    18
G.   Procurement  and Disbursement ...........................    18
H.   Environmental  Impact ...................................    20
VI. ECONOMIC EVALUATION                                       ..                                21
A.   Traffic Analysis and  Projections .......................    21
B.   Project  Benefits .......................................    23
C.   Economic Return and  Sensitivity  Analysis ...............    25
VII. FINANCIAL EVALUATION                                       ..                                26
A.   Past and  Present  Situation .............................    26
B.   Future  Situation .......................................    30
VIII. AGREEMENTS AND  RECOMMENDATIONS .............................    34
This report was prepared by Messrs. A. Covindassamy (Financial Analyst),
H. Hansen (Economist) and E. Vernigora (Engineer) on the basis of an
appraisal mission in March/April 1981 and a brief post-appraisal mission
in May 1982.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (con't.)
ANNEXES
1. Past Bank Group Activities in the Transport Sector
2. The Transport System
3. Existing Port Facilities and Operations at Douala
4. Supporting Tables
T-4.1  Douala Port - Total Import and Export Traffic, CY1969-1980
T-5.1  NPA Five-Year Investment Plan, FY1982-1986
T-5.2  Project Cost Summary
T-6.1  Douala Port - Traffic Forecasts, CY1981-1990
T-6.2  Cost and Benefit Streams for Container and Multi-Purpose
Berths, CY1983-2004
T-6.3  ERR Under Different Assumptions
T-7.1  NPA Consolidated Balance Sheets, FY1975-1982
T-7.2  Douala Port Balance Sheets, FY1975-1982
T-7.3  NPA Consolidated Sources and Applications of Funds,
FY1976-1982
T-7.4  Douala Port Sources and Applications of Funds, FY1975-1982
T-7.5  NPA Consolidated Income Statements, FY1975-1982
T-7.6  Douala Port Income Statements, FY1975-1982
T-7.7  NPA Projected Sources and Applications of Funds,
FY1981-1991
T-7.8  NPA Projected Income Statements, FY1981-1991
T-7.9  NPA Projected Balance Sheets, FY1981-1991
T-7.10 Traffic Statistics for Douala, 1981-1991
5.  Action Plans
CHARTS
C-1 National Port Authority Organization Chart
C-2 Project Execution Timetable
MAP S
IBRD 15995    Third Douala Port Project: Project Location
IBRD 15996R1  Third Douala Port Project: Downstream Port Extension
IBRD 16193    Third Douala Port Project: Upstream Port



CAMEROON
APPRAISAL
THIRD DOUALA PORT PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01     The proposed project would be the Bank Group's third port proj-
ect aimed at:(a) increasing capacity in line with traffic growth;
(b) modernizing facilities; and (c) improving operations and management
at the Port of Douala, the principal port in Cameroon. The basic objec-
tive of the First Douala Port Project (Credit 229-CM),l/ approved in
January 1971, was to increase Douala's handling capacity for industrial
raw materials and logs through the construction of a new deep-water berth
for clinker and other industrial imports; the provision of a shallow
draft quay, related facilities and services for log handling; the acqui-
sition of a small cutter suction dredger and the provision of consultancy
and advisory services. The physical works were completed satisfactorily
in November 1974.
1.02     The Second Douala Port Project (Loan 1321/Credit 657-CM),
approved in August 1976, was based on port master plan studies prepared
by consultants. The basic objective of the Second Port Project was to
provide a quantum jump in port capacity and technology by: (a) the addi-
tion of specialized port facilities for log handling, container and roll-
on/roll-off (ro/ro) vessels and fishing vessels'with related dockyard and
workshops; (b) deepening of the access channel to permit larger vessels
to enter; (c) the improvement of road and rail access to and within the
Port; and (d) the provision of consultant services. This major multi-
faceted project (involving 12 co-financiers) has been successfully
completed, except for the channel deepening which should be completed by
September 1983. In both the first and second projects, the Borrower
complied reasonably well with credit and loan covenants. However, as the
capital dredging has not yet been completed and the new channel
established, NPA has not been able to submit the required maintenance
dredging program. During loan negotiations, NPA should therefore agree
to submit to the Bank by March 31, 1983 such a work program for review.
1.03     The proposed project would continue the Bank Group's assistance
to the Port of Douala. More specifically, the proposed project would
1/ Annex 1 provides a brief description of past Bank Group lending for
transportation projects in Cameroon, including major comments from
Project Performance Audit Reports.



- 2 -
provide one new container berth and two new multi-purpose berths with
related storage and equipment for loading of fruit and handling of other
cargo and replacement of an old inefficient tugboat, equipment and
studies related to port sector, navigation and dredging as well as
hardware and software for data processing and technical assistance to
meet remaining institutional weaknesses. It would focus on the main
inadequacies in port infrastructure and equipment and the main weaknesses
in port organization and management to enable the Port of Douala to meet
increasing traffic requirements from expected rapid economic development
of the Cameroon during the 1980s while also serving the landlocked least
developed countries of Chad and CAR. The outstanding inadequacies in
port infrastructure and equipment are two-fold: (a) the poor facility
for handling fruit exports at the old existing berth does not provide any
back-up area for efficient handling and discharging of rail wagons and
trucks or for the temporary storage of the fruit, and the location of the
berth next to the clinker berth also results in unhealthy working condi-
tions for the stevedores and damage to the fruit and reefer vessels!/
from clinker dust; and (b) the inadequate capacities of the existing
tugs, and navigation and channel water depths to handle effectively the
existing traffic requirements and particularly the relatively larger
vessels. With rapidly increasing traffic volumes, the Port will also be
facing a growing capacity constraint for general cargo traffic, including
containerized traffic; the project therefore includes a port sector
study. The foremost remaining organizational and management weaknesses
concern personnel administration and data processing.
II. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. General
2.01      Cameroon, with a population of about 8.4 million, an area of
about 475,000 km2 and per capita GNP of about $670 (1980), is one of the
more dynamic and wealthier countries in West Africa, with substantial
potential for further economic growth. The GDP growth rate increased
from about 4.2% p.a., during the Second Plan period (FY1966-1971) to 4.5%
p.a., during the Third Plan period (FY1972-1976), to an estimated 8.1%
p.a., during the Fourth (FY1977-1981). Rapid expansion in agriculture,
manufacturing and mining, including promising recent gas and petroleum
discoveries and increasing crude oil exports, supported by increased
consumption and investments, contributed substantially to economic
growth.
2.02      During the Second and Third Plan periods the Government gave
high priority to the transport sector to provide a basic infrastructure
for the economy, to interconnect regions, to open up new areas and to
provide the necessary infrastructure for foreign trade. This interval
was followed by a gradual shift in emphasis towards the productive
1/Specialized vessels equipped to handle cargo under temperature
controlled conditions.



- 3 -
sectors (agriculture, manufacturing and mining) and social sectors, with
a reduction in the relative share of transport sector investments. The
share of transport investments envisaged in the Government's investment
plan thus fell from a high 37% realized in the Third Plan period, FY1972-
1976 to 27% for the Fourth Plan period, FY1977-1981 and a planned 21% for
the Fifth Plan period, FY1982-1986.
2.03      With continuing Government priority being given to agriculture
(both for exports and domestic consumption), expected substantial
increases in oil and gas production, and with vast and still largely
unexploited natural resources (particularly agricultural, forestry,
hydroelectric and mineral resources) the outlook for continued economic
growth appears favorable. Economic growth, including expansion in agri-
culture, forestry and mining with related increase in foreign trade will,
however, be dependent, inter alia, on the maintenance, improvement and
expansion of the transport system, including the Port of Douala.
B. The Transport Network
2.04      The transport infrastructure consists of about 65,000 km of
highways or about 0.14 km per km2 (of which about half comprises unclas-
sified earth roads and tracks); 1,153 km of railways; one principal port
at Douala and four minor ports; a main international airport at Douala,
with a second one at Garoua, together with a dozen smaller domestic air-
ports. Chapter III comments more fully on the port sub-sector while
Annex 2 describes briefly the transport infrastructure, including minor
ports.
2.05      Cameroon's transport system is export/import-oriented and
focuses on Douala, the main port (handling about 93% of the country's
important foreign trade) and commercial center (see Maps 15995 and
15996R1). To a large extent, exports and imports through Douala are
shipped via the Douala-Bafoussam corridor and the road/rail Trans-
Cameroon route to Yaounde, Northern Cameroon and the Chad border. Chad
to the northeast relies on the Cameroon transport network and the Port of
Douala for its principal access to the sea and the international markets,
while CAR to the east is finding it increasingly attractive to transport
high-value/low-volume goods via the shorter and faster Cameroonian
transport links, rather than through the trans-equatorial route. Two
important transportation projects, the upgrading of the Douala-Yaounde
Road and the proposed realignment of the remaining sections (Edea-Eseka-
Mbalmayo) of the Trans-Cameroon railway line of REGIFERCAM should further
strengthen the focal point of Douala and facilitate the inland transport
links of the Port. The upgrading of the Douala-Yaounde Road will be
financed in part under the Fifth Highway Project, approved in June 1982.
2.06      The Port of Douala will continue to be the main port of
Cameroon. Studies have recently been completed regarding future port
expansions at Douala once the remaining unused shore area in the Port has
been developed (para. 5.09). Studies are being carried out for a
possible new port in the south (near Kribi) with related inland transport



infrastructure aimed at opening up the southern part of the country to
permit exploitation of the region's natural resources, particularly its
forests. The potential scope and timing of such a project are not yet
clear. There appears now to be a need for an overall review of the port
sector, including existing studies, to define an overall port development
strategy. Such a study will be carried out under the project.
C. Transport Policy
2.07     In view of the Government's limited transport planning and
management capabilities, there have in the past been problems in
designing and executing projects. The Government recognizes this problem
and is, in consultation with the Bank, taking steps to improve the situ-
ation as indicated below.
2.08     The Bank has in recent years assisted the Government in
strengthening the major transport agencies and in developing a systematic
and sound approach to transport planning and project preparation and
design. This process included, inter alia, technical assistance to the
Ministry of Economic Affairs and Planning (MINEP), the Ministry of Trans-
port (MOT), the Ministry of Equipment (MINE) and the National Railroad
Company of Cameroon (REGIFERCAM). In conjunction with the Fifth Highway
Project, the Bank is continuing to assist MOT in transport planning and
MINE for road maintenance, road design and laboratory work.
2.09     The Bank's sectoral objectives continue to be threefold: (a) to
strengthen management and improve operations in the transport sub-
sectors; (b) to provide additional capacity to meet increasing traffic
requirements; and (c) to develop the Government's transport planning
capacity as provided in the Fifth Highway Project. The proposed Third
Port Project focuses on (a) and (b) for the port sub-sector. The Staff
Appraisal Report for the Fifth Highway Project (Report 3473-CM) describes
in more detail the transport network, priorities, planning and policy in
the Cameroon.
III. THE PORT SUB-SECTOR
A. Port Organization
3.01     The National Port Authority (NPA - Chart 1) was established in
1972 in connection with the Bank's First Port Project. It is a finan-
cially and operationally autonomous public corporation for administra-
tion, maintenance and construction of all coastal and river ports, for
the maintenance of navigational aids and for the management of industrial
port activities. In addition to Douala, which is by far the most impor-
tant port, it has the responsibility of three smaller coastal ports,
Kribi, Tiko and Victoria-Pointe Limboh, and a small seasonal river port
at Garoua. NPA's Articles of Agreement, established by law in June 1971
and modified by decrees in April and July 1972, are geared to give NPA
reasonable operational and financial autonomy, situating it under the



- 5 -
tutelage of the MOT. The Government is responsible for approving tariff
changes and for covering NPA's losses, if any. NPA's management and
administration have improved substantially since the establishment of the
Port Authority, and are generally sound.
3.02     NPA's Board of Directors consists of twelve members representing
MINEP (2), the Ministry of Finances (1), MOT (1), the Ministry of Labor
and Social Affairs (1), the Director General of REGIFERCAM (1), the mari-
time professions (2), the Chamber of Commerce (1), plus two members and
the President of the Board appointed by the Presidency of the Republic.
A representative of the union attends the meetings of the Board as an
observer. The President of the Board, the Director General of NPA and
the two Deputies to the Director General are appointed by presidential
decree.
Past Trend and Present Organization
3.03     Changes in NPA's operational structure since 1972 have been
directed toward increased decentralization of responsibilities and toward
the adaptation of NPA to meet the changes in its environment. The
initial changes in 1976 involved reinforcing the Directorate of Technical
Studies with technical assistance as needed, to facilitate implementation
of the large extension to the Douala Port under the Second Port Project.
From 1979 forward, with the near completion of the extension project, the
emphasis shifted to management, operations, and maintenance of the new
port. Recent changes in the organization (FY1979) reflect this new
orientation with the creation of a Directorate of Finances, and a manage-
ment control unit with technical assistance provided by the French
Economic Cooperation Agency (Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique -
CCCE) under the Second Port Project. These two units report directly to
the Director General. For the improvement of port operations, a division
of training was created in 1980 with Canadian technical assistance, also
provided under the Second Port Project. In order to improve port mainte-
nance, the Directorate of Civil Works is at present being reinforced with
technical assistance transferred from the Directorate of Studies where it
was no longer needed following the completion of the major port expansion
under the Second Douala Port Project and the successful strengthening of
the Cameroonian staff. Proposals for continuing the reorganization in
this sector with clear objectives and an action program for improving
productivity and reducing costs are included in the Action Plan for
Organizational Development agreed upon during negotiations (Annex 5).
Prospective Changes
3.04     Although NPA's organization is adapted to its present needs and
is generally adequately manned, some improvements can be made that will
help in meeting its future needs. These organizational improvements
which effect the Directorate of Civil Works, Access and Movement of
Ships, Management of Human Resources, the Directorate of Finance, and the
Department of Economic Studies are included in the Action Plan for
Organizational Development (Annex 5) agreed with NPA during
negotiations. They will be supported by specialized training in the



- 6 -
sectors to be developed and by special recruitment actions for
reinforcing the existing staff. NPA's management is favorable to the
proposed structural changes and has agreed to take the necessary steps.
3.05      NPA's past activities include not only the management of ports
but also ship repair activities. Recent studies conducted by NPA
highlighted inefficiencies in the operation of the marine repair
workshop, resulting in financial losses (about CFAF 150 million in
FY1981). These poor results are due to NPA's inadequate terms of
employment for industrial activities, lack of experience of upper-level
management in industry and inadequate investment and training
policies.   These studies also indicate that marine repair requirements,
which involve 25% of NPA's staff, may increase as a result of the
extension of the CAMSHIP national fleet, expected development of the
fishing fleet, and overall petroleum research activities in Cameroon by
private companies, while the port's internal maintenance activities for
floating crafts are not expected to increase significantly.
3.06      To stimulate ship repair activities in Cameroon, NPA and the
Government are considering creating a separate, semi-public corporation
associating public Cameroonian capital (61%) and foreign private capital
(39%) to take over the marine repair yard. Definition of the exact
organization and technical layout of the new firm is underway. Benefits
expected from the proposed corporation are: (a) a more market-oriented
commercial policy; (b) better management; (c) in a first stage, foreign
technical assistance; and (d) enhancement of the quality of repair
services offered to port users. The proposed separation appears to be
based on sound principles. However, the separation will only be in the
long-run interest of the country and NPA if the new entity becomes
economically viable. During negotiations Government and NPA agreed that
prior to finalizing any commitment with a partner for a new structure of
the workshop and ship repair activities, the commercial perspectives and
investment needs of the new entity will be studied in detail in
consultation with the Bank.
B. Staffing and Training
3.07      NPA's present staff totals 1,267, including 70 at management
level. Staffing has been kept at an almost constant level since 1978,
with a less than 6.5% total increase over the period. There has been,
however, a significant change in staffing structure, as the increase was
mainly in intermediate and higher level staff. NPA's present hiring
policy is based on apparent needs and a case-by-case approach with little
overall manpower planning. The need for better personnel administration
and manpower planning is demonstrated by the concentration of staff
increases in the Directorate of Workshops as well as in the Directorate
of Civil Works, where the activity level has not increased significantly.
In the secondary ports, the number of staff has decreased slightly but
further reductions are needed, mainly in Victoria and Garoua, in view of
their decreasing traffic levels and present overstaffing. As part of the
Action Plan for Organizational Development (Annex 5) agreed upon during



negotiations, NPA will present for comment to the Bank by June 30, 1984 a
five-year manpower plan based on port activity projections. This Action
Plan for Organizational Development also includes the hiring of a Deputy
Director for the management of human resources by December 31, 1983. The
proposed project includes some 18 man-months for consulting services to
improve the structure of the Personnel Administration Department and for
manpower planning.
3.08      NPA's salary adjustment system is basically automatic and does
not provide adequately for individual merit recognition and incentives
through selective salary adjustment. The proposed project includes
10 man-months of technical assistance to recommend improvements to the
remuneration system and the personnel evaluation and grading system and
to assist in implementing agreed improvements. In parallel, NPA has set
up special training sessions on personnel motivation for its professional
staff.
3.09      In the past, NPA relied upon expatriate technical assistance for
highly qualified jobs related to supervision of construction of the new
port under the Second Port Project. Due to the decreasing role of con-
struction supervision in NPA and to the increasing availability of young
Cameroonians, NPA can now gradually reduce foreign technical assistance
by replacing some expatriates with qualified Cameroonians, for repair and
maintenance work. NPA's future technical assistance program will be
discussed annually with the Bank, as part of its manpower plan included
in the Action Plan for Organizational Development (Annex 5).
3.10     NPA's technical training has improved significantly in the past
three years. Under the Second Port Project, CIDA financed the reorgani-
zation of NPA's internal training system which resulted in the organiza-
tion of an adequate locally staffed training unit (with 24 part-time
trainers, a qualified head of the training unit and support staff) and in
the definition of 12 training curricula, to be implemented beginning in
FY1982. In addition to this internal training system, NPA makes use of
outside training for special requirements. Recently NPA prepared a
tentative five-year training plan for outside training, to be revised
annually. Also it will prepare by June 30, 1984 an internal training
plan, as part of the manpower plan (para. 3.07).
C. Port Management and Information System
3.11      NPA's management at the departmental and top levels is being
progressively Africanized whenever qualified Cameroonians are avail-
able. Newly created divisions such as those in charge of Statistics and
Management Control are initially manned by technical assistants with
suitable counterparts. Most managerial staff is well qualified and expe-
rienced, and the quality of NPA's high-level managerial team is certainly
one of its strong points. At the intermediate management level however,
the weakness of financial incentives in NPA's remuneration system and of
career planning has resulted in a rather apathetic attitude. NPA is
aware of this problem and is trying to improve the situation.



- 8 -
Financial Information System, Budgeting and Corporate Planning
3.12     NPA's accounting system is generally satisfactory.  It was suc-
cessfully computerized and produces useful documents for decision-making
at management level. NPA's fixed assets were revalued in 1981, as agreed
under the Second Port Project. The revalued figures will be used for the
calculation of depreciations for cost accounting and proposals for tariff
adjustments. The inclusion of these revalued figures in the general
accounts is still subject to a pending decision of the Ministry of
Finances. During negotiations, the Government and NPA should agree to
present annually to the Bank NPA's financial statements including re-
valued assets in parallel with the financial statements required by
national law. NPA should also agree to the annual up-dating of the
evaluation of fixed assets. Adequate accounts are produced within two
months of the closing date of the fiscal year and audited by a "public
auditor" appointed by the Government. As the auditing procedure of the
"public auditor" does not meet the Bank's standards regarding the audit
of borrower's accounts, NPA agreed under the Second Port Project, to have
its accounts audited by a private auditing firm. In the future, NPA
should continue to submit audited financial statements to the Bank for
review within six months after the end of the fiscal year. This proce-
dure was confirmed at negotiations.
3.13     The ports' budgeting and management control systems have been
modernized under the Second Port Project with technical assistance finan-
ced by the CCCE. With this new budgeting system, NPA produces an ade-
quate annual operating budget and can compare the actual result with the
budgeted figure for each cost and revenue center. A budget review is
organized every month at the Director General's level. The new budgeting
system began functioning in January 1981, and is highly detailed and
complete. However, it needs some simplification for reasons of practi-
cality. The technical assistant who has been appointed to assist NPA in
the implementation of the system will be retained for an additional two
years. NPA has agreed to appoint promptly a qualified counterpart who
can take over at the end of the expatriate's assignment.
3.14     NPA's financial system has grown increasingly complex with the
increases in the volume of operations, with the development of financial
operations in foreign currencies for servicing the debt, and with the
extension of fixed assets. Recent staff reassignments have shown that
intermediate-level staff were insufficiently trained and that there was a
shortage of talents at the upper level. NPA agreed during negotiations
to include in the Action Plan for Organizational Development (Annex 5)
reinforcement of the financial sector through training of the staff, and
by recruiting a qualified Deputy Director of Finances, once a new
Director has been appointed, in consultation with the Bank. A Department
for Corporate Planning will be established and adequately manned, in
charge of preparing and updating annually the five-year revolving plan
for port activities and the financial plan, and in charge of coordinating
preparation of the investment and manpower plans. NPA agreed during



negotiations to include the establishment of this department in the
Action Plan for Organizational Development (Annex 5).
3.15     In contrast, infrastructure investment planning is adequate but
only as a result of consulting services provided under previous Bank
projects. A Division of Economic Studies and Planning, in the Department
of General Studies (Directorate of Studies) was created in 1979, but has
not fulfilled NPA's expectations due to inadequate staffing. This sector
of the Directorate of Studies must be reinforced with qualified local
staff for economic studies. During negotiations, NPA agreed to include
in the Action Plan for Organizational Development (Annex 5) the
recruitment of a suitable candidate for the Division of Economic Studies.
Statistics and Management Information
3.16     Recently, NPA undertook a complete revision of its statistical
system for port operations to enable it to cope with the operational
needs resulting from traffic increases and the need for operation of the
management information system. However, the new system still needs to be
further developed. The statistical system for port operations will be
reviewed and improved following the UNCTAD recommendations for West
African ports under the proposed project that includes technical
assistance for this purpose.
3.17     With NPA's decentralization and the improvement in managerial
techniques, the inadequacy of NPA's communication and information system
is becoming more apparent, despite some recent improvements. The main
problems are: (a) inter-departmental circulation of information and coor-
dination for a task-oriented (non-hierarchical) approach; (b) avail-
ability of basic technical documentation on port operations, accounting,
economics, legal aspects, etc., below the upper management level; and
(c) organization of an adequate records office and documentation center
mainly for civil works, drawings, hydrography and dredging, statistics
and accounting. The proposed project includes 14 man-months of technical
assistance for improving NPA's communication and information system and
for reorganizing its record office and documentation center.
Data Processing
3.18     In the past, data processing for public entities was closely
controlled by the Government. Therefore, NPA's data processing was per-
formed mainly on the computer of the Presidency. With NPA's increasing
requirements in this respect (e.g., statistics on operations, budgeting
and accounting) the constraints and delays caused by the present system
have become serious and prevent further development. The Government has
recently changed its position on data processing policy in public firms,
giving them more independence and accepting their autonomy in this
respect. NPA is therefore considering the acquisition of its own autono-
mous data processing system. This acquisition should be part of the
implementation of a five-year plan to be agreed with the Bank covering
the staged development of the port's data processing system. The
proposed project includes provision for retroactively financing a review



- 10 -
of NPA's present data processing system by a qualified independent
expert. This expert will assess NPA's present situation and its future
needs, and prepare a long-term development plan to be submitted to the
Bank for agreement by September 30, 1983 and to be promptly implemented
thereafter. As a contribution to the implementation of the data
processing plan, the proposed project includes provision for the
procurement of hardware as needed for the implementation of the 1983-1985
portion of the agreed data processing development plan and technical
assistance for software as needed for the transposition and improvement
of the existing data processing system. Disbursement for computer
hardware and technical assistance for software will be subject to the
Bank's agreement on the review of the existing data processing system,
and on the long-term data processing plan.- NPA agreed during
negotiations, as part of the Action Plan for Organizational Development,
to strengthen the upper level staff of the Data Processing Department, to
allow it to cope with the sudden extension of its activities (Annex 5).
IV. THE PORT OF DOUALA
A. Port Facilities and Operations
Port Facilities
4.01     The Port of Douala lies on the Wouri Estuary some 30 km from the
ocean. The entrance channel is being dredged to a depth of 7.5 m over a
length of about 22 km and to 9.5 m at the outer bar. Vessels up to
20,000 dwt will be able to use the Port when the ongoing dredging is
completed except at the bar towards the third quarter of 1983.
4.02     Port facilities are largely on the Douala side of the estuary
and. consist of:
(a)   a fishing port basin and a dockyard with 660 m long mar-
ginal wharfs for fishing vessels and oil exploration
boats;
(b)   along the entrance channel, 2,200 m of marginal wharfs
(nominally fifteen berths) for general cargo, bulk berths
for ALUCAM and CELLUCAM, containers and ro/ro; and
(c)   a log port basin with ramps for rolling logs into the
water and a marginal wharf for loading logs in barges.
Imports of petroleum products are handled at a mid-channel berth, while
petroleum exports are handled in other ports in Cameroon.
4.03     The Port has a storage area of 106 ha, of which 6 ha are covered
and 100 ha are open. Of the open storage, 22.6 ha are used for con-
tainers, 20 ha for logs and the rest for bulk materials and general
cargo. Access to the Port is provided by roads and railway spurs; a
bridge connects Douala to the other side of the estuary at Bonaberi. At



- 11 -
Bonaberi there are two marginal wharfs adjacent to each other; one is
used for unloading cement clinker and gypsum and the other for loading
fruit. Dust from the clinker operation damages the fruit and creates an
unhealthy environment for the stevedores. Under the project this situa-
tion will be rectified through construction of a new marginal wharf on
the Douala side for handling general cargo and fruit which may allow the
vacated berth at Bonaberi to be modified and used for unloading a greater
volume of cement clinker. Annex 3 describes the installations in Douala
Port.
Port Operations
4.04      NPA's functions at Douala Port include inter alia maintenance
dredging of the entrance channel and along wharfs, buoyage and pilotage.
NPA also operates a dockyard, a slipway, two floating docks, an ice plant
and refrigerated storage for fish. General cargo traffic is handled by
five independent stevedoring companies using their own equipment which
they maintain. These companies lease sheds and open storage areas from
NPA. Containers and ro/ro traffic are handled by a consortium of the
five stevedoring companies that collect charges from the users. Log
traffic, currently the second most important cargo in Douala, is handled
by two autonomous companies which are owned in part by NPA. Alumina and
its products are handled by ALUCAM and cement clinker by CIMENCAM; both
companies are partly state-owned. The port has no working restrictions
for nights or holidays. Details on port operations are also described in
Annex 3.
4.05      NPA's port operations in Douala and cargo handling by private
companies appear reasonably efficient when compared to some of the better
managed West African ports; however, improvements need to be effected in
maintenance dredging of the channel and along berths, in buoyage, in
positioning of ships, pilotage, handling of fruit and in customs
clearance procedures. The process of clearing containers has been
slow. As a result of coordinated efforts by the parties concerned, NPA,
customs and shipping agents, the average container storage time was
reduced from about 45 days in 1980 to about 22 days in 1981. The
Government and NPA are, following a recent study tour to European ports,
preparing a plan of action for further reduction in the average container
storage time which will be sent to the Bank for comment.
B. Traffic - Past and Present
4.06      Total foreign traffic through Douala Port increased rapidly
during the 1970s, particularly during the second half of the decade.
Thus, total foreign traffic increased from 1.7 million tons in 1969 to
2.0 million tons in 1975 and 3.3 million tons in 1980 or by average rates
of 3.2% p.a. and 10.9% p.a. respectively (Annex 4, Table 4.1). While the
traffic growth slowed to 5.5% in 1981 to reach 3.5 million tons, this
appears to have been a temporary phenomenon linked with a net decline in
log exports. Preliminary traffic data for 1982 show 8.5% increase over



- 12 -
1981 with imports increasing 11% and exports remaining unchanged due
mainly to difficult log and timber market situation.
4.07      General cargo, including timber, accounted for about 75% of the
traffic in 1969 and 60% of the 1981 tonnage. Bulk traffic handled at
specialized facilities includes imports of petroleum products, clinker,
gypsum, and alumina and exports of aluminum. Certain other minor items
are also partly handled at the bulk facilities.
4.08      The tonnage of general cargo increased only marginally between
1969 and 1975--from 1.2 million to 1.3 million tons. However, in line
with the faster growth in GDP, the general cargo tonnage rose to 2.1
million tons in 1980 or by 10.1% p.a., as compared with a growth rate of
only 1% p.a., during the 1969-1975 period. Imports accounted for about
55% of the total general cargo tonnage in 1980 and exports for 45%.
General cargo imports have been increasing faster than general cargo
exports; between 1975 and 1980 the rates of increase were 13.0% and 7.3%
p.a., respectively.
4.09      As for total traffic, the increase in general cargo suffered a
temporary setback in 1981 as the growth in imports was offset by the
decline in log exports.  Rapid growth resumed in 1982 as the tonnage
carried by general cargo vessels, container vessels and ro/ro vessels
increased by about 17.5% over 1981 to reach 2.4 million tons.
4.10      The figures for general cargo exports include logs (approxi-
mately 40% of the export tonnage).  According to the Societe pour
l'exploitation des Parcs a Bois du Cameroun (SEPBC), approximately 70% of
the logs are loaded from the waterside on board general cargo vessels,
with the remaining 30% being loaded on returning mineral carriers or log
carriers at buoys or at the ro/ro berth. The high percentage of the
shipments on general cargo vessels is related to the organization of
trade with substantial numbers of exporters and importers, which in turn
results in small consignments. Other important exports are sawn timber,
coffee, cotton and cotton oil, and fruit. The more important groups of
general cargo imports are food and beverages, equipment (including iron
and steel) and fertilizers.
4.11      General cargo is handled mostly by conventional break-bulk and
multi-purpose vessels, although cargoes of fruit are carried by specia-
lized reefer vessels loading under unsatisfactory conditions at the old
fruit berth on the Bonaberi side (para. 4.03). The importance of con-
tainer and ro/ro traffic has been increasing rapidly in recent years,
aided by the new container berths and ro/ro facility. In 1980 container-
ized traffic through the Port of Douala reached 411,000 tons in about
35,400 containers, averaging 11.6 tons per container. It rose to 553,000
tons in 1981. Roughly 60% of all cargo handled by ro/ro vessels are
containerized. Approximately 90% of the container traffic is handled at
the specialized container or ro/ro berths, with about 10% handled over
the conventional general cargo berths (berths 3-11). Unlike many other
developing countries, Cameroon's container traffic is fairly evenly
balanced, with 305,000 tons of imports and 248,000 tons of exports in



- 13 -
1981. This traffic pattern may, however, gradually change in the coming
years inasmuch as general cargo imports are expected to grow faster than
general cargo exports.
4.12      The average berth occupancy at the general cargo berths was 75%
in 1980 and 73% in 1981, which is fairly high and the average ship-
waiting time was 18 hours in 1980 according to NPA. As a result of
increased traffic, the berth occupancy of the general cargo berths
increased to an exceedingly high 85% in the first months of 1982, thus
confirming the need for additional capacity. Apart from ships waiting
due to lack of a vacant berth, this estimate also includes waiting by the
larger vessels for high tide.
V. INVESTMENT PLAN AND THE PROJECT
A. NPA's Investment Plan
5.01      The Second Port Project was largely formulated on the basis of
NPA's FY1977-1981 investment plan which laid heavy emphasis on physical
elements geared to capacity expansion. The project provided most of the
essential elements in that plan and also laid the foundations for an
improved management system.
5.02      In view of the higher than anticipated traffic increases, the
final part of this plan had to be accelerated by about one year in order
to satisfy the demand (para. 5.05). Therefore, the rehabilitation of the
old general cargo berths was successfully completed in 1980-1981.
5.03      For FY1982 to 1986, NPA has presented a new investment plan
(Annex 4, Table 5.1) for a total of approximately CFAF 27.0 billion in
constant francs, including replacements. The proposed project represents
about CFAF 7.5 billion from a total of CFAF 21.4 billion for the FY1983-
1985 period. Essential items left out of the project are the oil explor-
ation facilities, to be financed by the Government, and projects subject
to further study, or to be executed on force account by NPA.
5.04      This plan is geared to extending port capacity following the
expected traffic increase, to improving security of access, and to
improving quality of service provided by Douala Port to landlocked
countries.
5.05      Capacity extensions in the plan include: (a) the rehabilitation
of quays 1 and 2, which are specialized for ALUCAM and CELLUCAM,
completed in FY1982; (b) an extension by two berths (included in the
proposed project) which is needed by CY1985 when general traffic is
expected to reach 3.0 million tons; and (c) start of construction of a
third container berth (included in the project subject to reconfirmation
of its justification before start of construction) which is needed by
about CY1988 when the traffic is expected to reach about 3.7 million
tons. In addition, the investment plan includes items for improving the
security of access and movement in the Port, with a stationary dredger



- 14 -
and a buoyage vessel, a logistic base for oil exploration, and the
construction of a new headquarters for NPA, as well as the National
Shipper's Council and the maritime companies. Subsidiarily, it includes
the construction of a storage area for the landlocked countries, part of
a regional project of assistance to these countries.  The other items
replace existing equipment. In addition to the capacity expansions under
(a), (b) and (c) above, further general cargo capacity is likely to be
needed by the early 1990s or when general cargo, including containerized
traffic reaches about 4.3-4.6 million tons. The extent and timing of
such further container or multi-purpose general cargo capacity expansions
will depend on the rate of growth in general cargo traffic, the degree of
containerization and the extent to which further productivity gains are
achieved.
5.06     Most significant items of this plan are economically and techni-
cally justified although the timing of the container crane purchase aimed
at increasing berth capacity and the acquisition of a stationary dredger
have to be studied further. In connection with the container cranes, it
was concluded that the construction of a third container berth would be
more advantageous taking into account the relatively modest investment
cost of such a berth in the case of Douala (para. 6.04) and the fact that
the container and multipurpose vessels presently serving or planned for
West Africa are equipped with their own cranes for container handling.
During loan negotiations NPA agreed not to acquire container cranes
except with justification acceptable to the Bank. Studies for both
maintenance and further deepening the channel from 7.5 m to 9 m, are
included in the project. These studies will include technical, economic
and financial evaluations and will be made available to the Bank by
December 31, 1985. As agreed during negotiations, NPA will present to
the Bank for review by June 30, 1984, as part of its corporate plan
included in the Action Plan for Organizational Development, its
investment and financing plan in two parts: Part A including all items
economically and technically justified, and Part B for items envisaged
but still subject to further studies. NPA will also present annually to
the Bank, for discussion as part of this Action Plan, proposed changes to
the investment and financing plan, over the disbursement period.
B. Objectives of the Project
5.07     The main objectives of the proposed project are:
(a)   to provide additional port capacity to enable the Port of
Douala to handle increasing traffic volumes under improved
conditions, and with reduced ship-waiting and service
time;
(b)   to improve navigational safety and ability to handle with-
out undue delays larger ships by replacing an old, ineffi-
cient tugboat by acquiring electronic positioning
equipment, upgrading buoyage; and



- 15 -
(c)   to improve further NPA's management information system, as
well as its administrative and operating efficiency.
C. Project Description
5.08     The project would comprise the following principal components:
(a)   Civil Works
(i) construction of one 200 m long container berth and
two 200 m long multi-purpose marginal berths, for
handling mixed general cargo and, also at one of
the berths, for loading fruit. The berths will be
of steel sheet piling in 9.5 m water depth, with
cathodic protection;
(ii) construction of an approximately 46 m wide and
146 m long partly ventilated warehouse behind the
first berth, for storage of fruit and general
cargo; and
(iii) construction of access roads and a railway spurl/
on the apron of the first berth to ha-.dle heavy
loads.
(b)   Equipment
(i) mobile conveyors, for storage of fruit in the
ventilated part of the warehouse and for loading
of fruit onto ships;
(ii) a tugboat of 1,700 hp with approximately 25-ton
bollard pull;
(iii) electronic positioning equipment; and
(iv) upgrading of buoyage at the entrance channel.
(c)   Data Processing
(i) technical assistance for data processing planning,
including evaluation of computer requirements
(8 man-months); and for software for management
and technical operations (75 man-months); and
1/ The railway spur will be counter-sunk in the pavement to minimize the
wear of tires on the cargo-handling equipment and improve operations.



- 16 -
(ii) a central processing unit and auxiliary equipment
as defined in the data processing plan under (i)
above.
(d)   Consulting Services
(i) consultants for supervision of construction of
civil works, tugboat, and for reception of fruit-
handling equipment (82 man-months);
(ii)  consultants for establishing a system of staff
evaluation and incentives (10 man-months);
(iii) consultants for staff and manpower planning and
personnel administration (18 man-months);
(iv)  consultants for organizing the records office and
for filing technical, economic and managerial
information (14 man-months);
(v) consultants, for a port sector study (12 man-
months);
(vi)  consultants for a dredging study plus mathematical
model studies (30 man-months); and
(vii) consultants for navigation aid study (17 man-
months).
5.09     The consultants preparing the project considered alternative
solutions for the handling of fruit, including the construction of a new
multi-purpose berth (as recommended by them), the construction of a
specialized fruit berth and the use of existing general cargo berths.
Existing berths could not be used because of congestion and environmental
problems while a specialized fruit terminal was not found to be
economically and financially justified. The only suitable location for a
new berth, as originally proposed, would be somewhere in the existing
600 m long gap along shore, adjacent to berth 11 and between the existing
general cargo berths and the existing container terminal. Subsequently,
in light of recent rapid traffic growth NPA and the Bank agreed to
increase this project to two multi-purpose berths and a container berth.
Construction of the container berth has been included as an option in the
bid documents and in the project. Bank disbursement for this berth will
be subject to confirmation, acceptable to the Bank of its justification
(para. 5.16).
D. Cost Estimates
5.10     The total estimated cost of the project is US$33.0 million
equivalent. The cost estimates for civil works shown below are based on
final designs and unit prices indicated by the consultants for similar



- 17 -
works and the preliminary bid evaluation by NPA/Direction Centrale des
Marches (DCM) received in January 1983. The cost estimates for the other
items are based on information obtained from builders of boats and
equipment, and an estimated 183 man-months for consultants' work and 83
man-months of technical assistance for data processing at US$12,000 per
man-month including per diem, transportation and other reimbursable
items. Estimates are calculated in January 1983 prices and include price
escalation and physical contingencies over the project period. Given the
uncertainty in soil conditions (the area was used for dumping all kinds
of debris), 15% physical contingenciet were assumed for all civil
works. Price contingencies have been calculated for foreign costs at
8.0% in FY1983, 7.5% in FY1984, 7% in FY1985 and 6% in FY1986-1988; for
local costs at 12% annually.
Project Cost Summary 1 /, 2/
(CFAF mil I on)                (US million)           % of
Foreign    % of Total
Local    Foreign     Total    Local  Foreign   Total    Exchange    Base Costs
Civil Works                     1,666      2,856     4,522      4.9      8.4    13.3          63           40
Fruit-Handling Equipment          34         272       306      0.1      0.8      0.9         89            3
TugBoat                           --        1,020     1,020      --      3.0      3.0        100            9
Electronic Position Systems                  170       170       --       .5       .5        100            2
Buoyage                           --          68        68       --       .2       .2        100            1
Data Processing Equipment         --         272       272       --      0.8      0.8        100            2
Consultants                      238         544       782      0.7      1.6      2.3         69            6
Technical Assistance for
Data Processing                 68         272       340      0.2      0.8      1.0         80            3
Total Baseline Costs       2,006       5,474     7,480      5.9    16.1      22.0         73           66
Physical Contingencies         238         612       850      0.7      1.8      2.5         72            7
Price Contingencies          1,326       1,496     2,822      3.9      4.4      8.3         53           26
Total Project Costs        3,570       7,582    11,152     10.5    22.3    32.8           68           99
Front-end fee on
Bank Loan               --           68        68       --      0.2      0.2        100            1
Total Financing Required       3,570       7,650    11,220     10.5    22.5    33.0           68          100
1/ Rate of exchange 340 CFAF = 1.0 US$. Base costs as of
January 1983.
2/ For details see Annex 4, Table 5.2; the cost estimates exclude taxes
(the project will be exempted of taxes and duties).
5.11       Given the complicated soil conditions at the proposed location
of the new berths, it was difficult to estimate project costs reliably.
Furthermore, bid prices were expected to be affected by the existing
workloads of pre-qualified contractors. NPA decided therefore to receive
tenders prior to loan negotiations so that project costs could be
adjusted as necessary; normal physical contingencies have been retained



- 18 -
for civil works to cover possible claims arising from difficulties in
driving the steel sheet piling.
E. Project Financing
5.12      The Bank will finance foreign exchange costs of US$22.5 million
equivalent and NPA will finance local costs of the project of US$10.5
million equivalent.
F. Project Implementation
5.13      NPA will be responsible for overall project implementation in
accordance with the time schedule as shown in Chart 2. NPA will engage
consultants satisfactory to the Bank to supervise construction of civil
works. NPA is preparing, with the assistance of consultants, performance
specifications for construction of a tugboat; the same consultants will
also assist NPA in evaluating the bids for the tugboat and will supervise
its construction. NPA had retained consultants to prepare tender docu-
ments for the fruit-handling equipment and assist in the acceptance of
the equipment. Overall project implementation is expected to take about
five years and is scheduled to be completed by the end of 1988
(Chart 2). NPA will also retain consultants for (a) port sector study;
(b) dredging study; (c) navigational aid study; (d) personnel
administration; (e) staff evaluation; and (f) information systems.
G. Procurement and Disbursement
5.14      All civil works and equipment will be procured under inter-
national competitive bidding procedures following Bank guidelines. The
computer will be procured under international competitive bidding fol-
lowing the performance specifications prepared by the consultants for
electronic data processing (EDP) planning, financed under the proposed
project. Prequalification of contractors for the Douala Port extension
civil works was carried out between July 15 and August 31, 1981 by NPA
and the procurement agency (Commission Centrale des Marches - CCM) and
the results were reviewed and six contractors prequalified. Also, draft
bid documents for the above works incorporating changes recommended by
the Bank have been revised and were distributed to the prequalified con-
tractors July 27, 1982. Bids were received by DCM in October 1982 and
preliminary evaluation completed by them December 1982. According to the
latest program reviewed with NPA in January 1983, the overall project
execution is expected to start after Board presentation (Chart 2). In
the civil works bid documents, the construction of the third berth has
been included as an option. Due to possibilities of additional cost
reductions, DCM/NPA are considering awarding the contract for all three
berths. NPA will appoint qualified consultants to assist with project
implementation. These and other consultants financed by the loan will be
selected on the basis of procedures to be agreed with the Bank and on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.



- 19 -
5.15     The proposed project includes provision of US$100,000 for retro-
active financing of expenditures incurred after July 1, 1982. This
comprises an amount of US$80,000 for the revision of NPA's EDP system and
preparation of a long-term plan for data processing to be completed
before procurement of the hardware equipment and software, as well as
US$20,000 for the preparation by consultants of performance specifi-
cations and bid evaluation for the tugboat.
5.16     The disbursement on the following items will be subject to the
preliminary fulfillment of specific conditions:
(a)   the optional container berth will be subject to confirm-
ation, satisfactory to the Bank, that it remains
economically justified;
(b)   the EDP hardware and technical assistance for software
will be subject to the presentation by NPA of a long-term
EDP plan acceptable to the Bank; and
(c)   the fruit-handling equipment will be subject to assurance
by NPA and the Government, satisfactory to the Bank, that
the equipment will be used for the intended purpose.
5.17     The proposed Bank loan would finance 63% of the total cost of
civil and related works, 100% of tugboat, data processing equipment,
electronic positioning equipment and upgrading of buoyage in the entrance
channel, 89% of fruit-handling equipment, 80% of technical assistance for
data processing and 69% of consultants' services. Disbursements from the
Bank loan will be made on receipt of full documentation.
5.18     While preparing the disbursement schedule, various profiles
including that of the Second Douala Port Project were reviewed. The
normal Bank profiles indicate a disbursement period of about eight years
while the disbursement period for the Second Douala Port Project was five
years. In the case of the Third Douala Port Project, tenders for civil
works have been received. Execution of these works is not expected to be
longer than 30 months. Taking these factors into account, the normal
Bank profiles were compressed to five years (Chart 2). The cost estimate
and the disbursements are based on the following time schedule.



- 20 -
Estimated Disbursement Schedule, FY1982-1988
(US$ millions)
IBRD
Fiscal Year
and Quarter                              Quarter      Cumulative
1983/84, quarter ending
December 30, 1983                           1.5           1.5
March 31, 1984                              1.6           3.1
June 30, 1984                               1.8           4.9
1984/85, quarter ending
September 30, 1984                          1.2           6.1
December 31, 1984                           1.5           7.6
March 31, 1985                              1.5           9.1
June 30, 1985                               0.6           9.7
1985/86 quarter ending
September 30, 1985                          0.7          10.4
December 31, 1985                           0.8          11.2
March 31, 1986                              1.2          12.4
June 30, 1986                               1.2          13.6
1986/87 quarter ending
September 30, 1986                          1.2          14.8
December 31, 1986                           1.2          16.0
March 31, 1987                              1.2          17.2
June 30, 1987                               1.0          18.2
1987/88 quarter ending
September 30, 1987                          1.0          19.2
December 31, 1987                           1.0          20.2
March 31, 1988                              0.8          21.0
June 30, 1988                               0.8          21.8
1988/1989 quarter ending
September 30 1988                           0.7          22.5
H. Environmental Impact
5.19     The proposed project should not have any measurable adverse
effect on the Douala Port region. The transfer of fruit operations from
the Bonaberi side, adjacent to the clinker berth, to the new multi-
purpose berth on the Douala side should greatly improve the working
environment for the stevedores engaged in fruit-loading operations.



- 21 -
VI. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A. Traffic Analysis and Projections
6.01     General cargo traffic at Douala increased at about 10% p.a.
between 1975 and 1980 and totalled about 2 million tons (para. 4.08).
Following a temporary slow-down in 1981, the rapid traffic growth
continued in early 1982 (para. 4.09). The rapid growth in general cargo
traffic, particularly for imports, accompanied substantial growth in the
Cameroon economy. As indicated in para. 2.01, GDP increased by an esti-
mated 8.1% p.a. between FY1977 and FY1981. With continuing Government
priority being given to agriculture and other productive sectors and with
substantial increases in oil and gas production expected, the prospects
for continued economic growth of at least 7% p.a., through the 1980s
appear favorable.
6.02     Traffic projections for the Port of Douala through 1990 were
originally prepared by French Consultants OCCR. Long-term traffic fore-
casts for the Port of Douala and other ports through the year 2000 were
prepared by the Consultants BCEOM and OCCR in late 1980, in conjunction
with a major study of the prospects for a new deep-water port in the
southern part of Cameroon to help open up that part of the country.
Taking into account these studies, NPA prepared traffic forecasts for
Douala by major commodity through 1990, together with separate forecasts
for containerized traffic. These forecasts are reasonable and were, with
certain modifications, used for the economic evaluation. The modifica-
tions involved primarily the use of a somewhat faster rate of growth for
the category "Other Imports" and considerably more conservative forecasts
for certain future exports, particularly for fruit, logs and the category
"Other Exports." The general cargo traffic forecasts are summarized
below and indicated in more detail in Annex 4, Table 6.1.
Port of Douala General Cargo Traffic
Actual and Forecast, CY 1980-1990
('000s tons)
Actual                    Forecasts
1980    1981        1985         1988         1990
General cargo imports        1,164   1,211       2,053        2,705        3,234
General cargo exports          837      781        951        1,044        1,111
Total                  2,001   1,992       3,004        3,749         4,345
These forecasts imply an average annual growth rate between 1980 and 1990
of 11.0% p.a., for imports and 2.9% p.a., for exports, showing an overall
average of 8.1% p.a. These growth rates are considered realistic and
perhaps somewhat conservative. The comparable average annual growth
rates for 1975-1980 were 13.0%, 7.3% and 10.1% p.a., respectively, when
GDP was growing only marginally faster than what is expected during the
1980s. If gas and petroleum revenues were used mainly for increased
purchases of foreign consumer or capital goods, imports would increase
faster than envisaged.



- 22 -
6.03      Some uncertainty exists with regards to the future development
of banana exports: Between 1973 and 1979, exports averaged 70,000 to
80,000 tons, but fell to 64,000 tons in 1980 (Annex 4, Table 4.1) and to
58,000 tons in 1981 due to drought and plant diseases. Inland transport
and the loading facilities have also been problem areas. The Government
is aware that measures need to be taken to revitalize the industry and
has already taken some steps including: (a) a study by French experts to
determine ways to improve inland transportation from banana plantations
to the Douala Port; and (b) the early 1981 management shake-up of the
Cameroon Banana Organization (OCB). Some thought is also being given to
irrigation to improve quality and quantity and reduce seasonal fluc-
tuation in production. Marketing is not considered a constraint due to
the existing marketing arrangements which guarantee the Cameroon a quota
in France at favorable prices. Improvements to the port facilities are,
however, important for any recovery and expansion as assumed by the Con-
sultants and NPA. The Consultants assumed that banana exports would
recover and stabilize at about 80-90,000 tons along with 10-20,000 tons
of pineapples, for a total fruit export volume of about 100,000 tons.
These forecasts are much lower than NPA's latest forecasts. For this
report, a lower, constant banana export figure of 50,000 has been used
together with 20,000 tons of pineapples for a total fruit tonnage of
70,000.
6.04      As indicated in para. 4.11, container and ro/ro traffic have
been increasing rapidly in recent years. For their traffic forecasts and
analysis of general cargo berth utilization and ship-waiting time, the
Consultants projected container and ro/ro traffic through 1990. These
appeared overly conservative to NPA who, based on a commodity-by-
commodity analysis, prepared new forecasts for container traffic through
1985. According to these forecasts, the container volume projected by
the Consultants for 1990 might be achieved as early as 1985. For the
Port Simulation Model (PORTSIM) analysis of the general cargo berth uti-
lization and ship waiting by the Bank, NPA's projected extent of contain-
erization was broadly used and extended to 1990. According to these
forecasts, containerized traffic would increase from about 21% of all
general cargo traffic in 1980 and 27% in 1981, to about 41% in 1985 and
55% in 1990. Without the existing excess capacity of the container
terminal and the expected increase in the share of containerized traffic
in the increasing general cargo traffic, additional general cargo
capacity would have been required earlier and at the rate of about one
new berth per year. The addition of the two multi-purpose berths are
required by CY1985. Depending on the traffic growth, the degree of
containerization, and the improvements in cargo-handling productivity at
the container terminal, the addition of a third container berth will be
needed by about CY1988. As indicated earlier (para. 5.14), NPA therefore
has included in the civil works bid documents an option for construction
of one additional container berth, expected to be completed by 1988. NPA
has also requested its inclusion in the proposed project, subject to
confirmation of its justification on the basis of updated traffic and
productivity data. By avoiding double mobilization and the need for
construction of a return wall, this approach results in lower



- 23 -
construction costs than if tendered separately; the incremental cost of
the container berth, without price contingencies but including physical
contingencies, is about US$4.2 million. The incremental justification
for the third berth is discussed further in para. 6.11. It was assumed
that all full container vessels, part of containerized traffic by multi-
purpose vessels and all ro/ro traffic would be handled at the specialized
container and ro/ro berths, that the two multi-purpose berths would
handle both containerized general cargo, including fruit and that the
remaining traffic would be handled at the existing general cargo
berths. For the economic analysis, traffic volume beyond 1990 was kept
constant as additional port capacity could then be needed.
B. Project Benefits
Container and Multi-purpose Berths and Related Equipment and Services
6.05     The quantified benefits from these items include:
(a)   reduced ship-waiting times for general cargo vessels,
including multi-purpose vessels, as well as full container
vessels due to increased port capacity -- the project item
is not assumed to affect general cargo handling
productivity significantly and no benefits from reduced
general cargo ship service times were therefore
considered;
(b)   reduced ship service times for reefer vessels loading
bananas or pineapples;
(c)   reduced damage to banana cargoes and hence greater returns
to banana exporters as the price for bananas varies with
the quality of the fruit at unloading.
Benefits which have not been quantified include greatly improved working
conditions for dockers loading fruit, avoidance of the extra cost to ship
owners from clinker dust, some reduction in ship waiting of clinker
vessels which may be able to use the vacated banana berth in anticipation
of discharging clinker or for final clean-upl! and supplemental
employment generated during project construction.
6.06     PORTSIM was used for estimating general cargo ship-waiting time
costs as well as reefer service time and ship-waiting costs using an
average daily cost of $9,000 per day for reefer vessels and $8,000 for
general cargo vessels; $9,500 for multi-purpose vessels carrying
substantial quantities of containers and $13,800 for full container
vessels. Reefer vessels could load up to 2,000 tons in 36 hours as
1/ Additional investment would be required by CIMENCAM before the berth
could be used for discharging clinker.



- 24 -
compared with the present loading rates of about 75 hours, La1king into
account a new conveyor loading system and ventilated storage for buffer
stock provided under the project. For general cargo vessels it was
assumed that productivity would continue to improve moderately, from
about 560 tons per vessel day in 1981 to about 650 tons per day in 1985
and 700 tons in 1988. For full container vessels using ships gear the
productivity was assumed to improve from about 2,300 tons per day in 1981
to about 3,000 tons in 1988. These productivity rates are considered
reasonable. The same general cargo productivity figures were used with
and without the project.
6.07      The estimate of potential benefits from reduced damage to fruit
cargoes from the transfer to the new multi-purpose facility with improved
cargo-handling equipment and ventilated storage is based on: (a) an
export volume of 50,000 tons of bananas; (b) average prices on the French
market in 1980 by category based on quality characteristics; and
(c) details of the share of Cameroonian bananas sold in France in 1980 by
category as well as assumptions regarding the possible increase in the
relative share of the higher quality by categories as a result of better
port facilities and less damage to the fruit during waiting and loading.
6.08      For the economic analysis, it has been assumed that all benefits
from reduced reefer service times and costs, as well as the reduced
damage to bananas, and hence higher prices would accrue to Cameroon.
This assumption is reasonable since bananas are sold on a commiission
basis in the importing countries rather than on a f.o.b. basis. Thus,
both the freight costs and the effects of lower banana qualcty and price
are borne by Cameroon. In the case of reduced general cargo ship-waiting
costs, it has been assumed that only 60% of these benefits would accrue
to the Cameroon, resulting from the further assumption that national flag
vessels will carry at least 20% of the general cargo trade with all bene-
fits accruing to Cameroon but that only 50% of the avoided ship-waiting
costs to foreign ship-owners will be recaptured by Cameroon through
avoided surcharges or freight increases and through increased port
charges (para. 7.06). The share would be greater if Cameroonian vessels
carried a greater share, such as the 40% mentioned in the Uni-ted Nations
Convention on a Code of Conduct for Liner Conferences. The resulting cost
and benefit streams are summarized in Annex 4, Table 6.2. The capital
costs include physical contingencies.
New Tug and Navigational Assists
6.09      The Port of Douala has two boats:  (a) one is six years old with
an engine of 1,200 hp but an effective power of only about 850 hp due to
a stability problem; and (b) one twenty-year old vessel with an engine of
950 hp. The second tug is approaching the end of its economic life.
Furthermore, the relatively modest horsepower of the tugs makes for
difficult maneuvering of the larger vessels, taking into account the
currents and wind as well as the relatively restricted turning basin,
particularly for tankers and dry bulk vessels. According to NPA, at
present the tankers and dry bulk vessels lose about 2 hours for
berthing/unberthing due to tug limitations; similar losses occur to about



- 25 -
60% of the general cargo vessels while another 10% may lose up to 12
hours. In addition, about 10% of the vessels lose about one hour waiting
for tugs for shifting. The main quantified benefit from the acquisition
of the new, more powerful (1,700 hp) tug will therefore be reduced ship
waiting and berthing/unberthing times. An additional benefit, which has
not been taken into account in NPA's analysis, is the savings in all or
part of the operating costs of the existing old tug which would be at
least partly replaced by the new tug.
6.10     The electronic positioning equipment and upgrading of existing
buoyage at the entrance channel to Douala will improve navigational
safety as well as dredging efficiency. Due to their small investment
cost and significant benefits, a separate economic evaluation was not
carried out.
C. Economic Return and Sensitivity Analysis
Container and Multi-purpose Berths and Related Equipment and Services
6.11     On the basis of projected general cargo traffic and producti-
vity, the quantified benefits discussed in Section B above, estimated
capital costs (including physical contingencies), maintenance/operating
costs and a 20-year economic life, these project items (representing
about 73% of the project cost) would yield a rate of return of 34% and a
FYB of 22% with a 12% cost of capital. Even if all the benefits related
to avoided damage to fruit and reefer ship waiting and service reductions
were excluded, the project would yield a rate of return of 29% with a FYB
of 17%, which is satisfactory. The incremental FYB for the optional
third berth is 17% in 1988 based on the best assumptions for traffic
growth, degree of containerization and productivity. The incremental
economic rate of return (ERR) for the third berth would be 34%. If
traffic levels were to be 10% lower than forecast or if productivity at
the container terminal were to be 5% higher than foreseen, the FYB for
the optional berth would fall to 7% or 13% in 1988 respectively. Taking
into account the fact that the cost of construction of the berth would be
higher if construction were deferred and carried out separately
(para. 6.04), as well as the satisfactory incremental rate of return for
the berth, it is considered appropriate to include the third berth in the
proposed project. However, in light of the justification's sensitivity
to lower traffic growth and higher productivity, disbursements for this
berth would be subject to confirmation, satisfactory to the Bank, that
the berth remains economically justified.
Tugboat
6.12     The economic analysis prepared by NPA takes into account the
acquisition cost of the new tugboat and its full operating and
maintenance costs on the one hand and the reduced ship waiting and
berthing/unberthing times and costs based on existing conditions on the
other. On this basis the ERR is estimated at 18%. The analysis is
conservative as it does not take into account the savings of at least



- 26 -
part of the operating and maintenance costs of the old tug and the fact
that waiting and berthing/unberthing times and costs without the new tug
would have increased substantially as the old one became less and less
useful and the Port would basically be left with one tug.
Combined
6.13      The ERR for the project as a whole, including the costs and
benefits from the two multi-purpose berths with related equipment and the
tug as well as the costs of data processing, navigational aids and
technical assistance, but without counting any benefits fromn these items
would be 27%, and 24% if the benefits related to frurts are excluded.
These rates of return exclude benefits assumed to accrue to foreign
shipping lines. The sensitivity of the rate of return to more
pessimistic assumptions on key variables were tested. The main results
are indicated in Annex 4, Table 6.3 and are satisfactory. The project is
therefore considered well justified.
VII. FINANCIAL EVALUATION
A. Past and Present Situation
7.01      Since 1976, NPA  has followed the financial policy agreed under
the Second Port Project, whose main characteristic was to significantly
raise cash generation for servicing rising interest on the debts incurred
for financing the port extension. NPA's nominal contribution to invest-
ment was anticipated to decline, because the annual amount of investment
was expected to decrease substantially after the opening of the new
facility in FY1980. However, the actual activity level of the Port has
been somewhat higher than projected and further capacity extensions have
been needed since FY1980. Therefore, NPA's principal problem at present
is to further raise its cash generation for backing its development
plans.
7.02      Tables 7.1-7.6 in Annex 4 show NPA's and Douala Port's balance
sheets, sources and applications of funds, and income statements for
FYs1975-1982.  A summary of the tables follows for FY1976-1982:



- 27 -
Summary of NPA's Financial Statements, FY1976-1982
(in million CFAF)
FY1976    FY1978    FY1980    FY1982
Income Statements
Operating revenue                         2,180      3,584      5,322      8,781
Working expenditures                      1,441      2,267      3,238      4,863
Cash generated from operations              739      1,317      2,084      3,918
Depreciation                                652        814      1,377      2,199
Interest                                      2        151        942      1,369
Net profit (loss)                            71        352       (235)       429
Working ratio                               .66        .63        .61         .55
Debt service
coverage ratio                          -         9.1         2.2       1.87
Balance Sheets
Net fixed assets                          9,639    21,153    39,010    47,384
Equity                                   10,625    12,646    17,236    20,413
Long-term debt                              365      9,502    23,267    25,700
Net working capital                       1,351        995      1,493    (1,271)
Net current assets (excluding cash)         469        614        818       (825)
Cash                                        882        381        675       (446)
Debt equity ratio                          3/97      43/57      57/43      56/44
Rate of return on fixed assets              .7        3.0        2.1        4.0
Sources and Applications of Funds
Applications
Capital investment                        922     9,562    10,283        3,803
Debt service                                2        151      1,067      2,011
Total applications                          924      9,713    11,350       5,814
Sources
Cash generated from operations            739      1,317      2,084      3,870
Grants and subsidies
on investments                            165      1,255      2,373      1,040
Long-term borrowing                       370      8,699      8,163      1,151
Total sources                             1,274    10,166    12,620        6,061
Increase in working capital (dec.)          820        876      1,219        481
Cash increase (decrease)                   (470)      (423)      ( 51)      (234)
7.03     The main change in NPA's situation has been the need, since
FY1976, for a higher cash flow to cover interest on long-term debt which
was close to zero in FY1976 and CFAF 1,369 million in FY1982. This
increase was anticipated as early as 1976 and its actual amount is in
keeping with the projections made under the Second Port Project.
7.04     NPA's cash generation has increased sufficiently in the past to
cover its debt service. It was CFAF 739 million in FY1976 (34% of
revenue) and reached CFAF 3,918 million in 1982 (44% of revenue). The
observed improvement is attributable to productivity gains and to timely
tariff increases.



- 28 -
7.05     Revenue increased by 302% from 1976 to 1982 (26% per annum).
This increase is attributable to traffic increases of 96% (11.9% per
annum) and tariff adjustments of 105% over six years (25% in real terms).
Port revenues are based on the tonnage of merchandise imported and
exported, on the number and size of ships, and on the berth occupancy.
In the past, these statistics showed dissimilar trends: tonnage increased
by about 11.9% per year; average ship size increased moderately from
8,317 tons gross weight in 1976 to 9,245 tons in 1982; ship number
increased slightly from 1,328 to 1,391 during the same period of time,
and berth occupancy was about constant with 3,920 days in FY1976 and
4,256 days in FY1982. The stagnation of berth occupancy and number of
ships is attributable to the 71% increase in average ship load and to the
increase in cargo handling productivity. Therefore, with constant
tariff, NPA's revenue would have increased only on merchandise, while
other categories of revenue would have stagnated. In order to compensate
for these changes in the traffic structure, tariffs were selectively
raised: moderately on merchandise (about +48%) and more significantly
against ship (about +187%).  The price of rentals, which was insufficient
in 1976, has been also increased significantly by about 160%.
7.06     During the 1976-1982 period, NPA's tariff structure has thus
significantly improved. However, it reflects mainly the direct cost of
services, excluding depreciation on all operational assets, interest, and
overhead expenses. During negotiations, NPA has accepted to include in
the Financial Action Plan, a revision of its tariff structure based on
full costs, including depreciation on all operational assets, interest
and a sufficient contribution to overhead expenses.
7.07     Working expenses increased less than revenue (237%, or 22% per
annum), from 1976 to 1982. This increase was reasonable, considering the
72% inflation during the same period and the 96% traffic increase. The
constancy of the total number of staff in combination with the increase
in traffic during the period indicates that staff productivity gains were
substantial, but the most recent indications suggest that these economies
of scale may have come to an end. Therefore, additional efforts have to
be made to control staff numbers and costs. Staff number and cost will
be controlled through: (a) improved manpower planning (para. 3.07); and
(b) modification of the annual salary increase system, so as to replace
the present automatic merit increase by a differentiated increase
depending on individual performance, as evaluated through the personnel
evaluation and grading system to be implemented under the proposed
project (para. 3.08).  NPA has agreed, as part of the Financial Action
Plan, to limit total average salary increases resulting from promotion
and seniority to 3% per annum starting in FY1984. Technical assistance
is provided under the proposed project for these purposes (paras. 3.08
and 3.14).
7.08     As a consequence of the trends in revenue, costs and interest on
long-term debt, NPA's self-financing capacity after debt service payment,
available for investment financing and raising working capital on its own
funds, has moderately improved from CFAF 737 million in FY1976 to



- 29 -
CFAF 1,993 million in FY1982. This increase in nominal terms corresponds
to a stagnation in real value, which was foreseen under the Second Port
Project, as the main NPA investment program was expected to be completed
by FY1979, and therefore no increase in NPA's self-financing capacity in
real terms for FY1979-FY1982 was anticipated by that time. However, as a
result of the recent trends in traffic, and the good prospects for future
developments, NPA accelerated its investment plans. Therefore, NPA's
cash generation must be raised significantly to meet future debt service
and self-financing requirements (para. 7.20).
7.09     NPA's investments in fixed capital for the FY1976-1982 period
amounted to CFAF 47.1 billion and were generally supported by adequate
financial studies. The investments included mainly the second Douala
Port Project, in addition to which NPA spent about CFAF 21 billion for
the rehabilitation of the old port and miscellaneous operations, which
were generally justified, financed mainly from external funds. Over the
FY1976-FY1980 period, NPA's contribution to investment declined from 42%
in 1976 to zero in 1980, while capital investment was increasingly being
financed from the Government's contribution and subsidiarily, from short-
term resources. Since FY1980, NPA has succeeded in raising its
contribution to about 22% in FY 1982. In the future, the recent trend
should be amplified, and the financial autonomy and working capital of
NPA restored (See Financial Action Plan, Annex 5B and paras. 7.22-7.23)
Summary of NPA's
Investment Financing Policy 1976-1980
(cumulative in million CFAF)
Applications
Capital investment                           47,187
Financing
Subsidies and grants                          9,134
Long-term loans                              27,842
NPA's contribution                           10,211
% NPA                                           21%
7.10     Total long-term sources of funds (including NPA's cash genera-
tion, long-term borrowings and subsidies from the Government) were lower
than total long-term applications of funds (including capital investment
and debt service) over the FY1976-FY1982 period (CFAF 48,917 million, as
compared to CFAF 51,363 million) (Annex 4, Table 7.3). Hence, NPA's
working capital decreased alarmingly from CFAF 1,498 million in FY1975 to
minus CFAF 1,271 million in FY1982.
7.11     Moreover, NPA's management of net current assets (excluding
cash) has contributed to worsen its liquidity situation: commercial
receivables increased significantly from CFAF 613 million in FY1976 to
CFAF 2,267 million at the end of FY1982, equivalent to three months of
revenue, despite recent improvement in the billing and collection
system. As part of the Financial Action Plan, NPA has agreed during



- 30 -
negotiations to pursue its efforts and to strengthen the authority of the
operational department--which is in closer contact with the customers--
for charge collection. This move will permit the level of commercial
receivables to be reduced from three months of revenue to two months by
June 30, 1984. This target is included in the Financial Action Plan.
7.12      The combination of increasing commercial receivables and
financing part of the capital investment from short-term resources has
resulted in a very tight cash situation, whereby, as of June 30, 1982,
NPA had a CFAF 446 million overdraft. NPA's future financial policy
should improve this situation (para. 7.22).
B. Future Situation
7.13      In order to determine under which conditions NPA will be in a
position to generate the cash required to finance its long-term invest-
ment plan and restore its cash situation, the financial tables
(Tables 7.7-7.9 in Annex 4) have been prepared in current CFAF. Assump-
tions for future prices and traffic are shown in Annex 4, Table 7.10.
Subsidiary tables have been prepared for the Douala Port alone and are
contained in the project files.
7.14      Determining factors for the future financial situation of NPA
are as follows:
(a)   Traffic will continue to increase rapidly, sustained by
Cameroon's good growth prospects and increasing oil
revenues. A growth rate of 9.3% p.a. for total traffic
(4.2 million tons in 1982 and 5.4 million tons in 1985)
which has been forecast for the FY1982-1985 period
(Annex 4, Tables 6.1 and 7.10), will prove decisive for
expected improvements in NPA's financial situation;
(b)   The most important basic infrastructure capacity
extensions of the Port have been completed under previous
projects. Future investment needs are expected to be
fairly limited (about CFAF 5.4 billion p.a., Annex 4,
Table 5.1). They should however be phased according to
the actual growth in traffic, in order to permit an
improvement in NPA's financial rate of return; and
(c)   NPA's debt service will increase significantly starting in
FY1983, because the grace period on major loans for the
Second Port Project will terminate and because of the
increase in interest rates on future loans. This increase
will put a constraint on NPA's borrowing capacity.



- 31 -
7.15      In view of these factors, NPA's financial policy must aim at:
(a)   raising its cash generation to service its substantial
debt resulting mostly from past investment, and to finance
the necessary increase in its working capital;
(b)   improving the management of its commercial receivables, to
further improve its liquidity; and
(c)   avoiding excessive increase in long-term debts, and conse-
cutive additional debt service, by raising NPA's capital
investment self-financing rate.
Raising Cash Generation
7.16      In order to meet the objectives mentioned above, cash generation
must soar from CFAF 3.9 billion in 1982 to CFAF 7.4 billion in FY1985 and
9.6 billion in FY1987. It will require that revenue growth reaches
68% (18.9% per annum) between FY1982 and FY1985, while working expenses
would only increase by 52% (14.9% per annum). This forecast increase in
cash generation from operations is, however, a continuation of past
performance, and is feasible under projected traffic increase and
acceptable tariff adjustments.
7.17      The 68% increase in revenues between FY1982 and FY1985 will
result from tariff adjustments for about 46%, and from traffic growth for
about 15%. Of the 46% tariff increase, 39% will be due to price
increases, and about 5% to limited tariff increase in real terms.
A 16% tariff increase, equivalent to a 5% increase above inflation, to be
effective in FY1983, is necessary to allow NPA to improve its cash
situation. The principles for future tariff increases was agreed during
negotiations and incorporated in the Financial Action Plan and in the
guarantee Agreement. The 15% increase in revenue due to growth in
traffic corresponds to a high 30% tonnage increase, but is partially
offset by a declining average ship-berthing time (from 3.1 days in FY1982
to about 2.8 days in FY1985) because of productivity increases.
7.18      The significant 52% increase in working expenditure during the
FY1982-FY1985 period is due: (a) for 33% to the effect of anticipated
increases in international prices averaging 9% per annum and in domestic
prices averaging 11% per annum, together with annual salary increases
slightly above inflation; and (b) for 14% to the effect of increasing
port activity on working expenses. However, a reasonable 2.5% annual
staff productivity increase was also taken into account, as a result of
the effort to be undertaken by NPA in this respect.
7.19      The CFAF 6.4 billion cash generation objective for FY1984
(CFAF 8.7 billion for FY1986) corresponds to a working ratio of
approximately .50 from FY1984 onward. Target values of respectively .52
and .50 are included in NPA's Financial Action Plan (Annex 5), as agreed
upon during negotiations. Financial forecasts are summarized below and
detailed in Annex 4, Tables 7.7 to 7.10.



- 32 -
Summary of NPA's Projected Financial Statements
(in CFAF millions)
1982          1984          1986
Income Statements
Operating revenue                        8,781         12,936       17,090
Working expenditures                      4,863         6,515        8,351
Cash Generated from Operations              3,918         6,421         8,739
Depreciation                              2,199         3,135         4,034
Interest                                  1,369         1,537        2,484
Net Result on Operations                      429         1,913         2,404
Working ratio                                 .55           .50           .50
Debt service coverage ratio                  1.87          2.62          2.22
Balance Sheets
Net fixed assets                         47,384        62,845       71,059
Equity                                  20,413        31,915        35,525
Long-term debt                          25,700        30,582         36,664
Net Working Capital
Net current assets
(excluding cash)                         (825)         (366)          374
Cash                                       (446)           18          757
Debt equity ratio                           56/44         51/49         51/49
Rate of return on revalued
fixed assets (%)                            3.7           4.5           4.9
Sources and Applications of Funds
Applications
Capital investment                     3,803        12,997         7,815
Debt service                           2,011         2,441         3,934
Total Applications                    5,814        15,438        11,749
Sources
Cash generated                         3,870         6,309         8,553
Grants and subsidies on capital
investments                            1,040         4,025             30
Long-term borrowing                    1,151         5,571         4,121
Total Sources                         6,061        15,905        12,703
Increase in working capital (dec.)          481           575           446
Cash increase (dec.)                       (234)          (99)          509
Cash balance at end of year                (446)           18           757
7.20     With the investment plan described in Chapter V and in Annex 4,
Table 5.1, NPA will have, after servicing the debt, a rapidly increasing
self-financing capacity amounting to CFAF 1,859 in FY1982, CFAF 3,868
million in FY1984 and CFAF 4,590 million in FY1986. This self-financing
capacity must be used: (a) to increase NPA's share in future investment



- 33 -
financing in order to limit its debt service increase; and (b) to meet
its working capital and cash needs.
Improving Cash Situation and Working Capital
7.21     NPA's net short-term assets, including cash are insufficient,
and even negative, imposing unnecessary budgetary constraints on oper-
ations.  They are expected to increase by CFAF 1,199 million, from
CFAF -825 million in FY1982 to CFAF 374 million in FY1986. NPA will
contribute these CFAF 1,199 million from its self-financing capacity.
NPA has agreed during negotiations to include in the targets of its
Financial Action Plan, the reduction of commercial receivables to two
months of revenue. These measures will permit NPA to wipe out its bank
overdraft by the end of FY1983 and to maintain its cash at a sufficient
level (CFAF 757 million by the end of FY1986). NPA agreed to include in
its Financial Action Plan the elimination of overdrafts by December 31,
1983, except for short periods.
Increasing NPA's Contribution to Capital Investment
7.22     NPA's contribution to future capital investment must be raised
starting in FY1982 in order to limit the increase in NPA's debt service
and to avoid the decrease of its debt service ratio below the 2.0 level
by FY1986. With the projected increase in cash generation and improve-
ment in the management of NPA's working capital, NPA's contribution to
future capital investment can be raised from 26% in FY1982 to 37% from
FY1986 forward. A 17% contribution for FY1984 and a 40% contribution
from NPA to its capital investment by FY1986 were agreed upon during
negotiations and included in NPA's Financial Action Plan (Annex 5).
Financing of Capital Investment, FY1982-FY1986
(in millions of CFAF)
1982          1984          1986
Capital investment
(less force account)                    2,961          11,959          6,559
New borrowing                             1,151           5,571          4,121
Government
contribution                            1,040           4,025              30
NPA's contribution                          770           2,363           2,408
NPA's contribution
% of capital investment                     26%             20%            37%
7.23     In order to prevent NPA's debt service from increasing exces-
sively, NPA agreed during negotiations to present its five-year
investment and financing plan for Bank review (para. 5.06). This invest-
ment plan must include future acquisitions and equipment to be utilized
under leasing agreements. Furthermore, to ensure NPA's financial viabil-
ity, NPA agreed during negotiations not to incur any debt or leasing
commitments, without Bank's agreement, unless its debt service ratio for
the previous fiscal year is greater than 1.8. In addition, NPA will not,



- 34 -
without prior consultation with the Bank, carry out any investment other
than those listed in Part A of the investment plan except with respect to
items not exceeding in the aggregate the equivalent of CFAF 300 million
within a 12-month period.
Rate of Return on Net Fixed Assets and Profitability
7.24     Under the projected traffic increase, the investment plan and
financing policies outlined above, NPA's net result will notably improve
and increase from FY1983 onward. It will reach a satisfactory level of
CFAF 1,809 million in FY1984 and CFAF 2,218 million in FY1986. The
corresponding rate of return on net revalued fixed assets will improve
from a 3.7% value for FY1982 to 4.9% from FY1986. A 4.5% target rate of
return on revalued net fixed assets from FY1983 to FY1985, and 5.5% from
FY1986 onward was agreed upon during negotiations.
VIII. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01     The following agreements were reached during negotiations:
(a)   The Government and NPA agreed:
(i) To consult with the Bank before finalizing any
arrangements whereby a third party would
participate in the ship repair yard activities
(para 3.06);
(ii) That NPA's revalued fixed assets will be
incorporated in a separate set of financial
statements to be presented to the Bank annually,
and that related estimates be updated annually
(para. 3.12); and
(b)   NPA agreed:
(i) To submit to the Bank for review by March 31, 1984
a plan for future maintenance dredging
(para. 1.02);
(ii) To the Action Plan for Organizational Development,
and to implement it in accordance with the agreed
time schedule (paras. 3.03, 3.04, 3.07, 3.14 and
3.15);
(iii) To continue to submit to the Bank audited
financial statements within six months after the
end of each fiscal year (para. 3.12);
(iv) To make available to the Bank by September 30,
1983 for agreement, the results of the review of



- 35 -
the existing data processing system and the long-
term plan for data processing as prepared by the
consultant employed by NPA (para. 3.18);
(v) Not to acquire container cranes except with
justification acceptable to the Bank (para. 5.06).
(vi) To submit to the Bank for comment by December 31,
1985 the report on the dredging study dealing with
maintenance and capital dredging of the Port of
Douala and the entrance channel (para. 5.06);
(vii) To appoint consultants, on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank, for project implement-
ation (paras. 5.13, 5.14);
(viii) To the measures set out in the Financial Plan of
Action and to implement these measures in
accordance with the agreed time schedule
(paras. 7.11, 7.17, 7.21-7.23);
(ix)  Not to incur any financial commitment (borrowing
or leasing) during the project disbursement
period, without the Bank's agreement if its debt
coverage ratio--defined as cash generation divided
by the debt service for the same year--has been
below 1.8 for the preceding fiscal year
(para. 7.23);
(x) Not make investments other than those included in
Part A of the investment plan in excess of
CFAF 300 million within a 12-month period without
prior consultation with the Bank (para. 7.23); and
(xi) To adjust tariffs so that the rate of return on
revalued net fixed assets will be about 4.5% from
FY1983 to FY1985, and 5.5% from FY1986 onward
(para. 7.24).
8.02     As conditions for disbursement of funds for data processing
hardware and software as well as for fruit-handling equipment, NPA agreed
to submit a long-term data processing plan satisfactory to the Bank
(para. 3.18) and the Government and NPA agreed to give the Bank
satisfactory assurances that the fruit-handling equipment will be used
for the intended purpose (para. 5.16). Disbursements of funds for the
third berth will be subject to confirmation, satisfactory to the Bank,
that it remains economically justified (paras. 5.16 and 6.10).
8.03     The proposed project is suitable for a loan to NPA of US$22.5
million equivalent on standard Bank terms.



- 36 -
ANNEX I
Page 1
CAMEROON
THIRD DOUALA PORT PROJECT
Past Bank Group Activities in the Transport Sector
Over the past ten years, the Bank Group has loaned Cameroon
nearly US$259 million for the transport sector: US$70.5 million for
railway projects, US$26.5 million for port projects, and US$150.3 million
for highway construction and maintenance projects, and US$11.0 million
for a feeder road project. The transport sector represents the second
largest share (43%) of the Bank's past commitments in the Cameroon,
closely following the agriculture sector (44%).
First Railway Project (Loan 687-CM, US$5.2 million, 1970)
Track renewal and rehabilitation, new freight cars and spares,
reconstruction of the Japoma Bridge, and consulting services for the
Douala-Yaounde realignment were provided by this loan. Financial
covenants were not met due to overestimates of potential productivity and
traffic volumes, and underestimates of staff costs. The rolling stock,
track and consulting services components were executed satisfactorily.
The bridge reconstruction ran into technical difficulties which had to be
resolved under the Second Railway Project (Loan 1038-CM).
First Highway Project (Loan 663/Credit 80-CM, US$19.9 million, 1970)
The project included construction of the Ngaoundere-Garoua and
the Tiko-Victoria Roads, feasibility studies and final engineering of the
Garoua-Mora and Douala-Kekem Roads. Engineering problems with the drain-
age design resulted in construction delays which led to cost overruns due
to inflation. These were borne by the Government. The Project
Performance Audit Report (No. 1574, April 29, 1977) for the project
concluded that, in addition to reducing delays in project implementation,
the Government should better coordinate transport activities. Improve-
ments are being carried out partially under the Technical Assistance
Project and the Third and Fourth Highway Projects. The transport sector
study to be carried out under the Fifth Highway Project will also be
designed to achieve this objective.
First Douala Port Project (Credit 229-CM, US$1.5 million, 1971)
The project provided for an industrial quay at Bonaberi and
improved log handling facilities at Douala. Operating costs increased
more rapidly than projected and target operating ratios were not met in
addition to a number of other credit covenants. The physical execution
of the project was satisfactorily completed in 1974 with some delays.
The Project Performance Audit Report (No. 1604, May 24, 1977) for the



- 37 -                      ANNEX I
Page 2
project concluded that, despite a two-year delay in the completion of the
works (due in part to Government procedures for prequalifications of
tenderers and contract awards), the project has succeeded in removing
serious bottlenecks in the Cameroon's port capacity. It also concluded
that the project had contributed significantly to the definition of a
long-term port development strategy, including improvements in the
institutions concerned and in the financial situation (even though the
covenanted financial objectives were not fully achieved).
Second Highway Project (Loan 935/Credit 429-CM, US$48 million, 1974)
The project covered the construction of three roads to paved
standards: (a) Pont du Noun (Bafoussam)-Foumban Road (50 km);
(b) Figuil-Mora section (163 km) of the Garoua-Mora Road; and (c) Douala-
Kekem Road, a road maintenance study and technical assistance. The road
maintenance study and reconnaissance study of forest evacuation roads
were completed in May and December 1978, respectively. The roads were
completed satisfactorily by July 1978 with the exception of the Garoua-
Figuil Road (95 km) which the Government agreed to postpone. The cost of
the project doubled due to inflation in 1973/74. A supplementary credit
of US$15.0 million was approved in March 1976 to help alleviate the
burden imposed on the Government by the project's cost overrun.
Second Railway Project (Loan 1038-CM, US$16.0 million, 1974)
Additional rolling stock and equipment, partial financing of the
reconstruction of the Japoma Bridge, track renewal and consulting
services were included under this project. Difficulties at the bridge
site have been resolved but due to recession of the timber market, finan-
cial targets were not met. Exchange depreciation has necessitated sup-
plementary financing for part of the equipment and the consulting
services under thie Third Railway Project.
Third Railway Project (Credit S-4 CM, US$2.3 million, 1976)
The project included a feasibility study and detailed engineer-
ing for the Douala Station and marshalling yard, as well as financing for
part of the equipment and the consulting services from the Second Railway
Project. The feasibility study, detailed engineering for the new
station, and design study for the running shed and maintenance facilities
were completed satisfactorily. Additional technical assistance is needed
to fully implement the consultants' recommendations. This engineering
credit has been refinanced under the Fourth Railway Project. The Project
Performance Audit Report on the Second and Third Railway Projects
(No. 3056, June 30, 1980) concluded that the projects' purpose was
largely achieved but that the re-estimated economic rate of return is 10%
against 13% estimated at appraisal due to shorter useful life of track,
renewal works and lower than expected productivity of rolling stock.
Compliance was met on most of the loan covenants, but the financial
targets were not fully met because of rapidly rising costs and lower than
expected traffic.



- 38 -                     ANNEX I
Page 3
Second Douala Port Project (Loan 1321/Credit 657-CM, US$25.0 million, 1976)
The principal components of the project are: a new fishing port
and ship repair facility upstream from the existing port, a new log port
and two container and one Ro/Ro berths downstream with scope for future
expansion, and channel dredging. Construction was started in December
1976 and completed in 1982. The higher total cost for the project was
covered by financing from NPA and the Government. The loan and the
credit have been fully disbursed. The only remaining work will be to
complete the dredging of the entrance channel. Maintenance dredging will
be quantified only after the channel dredging is finished, and the
channel hydraulics, suspended materials and density currents reach a
state of equilibrium. The level of siltation may be higher than expected
at appraisal which may increase maintenance dredging costs. At present
consultants are studying the situation.
First Technical Cooperation Project (Credit 673-CM, US$4.5 million., 1977)
The project consists of advisory consultants' services to the
Ministries of Economic Affairs and Planning, Agriculture, Transport,
Equipment, Energy and Mining for investment planning, policy analysis and
project processing. In the transport sector the project provided one
economist/planner in the MOT and a second economist/planner in MINEP who
have finished their assignments.
First Feeder Road Project (Loan 1494-CM/Credit 749-CM, US$11.1 million, 1977)
The project includes establishing a Central Feeder Roads Unit
within the Department of Highways and a four-year program of construc-
tion, improvement, rehabilitation and maintenance of about 2,000 km of
feeder roads, including equipment purchase and operation, office and
workshop construction and staff training in equipment operation and
labor-intensive methods. The project's implementation is behind schedule
because the organization in charge of the feeder roads is understaffed
and because of shortages of local funds. The Government has submitted a
satisfactory modified program for the execution of the project,
reflecting the considerable increase in construction costs of the feeder
roads.
Third Highway Project (Loan 1515-CM, US$16.5 million, 1978)
The main component of the project, the construction of the
Garoua-Figuil Road to paved standard, was completed in 1979. Technical
assistance to the MOT helped carry out an origin-destination survey with
the first phase having been completed in September/October 1980 and the
final phase in mid-1981 and also provided a transport advisor. A US$5.6
million cost overrun, mainly due to exchange rate fluctuations, has been
covered by the Government. The Project Completion Report for the Second
and Third Highway Projects (July 17, 1980) concluded that the impact of
the substantial increase in project cost on the economic benefits was
considerably expiated by a larger than expected increase in traffic using
the roads. The re-estimated rates of return for the two projects were



- 39 -
ANNEX 1
Page 4
about the same as expected during appraisal (20%). The Project
Completion Report also noted that progress in developing transport-
related institutions has been slow compared with considerable progress
made in upgrading the land transport system over the last decade.
Fourth Highway Project (Loan 1723/Credit 926-CM, US$48.0 million, 1979)
The project includes a training program for staff and workers
for road maintenance, maintenance of about 17,000 km of roads and
rehabilitation of 1,700 km through force account and domestic con-
tractors, technical assistance to the domestic construction industry, two
permanent weighing stations, and pre-investment studies for the Fifth
Highway Project and forestry evacuation roads. Implementation of the
project although delayed by about one year is satisfactory.
Fourth Railway Project (Loan 1734/Credit 936-CM, US$47.0 million, 1979)
The project includes construction of the marshalling yard, track
and rolling stock, civil works, training equipment, consulting services
and refinancing of Credit S-4 CM. The project became effective January
1980. Civil works at Douala Station are progressing satisfactorily
although the final completion could be delayed by about 12 months due to
unfavorable weather and unexpectedly poor soil conditions. Workshop
modernization and some equipment procurement have also been delayed due
to the late awarding of contracts. Implementation of the consultants'
proposed improvements of administrative and managerial functions are
progressing satisfactorily, although the retirement of the experienced
Deputy Director-General has weakened the role of management.
Fifth Highway Project (Loan 2180-CM, US$70.0 million, 1982)
The project consists of: (i) the construction of the Edea-
Yaounde Road (181 km) and the construction of new buildings for the
National Civil Works Laboratory; (ii) consultants' services to supervise
the road construction works, to prepare a national transport survey and
to evaluate the paved road network; and (iii) technical assistance to the
Ministry of Equipment, the Ministry of Transportation and to the
laboratory. Because of administrative delays the period for making the
loan effective has been postponed until January 25, 1983. However, the
contractors and the supervising consultants for the road works have been
selected, and the technical assistance to the Ministry of Equipment has
started. Cofinancing for the road construction works is provided by the
Kuwait Fund, Islamic Bank and Abu Dhabi Fund; the Governments of Canada
and the Netherlands and private banks in the Netherlands to a total of
US$91.5 million.



- 40 -
ANNEX 2
Page 1
CAMEROON
THIRD DOUALA PORT PROJECT
The Transport System
Road Network and Road Transport
1.       Cameroon, with about 65,000 km of roads, has an extensive net-
work judging from the 0.14 km per km2 road density which compares favor-
ably with neighboring countries. 1/ However, paved roads account for
only 4% of the total network and are concentrated around Douala, Yaounde
and Garoua where the network is most developed. 2/ Elsewhere, large
parts of the country are still isolated or served by the most rudimentary
infrastructure. Beside the paved roads, all weather accessibility on the
classified network, which totals about 32,800 km, is possible to some
extent on the engineered national gravel roads. The rest of the classi-
fied network provides mainly dry season access. The unclassified network
consists mainly of non-engineered seasonal tracks which are generally in
poor condition and serve limited traffic. The evolution of the network
is shown in the following table using the functional classification
system adopted in March 1979:
% Average
1972     1976      1980     Annual Growth
(km)     (km)      (km)       1972-1980
Classified Network
- Paved Roads                   1,400    2,000    2,400            7.0
- Gravel and Earth Roads       19,500   24,300   30,400            5.7
National                    1,000    2,000    4,200           19.6
Provincial                  2,300    2,800    5,900           12.5
Departmental                2,200    5,700    6,100           13.6
Rural                      14,000   14,800   14,200           --
- Total                        20,900   26,300   32,800            5.8
Unclassified Network
- Earth Tracks                 22,000   28,000   32,000            4.8
GRAND TOTAL                        42,900   54,300   64,800            5.3
Source:  Ministry of Equipment, November 1980.
1/ Nigeria = 0.16 km/km2, Chad = 0.02 km/km2, Gabon = 0.02 km/km2,
Congo = 0.03 km/km2 and CAR = 0.04 km/km2.
2/ However, the density of paved roads is four times less in Cameroon
(0.005 km/kmi2) than in Nigeria (0.02 km/km2).



- 41 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2
2.        The condition of the network varies from good to poor.  The
three dominant economic regions (northern, central and western) are con-
nected by partly paved roads which frequently become impassable during
the rains. Consequently, Yaounde in the central region may be isolated
sometimes simultaneously from the agriculturally rich western highlands
and from the Port of Douala, especially whenever the railroad is closed
due to accidents, etc. Edea, located between the two cities, is an
important industrial center and generates most of the country's electric
power. Its economy depends on reliable access to Yaounde and Douala.
The existing paved road between Douala and Edea (92 km) is in an advanced
stage of deterioration and unmaintainable in its present condition.
Construction of this section on a substantially shorter alignment started
in 1980. The construction of the Edea-Yaounde section is therefore one
of the Government's highest priorities and forms part of the proposed
Fifth Highway Project.
3.        The vehicle fleet is estimated at about 83,000 vehicles (exclud-
ing two wheelers). The trend in registrations reflects in general the
increasing level of economic activity in the country. Overall, annual
registrations increased from under 2,000 in 1960 to about 16,000 in
1978. The average annual growth over the last 18 years has been around
13%. High growth for vans and trucks reflects demand for freight trans-
portation and the growth in the consumption of diesel fuel. About 59% of
the fleet consists of passenger cars and is located mostly in the urban
areas. Vans account for about 18% of the fleet while the rest (23%)
consists of heavy vehicles.
4.        The road transport industry is competitive and characterized
mainly by many local firms owning one or a few trucks. Although the
industry suffers from financial instability, it provides basic services
and in general is growing in line with domestic demand.
5.        Most freight requiring special handling is transported by either
the larger trading houses hauling on own account or specialized firms.
Parastatal companies such as SODE-COTON and Cameroon Development
Corporation mainly haul on own account and operate sizable fleets of
their own. Timber and petroleum are generally transported by the con-
cessionaires although specialized domestic firms have entered the
market. International freight to Chad and CAR is handled by domestic and
foreign firms. Cameroon's bilateral quota for Chad is handled through
affiliates of SOGETRANS. The increasing CAR traffic is less attractive
to Cameroonian haulers, however, because of the poor road (500 km)
between the border and Bangui.
6.        As discussed in greater detail in the appraisal report for the
Fifth Highway Project (Report no. 3473-CM), consumers in the Cameroon pay
significantly more than the opportunity cost of either gasoline or diesel
and the Government does not subsidize road users. Table 1 (reproduction
of Table 2.4 of Report 3473-CM) provides information on retail prices of
motor fuel in Cameroon while Table 2 (reproduction of Table 2.5) compares
domestic retail and international petroleum product prices.



- 42 -
ANNEX 2
Page 3
Railways
7.       The railway, whose main lines are the Trans-Cameroon line
(Douala-Ngaoundere, 913 km) and the western line (Douala-Nkongsamba,
160 km), are operated by the National Railroad Company of Cameroon (Regie
Nationale des Chemins de Fer du Cameroon - REGIFERCAM), an autonomous
state agency which is under the responsibility of the Ministry of
Transport. The principal commodities carried are timber, petroleum
products, alumina and other material for ALUCAM, construction materials,
cotton, cocoa and manufactured imports. Between FYs 1973-1980, freight
traffic increased steadily at an average annual rate of 8.5% in ton-km
and 3.7% in tons carried. Freight traffic in FY1981 increased by 15% in
ton-km. In FY1981 freight traffic exceeded 1.5 million tons over an
average distance of 441 km, or 663 million ton-km. Over 99% of the
tonnage was carried on the Trans-Cameroon line. Passenger traffic, on
the other hand, showed a slow but steady decline in the same period and
fell from over 1.7 million passengers in FY1973 to 1.2 million in FY1981.
8.       REGIFERCAM is operating at a loss but steps are being taken to
solve operational, managerial and financial problems. External donors
are financing the track realignment between Douala and Yaounde, the
oldest and most heavily used section, as well as the purchase of locomo-
tives and rolling stock. The ongoing Fourth Railway Project provides,
inter alia, a mechanism aimed at improving REGIFERCAM's operations,
marketing, tariffs and finances. A Government committee recently sub-
mitted recommendations to improve the financial position of REGIFERCAM;
these recommendations are still under consideration by the Government and
their scope are therefore not yet known.
Ports, Shipping and Inland Waterways
9.       Douala is the principal port, handling about 90% of Cameroon's
foreign and transit trade. It is discussed in Chapter III and further in
Annex 3.
10.      Kribi is a sheltered lighterage and shallow quay port of 280 mi
located in the south, with traffic in agricultural and log exports,
handling 7,530 tons of imports and 207,000 tons of exports, mainly log
from nearby areas, in 1980. It has a 7,000 m2 log park and 11,000 m2
storage area, of which 8,800 m2 are covered. Victoria, a small port with
a finger quay of about 80 m, is located in the rocky bay of Ambas, in the
western region. It has 13,200 m2 of storage areas, of which 3,500 m2 are
covered, and caters particularly to cocoa and rubber exports. Tiko is
located in a sheltered area in the western region with limited import-
ance, catering particularly to banana exports.  It is a small port 2with a
main wharf about 135 m, a lighterage wharf about 120 m and 3,500 m  of
covered storage areas. In 1980, 2,178 tons of imports and 24,820 tons of
exports were handled through these two ports. Garoua Port on the Benoue
River in northern Cameroon is a seasonable port and has been of limited
importance since the Nigerian civil war. The auay at Garoua is 256 m
with 125,000 m2 storage area, of which 4,800 m are covered. The total
imports/exports handled in 1980 was 250 tons.



- 43 -
ANNEX 2
Page 4
11.       Cameroon Shipping Lines S.A. (CAMSHIP), formed in 1975, has
developed fairly successfully. The Government, the National Investment
Company, and UNIMAR (a West German shipping company) have equal shares in
CAMSHIP. The fleets' six ships total about 75,000 deadweight tons
(dwt). Additionally, CAMSHIP has a chartered banana boat of 4,100 dwt.
The tonnage carried increased by 15% in 1979 and 23% in 1980 to reach
434,000 tons, of which 334,000 was break-bulk and about 100,000 tons
containerized. In 1979, CAMSHIP carried about 32% of the export tonnage
(excluding bananas and other fruit) and around 29% of the import tonnage
(excluding bulk cargo) between Douala and Northern Europe. Since early
1979 regular operations to Western Mediterranean ports have started.
CAMiSHIP had a small deficit in FY1979. The results for FY1980 were not
yet available at the time of the appraisal mission.
12.       CAMSHIP receives favorable treatment from the Shippers' Council
of Cameroon which controls cargo allocations. Since its reorganization
in 1978, the Council has substantial financial resources at its
disposal. It receives 0.3% of the value (f.o.b.) of all trade and has
started to use these funds to study the production, marketing and trans-
port of major commodities. The first of such studies, on coffee, has
been published.
Air Transport
13.      Air transport in Cameroon comprises Cameroon Airlines (CAMAIR)
which operates scheduled passenger and cargo flights and charters, and
the Armed Forces and small companies that operate charters and carry
freight. CAMAIR was formed in June 1971 and is owned 75% by the Govern-
ment and 25% by Air France with which it has reciprocal marketing
arrangements. It operates domestic services (which are generally unpro-
fitable) between Douala, Yaounde and 12 other domestic airports, and
profitable international services between Douala, West and East Africa,
and Europe. In FY1980, CAMAIR transported 499,834 passengers, an
increase of 19% over FY1979. Domestic traffic accounted for about 76% of
the passengers carried, regional traffic for 14% and long distance
flights for 10%. Freight traffic amounted to 10,000 tons.



- 44 -
ANNEX 3
Page 1
CAMEROON
THIRD DOUALA PORT PROJECT
Existing Port Facilities and Operations at Douala
Location
1.       Douala Port, which lies on the Wouri Estuary some 30 km from the
ocean, is the major port of Cameroon. The port provides very good
shelter to seagoing ships; however, when exposed to high winds and cur-
rents it is difficult to berth/unberth large vessels. This situation
will be improved under the project with procurement of a more powerful
tug.
The Channel
2.       The entrance channel extends 30 km from the ocean; under the
Second Port Project it was dredged to 7.5 m depth below lowest low water
(LLWL), and at the outer bar NPA is continuing to dredge down to 9.5 m;
this work is expected to be completed by the end of the current year.
Minimum tidal range is about 1.7 m. Maximum ship size that can enter the
channel at all tides is limited to 20,000 dwt. The channel is provided
with a sufficient number of buoys which however need to be upgraded and
electronic positioning equipment is needed; both will be done under the
project.
Port Facilities1/
3.       The Port lies largely on the Douala side of the estuary with a
cement clinker unloading wharf and a banana loading wharf on the Bonaberi
side. A road and rail bridge connects both sides. Port facilities on
the Douala side consist of a fishing basin, a 2,200 m long marginal wharf
and a log basin. The fishing basin accommodates two floating docks and
660 m long marginal wharfs for fishing vessels and oil exploration
boats. In the basin, average low water depth is 5.5 m. Along the
entrance channel, at the continuous marginal wharfs (normally fifteen) of
varying lengths there are: one mineral wharf, two container wharfs, one
ro/ro wharf and the remainder are general cargo wharfs. Low water depth
along these wharfs varies between 11.5 m and 8.5 m. The log port basin
has three ramps for rolling logs into the water and a 150 m long marginal
wharf for loading non-floating logs into barges. The basin during the
recent expansion of the Douala Port was dredged to 9.5 m depth to provide
sand for the land reclamation component. Petroleum imports are handled
at mid-channel berth through a pipeline. All wharfs in Douala are built
of anchored steel sheet piling with cathodic protection. The Port of
Douala has a total storage area of 106 ha, of which 6 ha are covered and
100 ha are open. Of the open storage, 22.6 ha are used for containers,
1/ For existing minor ports see Annex2, para. 10.



- 45 -
ANNEX 3
Page 2
20 ha for logs and the rest for bulk alumina and general cargo. Of the
storage area reserved for containers, 1.8 ha is used for prestowing,
8.4 ha for storage of ful boxes, 1.2 ha for storage of empty boxes and
1.2 ha for refrigerated boxes. In the log port, 10 ha is reserved for
sorting out logs and 10 ha for logs already marketed and designated for
transportation to specific destinations. In addition, the Port of Douala
has an ice-making plant of 100 t daily capacity with three storage silos
of 100 t each equipped for loading trucks by gravity, and a 16,500 m cold
storage for fish.
4.       The dockyard operated by NPA is equipped with a 100 ton slipway
and various covered workshops. There are two floating docks (a 1,200-ton
and a 800-ton), one floating crane, one cutter suction dredger and one
trailer suction dredger. In addition NPA has a number of launches, pilot
boats and other work boats.
Port Operations
5.       NPA is responsible for conservancy and provision of navigational
aids, pilotage, operation of a dockyard for repairs of its work boats and
other small craft, maintenance dredging in the Port and at the entrance
channel, operation of the ice plant and refrigerated storage for fish and
shrimp, and maintenance of port infrastructure. General cargo and ro/ro
are handled by five independent stevedoring companies: SOCOPAO,
CAMATRANS, SOAM, TRANSCAP and SOCOMAC. In addition to their privately-
owned warehouses, these companies lease sheds and open storage from
NPA. The container terminal is operated by a consortium composed of the
five stevedoring companies. Log traffic is handled by two autonomous
companies with their own log-carrying equipment ashore, as well as tugs
and barges. In these two companies NPA is a minor shareholder. Alumina
and its products are loaded/unloaded from ships by ALUCAM and cement
clinker by CIMENCAM; both are partly owned by the state.
6.       There are no restrictions on night or holiday work and opera-
tions continue for 12 hours per day on average. The present arrangements
for general cargo handling are reasonably satisfactory and result in
traffic throughput similar to other reasonably well-functioning West
African Ports, of about 1,000 tons of general cargo per meter of wharf,
and 5 containers per berth per hour. In contrast, banana cargoes at
Bonaberi are not handled properly or at a fast enough rate; old mobile
ladders are used and due to an adjacent cement plant, the environment is
dusty. Maximum loading rates obtainable are under 15 tons/hour per
mobile ladder; these ladders often break and cause heavy damage to the
perishable fruit. With the new wharf located in Douala in a dust-free
environment and the conveyor belt system financed under the project,
loading rates per conveyor should increase up to 50 tons/hour and damage
to the cargo would be minimized.



CAMEROON
THIRD DOUALA PORT PROJECT
Douala Port - Total  Import and Export Traffic, CY1969-1980
('000 tons)
Percent p.a. Increase
1969      1973      1974      1975      1976       1977      1978      1979      1980   1969-1980       1969-1975      1975-1980
IMPORTS
Petroleum Products                     256        350       340       362       435       487        552       622       686        9.4            5.9           13.7
Clinker                                 23        138       210       195       176       243       330        392       415       30.1           42.9           16.2
Food and Beverage                      117        163       160       174       199       276       315        300       332       10.0            6.9           13.8
Equipment                               68         77        84       108       105       144        155       222       218       11.2            8.0           15.1
Fertilizer                              51         44        35        59        41        54        102        87        87        5.0            2.5            8.0
Alumina                                 88         91        95       106        95        79         82        84        85       (0.4)           3.1           (3.7)
Cement                                 106         10        18         6         5         10        23        40        37       (8.5)          ( )            43.8
Gypsum                                n.a.         18         9         6        11         10        21        11        33        n.a.           n.a.         40.6
Other Imports                          216       256        280       287       293       387       424        460       490        7.7            4.9           11.3
Total  Imports                     925     1,147     1,231     1,304     1,360      1,690    2,004    2,218    2,383            9.0           5.9           12.8
of which Specialized Bulk          367       597       645       670        717       819       985    1,109    1,219          11.5          10.6           12.7   .s
General Cargo                      558       550       586       634       643        871     1,019    1,109    1,164           6.9           2.2           13.0
EXPORTS
Logs                                   298       403        319       214       329       334       324       362        385        2.3           (5.4)          12.5
Sawn Timber                             53        76         84        70        81        69        75        92        121        7.8            4.8          11.6
Subtotal Timber                    351       479       403       284       410        403       399       454       506        3.4           (3.5)          12.2
Coffee                                  68         84       107        98       103        73        93        110       104        3.9            6.3            1.2
Cotton and Cotton Oil                   31         51        44        42        63        70        66         71        79        8.9            5.2           13.5
Cocoa and Products                      78         74        78        70        59        49        58         61        75       (0.4)          (1.9)           1.4
Bananas                                 35         69        75        82        87        88        84         85        64        5.7           15.2           (5.0)
Aluminum                                52        31         32        27        22        29        21         47        12      (12.5)         (10.7)        (15.0)
Other Exports                          113        102       119        93        92        86        87        134       125        0.9           (3.4)          6.1
Total Exports                      728       890       858       696       836        798       808       893       965        2.6           (0.8)           6.8
of which Specialized Bulk           52        31        32        27         22        29        21        47        12      (12.5)         (10.7)         (15.0)
General Cargo                      676       859       826       669       814        769       787       846       953        3.2           (0.2)           7.3
Total Traffic                    1,653    2,037    2,089    2,000    2,196    2,488    2,812    3,111             3,348        6.6            3.2           10.9  17'
of which Specialized Bulk          419       628       677       697        739       848    1,006    1,156       1,231       10.3            8.9           12.1  m X
General Cargo                    1,234    1,409    1,412    1,303    1,457          1,640    1,806    1,955    2,117           5.0            1.0           10.1  4
1/ Actual traffic data for 1981 are indicated in Table 6.1.
Source: Compiled on the basis of information made available by NPA.



- 47 -
ANNEX 4
Table 5.1
CAMEROON
THIRD DOUALA PORT PROJECT
NPA Five-Year Investment Plan, FY1982-1986
(in 1981 CFAF billions)
FY1982    FY1983    FY1984    FY1985    FY1986    TOTAL
List A   Projects Technically and Economically Justified
Oil exploration area   1.00         4.00       4.00                            9.00
Rehabilitation
Berth 1 and 2            0.90                                                  0.90
NPA-CNCC Headquarter                0.30      0.50       0.50                  1.30
Storage area for
landlocked countries  0.80        1.80                                        2.60
Fruit terminal, con-
tainer and gen ral
cargo berths 1                               1.73       1.73       1.74       5.20
Fruit Handling Equipment 4!                   0.11       0.11       0.12       0.34
Tugboat -/                                    0.50       0.60                  1.10
Access Program -                    0.85      0.85       0.86                  2.56
Small crafts                                  0.12       0.12       0.15       0.39
Replacement
transportation
equipment                         0.05       0.05                             0.10
Repair works                        0.50      0.50       0.50       0.50       2.00
Data processingk/' 2/                         0.20       0.20       0.21       0.61
Studies                  0.02      0.03 1/   0.35 1/   0.35 Y/   0.35          1.10
2.72      7.53       8.91       4.97       3.07      27.21
List B   Projects Subjects to Further Studies
Dredging Equipment                             0.40      0.40       0.30       1.10
/1 Included in the proposed Third Douala Port Project.
/2 Tentative estimate. Subject to further studies.
Source: NPA and Bank staff.
02/83



- 48 -
ANNEX 4
Table 5.2
CAMEROON
THIRD DOUALA PORT PROJECT
Project Cost Summary
USS million
CFAF millions                     equivalent1/           % of
Foreign      Local       Total      Foreign   Local   Total    Cost
1.  Civil Works
a.  Three berths & dredging        2,278       1,326       3,604         6.7       3.9    10.6
b.  Warehouse                        306         204         510          .9        .6      1.5
c.  Railroad & services              272         136         408           .8       .4      1.2
Subtotal - Civil Works    2,856         1,666       4,522          8.4      4.9    13.3
Contingencies
Physical                             442         238         680         1.3        .7      2.0
Price                                918       1,258       2,176         2.7       3.7      6.4
Subtotal - Cont.            1,360       1,496       2.856          4.0      4.4      8.4
Total - Civil Works           4,216        3,162       7,378        12.4       9.3    21.7       67
2.  Equipment
a.  Fruit handling equipment         272          34         306           .8       .1       .9
b.  Tugboat                        1,020          --       1,020         3.0       --       3.0
C.  Elec. Pos. System                170          __         170           .5      --        .5
d.  Bouyage                           68          --          68           .2                .2
Subtotal - Equipment        1,530           34       1,564         4.5        .1     4.6
Contingencies
Physical                             136          --         136           .4      --        .4
Price                                340          --         340         1.0       --       1.0
Subtotal - Cont.              476           --         476         1.4      --       1.4
Total - Equipment             2,006           34       2,040         5.9        .1      6.00      18
3.  Data Processing
a.  Hardware                         272          --         272         0.8       --       0.8
b.  Technical Assistance             272          68         340         0.8       0.2      1.0
Subtotal                      544           68         612         1.6       0.2     1.8
Contingencies
Physical                              34          --          34           .1                .1
Price                                102          --         102           .3      --        .3
Subtotal - Cont.              136           --         136          .4       --        .4
Total - Computer                 680          68         748         2.0        .2      2.2        7
4.  Consultants                          544          238         782         1.6        .7     2.3
Contingencies
Price                                136          68         204         _.4        .2       .6
Total - Consultants             680          306         986         2.0        .9      2.9        7
GRAND TOTAL                            7,582       3,570       11,152        22.3      10.5    32.8
Front-end fee on Bank Loan                68           --          68          .2       --        .2        1
Total Financing Required               7,650       3,570       11,220        22.5      10.5    33.0      100
01/83



CAMEROON
THIRD DOUALA PORT PROJECT
Douala Port - Traffic Forecasts, CY1981-1990
('000 tons)
Percent p.a.
----Actual----    ----------------------------------Forecast------------------------------------    Increase
1980     1981      1982      1983      1984      1985      1986      1987      1988      1989      1990     1980-1990
IMPORTS
Petroleum Products                    686       733       828       911    1,000    1,103    1,191       1,286    1,389    1,500    1,600
Clinker                               415       450       502       552      607       668       735       808       888       977    1,075
Food and Beverage                     332       366       399       445       492       544      591       640       693       748       805
Equipment                             218       197       325       378      433       488       536       585       632       682       736
Fertilizer                             87        59        96       101       106       112      115       118       121       124       127
Alumina                                85       140       140       150       161       169      203       243       280       322       370
Cement                                 37        50        53        56        59        61       63        65        67        69        71
Other Bulk Import                      25        58        81        93       106       120      134       150       167       185       205
Gypsum                                 33        16        40        43        48        53        58       64        71        78        85
Other Imports                         465       539       604       676       757       848      950    1,064    1,192    1,335    1,495
Total  Imports                  2,383    2,608    3,068    3,405    3,769    4,166    4,576    5,023    5,500    6,020    6,569                10.7
of which General Cargo          1,164    1,211     1,477    1,656    1,847    2,053    2,255    2,472    2,705    2,958    3,234               11.0
EXPORTS
Logs                                  385       303       369       400       408       416      424       433       442       450       460
Sawn Timber                           121       118       121       148       157       166      175       184       192       200       210
Subtotal Timber                   506      421       490       548       565       582       599       617       634       650       670
Coffee                                104       110       122       130       138       142      145       148       150       152       154
Cotton                                 60        52        69        74        79        84       88        94       100       107       114
Cocoa and Products                     75        81        81        84        86        88       90        92        94        96        98
Fruit                                  64        58        60        65        70        70       70        70        70        70        70
Aluminum                               12        39        56        57        58        59       54        52        50        48        46
Paper Mass                             --        --        60        70        70        70       70        70        70        70        70
Other Exports                         144       165       172       178       186       193      201       209       217       226       235
Total Exports                     965       926    1,110    1,206    1,252    1,288    1,317    1,352    1,385    1,419    1,457                4.2
of which General Cargo            837       781      846       900       920       951       983    1,014    1,044    1,076    1,111            2.9
Total Traffic                  3,348    3,534    4,178    4,611    5,021         5,454    5,893    6,375    6,885    7,439    8,026             9.1
of which General Cargo          2,001     1,992    2,323    2,556    2,767    3,004    3,238    3,486    3,749    4,034    4,345                8.1
/1 In 1980, Including 70% of log exports as general cargo and 30% as bulk with the share of log general cargo declining to 50% by 1984. Excluding, In
addition, aluminum exports and from 1982 paper mass exports over CELLUCAM berth.  The general cargo export volume and the total general cargo
volume in 1980 was lower than the figures In Annex 4, Table 4.1 due to the exclusion of part of the log traffic from the general cargo categories
in this table.
Source:  Compiled on the basis of information made available by NPA and Bank staff estimates.                                                                      Al
08/82
jF4



- 50 -
ANNEX 4
Table 6.2
CAMEROON
THIRD DOUALA PORT PROJECT
Cost and Benefit Streams for Container and Multi-Purpose Berths, CY1983-2004
(in US$ '000s)
Benefits
General    Higher Return
Maintenance        Reefer         Cargo        on Bananas
Capital   and Operating       Service        Waiting      from Reduced
Costs         Costs        Time Costs     Time Costs        Damage
1983        3,000
1984        4,600
1985        4,600
1986        4,400           600            2631'          2,1311          -
1987          700           600            546            4,635         8002'
1988          -            900             546            8,632         800
1989-2004    -              900            515           10,495         800
1/ Assuming half year of benefits on y.
2/ Assuming a delay in benefits accrual.
Source: Bank staff estimates.
01/83



- 51 -
ANNEX 4
Table 6.3
CAMEROON
THIRD DOUALA PORT PROJECT
ERR Under Different Assumptions
ERR (%)
A. Container and Multi-purpose Berths with Shed and Cargo
Handling Equipment
1.  Best Estimate 1'                                                  34
(i) 10% increase in project cost                               32
(ii) 10% reduction in benefits                                  31
(iii) Both                                                       29
(iv) 20% increase in project cost                               29
(v) 20% reduction in benefits                                  26
(vi) Both                                                       24
(vii) Benefits lagged by one year                                28
(viii) Benefits lagged by two years                               23
(ix) Excluding benefits from reduced damage to fruit
and from reduced reefer service costs.                     29
2.  Conservative Traffic Assumption (10% lower)                       26
(a)   Excluding benefits from reduced damage to fruit
and from reduced reefer service costs.                     20
3.  Conservative General Cargo Productivity (5% higher)               26
(b)   Excluding benefits from reduced damage to fruit
and from reduced reefer service costs.                    22
B.  TugBoat                                                                18-/
C.  Combined including Technical Assistance and Data Processing            27
(i) 10% increase in project costs                             25
(ii) 10% reduction in benefits                                  25
(iii) Both                                                       23
(iv) 20% increase in project costs                              23
(v) 20% reduction in benefits                                  22
(vi) Both                                                       18
(vii) Benefits lagged by one year                                22
(viii) Benefits lagged by two years                               19
(viii) Excluding benefits from reduced damage to fruit
and from reduced reefer service costs.                     24
1/  Based on traffic forecasts in Table 6.1, capital and maintenance
costs in Table 6.2 and other factors explained in Chapter VI.
2/  As estimated by NPA.  As explained in paras. 6.09 and 6.11 this is a
very conservative estimate.
Source:  Bank staff.
01/83



- 52 -
ANNEX 4
Table 7.1
CAMEROON
THIRD DOUALA PORT PROJECT
NPA Consolidated Balance Sheets, FY1975-1982
(in millions of CFAF)
06/30/75     06/30/76    06/30/77    06/30/78    06/30/79   06/30/80             06/30/81        06/30/82
A.s of June 30                                  (FY75)        (FY76)       (FY77)       (FY78)        (FY79)      (FY80)         (FY81)           (FY82)
(Provisional)
ASSETS
Fixed Assets
Gross Value                                3,839        11,252       14,702        24,067       32,582        42,610       51,533            55,266
- Depreciation                           -(1,215)    -(1,767)    -(2,514)    -(3,247)    -(3,846)    -(4,710)             -(6,251)          -(8,3801
Net Value                                  2,624         9,485       12,188        20,820       28,735        37,900       45,272            46,886
Work In Progress                           6,653           162           103          274           745          828            --                --
Investments                                   28            28           28            47           57           227          443               443
Claims (more than one-year term)               18           18            10           12            53           55            55                55
Total Fixed Assets                     9,323        9,693        12,329       21,153        29,590       39,010        45,780            47,384
Current Assets
Stores                                        139          122           136          148           136          156           128              237
Prepaid Expenses                               22           18            35           51           132          182           289              424
Receivables                                  369           613           825        1,233        1,648         2,273        2,475             2,767
Cash                                       1 ,352          882           804          381           626          675          342                95
Total Current Assets                   1,882        1,635         1,800        1,813         2,542        3,286         3,234             3,523
-[ABILITIES
Long-Term Liabilities
Equity
Capital                                    8,040         8,040        8,040         8,040        8,040         8,040        8,040             8,040
Retained Earnings & Subsidies              2,420         2,585        3,356         4,606        6,823         9,196       11,031            12,373
Total Equity                          10,460       10,625        11,396       12,646        14,863       17,236        19,071            20,413
Long-Term Debt                                  361          365           803        9,502       15,104        23,267       25,219            25,700
Total Long-Term Liabilities           10,821       10,990        12,199       22,148        29,967       40,503        44,290            46,113
Current Liabillties
Accrual Liabilities                           179           60            13           22           455          566           389               438
Other Current Liabilities                     205          278         1,915          798         1,711        1,227        4,335             4,356
Total Current Liabilities                384           338        1,928           820        2,166        1,793         4,724             4,794
Current Ratio (Current Assets/                   4.90         4.83          1.07         2.21          1.17          1.83         1.63              1.36
Current Liabilities)
Debt/Equity Ratio (Long-Term Debt +               .07           .07          .24           .81         1.16          1.45         1.32              1.26
Current Liabilities) f Equity
Source:  Compiled on the basis of information made available by NPA.
;^ /83



- 53 -
ANNEX 4
Tab le 7.2
CAMEROON
THIRD DOUALA PORT PROJECT
Douala Port Balance Sheets, FY1975-i982
(In mi llions of CFAF)
06/30/75    06/30/76    06/30/77    06/30/78    06/30/79    06/30/80    06/30/81                   06/30/82
As of June 30                                 (FY75)       (FY76)        (FY77)       (FY78)       (FY79)       (FY80)       (FY81)               (FY82)
(Provisional)
ASSETS
Fixed Assets
Gross Value                               8,916       10,084       13,458       22,738       31,256       41,201       49,021             52,906
- Depreciation                      -(1,038)    -(1,515)    -(2,162)    -(2,797)    -(3,304)    -(4,093)    -(5,606)                 -(7,646)
Net Value                                 7,878        8,569       11,296       19,941       27,952       37,108       43,415             45,260
Work In Progress                            408          112           82          274          744          827           753               600
Investments                                  46           28           28           47           57          227          443                442
Claims (more than one-year term)            -            -            -            -             51            56           56                56
Total Fixed Assets                    8,333        8           11,406       20,262       28,804       38,218       44,667
Current Assets
Stores                                       97           87           97          101           110          114           92               194
Prepaid Expenses                             21           17           36           52           126          176          282               406
Receivables                                 310          538          725        1,088        1,409        2,104         2,283             2,570
Cash                                      1,284        1,112        1,032          828          435          553           249              (317)
Total Current Assets                1 2              754        1,890      2=069          2,080   2,429
L IABILITIES
Lon-Term Liabi l [ties
Eguity
-Capital                                  7,327        7,327        7,327        7,327         7,327        7,327        7,327             7,327
Retained Earnings & Subsidies             2,184        2,466        3,266        4,594        6,574        9,241        11 249            12,865
Total EiuIty                          9,511        9,793       10,593       11,921      13,901       16,568       18,576             20,i92
Long-Term Debt                                360          365          803        9,502       15,104       23  _67       25,219            25 700
Total Long-Term Liablities           9,871       10,158       11,396       21,423       29,005       39,835       43 795             45 892
Current LIabllities
Accrual Liabilities                         174           47            12          21          452           563          366               415
Other Current Liabilities                   -            258        1888           887         1427           766        3,412             2,904
Total Current Liabilities              17i           305        1,900          908        1,879        i,39         3728
Current Ratlo (Current Assets/                 3.20          5.75          .99         2.27         1.10         2.21          .76                .86
Current Liabilities)
Debt/Equity Ratio (Long-Term Debt +              .05          .07          .25          .87         1.22         1.48         1.56               1.43
Current LIabilIties) - Equity
Source: Compiled frcm data made available by NPA.
03/83



- 54 -
ANGNEX 4
CAMEROON                                 Table 7.3
SECOND DOUALA PORT PROJECT
NATIONAL PORT AUTHORITY
Consolidated Sources and Applicatlons of Funds, FY1976-1982
(in millions of CFAF)
Annual amounts
FY1976    FY1977    FY1978   FY1979   FY1980   FY1981           FY1982
(ProvisTonal)
Long-Term ApplIcations
Capital Investment                      922      3,383      9,562    9,763   10,283    8,421          3,803
Debt service
Interest                               2         43        151       465    1,067    1,045         1,262
Repayment                                         -         -         -         -        521          749
Total long-term applications    924        3,426      9,713   10,228   11,350    9,987          5,814
Long-Term Source
Cash generated from operations          739      1,226      1,317       779    2,084    2,871         3,870
Subsidies and grants                    165        771      1,250    2,217    2,373    1,318          1.040
Long-term loans                         370        438     8,699    5,603    8,163    2,473           1,151
Total long-term sources         1,274      2,435    11,166    8,599   12,620    6,662           6,061
Excess long-term sources/appls.         350      (991)      1,453  (1,629)    1,270  (3,325)            247
Increase in working capitel (dec.)   820        (913)      1,876  (1,807)    1,219  (2,992)            481
Cash increase (dec.)                  (470)       (78)      (423)      178        51    (333)          (234)
Cumulative amounts
Long-Term ApplIcations
Capital  Investment                     922      4,305    13,867   23,630   33,913   42,334          46,137
Debt service                              2         45        196      661    1,728    3,294          5,226
Total long-term applications    924        4,350    14,063   24,291   35,641   45,628          51,363
Long-Term Sources
Cash generated from operations          739      1,965      3,282    4,061    6,145    9,016         12,886
Subsidies and grants                    165        936     2,186    4,403    6,776    8,094           9,134
Long-term loans                         370       -808      9,507   15,110   23,273   25,746         26,897
Total long-term sources         1,274      3,709    14,975   23,574   36,194   42,856          48,917
Excess long-term sources/appis.         350      (641)      (812)    (717)    (553)  (2,772)        (2,525)
increase in working capital (dec.)   820         (93)      1,783      (75)    1,295  (1,697)       (1,216)
Cash Increase (decrease)              (470)      (548)      (971)    (793)    (742)  (1,075)        (1,309)
Source: Compiled from data made avallable by NPA.
01/83



-55 
ANNEX 4
Table 7.4
CAMEROON
THIRD DOUALA PORT PROJECT
Douala Port Sources and Applications of Funds, FY1975-1982
(in millions of CFAF)
FY1975   FY1976   FY1977   FY1978   FY1979   FY1980   FY1981             FY1982
(Provisional)
Applications (long-term)
Increase In fixed assets Li                        92.2   3,383    9,562    9,763   10,203    7,962            3,803
Service of the debt                                -           4      142      464    1,065    1,586           2,011
Total long-term applications                     922    3,387    9,704   10,227   11,268    9,548             5,814
Sources (long-term)
Cash generated from operations
(less works on force account) /                 635       949       868    1,058    1,628    2,229           3,226
Financing of works on force
account through operations                        93       116      485       626      450       752           842
Grants and subsidies                               174       531      856    1,980    2,667    1,078            1,040
Increase In long-term debt                         365      438    8,699    5,603    8,163    2,473            1,151
Other long-term sources                              4       -        -         -        -        -
1,271          _~~~~~~~,267         6,532          6,259~~~~~~~~._ 
Tofal long-term sources                        1,271    2,034   10,908    9,267   12,908    6,532            6,259
Excess of long-term sources over
long-term applications of funds                    349  (1,353)    1,204    (960)    1,640  (3,016)              406
Increase in working capital                          521  (1,273)    1,000    (567)    1,522  (2,712)              432
Cash Increase                                      (172)      (80)    (204)    (393)        118    (304)            (26)
Cash at the end of the period            1,284    1,112    1,032        828       435       553      249           (317)
/1  Including works on force account:  CFAF 93 million In 1976; 116 million In 1977; 458 million In 1978;
626 million In 1979; 450 million In 1980.
/2 Works on force account are accounted for as revenue, but as they do not Involve a cash Inflow,
strictly speaking, they should be subtracted fron cash generated fron operations.
Source: Compiled from data made available by tNPA.
01/83



- 56 -
ANNEX 4
Table 7.5
CAMEROON
THIRD DOUALA PORT PROJECT
NPA Consolidated Income Statements, FY1975-1982
(in millions of CFAF)
FY1975      FY1976       FY1977       FY1978       FY1979       FY1980       FYi981         FY1982
(Provisional)
Charges against ships                           497          622          810       1,068        1,276        1,604         1,801         2,174
Charges against merchandise                     702          849        1,197       1,218        1,431        1,546        2,150          2,716
Rentals                                         299          342         450          432          578        1,225         1,884         2,755
Miscellaneous                                   456          367          690         866/1      1,235/2        947/3      1,000/4         1,136
Total operating revenue                  1,954        2,180        3,147        3,584        4,520        5,322        6,835         8,781
Staff Costs                                     693          835       1,024        1,182        1,438        1,782        1,843          2,315
Materials and Supplies                          179          233          351         420          644          686        1,065          1,292
General Expenses                                380          373          546         665          659          770        1,056          1,256
Total working expenditure                 1,252       1,441        1,921        2,267        2,741        3,238        3,964          4,863
Cash generated from operations              702         739        1,226        1_317        1,779        2,084        2,871          3,918
Depreciation                                    499          652          795         814        1,024        1,377        1,860          2,199
Net operating revenue                      203           73          431          503          755          707        1,011          1,719
Interest on long-term debt                        1            2          43          151          464          942        1,045          1,389
Net profit (loss)                           202          71          388          352          291        (235)         (34)            350
Working ratio                                   .64          .66          .61         .63          .60         .61           .58            .55
Operating ratio                                 .89          .96          .86         .85          .83         .87           .85            .80
Debt coverage ratio                                                                  9.1          3.8         2.2           1.83           1.87
Rate of return (%)/5                                         .7         3.9          3.0          2.9         2.1           2.-            3.7
Average value of net fixed assets                          9,508       11,011      16,741       25,371      34,300        41,586         46,582
/1  Including CFAF 458 million works on force account.
/2  Including CFAF 628 million works on force account and CFAF 136 million excess of depreciation on previous years.
/3  Including CFAF 450 mIllion works on force account;
/4  Including CFAF 757 million works on force account.
/5  Defined as net operating revenue/average value of net fixed assets.
Source:  Compi led from data made aval lable by NPA.
02/83



- 57 -
ANNEX 4
Table 7.6
CAMEROON
THIRD DOUALA PORT PROJECT
Douala Port Income Statements, FY1975-1982
(in millions of CFAF)
FY1975      FY1976       FY1977       FY1978       FY1979       FY1980       FY1981         FY1982
(Provisional )
Charges against ships                           495         569          610        1,039        1,312       1,556          1,711         2,076
Charges against merchandise                     659          849       1,195        1,081        1,213       1,456         2,045          2,599
Rentals                                         238          342         449          355          480       1,139          1,770         2,629
Miscellaneous                                   394          326         294          831 /I    1,139 /2       993 /3        992 /4       1,127
Total operating revenue                  1,786        2,086        2,748        3,306        4,144      5,144          6,518          8,431
Staff Costs                                     585         835        1,026        1,017        1,264       1,593         1,628          2,062
Materials and Supplies                          190          232         350          384        1,034         650           963          1,176
General Expenses                                289          291         303          579          163         723           946          1,126
Total working expenditure                1,064        1,358        1,679        1,980        2,461      2,966          3,537          4,364
Cash generated from operations             722          728        1,069        1,326        1,684       2,078         2,981          4,068
Depreciation                                    434         620          796          702          893       1,297         1,774          2,112
Net operating revenue                      288          108          273          624          791         781         1,207          1,956
Interest on long-term debt                        1          -             4          142          464       1,065         1,045          1,341
Net profit (loss)                          287          108          269          482          327        (284)          162           615
Working ratio                                  .65          .65          .61          .60          .59         .59            .54          .52
Operating ratio                                 .89         .95          .90          .81          .81         .84            .81          .77
Debt coverage ratio                                                                  9.1          3.8         2.2            1.90          1.49
Rate of return /5 (%)                                       1.12        2.71         3.94         3.22        2.34           3.-           4.3
Average value of net fixed assets                         8,521       10,057       15,834       24,533      33,317         41,387         45,512
/1 Including CFAF 458 million works on force account-
/2 Including CFAF 628 million works on force account and CFAF 136 million excess of depreciation on previous years.
/3 Including CFAF 450 million works on force account.
/4 Including CFAF 752 mllion works on force account.
/5 Defined as net operating revenue/average value of net fixed assets.
Source:  Compiled from data made available by NPA.
02/83



- 58 -
ANNEX 4
Table 7.7
ChMERUON
THIR' DOUUALA PUR1 PROJECI
NATIONAL. P(1RT AUTHORITY
PROJECTED SOURlES AND AF'PPLICAl iONS OF FUNIS FY 1981-1991
(IN MILLIONS OF CFAF)
1981    1982    1983    1984    1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990    1991
LONS TERM SOURCES
CASH GENERATED                              3918.   4577.   6421.   7379.   8739.   9649.  10724.  11668.  12573.  14077.
BORROWINGS                                  1151.    926.   5571.   4645.   4121.   3898.   4251.   4249.   4547.   4865.
CAPITAL INCREASE                               0.       0.       0.       0.       0.       0.       0.       0.      O       0.
GOVERNMENT CONTRIBUTIONS                    1040.   5263.   4025.        28.      30.      32.      35,     37,      40.      43.
NON OPERATING REVENUES                       312,    347.    385.    424,    466.    503.    543,    587.    634.    684.
NOR OPERATING EXPENSES                       360.    419.    489,    565,    652.    739.    839,    951.   1078.   1223,
TOTAL LONG TERM SOURCES                     6061.  10694,  15914.  11911.  12703.  13342.  14715.  15590.  16715.  18447.
LONG TERM APPLICATIONS
INVESTMENT IN INFRASTRUCTURE                2646.   6501.   B539.   3597.   3885,   3434.   3761.   4025.   4307.   4608.
INVESTMENT ON FORCE ACCOUNT                  842.    935.   1038.   1141.   1256.   1356.   1465.   1582.   1708.   1845.
INVESTMENT IN BUILDINGS                      315.    595.    643,    347.    390.   1296,   1400.   1498,   1602.   1715.
INVESTMENT IN EOUIPMENT                        0.      60.   2778.   2958.   2284.   1296.   1400.   1498.   1602.   1715.
TOTAL INVESTMENT                            3803.   8091.  12997.   8044,   7815.   7382.   8025.   8602.   9220.   9882.
INTEREST                                    1262.   1279.   1362.   1923.   2301.   2755.   3113.   3468.   3636.   3774.
REPAYMENT                                    670.    699.    916.   1233.   1450.   1602.   1927.   2771.   3295,   3584.
LOSS (GAIN).ON FOREIGN EXCHANGE               79.    165.    163.    187.    183.    197.    196.    194.    189.    187.
TOTAL DEBT SERVICE                          2011.   2143.   2441.   3343.   3934.   4554.   5236.   6432,   7119.   7545.
TOTAL OTHER INVESTKENT                         0.       0.       0.      0        0.       0.      0        0.       0.      0.
TOTAL LONG TERM APPLICATIONS                5814.  10234.  15438.  11387.  11748.  11936.  13261.  15034.  16339.  17427.
EXCESS LT. SOURCES / LT. APPLIC              247.    460.    476,    523,    9'5.   1406.   1454,    556.    377.   1020.
SHORT TERM SOUlRCES
INCREASE ACCRUALS                             49.      22.      25.    168.    113.    13h,    107.    106.          50,      42.
INCREASE PAYABLES                             34.      34.      27.      26.      30.      35.      39.      39.      46.     50.
SHORT TERM APPLICATIONS
INCREASE IN STORES                           109.    109.       87.      84.      95.    110.    123.    124.    146.    157.
INCREASE IN RECEIVABLES                      292.   -279.    402.    274.    349.    291.    334.    320.    370.    473.
INCREASE PREPAID EXPENSES                    135.    122.    126.    130.    145.    155.    173.    178.    234.    247.
LIQUIDITY INCREASE                          -234.    563.    -99.    230.    509.   1021.    970.            79.   -277.    233.
CASH AT THF END OF PERIOD                   -446.    117.       18.    248.    757.   1778,   2748.   2828.   2551.   2784.



- 59 -
ANNEX 4
Table 7.8
03/10/93
CAMEROON
THIRID DOlALA PORT PROJECT
NATIONAL P(RF AUTHORITY
PROJECTED INCOME STATEMENTS FY 1981-1991
(IN MILLIONS OF CFAF)
1981     1982    1983    1984    1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990    1991
REVENUE ON SHIPS                    1313.   1604.   1866.   2454.   2832.   3353.   3834.   4400.   5051.   5832.   6710.
REVENUE ON STAYING TIME              488.    570.    649.    828.    913.   1081.   1217.   1388.   1602.   1843.   2135.
REVENUE ON MERCHANDISE             2150.   2716.   3257.   4145.   4721.   5470.   6061.   6698.   7171.   7726.   8556.
RENTALS                            1884.   2755.   3211.   4062.   4690.   5401.   5982.   6667.   7287.   7989.   8923.
MISCELLANEOUS REVENUES                99.     111.    123.    137.    150.    165.    179.    193.    208.    225.    243.
REVENUE ON WORKSHOP                  149.     183.    214.    272.    315.    364.    402.    449.    492.    538.    603.
FORCE ACCOUNT                       752.    842.    935.   1038.   1141.   1256.   1356.   1465.   1582.   1708.   1845.
TOTAL REVENUE ON OPERATIONS        6835.   8781.  10255.  12936.  14764.  17090.  19031.  21260.  23394.  25861.  29015.
EXPENDITURES
STAFF COSTS                        1843.   2315.   2690.   3100.   3528.   3985.   4477.   5018.   5542.   6338.   7132.
MATERIALS hND FUELS                1065.   1292.   1520.   1702.   1877.   2D77.   2307.   2565.   2h27.   3136.   3469.
GENERAL EXPENDITURES               1056.   1256.   1468.   1713.   1980.   2289.   2598.   2953.   3356.   3815.   4337.
TOTAL WORKING EXPENDITURES         3964.   4863.   5678.   6515.   7385.   8351.   9382.  10536.  11726.  13288.  14938.
CASH GENERATION                    2S71.   3918.   4577.   6421.   7379.   8739.   9649.  10724.  11668.  12573.  14077.
DEPRECIATION ON INFRA               784.    980.   1245.   1586.   1754.   1937.   2108.   2294.   2493.   2707.   2937.
DEPRECIATION ON BUILDINGS           316.    278.    305.    334.    350.    367.    426.    490.    558.    631.    709.
DEPRECIATION ON EQUIPMENT           760.    942.    943.   1215.   1506.   1730.   1854.   1989.   2134.   2289.   2456.
TOTAL DEPR. (NON REV. ASSETS)   1860.   2199.   2492.   3135.   3610.   4034.   4388.   4773.   5185.   5627.   6101.
TOTAL OPERATING COSTS              5824.   7062.   8170.   9650.  10995.  12385.  13771.  15309.  16911.  18916.  21039.
NET OPERATING REVENUE              1011.   1719.   2085.   3286.   3769.   4705.   5260.   5951.   6483.   6946.   7976.
INTEREST CHARGE                    1045.   1290.   1279.   1374.   1923.   2301.   2755.   3113.   3468.   3636.   3775.
LOSS (GAIN) ON FOREIGN EXCH.           0.      79.    165.    163.    187.    183.    197.    196.    194.    189.    187.
RESULT ON OPERATIONS                -34.    429.    806.   1913.   1846,   2404.   2505.   2838.   3015.   3310.   4201.
EXTRA OPERATIONAL REVENUE           279.    312.    347.    385.    424.    466.    503.    543.    587.    634.    684.
EXTRR OPERATIONAL EXPENSES          306.    360.    419.    489.    565.    652.    739.    839.    951.   1078.   1223.
NET RESULT                          -61.    382.    733.   1809.   1705.   2218.   2269.   2543.   2651.   2866.   3663.
RATIO
WORKING RATIO                      0.58    0.55    0.55    0.50    0.50    0.49    0.49    0.50            0.50    0.51    0.51
OPERATING RATIO                    0.85    0.80    0.80    0.75    0.74         0.72     0.72    0.72    0.72    0.73    0.73
INTEREST COVERAGE RATIO            0.97     1.28    1.51    2.23       1.86     1.97     1.84     1.B6    1.82      1.87    2.07
DEBT SFRVICE RATIO                 1.83    1.87    2.14    2.62    2.21         2.22    2.12    2.05       1.81     1.77    1.87



- 60 -                                         ANINEX 4
Table 7.9
03/ 10/8I
C AMUNt8ON
THIRD DnOIAI.A PORT PROJECT
NATIONAL 908Rr AIJINHOITY
PROJECTED bAILANCk SHEETS 99 1981-1991
(DM MILLIONS OF CFAF)
1981     1f982    1983      1994     1985     1986      1987     1989     1989      1990     1991
ASSETS
FIXED ASSETS
LAND                                12310.  12310.  12310.  12310.  12310.  12310,  12310.  123510.  12310.  12310.  12310,
INFRASTRUCTURE                      23962.   27430.  34846.  44403,   49121.  54242.  59012.  64518.  6980.5,   75800.  32233.
BUILDINGS                            5794.   6109.   6704.    7347,    7695.   8085.   9380,  10780.  12278.  13880,   15595.
EQUIPMENT                            9467.   9417.   9427.  12154.  15062,   17297.  18543.  19892.   21340.  22892.  24557.
TOTAL DROSS FIXED ASSETS            51533.  55266.  63287.  76214.  84188.  91933.  99245. 107201. 11I2733. 124882. 134694,
DEPRECIATION ON INFRASTkUCT          2233.   3193.    4417.   5983.   7717.   9635.  11722.  139,96.  16469.  19156.  22073.
DEPRECIATION ON BUILDIIHGS           1343.   1621.    1925.   2259.   2609.   2977.   3403.   3893.   4451.   5082.   5791.
DEPRECIATION ON EQUIPMENT            2675.   3567.   4459.   5625,    7081.   8761.  10565.  12b04.   14508.  16827.  19233,
TOTAL DEPRECIATION                   6251.   8380.  10802.  13867,  17407.  21372.  25690.  30393.  35508.  41065.  47097.
OTHER INVESTMENT                         0.       0.        0,       0.       0.        0.       0.       0.        0.       0.       0.
TOTAL NET FIXED ASSETS              45292.  46886.  52485.  6234?.  66781.  70561.  73555.  76808.  80225.  83817.  87598.
OTHER FIXED ASSETS                     498.     498.     490.      498,     498,     498.    49?8.      498.     498.      498.     498.
TOTAL FIXED ASSETS                  45780.  47384.  52983.  62845,  67279.  71059.  74053,  77306.  80723.  84315.  88096.
SNORT TERN ASSETS
STORES                                 128.     237.     346.      433.    517.    612.        721.    844.      968.   1114.   1272.
RECEIVABLES                          2475.   2767.   2408.   2890.   3164,   3513.   3804.   4139.   4459.   4829.   5302.
PREPAID EXPENSES                      289.      424.     546.    672.    802.        947.   1102.   1275.   1453.   1688.   1935.
CASH AVAILABLE                        342.       95.     117.       95.    248.    757.   1778.   2740.   2828.   2551.   2794.
TOTAL SNORT TERM ASSETS              2892.   3523,    3497.   4090.   4731.   5829.   7406.   9006.    9708.  10182.  11293.
TOTAL ASSETS                        48672.  50907.  56480.  66935.  72010.  76888.  81459.  86312.  90431.  94496.  9`9388.
LIABILITIES
LONG TERM LIABILITIES
CAPITAL                              8040.   8040.   0040.   8040.   0040,    8040.   8040.   8040.   8040.   8040.   8040.
RETAINED EARNINGS                   11031.  12373,   18205.  23875 .  25421.  27485.  29590.  31972.  34466.  37 183.  40702.
LONG TERN DEBTS                     25219.  25700.  25927.  30587.  33994.  36664.  38960,   41285.  42763.  44016.  45297.
TOTAL LONG TERM LIABILITIES         44290.  46113.  52172.  62497.  67454.  72190.  76590,  81296.  82269.  89238.  94039.
SHORT TERM LIABILITIES
PAYABLES                             3781,    3815.   3849.   3877.   3903.   3933 .   3967.   4006.   4045.   4092.   4142.
ACCRUALS                               389.     438.     459.      484.     652.    766.    902.   1009.    1116.   1166.   1209.
OVERDRAFTS                            554,      541.        0.      77.       0.        0.       0.       0.        0.       0.       0.
TOTAL SHORT TERM LIARIL171ES          4724.   4794.   4308.   4438.   4555,    4698.   4869.   5015.   5161.   5258.   5349.
TOTAL LIABILITIES                   49014.  50907.  56480.  66935.   72009.  76888,   81 459 .  86312.  90431.  94496,   99388.
RATIO
CURRENT RATIO                       1.63      1.36     1.23      1.09    0,96      0.81    0.66    0.66        0,53     0.52      0.47
LIQUIDITT RATIO                     1.71      1,46     1,37      1.21     1.08    0.90    01.73    0.61        0.59     0.58      0.53
DEBT-EQUITY RATIO                   1.32      1.26     0.99     0,96      1.02     1.03     1.04      1.03     1.01    0.97       0.93
RATE OF RElURN                     0.022   0.037   0.040   0.053   0.056   0.067   0.072   0.07               0.081   0.083   0.091
RATE OF RET. ON REV. ASS.          0.022   0.037   0.037   0.045   0.045   0.049'  0.049   0.049    0.048   0.046   0.047



CAMESROON
THIRD DOUALA PORT PROJECT
DOLAtA PORT
TRAFFIC STAT'ISTICS FOR DOUALA
1981    1982    1983    1984    1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990    1991
NUMBER OF SHIPS                    1216.   1391.   1496.   1'84.   1667.   1768.   1867.   1990.   2123.   2265.   2420.
TOTAL TONNA(E                      3534.   4178.   4611.   5021.   5134.   5893;   6375.   6885.   7439.   8026.   8670.
AVERA%GE STAYING TIME               3.22    3.06    2.97    2.92    2.79    2.76    2.74    2.73    2.73    2.74    2.75
PRICE IIIDEXES
NATIt,)!. INFLATION                0.140   0.120   0.110   0.110   0.100   0.100   0.080   0.080   0.080   0.080   0.080
INT.RNrAIIONOL TNFLATION           0.120   0.100   0.090   0.090   0.080   0.080   0.080   0.080   0.070   0.070   0.070
SALARY INCREASES                   0.120   0.160   0.100   0.090   0.090   0.080   0.070   0.070   0.070   0.070   0.070
SIAFF MFRTT INCREASE               0-030   0.030   0.030   0.030   0.020   0.020   0.020   0.020   0.020   0.020   0,020
INY'FSTMFNT PRICE INIiEX           0.000   0.000   0.080   0.080   0.080   0.080   0.080   0.080   0.070   0.070   0.070
lEPRECIATITON NATIONAL CIJRRFN.   0.000   0.050   0.050   0.000   0.000   0.000   0.000   0.000   0.000   0.000   0.000
REAL TA.RIFF INCREASES (1)
TARIrF INCREASE ON SHIPS           0.150  -0.040  -0.020   0.120   0.000   0.020   0.000   0.000   0.000   0.000   0.000
TARIFF INCR. ON STAYING,TIME    0.300  -0.040  -0.020   0.120   0.000   0.020   0.000   0.000   0.000   0.000   0.000
TARIFF INCR. ON MFRCHANDISE        0.200  -0.040  -0.020   0.060  -0.040  -0.030  -0.050  -0.050  -0.080  -0.080  -0.050
TARIFF INCREASE ON RFNTALS         0.050   0.160  -0.020   0.080   0.000  -0.010  -0.030  -0.030  -0.0S0  -0.050  -0.030
TARIFF INCR. FOR WORKSHOPS  /   0.070  -0.040  -0.020   0.080   0.000  -0.010  -0.030  -0.030  -0.050  -0.050  -0.030
AVFRAGE TARIFF INCRFASE            0.147   0.030  -0.020   0.084  -0.014  -0.008  -0.028  -0.028  -0.045  -0.044  -0.026
(1) ON TOP OF LOCAL INFLATION
-    .
H 4
0D 



- 62 -
ANNEX 5
Page 1
ACTION PLANS
A. Action Plan for Organizational Development
1.       In order to meet the requirements arising from past and future
increases in traffic and size of ships, the completion of extension works
of the Port, and the increasing complexity of NPA's financial system with
its increasing indebtedness, NPA will further strengthen its organization
and continue modernizing its corporate planning system.
Organizational Development
2.       All measures included below should be implemented by
December 31, 1983.
(a)   Directorate of Civil Works.  In order to raise staff pro-
ductivity and reduce costs, NPA will fully enforce the
management control system in this sector to control costs
and productivity, reinforce upper-level staff by trans-
ferring staff from the Directorate of Studies where they
are no longer needed to the Directorate of Civil Works
(para. 3.03) and control increases in staff through the
manpower plan (para. 3.07).
(b)   Access and Movement of Ship.  To improve the safety in
movement of ships, a Directorate of Access will be
created. It will be responsible for access maintenance,
dredging hydrography and assistance to navigation. This
directorate will be headed by a Cameroonian Director
assisted by a qualified expert. The existing staff in NPA
in charge of these matters will be trained especially for
access problems in a special training plan to be discussed
with the Bank (para. 3.04).
(c)   Management of Human Resources.  NPA's training system is
now in effect. Beginning in late 1983, NPA will implement
more effective plans and systems for manpower development,
training, and personnel administration and evaluation,
with the assistance of consultants financed under the
proposed project. The present organization for the
management of human resources will need strengthening at
the senior level. Therefore, a position of Deputy
Director to Human Resources, in charge of personnel
administration, social services, and training will be
created, directly under the authority of the Director of
General Administration and filled by end-1983
(para. 3.07).
(d)   Directorate of Finances.  The task of the senior staff has
become more complex with the management of the debt, part



- 63 -
ANNEX 5
Page 2
of it in foreign currencies, and the extension of the cost
accounting system. Therefore, the intermediate-level
staff of the Directorate of Finances will receive
specialized training as included in the agreed outside
training plan (para. 3.10). In the present organization,
all decisions are taken by the Director who is overloaded
with day-to-day problems. After the nomination of a new
Director of Finances, in consultation with the Bank, NPA
will hire a Deputy Director to share the work load of the
Director, and thus allow him to concentrate on financial
policy issues (para. 3.14).
(e)   Division of Economic Studies.  This division is currently
insufficiently staffed. NPA will recruit one highly
qualified economist for traffic analysis, projection and
economic investment studies (para. 3.15).
(f)   Data Processin  Department.  This department is currently
limited in size, because its activities comprise only
maintenance of existing programs, collection of input data
and dispatching of printouts. With the acquisition of
hardware, giving NPA full autonomy in data processing, the
tasks of the Department will be qualitatively and
quantitatively changed. NPA will have to expand its
programming and operating capacities, and in priority,
reinforce the higher-level staff of the Department by
recruiting a qualified specialist by September 30, 1983,
prior to the delivery of the hardware equipment.
(g)   Corporate Planning.  NPA has already a training plan,
prepared by the Training Division, and an investment plan,
prepared by the Department of Studies. It will establish
a Corporate Planning Department in charge of coordinating
long-term planning with the Training Division and the
Department of Studies, and of preparation of the financial
and operational plans. NPA will appoint a suitable person
for heading this department.
Long-Term Planning
3.       Within the framework of the National Development Plan, NPA will
prepare by June 30, 1984 a full five-year corporate plan. This plan will
be discussed with the Bank prior to final approval by NPA's Board, and
will be updated annually thereafter, in consultation with the Bank during
the project disbursement period.
The corporate plan will comprise:
(a)   a manpower plan, to be prepared with technical assistance
as needed (para. 3.07);
(b)   an investment and financing plan (para. 5.06); and



- 64 -
ANNEX 5
Page 3
(c)   an operational plan for port activities.
B. Financial Action Plan
4.        This plan of action comprises those measures geared to improving
profitability and strengthening NPA's working capital and liquidity.
Improvement of Profitability
5.        In order to raise its operating revenues and to capture a
significant portion of the benefits for the project, NPA will ensure that
its tariffs are sufficient to achieve a working ratio defined as working
expenditures (i.e., staff costs, consumption and supplies, and general
expenditures) divided by total revenue from operations, of at least .52
in FY1984 and .50 from FY1986 forward (para. 7.19).
6.        Tariff structure will reflect more adequately the full costs of
services provided to port users defined as direct cost, plus depreciation
on infrastructure, financial costs, and a margin sufficient to cover
total overhead (para. 7.06).
7.        In order to avoid an excessive increase in staff costs, NPA will
limit total average salary increases resulting from promotion and
seniority to a maximum of 3X per annum starting in FY1984 (para. 7.07).
8.        Further to para. 3(b) above, NPA's investment policy will be
described in a detailed five-year revolving investment and financing plan
to be prepared and presented to the Bank by June 30, 1984. This plan
will present in Part A all items justified by adequate technical,
economic and financial studies and in Part B items subject to further
study. It will be updated annually, in consultation with the Bank,
during the disbursement period of the project (para. 5.06).
Strengthening of Financial Structure
9.        In order to strengthen its financial structure, NPA should
improve the management of its short-term assets and reinforce its working
capital. For that purpose, the following objectives will be implemented:
(a)   By June 30, 1984, commercial receivables will be reduced
to two months of revenue. For that purpose, NPA will give
full responsibility for revenue collection to the
operational department (para. 7.11);
(b)   Starting as of December 31, 1983, bank overdrafts should
not be incurred (except for short periods (para. 7.21));
and



- 65 -
ANNEX 5
Page 4
(c)   To avoid an excessive increase in indebtedness, NPA will
raise its contribution to capital investment on its own
funds to 17% in FY1984 and 40% from 1986 forward
(para. 7.22).



CAMEROON
THIRD DOUALA PORT PROJECT
-NATIONAL PORT AUTHORITY
ORGANIZATION CHART
|83rd of Directors
Director Dener 
|;;; | ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Morketiog and 
Co ntrol
DepDoto                                  Director of    1|                                            Dpt
Director Geeneral          Disrector of            DeneralDietrGlra
Teefeca;                 Finances             Adminiatratioc                                                 Stdis 
| Director olf                                                    ietro                                                                   ietro
|Port Doeratinons                                                 CiiWok|                                                                 Wrshp
Harbor~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Mate  Mangeen  Sttstc  Tehia  Maneac      Drdgn         5-ydorah          Byg            giren            okhpechei ca                  Indo>stri
of Warehouses                                                                                                                           Sudies         EcsuKoibe
"of~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~WrdBn 22



CAMEROON
THIRD DOUALA PORT PROJECT
Project Execution Timetable
YEARS                             1982                1983               1984               1985               1986                1987               1988
QUARTERS                       1   2   3   4   1   2   3   4    1   21341    2   3   4    1   2   3   4   1   2   3   4    1    2    3   4
. CIVIL      RKS                                                          -   -   -   -   -           
II. EQUIPMENT
(i) Banana Handling Conveyors                                                  - _       -   _   -
0i0 Tug Boat                                                           -       -     -    -
(iii) Electronic Positioning Equipment
Buoyage Upgrading in the
Entrance Channel
Ill. CQMPUTER
(i) Hardware
(ii) Technical Assistance                                                    -- -                   --                -
IV. CONSULTANTS
(i) Supervision of Construction                                        _         _                 - _    _  _    _   _              -   -          -    -
(ii) Personnel Administration                                    l     _   _   _
(iii) Staff Evaluation                                           l          _     _    _
(iv) Information Systems
(v) Port Sector Study
vil Dredging Study                                               l           _   _   _   _    _   _
(vii) Navigation Aid Study                                                        -   -
January 1983                                                                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~World Bank-24272 
January 1983~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~ ~~~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r






M A L I        N   G E R         /\ThA  ehCI beeoprep dfU,ie                                                                   -         ArAt  N-> 
- Lakze ffChfa 2     SUDAN            f     h     eret
UPPER*                                                                 d-=Une i  - ,eiedt
VOLTA                                    C H A D                       rer ,near   _                _ aep  - 
BENIN/ IGEI                                   '
T N        I G E R i A
GHANA                        '        4        RPBI CENTRAL AFRICAN                                                                              * l N  DAMENA
_          g   2        <       ~~~~~REPUBLIC       -2j ousr1-
CAMEROONA                                 KILOMETERS 0  20 40 60  80 IS0 120 140 160                           )Ecsr                       A
G 1f Mt o f  EQUATORIA   .                                           M LES 0    20   40    60   ES    100
Oa,vtnd  f GUiNEA   | t .............                                                                                             _ ) ...... Z A I R E  4,FGON?
ICONGC )t    CHA! R
ATLAffTiC OCEA.Nf '     ) GABON           /- r                _N  I G  E R I A                                                                  
CAMEROON                                                                           ftnvso  k
THIRD  DOUALA  PORT  PROJECT                                                                          VMRAfstzmv,* IM)wO.
Project Location
ISf National capitals                                       ,.-,r        j
-    Pro1ect Locorion                      5  Proainciol copitals                                   k    obr             (           "          5Oei5i                 5'
  Division capitals
Paced roads, ntionol                  0  Sub-division capitols
Usptved roods, notional               v  District capitals
Unp-ved roads, provinciol             C  Other towns                        rGARO0A                      j
------ Unpoved roads, district               *   Airports
Railroads                         --  -Disisian boundories
Risers                                    Provincial bovndories
:1   Prts                              - -InternationIal boundories
NIG E R I A                           N        T                                          A 4   A'  AO\UIA
j MENC HUM                         fN         iber,
-  Ak,eee     b     RLA
E, A M--d 6n J .ki$, _,   B  X     >er 
i-S5OYs,7> 9MANYUitW 2Z ASJa-s<osrl -J                                                      _                                                                            U ;._     t
S~~~~~~~~~~~~ E  N  T   _R                                                         :     A    L
Os             N5,u~r *            Ndmb Av Bnng  X>4#  M BAg/  -bo'   o\
RAMENIDAgfORE PA 'oN./_cY,5StS5; I z'b>"  "gs-/Y                                                            C               A R  I C A  N
I S         UE p                                               U T                                                                          R E1  P U T  L r 
1VD'A          EQUTO14 GUNE                              A M   '                          j          CO                                            v }       r 
C,                             1,-rXC
Rorgongin'EN i-R LiF5A4_, 
Ek                                                                                   E esrev5  bN >ekCee I 5 ~ LA    '5  JRI 
KunheK    Evyn ;ire )2~  <CC  Rsl,s5  SN  <%boroa Eony    Deeg         RRTOUA'
Di ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~R                          AIE3N C< I                                 eti"
a,Onbes 6,v        4     ,Oy
nkvrd Tir   Cn,,. t   tehrss% ~U   0rav, /    ?sk,rn ~>  i -JTK M,nr ou.
HessiAn    -  sE/no  Merseset'  ,~~~~~-kr-  6.I  oovre            Mb0,0' .-  
Devrosr0 ~~~~    NYONC~~MbonAAUrNYnU'
EQUATORIAL                                                                                                      L -- V Ryecn Scr/'~~'.'
GUJINEA                         &rb    kn                       vovPrkn 
. OCrA              As-t'           gor                       'T"  Io
'EQUATORIAL GUINEA                            G A BONO                                   COGO
ICONTINRNTAL GUIr-A)                       
i.,  CO'P






N  i5iOE(.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  COA~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                       P~IRO I59OORi
tox0~~~~~~~~ ,,'- '                                                                                                                           6  
eSb  w<\ .  .  . - ;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I01 f1
/con:                                                                                                        (fg;;.      X .  B.t.U.O-f. loi9, J  1: 1  d
R.t'./.t.e''-'   ;1-' '\'\\    .zf'.''@=11'~;'   I 
.'' c+0++i,at,i'.i.ooec  ,'O  1-N,
/.   CrMEFiOO   > ogs 1>y borgy xn . 'N                                                                                 < 21   - ||W
E Q   } / U E O    X              ftO < S   b e                                                          i O ..'..
h ( |               ''.i/                                    o    -f "''                                                  CAMERO'N
XJ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ./.;
\\.~~~~~~6 ' "                                                                                                       Q  i-c                 , iclle
.   J  it. bocotonP J                                                                                                             IOct
G      Gi     20 Y0ls0 S0    0
-'A~~~~~~~~~~~srR






lIRD 16193
JANUARY 1982
TheSacrenalsne zdfiwS  \                                   _;                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~WOURI bR IDGE
Ydr*9 . r5 . . X 8}.  , S
B   0           A       L                               Bnn
*!                       r0    : N'00Na~s                                  JI               * >0             ' >7
,t    .,S,,          I,                   ,'//  XcF  cA2    \2\,I,  )                    <
C'MEN/                               /                K                                             A
IJNITED REPIJ3LIC OF CAMEROON                 /                    \                             -  " '              2
THIRD    DOUALA    PORT    PROJECT  /                                              StrihU,'iP       .     s;9//XgK 4tt   t-                      '*ii
/ PREVIOU                                             <I               K    /               f       \      U
E115TING PROJECT                 J           i          /           l        /  <        <    G/>V/11                    =      2;              \rI
5>2 --  Roods ^l~  Pw F.c                                                     /\t,:/ r        t /                           rV
E 2   T-onswt Sheds              /          /                  / />2\&           1  /S/1/                     r  
Cw-om fence                  t (                                                     b  e l c m /      
UNTE ERPBLCEFCAERS
THIRD   DOUALA    PORTror  PRJET   /                                                                "Wi 4luo \S9 v
UPSTREAM PORT  I                    U,' i/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AM                                                 R"K
c  R EUJ IC AS  3                 /                         'aj  /' |                A - /   v 
b  a   '      Partf  P oc,I,t, s                   IE
)  /  )  gt  .8           <                            D    '    D  0:       U           A         . L         A           X           C ./ 4$>
'   i''0            Bondsi                                     ;'fe'iSE           J 
W  . ]   Transit Shads                                          oP      ~         ~       ~       ~       7
Railways     7                                      4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ab



