Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3483-CM
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$22.5 MILLION
TO THE
NATIONAL PORT AUTHORITY OF CAMEROON
FOR THE
THIRD DOUALA PORT PROJECT
March 10, 1983
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perTsrmance-aft
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization. 1



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit              CFA Franc (CFAF)
US$1                 =     CFAF 340 a/
CFAF 1 million       =     US$2,941
a/   Floating exchange rate.  The CFA Franc
(CFAF) is tied to the French Franc (FF)
at the ratio of FF 1 to CFAF 50.
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ALUCAM     -  Aluminum Company of Cameroon
MINE       -  Ministry of Equipment
MINEP      -  Ministry of Economic Affairs and Planning
MOT        -  Ministry of Transport
NPA        -  National Port Authority (Office National des
Ports du Cameroun)
REGIFERCAM - National Railroad Company of Cameroon (Regie
Nationale des Chemins de Fer du Cameroun)
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
UNITED REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
THIRD PORT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower and   National Port Authority of Cameroon (NPA)
Beneficiary:
Guarantor:     United Republic of Cameroon
Amount:        US$22.5 million, including capitalized front-end fee of
US$0.2 million.
Terms:         20 years, including a five year grace period, at the standard
variable interest rate.
Project
Description:  The proposed project would be the Bank's third port project
aimed chiefly at (i) increasing capacity in line with rapid
traffic growth, (ii) modernizing and increasing efficiency of
port facilities, and (iii) improving further operations and
management at the Port of Douala, Cameroon's principal port.
The proposed project, to be implemented over approximately
five years, would consist of the following main components:
(i) Civil Works for Port Extension: (a) construction of
one 200 m long container berth and two 200 m long
multi-purpose berths; (b) construction of a warehouse;
and (c) construction of access roads and a railway
spur.
(ii)  Port Equipment:  (a) Mobile conveyors; (b) a tugboat;
and (c) buoyage and electronic positioning equipment.
(iii)  Data Processing for NPA:  (a) a central data processing
unit and auxiliary equipment; and (b) technical assist-
ance for data processing planning and software for
management and technical operations.
(iv) Technical Assistance for NPA involving consulting
services for: (a) supervision of construction;
(b) establishment of a staff evaluation and incentives
system; (c) manpower planning and personnel admini-
stration; (d) organization and establishment of a
records office; (e) study of the port subsector; and
(f) study of dredging and navigability requirements of
the Port of Douala.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Benefits
and Risks:  The project would (i) reduce ship waiting times for general
cargo due to increased port capacity; (ii) reduce service times
for reefer ships; and (iii) increase export earnings and farm
income through higher benefits to fruit producers and exporters.
Non-quantifiable benefits include improved working conditions
for dock workers and elimination of exposure of reefer vessels
to clinker dust. Moreover, the project would continue to
improve NPA's organization and help increase the efficiency of
port operations and management. Finally, neighboring landlocked
least developed countries depending on the port of Douala for
overseas shipments would also benefit from its improvement. The
project has no major or unusual risks.
Estimated Costs:
Local      Foreign    Total
-------US$ million-------
1.  Civil works                         4.9        8.4         13.3
2.  Fruit Handling Equipment            0.1        0.8          0.9
3.  Tugboat                                -       3.0          3.0
4.  Consultants                         0.7         1.6         2.3
5.  Data Processing Equipment              -        0.8         0.8
6. Technical Assistance for Data
Processing Equipment              0.2        0.8         1.0
7. Buoyage & Electronic
Positioning Equipment               -        0.7         0.7
Total Base Cost               5.9        16.1        22.0
Physical Contingencies         0.7        1.8         2.5
Price Contingencies            3.9        4.4         8.3
Cost (Net of Taxes) 1/        10.5      22.3         32.8
Front End Fee on Bank Loan                -         0.2         0.2
Total Financing Required   10.5         22.5         33.0
Financing Plan:
Local      Foreign    Total
--------US$ million-------
IBRD                                     -          22.5       22.5
NPA                                     10.5         -         10.5
10.5        22.5       33.0
1/   The project is exempted from taxes and duties.



- iii -
Estimated Disbursements
from the IBRD loan:
FY84    FY85    FY86    FY87    FY88    FY89
-----------------US$ million----------------
Annual                    4.9      4.8      3.9      4.6      3.6      0.7
Cumulative                4.9      9.7    13.6    18.2    21.8    22.5
Rate of Return: 28 percent
Staff Appraisal Report: No. 3803-CM dated March 10, 1983
Maps: IBRD 15995 - Project Location
IBRD 15996R1 - Downstream Port Extension



I                                                                                                                I



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION, OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE NATIONAL PORT AUTHORITY OF CAMEROON
FOR THE THIRD DOUALA PORT PROJECT
1.         I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the National Port Authority of Cameroon for the equivalent of US$22.5
million with a term of 20 years, including five years of grace, at the standard
variable interest rate to help finance the Third Douala Port Project. The
Government of the United Republic of Cameroon will serve as guarantor for the
loan.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        A report entitled "United Republic of Cameroon--Economic Memorandum"
(No. 2877-CM), was distributed to the Executive Directors on April 30, 1980.
Since then, three economic missions, as well as a number of sector missions,
have visited Cameroon. Their major findings are incorporated in the following
paragraphs. Annex I provides basic country data.
Background
3.         Cameroon has a population of 8.9 million and covers an area of
475,000 km2. It is one of Africa's most diverse countries, with a wide
range of climatic zones, ecological conditions, population densities, ethnic
groups and traditional cultures. Its main opportunities for development lie
in the expansion of agricultural, livestock, and forestry production; the
exploitation of energy and mineral resources; and the processing of agricul-
tural, forestry and mineral products for domestic consumption and export.
Cameroon became an oil producer in 1978 and is estimated to have produced some
6 million tons of crude petroleum in 1982. In 1981, Cameroon began producing
refined petroleum products.
4.         Cameroon's main economic centers are separated by large areas of low
population density, and the country's port facilities and transport network
also serve landlocked Chad and the Central African Republic. Adequate port
and trunk transportation systems are essential for promoting agriculture,
forestry and industry, and for strengthening internal and external communica-
tions. With the growth of manufacturing industry, government, transport,
construction and services, Cameroon is becoming increasingly urban. About 35
percent of the population now live in towns, with the heaviest concentrations
in Douala, the major port and industrial center, and Yaounde, the capital.
1/   The text of this section is substantially the same as in the President's
Report for the Urban Development Project which was distributed to the
Executive Directors on February 24, 1983.



5.        Cameroon subscribes to a philosophy of "planned liberalism" and the
country's economic development has been pursued within a five-year investment
planning framework. The Fourth Plan period ended in June, 1981, and the Fifth
Plan (1981-86) is now in effect. Cameroon's macro-economic policies have been
cautious and the Government has concentrated on fostering a sense of national
unity among the different regions of the country. Thus, while until the
second half of the 70's growth was comparatively moderate, the country has
enjoyed exceptional economic and social stability.
6.        Growth.  Over the past fifteen years, Cameroon has experienced
accelerating output and population growth. Real annual GDP growth during the
Second Plan Period (1966-71) averaged 4.2 percent; in the Third (1971-76),
4.5 percent; and in the Fourth (1976-81), an estimated 7 to 8 percent.
Population growth in the three periods was, respectively, about 1.8, 1.9 and
2.3 percent a year. Per capita GNP rose between 1966 and 1980 at an annual
rate of about 3.1 percent.
7.        Investment and Savings.  Underlying the longer term rise in GDP
growth have been rising proportions of investment. The investment/GDP ratio
averaged over 15 percent during the Second Plan, close to 20 percent during
the Third, and about 23 percent during the Fourth. Despite rising investment/
GDP ratios, the mobilization of domestic savings more than kept pace, due
largely to increased public savings. Gross domestic savings rose from about
84 percent of total investment under the Second and Third Plans to about 94
percent during the Fourth Plan. After allowing for net factor service and
current transfers and the amortization of foreign lcans, reliance on foreign
financing fell from about 33 percent of total investment during 1966-71 to
about 30 percent during 1976-79.
8.        Public Finance.  Budgetary revenues amounted to about 15 percent of
GDP during the Second and Third Plans but increased to close to 17 percent
during the Fourth Plan. Public savings after debt service declined from about
39 percent of total public investment during the Second Plan to about 36
percent during the Third; however, they rebounded to 55 percent during 1976-79,
thanks to substantial contributions from the agricultural export stabilization
funds.
9.        Balance of Payments.  Overall, the balance of payments has not posed
particular problems, apart from some short-term deterioration during the
1974-76 period. In 1977-80, exports rose substantially (at an average annual
rate of 26 percent), but imports also increased (at an average annual rate of
20 percent) because of more rapid economic growth and higher investment.
International reserves were rebuilt in 1976-80, rising in 1980 to a gross
level equivalent to about seven weeks of imports. This was low by interna-
tional standards, although still acceptable given Cameroon's membership in the
Central African Monetary Union. Since late 1980, Cameroon's official reserve
position has fluctuated, reflecting variations in short-term capital transac-
tions.



- 3-
Development Prospects and Issues
10.       Short- and Medium-term Developments.  Oil production is having a
significant impact on the Cameroonian economy. Historically, Cameroon has
been dependent on the export of agricultural products for the bulk (72 percent
in 1978) of its export earnings. Cocoa and coffee alone accounted for 53
percent of the value of 1978 exports. However, oil exports, which represented
about 1 percent of total exports in 1978, had risen to an estimated 63 percent
in 1982, with the share of agricultural products as a result dropping to about
28 percent. Exports of oil have continued to rise in 1983, further reducing
the proportional importance of agricultural exports. The structure of output
is also changing, with production of the agricultural sector falling from 32
to 26 percent of GDP between 1978-1981, and oil production rising from less
than a half to over 11 percent.
11.       The Government is nonetheless projecting significantly rising
agricultural production in the years ahead. Its targets for the Fifth
Plan period are based on 3 percent annual increases in cocoa output; 5 percent
for robusta coffee; and 7 percent for arabica coffee; increased production of
food and other crops, as well as livestock; and expansion of forestry produc-
tion. An impact on the structure of the economy is expected from the Fifth
Plan under which the proposed investment/GDP ratio is 23 percent. The Plan
stresses increased support to agriculture and expansion of the supply of
technical and professional manpower, while energy, mining and industry are
to receive diminished emphasis. However, apart from appearing ambitious,
the Government's targets, especially for agricultural production and invest-
ment, are not based on explicit identification of the probable patterns
of hydrocarbons development and oil revenue-use and are, therefore, subject to
more than the usual margin of uncertainty. The projected annual GDP growth
rate of 7 percent over the Fifth Plan period is in line with estimated recent
growth in the 7 to 8 percent range and appears comfortably attainable.
12.       Longer-Term Developments.  Cameroon's promising potential in areas
outside agriculture implies a longer-term structural shift towards a more
diverse industrial base, with expanded mining, manufacturing, power and
service sectors. Agriculture will probably play a still critical but less
dominant socio-economic role; within agriculture, a gradual shift in the
composition of output towards increased food production for the growing urban
population appears likely.
External Borrowing and Creditworthiness
13.       Total public external debt outstanding and disbursed rose from
US$514 million at the end of 1976 to US$2.0 billion at the end of 1981. Debt
service payments rose from US$39 million in 1976 to US$200 million in 1981,
while exports increased from US$770 million to about US$2.2 billion during the
same period. Notwithstanding a hardening of average loan terms in the 1970s,
Cameroon's debt service ratio was still about 9.1 percent in 1981 and is
projected to stay in the 12 to 14 percent range throughout this decade.
Borrowing on non-concessionary terms is expected to account for about two-
thirds of total new commitments and average terms are expected to harden



- 4 -
during the period. Because of higher debt service payments, projected net
disbursements will probably be less than in the past but, with Cameroon's
favorable export and savings prospects, are expected to be sufficient to allow
an investment rate above 25 percent of GDP, as well as the maintenance of a
strong foreign reserve position.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN CAMEROON 1/
14.       Bank and IDA commitments in Cameroon as of September 30, 1982,
amounted to US$746.2 million and covered 41 projects: 19 in agriculture,
12 in transportation, 3 in education, 3 in public utilities, 2 small- and
medium-scale enterprise projects and 2 technical assistance projects.
Transport and agriculture each account for about 40 percent of these commit-
ments. IFC has invested in five enterprises, with total net loan and equity
commitments of US$12.7 million. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank
loans, IDA credits and IFC investments as of September 30, 1982, including
notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
15.       Although implementation delays and setbacks have occasionally been
encountered, the Government has consistently shown willingness to collaborate
with the Bank in finding solutions. In the past, Cameroon's disbursement rate
compared very favorably with that of most other countries. Recently, however,
performance has deteriorated somewhat, apparently partly symptomatic of admin-
istrative difficulties, notably in the central procurement agency. Several
steps, including the provision of technical support to expedite procurement
procedures, are underway to improve the situation.
16.       The Bank's initial investment strategy in Cameroon was to support
the Government's development efforts in three main directions: (i) strength-
ening and extending the road and rail trunk systems and improving the Port of
Douala; (ii) raising agricultural output and exports; and (iii) improving
education. Through 1975, apart from one water supply project, Bank lending
was concentrated entirely in the transport, agriculture and education sectors.
Since 1975, the Bank has diversified its lending, extending it into other
areas, including forestry, small- and medium-scale industry, urban and tech-
nical assistance.
17.       For the future, projects are being prepared in agriculture, to
extend rural development efforts and strengthen agricultural research,
and in transport, to rehabilitate or expand the road system.  Additional
education/manpower and technical assistance projects are also planned, as
well as further port, small- and medium-scale industry, urban, and water
supply/sewerage projects. The Bank has carried out sector studies in energy,
industry, telecommunications and health, and additional projects have been
tentatively identified in these areas. The Bank's lending strategy is essen-
tially determined by the country's growing need for project-related assistance,
1/   The text of this section is substantially the same as in the President's
Report for the Urban Development Project which was distributed to the
Executive Directors on February 24, 1983.



- 5 -
its evident creditworthiness, and the need for the Bank to maintain an ade-
quate overall and sectoral presence in order to remain a major source of
macro-economic and sector policy advice. Thus, the trend towards further
sectoral diversification of Bank lending, reflecting the growing complexity of
Cameroon's development, will continue and the overall volume of lending will
rise.
18.       The Government's main current need is to convert the transient
windfall of oil-augmented revenues into a permanent enhancement of national
productivity and income. This will call for a strengthening of the Govern-
ment's policy-formulating capabilities, the identification of economically
sound development options, and the evolution and adoption of an explicit
oil-revenue-use strategy to guide decision-making throughout the economy. Of
particular importance will be sound decisions concerning the size and composi-
tion of the domestic investment program and the identification and removal of
the major development bottlenecks.
19.       In response to Cameroon's changing needs, the Bank's economic and
sector work program is now emphasizing a broadening of the macro-economic
and sectoral policy dialogue with the Government and the implementation of an
integrated program of technical assistance to the central and technical
ministries. With regard to short- and medium-term policy options, the dialogue
is expected to include: the pace and pattern of oil and gas development; the
size and composition of the public investment program; improvements in resource
allocation; the roles of the private and public sectors; technical and other
skilled manpower constraints and needs; and Government administrative reform.
The dialogue on longer-term issues will probably cover basic agricultural and
industrial policy options and related manpower development needs. A study on
agricultural policy options is nearing completion and will be discussed with
the Government shortly. The Bank earlier completed a basic study of indus-
trialization and incentives leading to the provision of technical assistance
to strengthen the Government's capacity to analyze and reformulate industrial
policies. Studies and dialogue on the role of the public sector in industrial
development and on the framework of industrial, agricultural and housing
financial intermediation are also planned.
Donor Activities
20.       Disbursements of official development assistance during the second
half of the 1960s amounted to about US$45.0 million a year, mostly in the form
of grants. France provided most of the assistance. In the 1970s, foreign aid
increased to about US$90 million a year, with only one-fifth in the form of
grants. Bank and IDA financing amounted to about 23 percent of total disburse-
ments and the Bank Group became the major public donor. Bank Group lending to
Cameroon has been closely coordinated with that of other donors; in 20 of the
41 Bank projects, joint or parallel financing was arranged and expanded
cofinancing is being actively sought for several projects under consideration.
21.       Cameroon is now borrowing increasingly from private sources; such
borrowing rose to over 40 percent of external financing in 1975-79, from only
11 percent in 1967-69. Public external debt outstanding and disbursed as of



- 6 -
December 31, 1981, amounted to US$2.0 billion, 8.2 percent of which was in
the form of Bank loans and 8.5 percent in IDA credits. Bank loans in 1981
accounted for 7.8 percent of public external debt service and IDA credits for
3.2 percent. By 1985, Bank loans and IDA credits are projected to account for
about 26 percent of debt outstanding and about 14 percent of debt service.
PART III - THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
Transport System
22.       Cameroon's transport system is import/export oriented.  The focal
point of the network is Douala, the country's principal commercial center,
main seaport, and site of the principal international airport. The main
transport arteries are the Trans-Cameroon corridor to the North (Douala-Edea-
Yaounde-Chad border) and the axis to the West (Douala-Bafoussam-Foumban). An
efficient transport system is important for the country's economic development
and regional integration, as well as for the transit traffic to and from the
landlocked neighboring countries Chad and the Central African Republic.
23.       The transport system consists of some 65,000 km of roads; 1,153 km
of railway; one principal and three secondary seaports; one seasonal river
port; and two international and 13 smaller domestic airports.
24.       Douala, the main seaport and commercial center, handles about 90
percent of Cameroon's foreign and transit trade. Chad to the north east and
increasingly Central African Republic to the east rely on Cameroon's transport
system and on Douala port for access to the sea and to international markets.
The port of Douala is managed by the National Port Authority of Cameroon, an
autonomous public corporation. The fast rate of traffic growth at Douala
port underscores the need for the Port Authority to further expand and
upgrade port capacity as envisaged under the proposed project.
25.       The railway and road system provide the most important transport
links within and across Cameroon. Road transport is the dominant mode
with a road network comprising 2,400 km of paved roads, 30,000 km of gravel
and earth roads and 32,000 km of unclassified earth tracks. The density of
the road network varies considerably throughout the country, with concen-
tration in the economically active and more populated areas. Paved roads
represent only four percent of the network, but carry nearly 50 percent of
the road traffic. The classified road network has grown by about six percent
per year since 1972 and continued growth and upgrading is envisaged.
26.       The railway is operated by REGIFERCAM, an autonomous state agency.
Despite growing traffic and periodic tariff increases, REGIFERCAM's operational
deficit continues. However, with the assistance of the Bank and other donors
REGIFERCAM is taking steps to upgrade its infrastructure and improve its
operations, marketing and tariff policies that should in the longer term



- 7 -
lead to improved financial performance. Meanwhile, the proposed realignment
of the Trans-Cameroon railway line, together with the ongoing construction of
the Douala-Yaounde road, should enhance inland transport links to Douala port.
Transport Planning
27.       The Government's principal objectives in the transport sector
are to promote regional and foreign trade, improve access to agricultural
areas and facilitate the marketing of foodcrop production. Under the Second
and the Third Plans (1966-71 and 1971-76 respectively), high priority was
given to establishing basic transport infrastructure, and transport sector
investment amounted to 37 percent of total public investment under the Third
Plan. Under the Fourth Plan (1976-81), however, higher relative priority was
given to directly productive sectors and transport's share fell to 27 percent
despite increasing in absolute terms by about one-third. Similarly, in line
with relative sectoral needs, the planned share for the transport sector under
the Fifth Plan is 21 percent. While the proportion of transport investment in
total investment has been reduced, its realization has remained to a large
extent dependent upon foreign financing. Also, the absorptive capacity in the
transport sector is limited and actual investments lag behind planned levels.
However, efforts are being made, with the assistance of the Bank and other
donors, to increase Government's capabilities to plan and manage transport
investments.
28.       The Ministry of Transport (MOT) and the Ministry of Equipment (MINE)
are the principal Government agencies in charge of the planning and implemen-
tation of transport projects. However, their staffing is limited both in
numbers and in their capacity to prepare and evaluate more complex investment
programs. As a result of the ongoing dialogue between the Government and the
Bank on sector policies, steps are being taken to improve the planning mecha-
nisms. Plans are well advanced to establish a Planning and Coordination
Division in MOT. Consultants have been recruited under Bank-financed projects
to provide technical assistance and training to the transport sector. The
National Port Authority (NPA) and REGIFERCAM have overall responsibility for
planning and implementation of projects in their respective sub-sectors. NPA
is to receive technical assistance under the proposed Third Douala Port
Project to improve its long-term planning, management, and implementation
capabilities. MINE, NPA and REGIFERCAM have also taken steps to improve their
operational and planning capacity with Bank assistance. These measures are
designed to help increase efficiency and productivity of the transport sector.
The Government, recognizing the further need for improved and more comprehen-
sive planning, has requested advice from the Bank to carry out an overall
transport sector survey which will be part of the recently approved Fifth
Highway Project. This survey would provide longer-term perspectives on key
sector issues such as intermodal choice, policy formulation, investment
criteria and resource allocation and would also provide a sound basis for the
preparation of the transport component of future development plans.



-8-
The Port Subsector
29.       Douala is the focal point for most port activity in the Cameroon.
It is the site of the major port handling about 90 percent of Cameroon's
foreign and transit trade and serving the landlocked neighbouring countries
of Central African Republic and Chad. Three other smaller coastal ports are
located at Kribi, Tiko and Victoria-Pointe Limboh while a small seasonal
river port is based at Garoua.
30.       Traffic through Douala port has been increasing rapidly in recent
years. Total foreign traffic grew from 1.7 million tons in 1969 to 2.0
million t6ns in 1975 and 3.3 million tons in 1980 or by average annual rates
of 3.2 percent and 10.9 percent for the two periods, respectively. Most of
the traffic consisted of general cargo.  In line with the fast growth in GDP
(8.1_percent p.a. between FY1976 and FY1981), general cargo tonnage increased
by the late 1970s at an average of 10 percent per year and is expected to
contifiue to grow on average at about 8 percent per year during the 1980s.
Container traffic has been increasing very rapidly during the past few years
reaching about 550,000 tons in 1981. Containerized traffic is expected to
grow faster than general cargo, increasing from 27 percent of general cargo
traffic in 1981 to an estimated 55 percent by 1990.
31.       The Cameroonian Government and NPA have attached great importance to
the development of Douala port to enable the port handle the rapid increases
in traffic. The NPA, assisted by the World Bank and other donors, has success-
fully carried out major extensions at the port. The First Douala Port Project
(Credit 229-CM, 1971), with physical works satisfactorily completed in 1974,
increased Douala's handling capacity for industrial raw materials and logs
through the construction of a new deep-water berth, the provision of a shallow
draft quay, and related facilities and services for log handling, the acquisi-
tion of a small cutter suction dredger and the provision of consultancy and
advisory services. The project performance audit report (No. 1604, May 24,
1977) for the project concluded that, despite a two-year delay in the comple-
tion of works due in part to delays in contract awards, the project succeeded
in removing serious bottlenecks in the Cameroon's port capacity and contributed
significantly to the definition of a long term port development strategy,
including improvements in the institutions concerned and in the financial
situation.
32.       The Second Douala Port Project (Loan 1321/Credit 657 CM, 1976)
involving 12 cofinancers aimed at providing a substantial capacity expansion
and operational improvements by providing a new fishing port and ship repair
facility, a new log port and two container berths, two roll-on/roll-off
berths, and channel dredging. The loan and credit for the project have been
fully disbursed and the project has been successfully completed, except for
the channel deepening which should be completed in 1983. Construction experi-
enced some cost overruns which were financed by NPA and the Government. In
both the first and second projects, NPA complied with all principal credit and
loan covenants. However, since the capital dredging under the Second Port
project has not been completed and the new channel established, NPA has not



- 9 -
yet been able to prepare the required maintenance dredging program. NPA has
agreed to submit this program to the Bank by March 31, 1984 for review and to
carry out the necessary maintenance works in accordance with the agreed
program (Section 4.02(b) of the draft Loan Agreement). Preparation of the
maintenance dredging program as well as a comprehensive study of further
deepening of the channel are included in the proposed project.
33.       The proposed Third Douala Port Project would complement and extend
work carried out under two previous port projects by further increasing
capacity at Douala port in line with traffic growth, modernizing port facili-
ties, and improving operations and management at the port. There are, at
present, no firm plans for a fourth project. However, an overall review of
the port subsector, including existing and ongoing studies and future project
possibilities, will be carried out under the proposed project. Among the
major ongoing studies to be reviewed are those regarding a possible new deep-
water port in the south near Kribi with related inland transport infrastructure
aimed at opening up the southern part of the country to enable exploitation of
the region's natural resources, particularly timber and minerals.
The National Port Authority (NPA)
34.       Douala port and the other minor ports in Cameroon are managed by
the National Port Authority which was established in 1972 in connection with
the Bank's first port project. The NPA is a financially and operationally
autonomous public corporation for administration, maintenance, and construc-
tion of all coastal and river ports, for the maintenance of navigational aids
and for the management of industrial port activities.
35.       NPA is governed by a 12-member Board of Directors consisting of
representatives from the major government ministries and from institutions in
the transport sector. NPA is managed by a Director General and two deputies
to the Director General appointed by presidential decree. NPA has operational
and financial autonomy under the general supervision of MOT. The Government
is responsible for approving tariff changes and for covering NPA's losses, if
any.
Organization and Management
36.       NPA's organization is generally sound and  adapted to its present
needs. Its management and administration have improved substantially with
technical assistance provided under the two previous Bank-financed projects.
Under the Second Douala Port project, NPA started developing a "staff and
line" organization. Finance, Training, and Management Control and Budgeting
Departments have been created, and well-trained Cameroonian staff has been
recruited, assisted by expatriate experts. In continuation with this sound
and basically successful policy, NPA has decided to develop "staff" positions
using modern management techniques. Therefore, as part of the implementation
of an Action Plan for Organizational Development agreed upon by NPA and the
Bank, NPA will reinforce various key departments including the Computer,
Personnel Finance, and Port Access Departments by recruiting needed technical



- 10 -
and managerial staff, undertaking specialized training programs and preparing
by June 30, 1984 a full five-year corporate plan (Section 4.01 of the draft
Loan Agreement). Under the proposed project 42 staff-months of consulting
services would be provided to assist NPA in this task.
37.       As a consequence of the rapid expansion of the port, corporate
planning was initiated under the second Bank-financed port project, and
training and financial plans were elaborated. These efforts will be continued
and consolidated by establishing, with Bank assistance, a Corporate Planning
Department, which will have overall responsibility for financial and opera-
tional planning as well as coordination of investment and manpower plans.
38.       In parallel with the modernization of its organization, NPA's
management information system has been developed, including the establishment
of an effective costing and budgeting system, and the preparation of a statis-
tical system for operation statistics following UNCTAD recommendations.
However, the further development of the management information system is
severely restricted by the lack of NPA's data processing capacity. Therefore,
NPA has hired an expert, to be retroactively financed under the proposed
project, to prepare an urgently needed long-term plan for data processing.
The proposed project would also finance hardware and technical assistance for
software requirements for the first three years of this plan. To complement
NPA's future data processing capacity by an efficient internal information
system, NPA will improve its records office, documentation center, and
internal communication system.
Finances
39.       NPA's past financial policy was generally sound and consistent with
its long-term financial commitments. Since 1975, NPA undertook major capacity
extensions financed mainly from borrowed funds including two Bank loans. Debt
service, therefore, increased sharply from CFAF 2 million in FY1976 to CFAF
1,877 million in FY1981. In the past, NPA was able to increase considerably
its cash generation to service its debt and to contribute to the financing of
its capital investment as a result of timely tariff increases and adequate
cost control. Recently, however, financial and liquidity problems have arisen
because major works to increase port capacity were undertaken 18 months
earlier than originally planned, with significant financial contributions from
NPA. The accelerated investment policy has put a strain on NPA's liquidity
position and necessitated the use of short-term funds to finance part of the
capital investment. The liquidity shortage was accentuated by excessive
commercial receivables equivalent to three months of revenue.
40.       In the future, NPA will have to meet rising debt service of an
estimated CFAF 4 billion in FY1986, due in part to the expiration of the grace
periods of loans for the Second Port Project. However, capital investment
needs in the next few years are smaller than in the past, and therefore, debt
service increase should be moderate. As future traffic growth prospects are
favorable, NPA will be able to achieve the necessary cash generation of CFAF
8.2 billion by FY1986, to (i) service its debt; (ii) contribute substantially
to future capital investments; and (iii) restore an adequate working capital.



- 11 -
To achieve this, a Financial Action Plan was agreed upon by the Bank and NPA
to ensure that necessary actions will be taken in a timely manner (Section
4.01 of the draft Loan Agreement). Under the Financial Action Plan, NPA
will: (i) revise the tariff structure to better reflect the full cost of
services provided to port users, including direct costs, depreciation, finan-
cing costs and overhead; (ii) eliminate bank overdrafts by December 31, 1983;
(iii) reduce commercial receivables to not more than two months of revenue by
June 30, 1984; and (iv) raise its contribution to its capital investment
program to 17 percent by FY1984 and 40 percent by FY1986.  Moreover, NPA has
agreed to target rates of return on net revalued fixed assets of 4.5 percent
in FYs 1983-85 and 5.5 percent thereafter (Section 5.04 of the draft Loan
Agreement). Recent tariff increases have brought average tariffs to a level
adequate to achieve the initial rate of return target and the Government
recognizes the importance of adequate tariffs for NPA's financial viability
and for ensuring that the economic benefits of the proposed project accrue to
Cameroon.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
41.       The extension of capacity at Douala port, the modernization of
existing facilities and the improvement of operations and management have
been accorded high priority by the Government because existing facilities
were becoming increasingly insufficient to handle the growing traffic result-
ing from Cameroon's rapid economic development. When the port extensions are
completed by 1988, they should permit the port to handle a total general
cargo tonnage of about 4.5 million tons as compared with a general cargo
traffic volume of 2.0 million tons in 1981.
42.       The proposed project is primarily based on an earlier investment
program initiated for Douala Port in the late 70s. The original program was
relatively complex and expensive. During subsequent reviews undertaken by the
Government in consultation with the Bank, economically unjustified elements
of the investment program such as the ALUCAM transfer and a new clinker berth
were deleted. Based on consultants' preliminary feasibility study, the
scope of the proposed project was further refined during preappraisal work in
1980/81. The appraisal mission was based on detailed engineering and project
studies prepared by consultants.
43.       After the appraisal mission in April 1981, a brief post-appraisal
mission took place in May 1982. Negotiations were held in Washington from
January 11 to 14, 1983. The Cameroonian delegation was led by H. E. Paul
Pondi, Ambassador to the United States. The Staff Appraisal Report No.
3803-CM is being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.



- 12 -
44.       The complicated soil conditions at the proposed location of the
new berths, and uncertainties about the existing workloads of prequalified
contractors made reliable project cost estimation for the civil works component
difficult. Accordingly, NPA decided to receive tenders prior to negotiations
so that cost estimates could be adjusted as necessary. In addition, the
scope of the project was increased at Government request during post-appraisal
with the addition of a container berth to meet growing demand and realize
economies of scale in civil works. Bids were recently opened and the civil
works contract is scheduled to be awarded immediately after Board approval of
the proposed loan so that construction work would begin soon thereafter. Due
to the advanced state of contract processing, it is therefore estimated that
the loan will be fully disbursed within five years.
Project Objectives and Description
45.       The project would assist NPA to provide additional capacity at
Douala port in line with traffic growth and to improve navigational safety in
the port including the port's ability to handle larger ships by replacing
an old tugboat. The project would also provide technical assistance for a
port subsector study and to further strengthen NPA's administrative and
operating efficiency, particularly at Douala port. Specifically, the proposed
project would consist of:
(i) Civil Works for port extension involving: (a) construction of
one 200 m container berth and two 200 m multipurpose marginal berths
for handling mixed general cargo and, at one berth, also for loading
fruit; (b) construction of a partly ventilated warehouse for storage
of fruit and general cargo; and (c) construction of access roads and
a railway spur on the apron of one berth to handle heavy loads.
(ii) Port Equipment consisting of: (a) mobile conveyors for storage of
fruit in the ventilated part of the warehouse and loading of fruit
into ships, (b) a tugboat of 1,700 hp; and (c) buoyage and electronic
positioning equipment.
(iii) Data Processing for NPA: (a) a central processing unit and auxi-
liary equipment; (b) technical assistance for data processing
planning and for software for management and technical operations.
(iv) Technical Assistance for NPA: 183 staff-months of consulting
services for (a) supervision of construction; (b) establishment of
a staff evaluation and incentives sytem; (c) staff and manpower
planning and personnel administration; (d) organization of the NPA
records office for filing and processing technical, economic and
managerial information; (e) study of the future development of the
port subsector; (f) studies of dredging requirements at the Port of
Douala; and (g) study of navigational-aid improvements at the
Port.



- 13 -
Implementation
46.       NPA will be responsible for overall project implementation.  It
will be assisted by consultants primarily for the supervision of civil works
and tugboat construction, the review of the present data processing system,
manpower planning, and administration. Project implementation is expected to
take five years, beginning in late 1983 and ending by late 1988.
Civil Works for Port Extension
47.       The container berth and the two multi-purpose marginal berths in
9.5 m water depth for the handling of general cargo and fruit will all together
be 600 m long, and will be built steel sheet piling. The partly ventilated
warehouse will measure approximately 46 m wide by 146 m long and will provide
transit storage for fruit and general cargo. The apron railway siding at one
of the new berths was designed to handle heavy loads. The proposed project
provides for 66 staff-months of consulting services for supervision of civil
works and tugboat construction.
48.       Taking into account projected traffic growth, the container berth
will be required by about 1988, its planned first full year of operation.
Construction of this berth in continuation of the construction of the two
multipurpose berths would reduce overall construction costs. However, as the
appropriate timing of its construction is dependent on actual traffic growth,
disbursement of funds for it would be subject to confirmation, satisfactory to
the Bank, that it remains economically justified (Schedule 1 of the draft Loan
Agreement). To avoid potential excess capacity of berths if container cranes
were included, NPA will not acquire such cranes unless their justification,
acceptable to the Bank, is established (Section 5.06(b) of the draft Loan
Agreement).
Port Equipment
49.       The proposed equipment consists of mobile conveyors for storage and
loading of fruit and a tugboat of 1700 hp with approximately 25-ton bollard
pull. The new tugboat is to replace an existing old tug boat still in opera-
tion. 16 staff-months of consultants services under the proposed project are
envisaged to help establish performance specifications for the tugboat and
supervise its construction, and for reception of the fruit-handling equipment.
Data Processing for NPA
50.       Because of NPA's need to acquire its own data processing system,
technical assistance is urgently needed for the assessment of NPA's present
data processing system and for the preparation of a long-term data processing
development plan. The proposed project provides for eight staff-months of
consulting services to prepare the long-term development plan, to be submitted
to the Bank for agreement by September 30, 1983 (Section 3.02(a) and Schedule
1 of the draft Loan Agreement). The proposed project will also provide
necessary hardware for the implementation of the agreed data processing plan,
and 75 staff-months of technical assistance for software needed for the
adaptation and improvement of the existing data processing chains.



- 14 -
Technical Assiatance for NPA
51.       To further improve its organization and management efficiency, NPA
needs to strengthen its administrative and manpower planning systems. For
that purpose, the proposed project provides for 18 staff-months of technical
assistance for manpower planning and personnel administration, 10 staff-months
for the establishment of a staff evaluation and salary incentives system, and
14 staff-months for the organization of the NPA records office for filing and
processing technical, economic and managerial information. In addition, 12
staff-months are provided for a comprehensive port subsector study (para. 33),
30 staff-months for dredging studies and 17 staff-months for the improvement
of navigation in the Port of Douala (para. 32).
Costs and Financing
52.       The total cost of the project net of taxes is estimated at USS32.8
million.  Foreign exchange cost is estimated at US$22.3 million or 68 percent
of total cost. Project costs are based on January 1983 prices. Cost for
civil works were based on detailed engineering and actual bid prices received
before negotiations. Physical contingencies were estimated at 15 percent for
all civil works, mainly because of the uncertainty of soil conditions in the
construction area. Price contingencies have been calculated at average annual
rate of about seven percent for foreign costs and 12 percent for local costs.
The proposed loan would allow for up to US$100,000 of retroactive financing
for expenditures incurred after July 1, 1982 for urgently needed technical
assistance for the preparation of the data processing plan and for the perfor-
mance specification of the tugboat. The loan would provide for a total of
183 staff-months of consulting services and 83 staff-months of technical
assistance for data processing at an average cost of US$12,000 per staff-month
including per diem, transportation and other reimbursable expenses. These
unit costs are in line with prevailing billing rates of consulting firms
operating in Cameroon. Total financing required for the project is US$33.0
million including a US$167,494 front-end fee on the proposed Bank loan.
53.       The proposed Bank Loan of US$22.5 million would finance 68 percent
of the estimated financial requirements, including the front-end fee, and
would cover 100 percent of the foreign exchange cost of the project. NPA
would finance the remaining 32 percent of total project costs or 100 percent
of local costs. The Government would forego all taxes through a general tax
exemption for the project.
Procurement and Disbursement
54.       All civil works and equipment for the project will be procured
under international competitive bidding procedures following Bank guidelines.
The computer will be procured under international competitive bidding following
the performance specifications prepared by the consultants for electronic data
processing planning, financed under the proposed project. Consultants will be
selected and recruited following Bank group guidelines and appointed on terms
acceptable to the Bank.



- 15 -
55.       The Bank loan would be disbursed over five years to cover the
following expenditures: (i) 63 percent of the total cost of civil works;
(ii) 89 percent of the total cost of fruit handling equipment; (iii) 100
perceilL of -he tugboat, buoya8e dutad electronic positioning equipment and
data processing equipment; (iv) 69 percent of the total cost of consultants'
services; and (v) 80 percent of the total cost of technical assistance for
data processing. US$6.3 million would be unallocated. All disbursement
applications would be fully documented. A special condition of disbursement
of funds for data processing hardware and software would be that NPA submit a
long-term data processing plan satisfactory to the Bank (Section 3.02 of the
draft Loan Agreement). Disbursement of funds for fruit handling equipment
would be contingent on the Government's and NPA's providing the Bank with
satisfactory assurances that the equipment will be used for the intended
purpose. Disbursement of funds for the container berth would be subject to
confirmation, satisfactory to the Bank, that it remains economically justified
(Schedule 1 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Project Benefits and Justification
56.       The project is expected to generate substantial benefits within and
outside Cameroon. The extension of port capacity through the construction of
the three berths will result in reduced ship waiting time for general cargo
vessels carrying goods for Cameroon and, to a lesser extent, for the land-
locked least developed countries of Central African Republic and Chad. The
transfer of fruit loading to one of the new multi-purpose berths will also
enable reduced damage to fruit due to improved cargo handling and elimination
of the clinker dust that was common at the existing berth. This would not
only eliminate unfavorable environmental conditions, but would also result in
greater returns to fruit exporters and producers as the price of fruit should
increase with improved quality. The project would, furthermore, reduce ship
service time for reefer vessels--specialized ships to handle cargo under
temperature-controlled conditions--and hence reduce transport cost. Acquisi-
tion of a new tugboat would improve handling of ships at the port and would
reduce time losses for berthing and unberthing. Unquantified benefits of the
project include improved working conditions for dockers loading fruit, employ-
ment generated during project construction, cost savings due to the elimina-
tion of clinker dust, and minor reduction in ship waiting time for clinker
vessels scheduled to utilize in future the existing fruit berth.
57.       The overall economic rate of return is estimated at 28 percent.
Sensitivity tests show that even in the event of a combined 20 percent increase
in project cost and a 20 percent reduction in benefits, the rate of return
would still be 22 percent.
Risks
58.       The project has no major or unusual risks since it is based on sound
engineering principles and port construction practices and would be supervised
by qualified consultants. There is a possibility of higher construction costs
due to difficult soil conditions and variations in projected traffic growth.



- 16 -
Potential risks were taken into account by applying higher physical contingen-
cies, through sensitivity analyses of the economic rate of return computation
and by the inclusion of a disbursement condition for the container berth.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
59.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and the National Port
Authority, the draft Guarantee Agreement between the United Republic of
Cameroon and the Bank and the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in
Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank are being
distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
60.       Special conditions of the draft Loan Agreement are listed in
Section III of Annex III. Special conditions of disbursement of funds for
data processing hardware and technical assistance for software as well as for
fruit handling equipment would be that, NPA would submit a long-term data
processing plan satisfactory to the Bank and the Government and NPA would
give the Bank satisfactory assurances that the fruit handling equipment will
be used for the intended purpose. Disbursement of funds for the container
berth is subject to confirmation, satisfactory to the Bank, that it remains
economically justified.
61.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
62.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.,
March 10, 1983



-17 -                                                                  ANNEX I
Page 1 of 7
Page 1
TABLE 3A
CAMEROON - SOCiAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
CAMEROON                          REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES
AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                                   - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
TOTAL             475.4                                   MOST RECENT            MIDDLE INCOME             MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL      152.1                1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  NORTH AFRICA & MIDDLE EAST
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                    150.0        250.0      670.0/c               1053.2                    1253.6
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAM4IS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)      85.2         108.6     142.5                  610.1                     713.5
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)  5681.0         6781.0    8444.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 13.9            20.3      34.6                   28.3                      47.3
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                          14.2
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                            40.8
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                     2110
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                         11.9         14.3       17.3                   54.7                      35.8
PER SQ. KiE. AGRICULTURAL LAND      38.7         46.8       54.2                  129.9                     420.9
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
U-14 YRS.                           38.9         40.5       41.3                   46.0                      44.3
15-64 YRS.                           57.0         55.5       54.2                   51.1                      52.4
65 YRS. AN'D ABOVE                    4.1          4.1        4.4                    2.8                       3.3
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 1.4          1.8       2.2                    2.8                       2.8
URBAN                                4.9          5.6         7.5                   5.2                       4.6
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       42.9          42.0      42.3                   47.2                      41.2
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)        27.1         22.2      18.6                   15.7                      12.2
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                 2.8          2.8       2.8                    3.2                       2.9
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)
USFRS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..             ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71=100)            89.0        101.0      110.0                   90.7                     100.4
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                     91.3         93.1      106.0/d                 93.9                     108.5
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)            48.6         52.9       61.8/d                 54.8                      71.9
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE         11.5         14.3       15.9/d                 17.0                      18.0
CHILO (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE        36.3         28.0      21.0                   23.9                      15.1
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRT9 (YEARS)    37.2            42.2      47.1                   51.0                      56.9
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                            162.5         133.7     108.8                  118.5                     104.3
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                  ..           ..      26.0/e                   ..                      59.1
URBAN                                  ..          ..       35.07T1                  ..                      83.1
RURAL                                  ..          ..       22.0/e                   ..                      39.8
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                  ..           ..
URBAN                                 ..           ..
RURAL                                  ..          ..         ..                     ..                        ..
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN           48;08.3      30137.8   16503.1/d               14185.2                    4015.5
POPULAT1ON PER NURSING PERSON       3276.4/f,g  2722.2    1154.1/d                 2213.2                    1802.2
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                              535.7/g      563.0/h   370.1/d                1036.4                     641.7
URBAN                              505.371,g   302.071   199.77T                  430.8                     538.3
RURAL                              527.0/E.g   722.0/h   606.8/d                 3678.6                    2403.3
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED              ..           ..         ..                    ..                      25.5
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                  ..           ..       5.2/e
URBAN                                 ..            ..       5.17..
RURAL                                  ..           ..       5.2/e
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                  ..           ..
URBAN                                 ..            ..
RURAL                                  ..           ..        ..                     ..                         .
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                  ..           ..        6.7/e
URBAN                                  ..           ..      22.6/s
RURAL                                  ..           ..       0.57.



ANNEX I
-18 -                                                                   Page 2 of 7
Page 2
TABLE 3A
CAMEROON - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
CAMEROON                         REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
MOST RECENT           MIDDLE INCOME              MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  NORTH AFRICA & MIDDLE EAST
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:      TOTAL                 65.0          91.0     103.0                   83.3                      88.7
MALE                  87.0         105.0     113.0                   96.1                      104.5
FEMALE                43.0         77.0       93.0                   80.4                      72.0
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                    2.0          8.0       17.0                  15.3                      39.7
MALE                    4.0         11.0      22.0                   19.4                      49.3
FEMALE                  1.0         4.0       12.0                   11.3                      29.0
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (7 OF SECONDARY)  23.0            22.8       25.1/d                  4.7                      10.1
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                                ..         47.7       50.0/d                38.6                       34.1
SECONDARY                              ..         23.1/i    26.2/d                 23.4                       23.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)          18.9/f       12.0         . .                  35.6                      43.3
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSARND
POPULATION                            1.7          4.9        7.7/e                31.9                       17.8
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            1.7         31.3      91.0                   71.8                     131.3
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                             ..           ..         ..                  17.9                       44.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                     1.2          2.5        3.4                   19.1                      31.5
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  0.1              ..        1.01/                  0.6                       1.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)       2907.0       3299.0    3833.7
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    43.0          42.7       41.7                  36.5                       10.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)                87.0         85.0       83.0                  56.5                       42.4
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                   5.0           6.0        7.0                  17.7                       27.8
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                  51.2         48.7       45.4                   37.0                      26.0
MALE                                   59.9         57.0       53.9                   46.9                      46.2
FEMALE                                 42.9         40.6       37.2                   27.2                       5.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                 0.8          0.9        1.0                    1.3                       1.9
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS        ..
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS        ..
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS        ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US0 PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  ..           ..     238.0                  507.0                      279.2
RURAL                                  ..           ..      105.0                 200.6                      178.6
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US0 PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  ..           ..         ..                 523.9                     403.6
RURAL                                  ..           ..         ..                 203.6                      285.6
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                  ..           ..       15.0                    ..                       22.1
RURAL                                  ..           ..       40.0                                             3 30.9
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1978 and 1980.
/c   Fiscal year July-June; /d 1977; /e 1976; /f 1962; /g including ex-South Cameroon under British
administration; /h 1968; /i 1972; /j 1974.
May, 1982



- 19 -                                                                                                   ANNEX I
Pageg             Page 3 of 7
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL. INDICATOFF
Notes: Althrsgb the data ace drawn from soueces generaIly judged the -mst authorieative and reliable, it should also be noeId that they may tot be intee-
nationally  -orbparable b--ase of the Ilck of st-ndo-d-ood deifnitloen  and .o.e.pts used by diffocent testeries in colleoting the data.  The data Ire, sate-
eheless.  useftl to describe orders of rngn}tude. indicate   -Anda. and ohtaractrize  cerrain major diffnrenoen betweet aountries.
The referesce groaps are (1) the  osae ocoutty group of the subject  ...nrry and (21 a  -ontly froup nith t-svheac higher a-reage insr than the -contry g-oup
of the sabje- tauntry  (ecops for    "High macma   Oil Exporters" group shere "Middle Inc-  North Afrita ood Middle Base' isohonon becanne of stronfer
socot-cultaral tffhinites).  tI the inference groap dasa the  --erages are pouasion  vighted otithmetit means far each indirator and shoIn only vhe
majority of theoosntries in   grop has data foe that indicator.  CSi-e  the  corage of aaantries smog the indicators depends or the availability at data
and is sat unifors. caation mast be ete-cisod in relatinf acesages of eon  indicator to anathee.  These averages are only useful in coparing the vnoie of
ass indicator etaitme aIoig the countey and refernnte grsps.
ARfA (fthousan.d sq.k .)                                                                          Fopalati'n per Hofifal Bed - Coral, urban, aod coral - PapaRatios (total
Total - Total sarface ones co- rtrlog laod area and inland vatecs; 1979 data.                    urhan. and rorl) divided by thetir respectie number of hospital beds
Agricultural - nEtimate of agritsitoesl ores usad te=porarily or Fe..nanetly                     availoblo  it p=ubli  and peivate general and isoecalized hospitil and en-
for tct.   pastares, Farke  and kitthen gardens or to lie fillow; 1979 dtat.                   hobilitotistcenters.  Hoopitals ate establishmeers pe.mosenCly staffed
by at lesst one physician. srahblinh ont, ptoviding principally custo-
GNF PIR CAPITA (1111) - SNP pFe  -apita estimates at cerrent masher prices, oal-                    dial care sae  Itt tncluded.  Enrol hospitals,  aonet, inolude health
tulated by sass aeneerneon method as W-orld bno  Atias (f978 E-  basis); 1960,                   aod redi-al cent-rs ot permanently staffed by a physicaln (bht by a
1970, and 198f  data.                                                                            medioc    . assistane, ocean, midaife, et-.) vhich offer it-paCient aaasmao-
dation sod potvide a lioited annie of medi-al fatilities-. on ststit-
ENERGY CONS11MFTCON PER CAPITA - hanal.   --saptioe of a-t-eial energy (ocal                        tical psrPsts- eonI ho.iptols include fills peiooipol/geneeol hospitals,
aEd ItGY g ,TO  PtEtE, C    ta PT       alnd hydra-. nualear  nd geotherI eiec-                  'cd easal   hospitals, local or carol hospital    d medicai  and maternity
tritity) it kilogeam  of tool equivaltot per topita; l96, 9197. and 1979                         o          Snet.  Specfali-ed hospitalt aen inleodod only ander total.
data.                                                                                          Admissias per Hospital fed - Teril ourber of ad=issios to or disthoeges
trad hospitals divided by the somber ofa edi.
FiOPULATION ANDi TITAL STATISTICS
Total Popalation, Mid-Year (thousands) - As of Jaly 1; 1960, 1970. aed 1980                  tOUSING
data.                                                                                        Average aSio of Hiusehold (persons poe  hou.shold) -   eotal, arban, and  -oral-
UEbhn Popolation (portent of ttoal) - Ratio of urban to total popolation;                        A housthold  aotsirts of a group of individuals  hoh  share living q--rters
different definitions of arbas aeas nay affect  porparabilily of data                          and their main wealn.  A boaeder or lodger my on my not bh  irclsded in
among tcouttri-; 1960, 1970. and 19S0 data,                                                    the househald foe statistical purposes.
Popularion Projeations                                                                         Average masher of De.sses per roo= - total, urban, and crol - asesageaa.
Population in year 2000 - Cserene populaeion projettions see based on logo                     her of pesons poe room  in all arhan, and  arol octspied conventional
total popalation by age and sot and  their maretlity and fertilirpy Iaes.                    dveelligs, respectively.  DvelliIgt eclade eon-peemnent seractures and
Projection paramters.   for metolity roses comprise of tIres levelsassu=-                    poccuspied porte.
Oa6 life expecttncy at birth iacc'eaanOtt couDtry's per tcaitt aicot          r            Accsoess      Eglectricity  pSeasen  of deellioso)   total, arbor, and  -seal
lane, sod Female life encottsecy stabilizing at 17.5 yeans.  The paro-                       Cpn-entional dwellings with eleattriity  in Ricing qsarters an perent-age
megers for fertilety rote also tact three levels assuring deoite is                          of total, arbas, aed raral dnellisgtrespectinely.
fertility ato-disg to income level and past family planning pIrforranoe.
bach connery in thee assigned one of these nine combinations of mortality               EDUCATION
and fetillity  trends for Projiction  psepos.s.                                            Adj-sted inroillent Ration
Stationaty popslotioa -In a stationary population theer is no geowtb since                     Feimray ahool  - total, maI   and feale - GIros  total, male and female
the birth rite is equai to the death rate, and also the ago  trucItute re-                     ecrollsent of oil ages at the primary Ievel at perentagea of ceap-ctive
matinsoneont.  This Is athicved oely after fertiity  artes decline to                          prcry   ahool-ge populationsi;  or=lly inolades chid .ens a8d h-11
the replaoce=nt len1  of enit net repradctnion rate. when ea-h generation                      yeare bat adjusted for differntt lengths of primary edutation  for
of voren replacem  itself exattly.  The stationary populactionsine was                         Iountriea  itb -nivertal edatio  enrollment naY econd l10  peretnt
esti=tend on the basin of the peojecred oharreteriatica of ne popslation                       aince some pupils are balsa or shone the official school age.
in the ysar 2000, sad the rite of decline Of f-rtility  rate to replace-                     Secoodary achool - tonal, male and femle - Corputed at sbonv; seeodary
meat les'.                                                                                     edu_atioe require  at lease four years of apperoed primary initrctilon;
Year stationary population it -eached - The year wheo  stationary popslatiot                     providea general, notational, or teacher training insfructions toe pupils
se sill he reached.                                                                            Isially of 10 Co 17 yeaes of age; correspondents tourses see genneolly
Populatiom Density                                                                                  etcluded.
Pee aq. kh. - Mid-y-e  population per aquare kiloretet (100 hertares) of                        tti      e        n  (e         of s    dondary) - Veat-ional i-stttions
total aces; 1960, 1970 and 1979 dote.                                                        in-lude teahnical, industrial. oe other progr=aE   whih operate independ-
Far in. he. agrfauleaaL  land - Corpuend as sbore for ag, icalearad   land                     Intly or as departments of seoondarpyinstittens.
osly; 19S0, 1070 and 1979 data.                                                            Pupil-teacher ratio -                       dri=ree  and aecondary - Total  atdents enrolled in
Fopuiation Ago Structure (percet) - Children (0-14 yeses).  arhkieg-age (15-                     primcy and secondaty lenols divided by tambees of  heaters is the
64 years), and retired (65 yearn and aver) as percentages of aid-year pops-                    carrenponding levels.
lotion; 1960, i170. and 19oO data.                                                           Adult literaty rats (pyrsoet) - Literate adults (sbln to tead ond erite)
Fppolation Growth gats (peecentf - total - Aqssal grevth rates of total mid-                     as a percestage of total adalt population aged IS yearn and onee.
year population fee 1950-. 5     9!0-70, and 1970-Nn.
Population GrpYrh Note (peroent) - I   rban-  A..al geoeth raIns of arban pop-               CONSUMPTION
laieti_  foe  1950-i0, 1960-70, snd 1910-80.                                                 Fasisegme Bat (pee thousand population) - Passenger oars corpriae mater
Crude Birth Rate B(per thstand) - Annual live births par thoasand of oid-yeas                    oars  seating less than eight prerson; sacloden anbolante.     , hearses and
popalation; 1960, 1970, and 1980 data.                                                         rilitay  -ehi'les.
Crode Death Rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths pe  thousaod  of nid-year                      Radio iReceiers (p-e thoasand popalation) - All types of ecees for radio
populattos; 1960, 1910, aod 1980 data.,                                                        broadates to geceral public per tlousand of populatien; exolades s-
Iroat Repeodcti-on Rats -Aerage narbee of d-aghters a woan will bhar is                           licensed reteiv.es is constries and it y_et nhes registration of radio
bee norral reprodpttive period if ahl  espcentceta present ago-spec.ifi  fee-                  sets sat in effect; data Ior retest yeats ny eot be  -np-arable since
tility  totes;  .sually five-yean anerages s ding in 1l6, 1970, sod 19ff.                      soot toantiris obotished liaesiog.
Family Flonniog -Aoceptre, Annal (thousands) - Annual anhrbe  of acceptors                     TV f sainess (per theusand population) - TVreteives for broadcast to
of  Itd,h-tontrol devitea under daspie,, of national fa=ily plannieg progrm.                    geseral publiaco r tboasand populatin,; eoalades  Inlien.sed TV receivers
Family Planning - Bser  (percent of maried man) - Feentage of mrried                               Iacanteieasod is yearnsvhea egiaton of TV ants was in effect.
apen of child-besriog ago (15-44 yearn) she ass  irbth-totto-l  de-ite  to                   Nevspaype Cirt-lation  (per thousand population) -  Ihews the a-e-age tie-
all mtriod n_mee it same age gr_ap.                                                            calation of "daily general itereat-newapaper", defined as a periodital
pabliestion denoted peImetily to cncedicg geneal  ne1          It isooss..idneed
FOOD AN1   NUTRlTITN                                                                                to be "daily" if it appnear  at  tn  tear tim    a   wool.
loden of Food Froducti-n per Bpits (1969-11-101) - lndet  of per tOpits annual                 Cinema Atnoal Attendance tee tapita per Boar-  osed on the to-bee of
produotion of all feed toaodit.es,  Perdotion sotr lden s-ed and feed and                      tikoes sold dueing the year, inclnding fdmieie- to drive-in cine-a
is on calendar year basin.  Cesmodities teovr pritary goods (e.g. sagarcane                    sod mbile onits.
inttead of sogarf which are edible adacntaisonutients (e.g. toffee and
tea are excloded).  Aggregate produttion of saah cso.tty   - bhsed on                      LABOR FORCE
notional Irerag. prod-ce- peilt  veighta; 1961-65, 1970, and 19f0 data,.                     Ttal Labor Pecan  (theonsads) - Efconoically attive peesons, intlading
Per capira  supply of calories (percent of regoiraemsts) - Corputed fees aImad Pareas and unerployed bht enaladins  hoasewives, studetnt, eta.,
eneery equivalent of wee feed sapplies svoilable in oontry per topit,                            _einiEg ypolstion of all ages.  Definitnions  Is variauscontries ar
pee day.  Available syppliss cospeise domestic produtti.n, iqpo-ti test                        cot corpasoble; 1910. 1970 and 1980 data.
espores, and changes in stock.  Net supplies estclde sninal lend, sends,                       Feale (perte=e) - Femle labor force as po....rafe of total laboe forte.
quantitiea used in food protessing, sad lases is distribution.  Require-                       Agriculture (perest) - Labhr forte ie forming, forestry, hunting and
mets weree etirated hy FAO hosed en physiological snkds le normal acti-                          fishing on percentage of tatal labor feor; 1960, 1970 and 1980 data.
vity and hbalthi  onsidering snoitenettal tenperature, body ceights, age                       Industry (porcent) - Labor forte in  Inoing, contetr ion  masaFotoieg
and see distribution of populatton, and alloting 10 Percent fee waste at                         ad eleotrioity, ester and gas as psecennage of total iabor frore;
houseobld lenel; 1961-65, 1970 and 1910 dots.                                                    1960, 1970 sod 19f0 data.
Fee caspita aupply of protein (gross pee day) - Frotein cootent of per tapis                   P_artioipatiio  Rote (percet) - totsl, male. sod fele - Participatio  or
sot aupply of food per day.  rNet ouply of food is defined osh ore.  Re-                       aotivity -r-ta  e -orputeds  total, male. and female labor forte as
guiremasts for all countri-s e_tablished by USDA provide fle  rinim                            peetentages of total,  ale and femle population of all ages reaesctivelyi
allI sance  of 60 gross of total proteia  pee day and 20 gesen of animal and                   1960, 1910, and 1980 data.  These one bated on ILO's participatio   rates
pulse protein, of which 10 geaqS  shotld be animl protein.  The-estsnd-                        reflecting  a            --see steucture of ehe populatio., and long ti-e trend.  A
ard  ore loeer thae  thess of 75 gras  of total peotein sod 23 gras  of                        fe- estimates see from national aources.
animal  protein so an seersge fon the world, proposed by FAO in the Third                    Eco-oic Dependenoy Ratio - Ratio of population ander 15 sod 65 ad over
World Food Senney; 1961-65, 19171 and 1977 data.                                               t   hs total labor fore.
Fee capita I o_toin sopply feoe .anml and pul-e - Pentein aspply of food de-
riced fees aoimls cod pusems in grams per day; 1961-65, 1970 sod 1977 date.                INCOE DISTRIBRUTION
Child (lgos 1-4) Dac-h Note (per thousand) - Anonal deaths pet th.o.sod is                     Pserentaig  of PFivate In-    (both in cash owd kicd) - Roteived by rithest
age geoup 1-4 pes, en children in this age group, foe  -so developing  cos-                    5 percen,. riohese 20 pect-ot, pn -reat 20 psecent, sod poorest 40 percet
tries does dseived fees life tables; 1960, 1970 and 19N0 dots.                                 of h..seholds.
HEALTH                                                                                         POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
Life Expectancy at Bieth (years) - Averags sorber of years of life te=ining                    The Rollowing eatirates are         tery sypronimate i eassess of poverty locals,
at birth; 1960, 1970 and 1980 dito.                                                            and should bh  ientepreted mitn cnnsiderable caution.
Infamt MItaality Nte  (per thousand) - Aonnel deaths of infants nder one Fear                  Bnti_ted Absolute Poverty Isorma L.evl Bj oSee caFpita) - aribs  sod coral -
of ago per rhousand line bith.; 1960, 1970 and 19B0 data.                                      Absoluce ponerty iseok-  level is  that inorem levei Ibeln  whih a minimal
Atteas to Rafe Watee (percnot of -epopltion) - total, urbam. ood rurai  - Nr-                   ontritionally sdeqgste diet pla ess.etial sen-Food requiremasts is set
ber of people (total.  urban, and real) with reaseo=le recesn no safe                          affordable.
wator supply (includes treated  -aufate mactsc  as untreated hat  ncontamisated              Renimated Relation Povercy Incom-e LoneR (SO pee topics) - urion and carol -
water such as thet froI  proectned b-eholes, springs, sad sani-any wells) as                   Rourl reaitive poverty inoIce lemo1 is ons-thid  of  aneogo  per .apita
pseo.ntagos  of their Iespective populations.  In s  arban are   I psblic                     PFrsamal iso.em  of the coustry.  UDban level is deIioed frca  the rurol
fRatmain or stasdpst losated sat mere thba  200 matcra fra  a hb se may be                     leel  bith adjuatmant for higher we.t of living is srban areas.
cossidered as being sithin reasonable access of  ihot hbass.  In rural areas                 Rttisoted Popelation Below AbIolute Poverty I-ope LeveI (OILernt) - urban
reasomable atcevs neuld imply that  the hessewife or mesht  of the hbsseheld                   and rural - Peretnt of population (urbaoand coral) vh. are "absolute
do not bhoo  to spend a diapesp-ribanatt  part of the day  in fetthing the                     poor".
family's avater sneds.
Aceess to Ese,e DisDosnaal lerenesm  of sosslotion  - total, urbam. and coral -
Rasher of people (totcl. vrhan, and rosal) mermA by snorata dipso..l am
percoetages of their espective populations. Nooreta disposal pay inlsde
the  .olIeItdam  nod disposal.  sith en eitmeem  treman en, of hmm   e nnets
sad wasis-mater by water-boere systems or the use of pit prinies and simi-
lar nssmallattons.
Populatios per Physisi   - Populatite  divided by  ubser of praetiis.g phymi-                                                        E..n.mit sad Saris1 Data Div iton
ciens qAltified foes a mediSal school at Vniversity leve.                                                                     Rea_Nis Asalymis and Projoetias DIep-ot-it
P-enlation per Nusring Penos. - Population divided byp sabot of proattsing                                                                        Fay 1982
male sod female gsladtenucsem, momimmmms macmom. posesisel oscams and
rmr-tng saniiltantem.



- 20 -                                                 ANNEX I
Population:            8.7 million  (mid-1981)                                                                      Page  4  of  7
GNP per capita:   US$790  (1981)                  ULNITED REPUILIC OF CAMERtOO
ECONIIC INDICATORStl) /a
l17       1973      1974      1975      1976       1977      1978      1979       1980      1981
N4TIOtA  ACCOUNTS
(IN C(3RENT CFAF BILLIOS)
6P at Kaarket Prices                355.9     400.5    492.6    59.9         657.3    719.9      945.8   19135.4  1,390.3  1,703,7
Gross Do5estic Savings               45.3      59.6     109.9      85.9      104.2     158.9     222.9      231.5     2S1.9     373.8
Gross National Savings               38.8      52.8      96.0      72.6       93.7     151.7     211.7      214.2    268.4    341.1
Currmnt Ahount Balance              -24.0     -17.8       0.3    -30.8    -27.1    -23.4         -11.1      -58.0     -39.9    -25.1
Exports of 6oods and NFS             80.9      90.6     132.6    138.S       156.8    209.0    296.0        313.3     410.8    538.8
lverts of 6oods and HFS             -8.5    -101.7   -118.4    -156.4    -189.5    -231.9    -295.9   -355.6   -427.2   -526.2
(Is 2 ot 6DP at Market Price)
6P at Market Prices                 100.0     100.0     100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0         100.0      100.0    100.0      100.0
Bross bmestic Savings                12.7      14.9      22.3       14.8      15.9      20.1      23.6       20.4      21.1      21.9
6ross National Savings               10.9      13.2      19.5      12.5       14.3      19.2      22.4       18.9      19.4      20.0
Cutrent Account Balance              -6.8      -4.5       0.1       -5.3      -4.1      -3.0      -1.2       -5.1      -2.9      -1.5
Exports of Goods and NFS             22.7      22.6      26.9      24.0       23.8      26.5      31.3      27.6       29.8      31.6
Imworts of Goods and NFS            -27.7     -25.4     -24.0     -27.0      -28.8     -29.4     -31.3     -31.3    -30.9    -30.9
(Am1  Real Rates of Growth)
GDP at Market Prices                  2.6       5.5      11.1      -1.7        5.0       8.0       7.3        8.5       6.0       7.0
6ROSs VALUE ADDED BY SECTOR
(In Current CFAF Millions)
Agriculture incl.Livestock etc      111.7    126.7    154.7    193.7    220.8          259.7     305.4      359.2    404.4    444.9
mininm'                               0.8       1.2       1.8       2.3        2.0       3.2       5.2       23.2      76.7    196.7
Ma cturing                           38.3      40.4      45.6      56.2       67.5      74.7      87.4      101.9    123.0    145.0
Construction                         13.7      15.9      19.4      21.6       28.6      42.2      50.6       68.0      84.4     102.0
Electricitw, Gasr Water               4.8       4.8       5.3       5.7        6.7      10.1      11.7       14.3      16.8      20.0
Iranort and Coemunicatimns           26.4      31.9      40.1      49.3       5S.I      57.7      66.9       77,6      90.0    103.0
Trade                                77.3      81.0      88.1      93.9      107.1     126.9     154.1      183.5    202.3    240.0
Public Administration                32,6      33.0      34.4      43,6       45.1      56.3      70.4       Bi.3     100.1    120,0
Other Services                       37.6      51.9      84.7      85.3       91.5     115.9     140.3      159.0    206.1    252.1
Ilprt Duties                         12.7      13.7      11.5      28.3       32,9      43.2      53.8       64.4      76.5      80.0
(As I of Total)
Agiculture incl.Livestock etc        31.4      31.6      31.4      33.4       33.6      32.9      32.3      31.6       29.3      26.1
minird                                0.2       0.3       0.4       0.4        0.3       0.4       0.5        2.0       5.6      11.5
Manufacturing                        10.8      10.1       9.3       9.7       10.3       9.5       9.2        9.0       8.?       8.5
Construction                          3.8       4.0       3.9       3.7        4.4       5.3       5.3        6.0       6.1       6.0
Electricits, Gas and Water            1.3       1.2       1.1        1.0       1.0       1.3       1.2        1.3       1.2       1.2
Transport and Communications          7.4       8.0       8.1        8.5       8.4       7.3       7.1        6.8       6.5       6.0
Trade                                21.7      20.2      17.9      16.2       16.3      16.1      16.3       16.2      14.7      14.1
Public Administration                 9.2       8.2       7.0        7.5       6.9       7.1        7.4       7.4       7.3       7.0
Other Services                       10.6      13.0      17.2      14.7       13.9      14.7      14.8       14.0      14.9      14.8
Import Duties                         3.6       3.4       3.8       4.9        5.0       5.5       5,7        5,7       5.5       4.7
US t1.00= CFAF                      264.8    241.0    230.1    222.4    225.1          247.8     238.6    216.6       209,2    235.3
(Period Averase)
SOURCE:Data supplied b' the Camerconian authorities with reclassification bs Staff.
/a Fiscal Year (JulY 1- June 30) is used with End Year shown in the table.
WEST RICA CP2B
02/07/83



- 21 -                                                    ANNEX I
Page 5 of 7
Population:              8.7 million (mid-1981)
GNP per capita:   US$790  (1981)                         UNITED REPUPLIC OF CAmERON
ECDNOMIC INDICATORS(2)
1972      1973       1974       1975       1976       1977       1978       1979       1980       19S1
GOVERNMENT FINANCE SUMMARY /a
(In CFAF Milliens)
Current Receipts                          56,500    59,308    67,895    83,3?0    98,763   120,q90        162?331   2'O,761   219.2'n   314.7.9
Current Expenditure                       490400    50,590    58,600    70:98    792872    95;'32   1197902   12RB749   1637394   '>1 ' -
Current Surplus with adjust%ents           7,100     8,712      9Y295    12r172    1,9891    25,769    43773'    57,954    76.519   1",06'
Capital E.:fenditure                     13,100    12,951    14,2?3    19_929    2v246.   32-'7,3    45;275    53,846    59?4Pl               - .A
External Assistance (Net)                      0        900        491      -993    -2,3Q5    12,022        27997    -5,774    17,227        97994
(As Percent3ae of GDP)
Current feceipts                            15.9       14.8      13.8        14.4       15.0       15.3       17.2       17.7      15.9       1815
Current Expenditure                         13.9       12.6      11.9        12.2       12.0      12.0        12.6      11.3       11.S       11.7
Current Surplus (or deficit)                 2.0        2.2        1.9        2.2        3.0        3.3        4.6       5.1        5.5        5.9
Capital Expenditure                          3.7   :   3.2         2.9        3.3        4.0        4.1        4.8       4.7        4.2        4.0
External Assistance (net)                    0.0        0.2       0.1       -0.2       -0.4         1.5        0.3      -0.5        1.2        ?.5
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES /a
(In CFAF Millicns-end Period)
Money and Quasi-money                          0    59,530    78,550    94,720   117,780   155,420   194,809   221,831   288?391   362,700
Band Credit to Government                      0      3P470     3M860      5,510      6,551      97M53    14,149    16,731    217149    28-v00
Bank Credit to the Economy                     0    60,760    78,930   101,510   119,970   169y740   236,502   297,918   361I,47   4797400
Percentases or Index: Numbers
Mcney i Quasi-monev as J cf GDP /b           0.0       14.9      15.9        16.3       17.9       19,7       20,6       19,5      20.9       21.3
Yacunde Consumer Price Indexv. /a
(1970=100)                116.3      124.8      143.3      16935      lB5.0      206.8      237.4      259.1      279I1      30A,6
Annual Percentale Chanses in:
Yacunde Consumer Price Index                 6.9        7.3      14.8        17.6        9.8      1. 1.8     14           9tl       7^7        9.9
Bank Crsdit tc    ernmcnt                    0.0        0.0       11.2       42.7       19.9      5C04        43.6       19.2      26.4       74.9
- Bank Credit to the Economn                   0.0        0.0       29.9       28.6       19.2       41.5       39.3       26.0       21.4       72-.
SOURCE:Dzta supplied bt Camerocnian Authorities with Bank Staff estimates and
reclassification.
/a Fiscal Year (Ju1Y 1-june 30) is used. Year indicates the end gear for each
fiscal gear.
/b GDP is for Fiscal Year.
iEST AC;TrA C?2?
02/02/923



ANNEX I
22                                                   Page 6 of 7
Population:             8.7  million  (mid-1981)
GNP per capita:   US$790  (1981)                        UNITED REPUBLIC OF ZAMEROON
ECONOMIC INDICATORS(3)
1972      1973      1974       1975      1976       1977      1978       1979       1980      1981
DALANCE OF PAYMENTS
(IN MILLIONS CFAF)
Exports ot Goods and NFS                   80,915    90,606   132,563   138,946   156,750   209,000   296,007   313,300   410,764   538S8OO
Iports of Goods and NFS                  -98,46i -101,687  -118,440  -156,383  -18,482  -231,900  -295,937  -355,569  -427,173  -526 ,200
Resource Gap (deficit  -i                 -17,550   -11,080    14,123   -17,437   -32,732   -22,900           70  -40,753   -168409    12,600
Interest Payments (net)                    -1,905    -2,279    -5,835    -8,572   -10,196    -9,292   -12,819   -18,584   -21,824   -31,300
Workers' Remittances                          123       165        607     2,160      1,993     2,557      3,254     4,675      4,665     2,400
her Factor Payments (net)                  -6,919    -7,498   -10,120    -9,766    -9,374    -9,266    -6,510    -6,366    -7,010   -13,300
Net Transfers                               2,219     2,857      1,503     2,848      7,103     8,761      4F858     3,01l        692     5,000
Balance of Current Account                -24,032   -17,836        277   -30,766   -27,074   -23,360   -11,148   -58,017   -39S885   -25.100
Net Direct Foreign Investment               2,604    -1,804      3,487     5,443     5,709      1,503     3,091      9,755    21,261    36,000
Total Net Medius and Lona-
Term Borrowing                           13,657    21,552      9,188    13,978    28,613    32,016    24,773    35,928    58S634    77,800
50isbursetents                        16,351    25,071    13,749    20,988    36S458    43,093    51,575    58,180    80,239   100,900
*Aaortization                        -2,694    -3,519    -4,561    -7,010    -7,845   -11,078   -26,802   -22,252   -21,604   -23,100
Trade Credit (net)                           -706       -37      2,343     3,768      2,290    -3,532      2,991       610      3.006     2,700
dther Short Term Capital                    1,218       -54    -4,751    -4,984    -1, 200    -2,287    -2,789   -11,225   -10,070    -9,350
Other Capital n.e.i.                         -44    -1,176       2,772    -3,755    -5,677    -3,365    -1,828        -215       -443      -670
Sross Official International Reserves      12,578    l1,196    20,522    11,116    11,706    13,798    25,358    18.235    40,322    13,000
Net Foreign Assets                         10,400     9,970    18,760      8,110     6,680       -160    14,890    -9,300    22,770    10,040
US St.00= CFAF  (Period Average)           264.8     241.0      230.1     222.4     225.1      247.8     238.6      216.6     209.2      235.3
SDR 1.00- CFAF  (Period Averaue)           276.5     272.1      277.5     271.4     263.4      286.3      286,1     277.6      272.2     294.5
SOURCE:Data suppied bj the Cakeroonian authorities with Bank Staff reclassification
and estisates. Fiscal Year (July 1- June 30) is used with End Year shown in
the table.
WEST AFRICA CP2B
32/07/83



-23-                                       ANNEX I
Page 7 of 7 pages
Population:       8.7 million (mid-1981)
GNP per Capita: US$790 (1981)
UNITED REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
ECONOMIC INDICATCRS (4)
(millions US$ at current prices)
1975    1976    1977    1978    1979    1980    1981
EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
Gross disbursements
Official grants                                 20       24       23      11       18     n.a.    n.a.
Concessional loans                              45       55      122     133      174      128     267
DAC                                           17       32       40      53       83       70      --
OPEC                                           6        3       13       6       20       24      --
IDA                                           16       18       21      19       20      19       32
Other                                          6        2      48       55       51       15      --
Non-concessional loans                          81      123      183     174      348     442      104
Official export credits                        1        9       19      12       75      82       --
IBRD                                          21        8      15       37       30      28       19
Other multilateral                             4        1        3      21       10       18      --
Private                                       55      105     146      104      232     314       --
External Debt
Debt outstanding and disbursed                 372      514      823    1133    1632    1997    2034
Official                                     293      346     508      722    1014    1186        --
of which: IBRD                              50       58      72      102      130     152      167
IDA                             50       68       88     108      127      146     173
Private                                       79      168     315      411      618     816       --
Undisbursed debt                               321      497      543     786    1071       607     550
Debt Service
Total service payments                          36       39      57      103      132     182      200
Interest                                      15       19      28       42       60     103      115
Payments as % of exports                         5.6      5.6      6.9     8.3      9.1      9.3    10.1
Average interest rate on new loans (7)             4.5      6.3      5.6      6.8     9.2      6.2     6.7
Official                                         2.5      3.9      4.6     4.3      6.4      4.9     5.0
Private                                          9.2      7.6      7.5    10.3    12.5    16.3       8.4
Average maturity of new loans (years)              25.3    17.0    17.6    21.5    16.2    24.0    19.4
Official                                        32.0    32.5    23.0    28.9    21.0    26.6    25.0
Private                                         10.0      9.0      6.9    11.1    10.6       8.3     6.0
As % of Debt Outstanding
at End of Most Recent
Year (1980)
Maturity structure of debt outstanding
Maturities due within 5 years                                   77.0
Maturities due within 10 years                                 136.1
Interest structure of debt outstanding
Interest due within first year                                   7.3
a/ End-of-period figures are shown.
West Africa CP2B
2/2/83



- 24 -                            ANNEX II
Page 1 of 8
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
IN THE UNITED REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
A. Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credit (as of September 30, 1982)
Loan or                                                       US$ million
Credit                                               Amount (less cancellations)
Number     Year   Borrower   Purpose                  Bank   IDA/4  Undisbursed
Eleven Credits and thirteen Loans have been            120.34  127.4         -
fully disbursed
320-CM     1972  Cameroon   Education II                         9.0         1.62
575-CM     1975  Cameroon   Small- and Medium-
Scale Enterprises                3.0        0.22
1245T-CM    1976  Cameroon   Education III              17.0                 6.07
673-CM      1977  Cameroon   Technical Assistance                4.5         1.36
723-CM      1977  Cameroon   Rural Development Fund              7.0         3.87
1392-CM     1977  Cameroon   SOCAPALM II                18.0                 0.08
749-CM      1977  Cameroon   Feeder Roads                        6.5        0.95
1494-CM     1977  Cameroon   Feeder Roads                4.6                 4.60
1508-CM     1977  Cameroon   CAMDEV II                  15.0                 2.41
776-CM      1978  Cameroon   Zapi East Integrated
Agriculture                      8.5        2.83
784-CM      1978  Cameroon   Western Highlands
Rural Development               13.0        4.89
1512-CM     1978  Cameroon   SEMRY Rice II              14.5                 0.10
1515-CM     1978  Cameroon   Highway III                16.5                 0.23
1723-CM     1979  Cameroon   Highway IV                 38.0                33.28
936-CM     1979  Cameroon   Railway IV                          20.0        0.00 1'
1734-CM     1979  Regifercam Railway IV                 27.0                23.76
1753-CM     1979  Cameroon   Second Water Supply        21.0                20.76
975-CM      1980  Cameroon   Hevecam II                         15.0         1.86
1791-CM     1980  Cameroon   Hevecam II                 16.5                16.50
1010-CM     1980  Cameroon   Livestock II                        16.0       13.43
1919-CM     1981  Cameroon   Northern Province
Rural Development      25.0                25.00
1920-CM     1981  Cameroon   Small- and Medium-
Scale Enterprises II  15.0                 15.00
1075-CM     1981  Cameroon   Northern Province
Rural Development               12.5        6.76
1168-CM     1981  Cameroon   Technical Cooperation II            10.0       10.0
2073-CM     1981  Cameroon   Post and Telecommunica-
tion Assistance         7.50                7.50
2092-CM 3/  1981  Cameroon   Forestry                   17.00                17.00
2160-CM 2/  1981  Cameroon   Oil Palm/Rubber
Consolidation          50.8                50.8
2180-CM 2/  1981  Cameroon   Highway V                  70.0                70.0
TOTAL                                   493.74  252.40       340.89
of which has been repaid               23.33    6.37
TOTAL now outstanding                   470.41  246.03
Amount sold                   7.72
of which has been repaid   7.72         -        -
TOTAL now held by Bank
and IDA 4/                            470.41  246.03
TOTAL UNDISBURSED                       293.09   47.80       340.89
1/ Balance of $67.35.
2/ Signed on July 26, 1982, but not yet effective.
3/ Approved but not yet signed.
4/ Prior to exchange adjustment.



- 25 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 8
B. Statement of IFC Investments (as of September 30, 1982)
Investment   Fiscal
Number      Year   Obligor    Type of Business    Amount in US$ millions
Loan   Equity    Total
311-CM       1975     BATA          Shoe Factory            -      0.38      0.38
355-CM      1977      SAFACAM I    Rubber Plantation        -      0.81      0.81
430-CM       1979     SAFACAM II   Rubber Plantation        -      0.41      0.41
452-CM      1979      ALUCAM        Non-ferrous metal    7.00    0.93        7.93
551-CM       1981     SCM           Food and Food
Processing          1.12    0.20      1.32
578-CM       1981     SOCAVER       Glass Bottle
Factory             1.70    0.18      1.88
579-CM      1981      SAFACAM III  Rubber Plantation        -      0.25      0.25
633-CM       1982     SOSUCAM       Food and Food
Processing          1.38      -       1.38
Total gross commitments                                   11.20    3.16    14.36
Less concellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                                     -       0.26     0.26
Total commitments now held by IFC                         11.20    2.90    14.10
Total undisbursed                                          3.08    0.22      3.30
C.  Status of Projects in Execution (as of September 30, 1982) 1/
Loan No. 1734       Fourth Railway Project:  US$27 million Loan of
Cr. No. 936         August 23, 1979; Effectiveness Date:  January 22, 1980;
Closing Date:  June 30, 1983; and US$20 million Credit of
same date; Effectiveness Date: January 22, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982.
All contracts have been awarded except for the maintenance facili-
ties near Yaounde, the engineering studies for which have been delayed by
Consultants. Civil works in Douala Station are nearing completion and the
works in the workshops (Phase I, Part I), are progressing well. Procurement
of all equipment, including training equipment, is nearly completed. Remain-
ing contracts for workshop remodeling (Phase I, Part II) are likely to be
awarded early 1983. Technical Assistance for designing training programs is
being organized. Due to the excessive staffing and investments, the financial
situation of the Regie continues to be serious, but due to 12 percent traffic
increase in FY 82, it has recently improved. Regifercam's management is still
weak, but improvements are expected through technical assistance, to be pro-
vided under the project, and to be discussed early 1983.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regard-
ing the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 8
Loan No.          Third Education Project.  US$17 million Loan of July 2,
1245-T-CM         1976;  Effectiveness Date:  December 31, 1976; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982.
Project implementation is about two years behind schedule because of
weak management and problems in dealing with a 34 percent cost overrun in
civil works, now covered by Government budgetary provisions and the US dollar
rise. Construction is completed or underway at 11 of 12 institutions, and the
contract for the 12th is being approved. Equipment procurement is completed
at one school; for all others, most contracts have been approved or awarded,
and the few remaining tender documents are being prepared. The technical
assistance program is mostly completed; some essential services are being
prolonged under Government financing. Two schools are in operation, six are
expected to open in early 1983, and the remaining four later in 1983. The
Project Unit has improved its performance and recruited three specialists, a
condition which we had set up to finance the proposed fourth project prepara-
tion from Third Project funds. Last year, we agreed to extend the Closing
Date by one year to December 31, 1982, and to consider a further one year
extension if good progress was made toward a revised implementation schedule.
However, one more year would be necessary to complete disbursements for the
preparation of the proposed fourth project. Since the main issues have been
resolved and significant progress has been made, an extension of the Closing
Date is under consideration.
Cr. No. 673       Technical Assistance Project:  US$4.5 million Credit of
June 15, 1977; Effectiveness Date: November 14, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
Project's funds have been fully committed and most pre-investment
studies financed by it--largely in agriculture, transport and planning--have
been completed. Long-term advisory consultants are continuing to assist
Cameroonian staff to improve project generation and supervision capacity,
which is being supplemented by on-the-job training and formal training
courses.
Cr. No. 723       Rural Development Fund Project:  US$7 million Credit of
August 4, 1977; Effectiveness Date: January 30, 1978;
Closing Date:  December 31, 1982.
The project's organization and progress continues to accelerate and
to consolidate; construction standards of all but one sub-project are good, as
are their planning, budgeting and accounting. It is expected that with the
available funds about 60 percent of overall objectives will be achieved at
completion. However, implementation has been slow, and Government has asked
that the closing date be extended for an additional year to make full use of
the remaining funds, A follow-up project is under consideration.



27 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 8
Ln. No. 1392        Second SOCAPALM Project:  US$18 million Loan and US$7
million Third Window Loan of August 25, 1977; Effectiveness
Date: November 23, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
The initial loans of US$25.0 million have been reduced to US$23.6
million by elimination of the coastal estate center component. Both loans are
fully disbursed as of October 1982. Further upkeep of immature trees and
completion of processing facilities will be carried on under the Oil Palm and
Robber Consolidation Project (Loan 2160-CM).  Main achievements under the
Second SOCAPALM Project have been the planting of 6,639 ha of oil palms at
Kienke estate (95 percent of the appraisal target) and of 1,746 ha by
smallholders (87 percent of appraisal). The cost to completion is estimated
at US$37.3 million against an appraisal estimate of US$32.2 million.
Cr. No. 749         Feeder Roads Project:  US$6.5 million Credit and
Ln. No. 1494        US$4.6 million Loan of December 7, 1977; Effectiveness
Date: March 7, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
Implementation of the Feeder Roads Project started in 1978. The
project includes creation of the Central Feeder Roads Unit within the Depart-
ment of Highways and a four-year construction program for 2,200 km of feeder
roads. Project implementation is behind schedule because the organization in
charge is understaffed and because of shortage of local funds. The Government
has submitted a modified program for project execution reflecting cost in-
creases, and a decentralized organizational structure, which should permit a
faster project implementation.
Cr. No. 763         Second SEMRY Rice Project:  US$14.5 million Credit of
Ln. No. 1512        February 1, 1978; Effectiveness Date:  April 14, 1978;
Closing Date: September 30, 1984; and US$14.5 million Loan
of February 1, 1978; Effectiveness Date: April 14, 1978;
Closing Date: September 30, 1984.
A satisfactory solution to the problems of dike erosion and piping
has been found, and no new erosion or piping has occurred in a test zone that
was protected. Permanent dike protection is now proceeding. Paddy yields
continue at appraisal estimates. Further irrigation works have been suspended
until existing land is fully used. Thus funds from the original financial
envelope appear to be sufficient to complete dike protection and the project
as far as is presently feasible. The program of resettlement of farmers from
neighboring, over-populated zones is proceeding at a rate consistent with
SEMRY's ability to provide adequately serviced town sites near paddy fields.
The Loan and Credit have been fully disbursed.
Ln. No. 1508        Second CAMDEV Project:  US$15 million Loan of February 1,
1978; Effectiveness Date: June 30, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983.
Disbursements covering CAMDEV's estates investment program have been
completed by June 1982 with a cost overrun of 29 percent in spite of reduced
planting targets: 6,300 ha of rubber (against an appraisal estimate of 7,900
ha; and 281 ha of oil palm compared to an initial estimate of 1,000 ha. The



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 8
closing date has been extended by one year to allow further disbursements
related to the vegetable oil marketing study and the management reorganization
study, both considered essential preconditions for the Oil Palm and Rubber
Consolidation Project (Loan 2160-CM).
Cr. No. 784         Western Highlands Project:  US$13 million Credit of
April 17, 1978; Effectiveness Date:  December 8, 1978;                  A
Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
The project is achieving its objectives and technical and financial
management is good. Although physical execution was lagging behind appraisal
schedules, owing to organizational problems encountered during the first pro-
ject year, improvements have been made in all components with corresponding
increases in procurement and disbursement rates. Government's contributions
to project financing continue to be regular, and liquidity problems due to
delays in preparation of withdrawal applications have been partly rectified.
Government has requested Bank group assistance for a follow-up project extend-
ing coverage to the entire Western Province and the project has been appraised.
Ln. No. 776         ZAPI East Integrated Rural Development Project:  US$8.5
million Credit of April 17, 1978; Effectiveness Date:
October 4, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1984.
Project execution has deteriorated significantly since January 1983,
for a number of reasons which result from an over-ambitious and very complex
design, and a less-than-full support from some Government departments. This
has led to poor production and financial performance. Major problems now in-
clude: (i) lack of efficient, cost-effective management and staffing, whereas
the range and complexity of operations involved would require strong staffing
and control; (ii) structural deficiencies in ZAPI's marketing and credit
operations, exacerbated by inadequate and untimely Government financial sup-
port; (iii) generally insufficient and uncoordinated support from agencies
providing the needed overall support services for agriculture, such as input
supply, marketing and crop protection services. In view of this, a detailed
Aide-Memoire has been sent to the Government requesting specific corrective
actions to the problems. Additionally, the Bank recommended and drafted TOR
for an in-depth study focussing on an assessment of viable options for ZAPI in
the future. Government has responded positively to these requests, has
appointed a new ZAPI director and has accepted the principle of the study.
Cr. No. 926         Fourth Highway Project:  US$10 million Credit of
Ln. No. 1723        August 23, 1979; Effectiveness Date:  November 15, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1986; and US$38 million Loan of
same date; Effectiveness Date: November 15, 1979; Closing
Date: June 30, 1986.
The project comprises training of staff and workers for road main-
tenance, maintenance of about 17,000 km of roads and rehabilitation of 1,700
km through force account and domestic contractors, technical assistance to the
domestic construction industry, two permanent weighing stations, and pre-
investment studies for the proposed project and forestry evacuation roads.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 8
Implementation of the Fourth Highway Project has started after initial diffi-
culties with recruiting consultants, equipment procurements, setting up the
training brigade and the training center. Equipment has been delivered to
three regions and road maintenance operations have started.
Cr. No. 975         Second HEVECAM Project:  US$15 million Credit of
Ln. No. 1791        April 18, 1980; Date:  September 16, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985; and US$16.5 million Loan of same date;
Effectiveness Date: September 16, 1980; Closing Date:
January 30, 1985.
As of June 30, 1982, total plantings amount to 9,429 ha against an
appraisal target of 9,650 ha with a cost overrun of 18 percent mainly due to
higher than expected salary increases (annual average of 15 percent against
appraisal estimate of 10 percent) and costs associated with social programs
not included in the SAR. Growth and upkeep are of acceptable standards, fle
management team is good and HEVECAM's financial situation is sound and dis-
bursements are 97 percent of appraisal estimates.
Ln. No. 1753        Second Water Supply Project:  US$21 million Loan of
December 11, 1979; Effectiveness Date: May 12, 1981;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984.
The aims of the project are to improve and extend water supply sys-
tems in 13 secondary centers and two major cities, Douala and Younde; lay the
groundwork for organizing urban development planning for Douala and Yaounde;
initiate a pilot public health educational project; and strengthen the organi-
zation of the water supply sector. Engineering studies and bidding documents
are completed. Contracts for Douala and Yaounde have been awarded. However,
procurement problems are being encountered with award of contracts for the 13
centers.
Cr. No. 1010        Second Livestock Development Project:  US$16 million Credit
of June 20, 1980; Effectiveness Date: May 12, 1981;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984.
The project faces a number of moderate managerial and technical
problems. Parastatal ranches are under improved supervision which has de-
tected considerable animal losses threatening the ranches' financial viabi-
lity. A review of possible measures to be taken in dealing with the ranches
is underway. One of two slaughterhouses has begun operations. Management and
technical problems continue to make the tse-tse fly eradication program less
than fully successful and corrective measures are being discussed with Govern-
ment. The credit component has not become effective owing to difficulties in
making co-financing effective. However, restructuring of animal health ser-
vices is proceeding satisfactorily in the Adamoua Plateau Zone.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 8
Ln. No. 1919        Northern Province Rural Development Project:  US$25
Cr. No. 1075        million  Loan of January 27, 1981; Effectiveness Date:
June 1, 1981; Closing Date: June 30, 1986; and US$12.5
million Credit of same date; Effectiveness Date: June 1,
1981; Closing Date: June 30, 1984.
Since effectiveness on June 1, 1981, this project has achieved
remarkable results. Despite lower than normal rainfall during 1981, seed
cotton production with 95 percent of the buying campaign completed, is expect-
ed to reach 47,000 tons or about 85 percent of the SAR target of 56,000 tons
for PY1. Food crop production during the first year was negligible, for
1982/83, however, the project estimates to plant about 1,200 ha and 250 ha,
respectively, of improved maize and groundnuts. The project accounts are kept
by computer and the system developed permits the Financial Controller monthly
balances and comparison with annual budgets for each project component. More-
over, reimbursement applications are produced on a monthly basis by means of a
simple program established by the project's Financial Controller. Key local
personnel and expatriates have largely been recruited.
Cr. No. 1168        Second Technical Cooperation Project:  US$10 million Credit
of November 5, 1981; Effectiveness Date: June 16, 1982;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985.
The project aims at improving Government capacity to execute the
Fifth Development Plan. It is expected to strengthen existing national plan-
ning and external debt management systems, to help define better policies and
investment programs in key sectors, and to generate sound projects by stress-
ing the training of Cameroonian experts.  Recruitment of 10 experts in various
sectors is underway and further subprojects (procurement and legal advice) are
being prepared.
Ln. No. 2073        Post and Telecommunications Technical Assistance Project:
US$7.5 million loan of March 19, 1982; Effectiveness
Date: July 21, 1982; Closing Date: December 31, 1985.
The purpose of the project is to reorganize and strengthen the Post
and Telecommunications entity so as to improve its financial 3ituation and the
quality of service and to pave the way for a sound long term development of
the sector.  It provides for establishment of a new operating entity, prepara-
tion of an investment program and improved technical training. The consul-
tants have submitted their diagnosis and proposals for a new entity (Part I of
the Project) which are being reviewed by Government. A decision on a follow-
up course of action (Part II of the Project) is expected shortly.
Ln. No. 2092        Forestry Project:  US$17 million loan, not yet signed.  Not
yet effective.
The project's objectives are to strengthen the contribution of the
forestry sector to the economy through the establishment of plantations for
fuelwood and pulp industry raw material. It is also expected to increase the
capacity of Government agencies to continue the regeneration of forests and to
control the logging operations of forestry concessions. Signing has not taken



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 8
place yet because Government changed the legal status of the Project's execut-
ing agency.
Ln. No. 1920        Second Small- and Medium-Scale Enterprise Project:  US$15
million Loan of September 30, 1981; Effectiveness Date:
October 29, 1982.
The project's objectives are to expand the provision of financial
and technical assistance to artisans and small- and medium-scale enterprises
and to further strengthen institutions responsible for the promotion of the
small enterprise sector.
Ln. No. 2160        Oil Palm and Rubber Consolidation Project:  US$50.8 million
Loan of July 26, 1982; Not yet effective.
The project aims at consolidating investments made under previous
Bank Group-assisted projects. It will help strengthen the financial situation
of SOCAPALM and CAMDEV and will allow the structural improvements needed for
oil palm and rubber development. The project also includes provision for
technical assistance, training and studies and continued support to small-
holder schemes.
Ln. No. 2180        Fifth Highway Project:  US$70 million Loan of July 26,
1982; Not yet effective.
The purpose of the project is to assist the Government in the con-
struction of the Edea-Yaounde section of the Douala-Yaounde road. It also
provides for technical assistance to improve the management of the transport
sector, and to help prepare a national transport plan and future projects.
Implementation of the project is so far on schedule with the exception of the
civil works for lot 7 of the Douala/Yaounde road, where a procurement issue
has delayed start up of construction works.



- 32 -                             ANNEX III
Page 1
NATIONAL PORT AUTHORITY OF CAMEROON
THIRD PORT PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I. Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare the project: 24 months
(b) Project prepared by: NPA assisted by consultants
(c) Date of first Bank mission to consider the project: October 1980
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission: March 1981 (brief post
appraisal mission took place in May 1982)
(e) Negotiations completed: January 14, 1983
(f) Planned date of effectiveness: July 1983
Section II. Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III. Special Conditions
A.   NPA would:  (a) submit to the Bank for review by March 31, 1984
a plan for future maintenance dredging (para. 32); (b) implement the
agreed action plans for financial and organizational improvements
(paras 36, 40); and (c) achieve agreed rates of return on net fixed
assets (para. 40).
B.   Special conditions of disbursement:  A special condition of disburse-
ment of funds for data processing hardware and software would be
that NPA submit a long-term data processing plan satisfactory to the
Bank.  Disbursement of funds for fruit handling equipment would be
contingent on the Government's and NPA's providing the Bank with
satisfactory assurances that the equipment will be used for the
intended purpose (para. 55). Disbursement of funds for the container
berth is subject to confirmation, satisfactory to the Bank, that it
remains economically justified (paras. 48 and 55).



M A- L    f               R                            -,                                                                   is          \'04
N   GER        NooP2d               OA 
GhAtNp                                     CENTRAL AFR CAN                                                                                                  JAMENA
/               ~~~~REPUBLIC      2   -                                                                                                             I)
V                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~K L0O-TR2 C  20 1  I0  PI  101) 22 100 iv)
EGUATORIA   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~IE~6                    2)   40    00    8         0)cGN
GiOO  GUINEAZAR                                                                                                                t     ~    ' -
r   1ON                                                                                             z        CA/
OAvP'CE00AN      G0.ABON                                                          N   IG       E  RIA                /     qivI 
CAMEROON                                                                             M    GIN-g                MA) N)
THIRD DOQUALA PORT PROJECT                                                                                 WA DN
Project   Location                                                                        Ef //AE I                           //
*Notionl capitas                                             /  vCh T-c        v/ANIA I\
vision capitls                                                     04. i 
P-Paed roads, nooa0Sub-diviio  captai.l                                                                          oetjio 
--Jn,poed roads, narionol                 vDitrit cpaptls
--Unpave.d roads, p-ooi-.a                 04-Ee  tonsNv/'                                      GAROGA
--Jnp-vd nod, ditrit O. A npons                                                              I                               (
R I                         6-d.,-                                          S  ~~~~          ~          ~~~~~~~E IVCv  N,
a.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Z 
/    -~ ~ ~~w
A                                  Ae
K-- ~ ~ ~    ~       ~       ~       ~      ~       ~      ~      vv-         -
NIGER        IA   ~~~B~ b,         AM NorCEE                                                                                                                    TR        
5'  K,-.      0Ksa~ be               ~Y..a                                                                               FRcoRA  
.,osc  Wo       FOUSSAMat 
Mtak
mu'd-b                       f~Yp2nso~-C-                                                                                                      R    P BI
Min?srbt        Rsnsgsanso          >E~~~-)Dv  NRv-                                        ' ,s
1)  vbi,l. aas,-, ~                   oi                                 -v-- 
BUEA          6.       NR-~A                  4osac       -
VkinL/~*~QN6bA  ~ / R~0e   0trnook                 -se       As-bnOos                                                    \         -
'b/o~j M5E cc  M   ', br,oo              a          Ab
Ebsd,ke-0iv'5DUD           Akn.n/.Man
M- 5, ,OV  EEsd-acissoo 0                                             O- .-
5.                                                                      -                         -                                 -~~~~~~~~~~~t-s 0-d fC 
EQUATORIALIL   UNE                                                    0AB N                        )-           CO G
GUINEA ~~~~-                 CR.NEnc is)0






, LSX~~~~~~~~~~~ - 1  ... ~'~w                                                                                                                         .x'-   
>~~~~~~ K, --                                                              C    .\1]
,S .,-'< ?t :f -'                                 'AIe2 ,',4,.  ,\.
d  4     0      W      ;''~~~I 2' ANt  tt
R ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~(N' .ACt                          N     '                                             -' 4'DWA    orElNN
S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N '\   /"                                  -,   ,.
-'a''  -'\                                                        y
,AtA~~~~~~~ I                    ?   ? 4   ?  6
At   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MrE
L ~ ~  ~    ~ ~ A ~ --                                



