RESTRICTED
IL-    c                    EST ICTY 
FLE  COPYI tu   lReport No. P-625
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE:
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF THE SUDAN
FOR A
MECHANIZED FARMING PROJECT
July 18, 1968



REPORT AND RECOMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED BANK LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC OF THE SUDAN
FOR A MECHANIZED FARMING PROJECT
1.   I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
in an amount in various currencies equivalent to $5 million to the Republic
of The Sudan to assist in financing a mechanized farming project.
PART I - HISTORICAL
2.   The Sudan applied in 196t for a loan on  a project prepared by a
mission under the FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program for the mechanized clearing
and cultivation of about 625,000 acres. The appraisal mission concluded
that, in view of the uncertainty over the techniques of mechanized clearing,
it would be prudent to proceed with a first stage of 11h,000 acres (of
which 31,000 had already been cleared) at Abu Irwa.
3.   A loan of US $3.3 million was negotiated in November 1966, a key  point
being the establishment of an agency to execute the project. A Provisional
Order satisfactory to the Bank establishing a mechanized farming corporation
for this purpose was issued by the Government but the Legislature in
January 1967 refused to ratify it because of general concern about the
proliferation of autonomous agencies in the country, including the power
and railway corporations which had been recently established in conjunction
with other Bank loans. Thus no loan was signed. However, this opposition
appears to have been overcome.  A Mechanized Farming Corporation (MFC) vas
provi.sionally established by the GoNvenwnt in July 1967, and bhe Bank has
been advised that confirmatory legislation wan passed by the ne,,71y elected
Constituent Assembly co July 13, 1968.
4.   The Government informed the Bank in March 1967  that much of the Abu
Irwa site had been cleared by unauthorized settlers and requested that the
project should be transferred to a new area, Sim Sim, where consultants had
completed soil and vegetation surveys. It was on this basis that the project
was reappraised and reformulated in October 1967.
5.   Negotiations took place in Washington in April 1968.  The Sudanese
delegation was headed by Mr. Mabdi Abmed, Deputy Under Secretary in the
Ministry of Finance and Economics, and included the Managing Director and
the Project Manager of the Mechanized F3rming Corporation, an Agricultural
Advisor of the Ministry of Finance and Economics and a representative of
the Attorney General's Office.



6.   The proposed loan would be the sixth to the Sudan.   An IDA credit
of $8.5 million, the second to the Sudan, was recently signed to help
finance an education project. The following is a summary statement of
Bank loans and IDA credits for projects in the Sudan as at June 30, 1968.
Loan or                                               Amount (US $ million)
Credit No. Year    Borrower          Purpose          Bank  IDA   Undisbursed
Loan 202    1958   Sudan             Railways         39.0
Loan 258    1960   Sudan             Managil
Irrigation       15.5
Loan 284    1961   Sudan             Roseires
Irrigation       19.5           2.1
Credit 2    1961   Sudan             Roseires
Irrigation             13.0     1.0
Loan 440    1965   Sudan             Railways         31.0           12.9
Loan 522    1968   Central Elec-
tricity and
Water Corpo-
ration            Power            24.0*          24.0
Credit 122  1968   Sudan             Education               8.5      8.5
Total                                           129.0   21.5
of which has been repaid
to Bank and others                            14.9
Total now outstanding                           114.1
Amount sold:                      5.8
of which has been repaid      4.1              1.7
Total now held by
Bank and IDA                                 112.4  21.5
Total undisbursed                                 39.0   9.5    48.5
*Not yet effective
Project implementation has been generally satisfactory. The closing date
of the 1961 Loan (284 SU) and Credit (2 SU) for the Roseires irrigation
project has been postponed from June 30, 1968 to June 30, 1969 to permit
some final payments to be made in connection with this project; savings
of about $2 million are expected. Disbursements under Loan 440 SU were
slow initially because of delays in awarding contracts, but these dif-
ficulties have now been overcome.



- 3 -
7.   IFC has made one investment in the Sudan in 1964 in the Khartoum
Spinning and Weaving Company Limited, consisting of a loan in the prin-
cipal amounts of $2h7,000 and L 35,000 and a subscription at par for
12,000 shares valued at $3W4,383 equivalent.
8.   As to future possibilities in the Sudan the Rahad irrigation project
is in an early stage of consideration. The cost of this project is about
$150 million, of which about $80 million would be in foreign exchange. A
preliminary appraisal of this project has been completed, but further
discussions are to be held with the Sudanese Government on various matters,
including the priority of this very large project within the overall develop-
ment program of the country and of the possible sources of finance for it.
No other projects are under consideration at this time, but additional
projects for the railways, power, education and mechanized farming may be
expected to come forward.
PART II - DESCRIPTION OF THIE PROPOSED LOAN
9.   BORRaiER:                      The Republic of The Sudan.
PURPOSE:                       To finance the establishment of ap-
proximately 140 farm units of 1,000
feddans (1,038 acres) each, as the
first stage in a scheme to develop
mechanized farming in an area of the
Sudan aggregating about 600,000
feddans.
AMOUNT:                        The equivalent in various currencies
of U.S. $5 million.
AMORTIZATION:                   25 years, including 5 years of grace,
in semi-annual installments beginning
August 1, 1973 and ending August 1,
1993.
INTEREST RATE:                  6%.
COMMITMENT CHARGE:              3/4 of 1%.
PART III - THE PROJECT
10. A report on the proposed project, entitled "Mechanized Farming
Project" (TO-634), dated July 17, 1968 is attached.



- h -
11. Although irrigation schemes have generally had priority, there
has been some development of rain-fed agriculture in the past two
decades. For example, the extension of the railway eastwards to Nyala
increased the production of groundnuts, sorghum and other crops in that
area. These increases, however, came from farms on sandy soils which can
be cultivated with simple hand tools. The heavy clay soils which occur
over vast expanses of the Central Plain are extremely difficult to work:
a farm family relying on hand tools is fortunate if it can cultivate a
large enough area, during the short period when the soil is workable, to
provide its om subsistence. There are few permanent natural sources of
drinking water on the clay plains and the majority of the residents of
the scattered villages obtain their livelihood by collecting gum arabic
in the wild accacia bushes, or from nomadic herds and other itinerant
activities rather than from settled agriculture.
12. The clay plains are suited to mechanized tilling and harvesting. The soil
has a moderate inherent fertility and, although crop failures due to drought
must be expected about once in five years, the long-term average yields
of short-staple cotton, sorghum and sesame are sufficient to provide a
profitable return to low-input, extensive cultivation.   State owned farms
and share-cropping were tried but, since 1953, private entrepreneurs have
been allowed to develop mechanized farms.
13. The present pattern of private development is exploitative, especially
since the meager staff of the Ministry of Agriculture has been unable to
enforce the existing rules and regulations requiring the periodic fallowing
of land which is necessary to restore fertility. There is no danger of
creating a 'dust bowl' on these soils but erosion does occur and conservation
measures have been ignored by entrepreneurs. The present system of issuing
leases offers little security of tenure, and thus discourages on-farm invest-
ments. In practice, indeed, many entrepreneurs have by-passed the official
allocation procedure and have moved onto any land which is conveniently
situated near roads and drinking -water. In such circumstances, the official
statistics are understandably inaccurate but there appear to be nearly two
million acres of mechanized farms: the average holding seems to be about
1,400 acres and there are about 1,200 acres of crops to each tractor.
1h. The project would be the first example in the Sudan of a systematic,
planned approach to the development of land for mechanized farming. Twenty-
five year leases, coupled with better water supplies and roads, would
encourage investment in adequate machinery and other on-farm improvements.
Adequate machinery and improved husbandry methods would create soil condi-
tions which would help to maintain fertility and in the long term make the
use of fertilizer economic.
15. The Government of Sudan has established a semi-autonomous agency, the
Mechanized Farming Corporation, to carry out the project as the first stage
of an 8-10 year program to more than double the area under mechanized
cultivation.



-5-
16. The proposed loan would finance the foreign exchange costs of the
first four-year phase of this program.  About 140 farms, averaging 1,000
acres each, would be established, but land planning, construction of roads,
water supplies and simple conservation works would cover a somewhat larger
area to allow uninterrupted transition to later phases of the program.
The Corporation would undertake land clearing, recovering the cost (includ-
ing interest) through a 25-year development fee. Rents would cover the
ongoing cost of a small advisory service, which would supplement the
Ministry of Agriculture's extension service by specializing in mechaniza-
tion problems. About one-third of the proposed loan would be used to
establish a farm credit scheme for the purchase of machinery.
17. The cost of the project, including import duties and interest during
construction, is estimated at US $8.0 million. The foreign exchange cost
is estimated at US $ 5.0 million and would be covered by the proposed loan.
Equipment and machinery purchased by the Corporation for its own use and for
the credit scheme would be on the basis of international competitive bidding.
The Government of Sudan has already arranged for the Bank's Agricultural
Development Service in Nairobi to supply a land planning officer and has
requested the services of an agriculturalist from that office.
18. Farms in the project area would grow sorghum for domestic use and
export; sesame for export; and cotton for use in the local textile mills.
Farm incomes, rising to above US $4,000 per year after loans are repaid,
would be sufficient to provide a good incentive t6 farmers. The rate of
return to the economy would be about 12 per cent and the project would
have a valuable demonstration effect and provide much-needed data and ex-
perience for planning later phases of the mechanized farming program. At
full development, the foreign exchange earnings of project farms would
more than offset the cost of imported farm inputs and of servicing the
proposed loan.
PART IV - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHOPITY
19. The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Sudan and the Bank
and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article C Section 4 (iii)
of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately.
20. The draft Loan Agreement follows generally the pattern for agricul-
tural projects in rainfed areas. Particular attention is called to the
following provisions:
(a) The Mechanized Farming Corporation would be required to operate
in accordance with policies and procedures approved by the Bank (Section 5.01
(a))and these have been agreed upon;



- 6 -
(b) The appointment of the key staff of the Corporation is subject
to the agreement of the Bank (Section 5.01 (c)) and the three senior positions
have been filled by qualified persons.
(c) The terms and conditions of the initial leases for farms included
in the Project and of the loans to farmers would be agreed between the Bank
and the Borrower (Section 5.01 (e)). These have been agreed.
PART V - THE ECONOMY
21. An economic report on the Sudan (AF-49a) was issued on January 30, 1967
and was followed by a memorandum on recent economic developments dated
November 241, 1967. It was concluded at that time that while the closure
of the Suez Canal made the short-term prospects for the government finances
and the balance of payments uncertain, economic performance in the past year
has not been discouraging. Since then the Government has succeeded in re-
ducing both the overall deficit of the public sector and its reliance on
bank credit. Indications are that for the financial year which ended on
June 30, the surplus on the ordinary budget will be the largest for many
years. Preliminary estimates show an expansion of 4% in expenditure and
13% in revenue. The increase in revenue was, however, partly due to the
rapid growth of revenue from import duties. Sudan's balance of payments
has been in overall deficit for the last seven years, and reserves had been
run down to the level of about one month's imports at the end of 1967.
Steps have again been taken recently to limit imports, this time by
restricting bank credit.
22. In addition to improving its external position, Sudan still faces
the need to generate more savings in the public sector to support develop-
ment. Development expenditure is at present the subject of year by year
allocations partly related to a Ten-year Plan which was introduced in
1961/62. Major projects in the Ten-year Plan bave been com>ieted and the
Government has for some time recognized the need for forward planning to
cover another period of years and has sought technical assistance for this
purpose. The Bank has been endeavouring to interest other governments in
providing specialists for this purpose and it is expected that some
assistance will soon be provided.
23. Inadequate performance of the Railways, almost the only form of
long distance transport in the Sudan, became a major problem in recent
months. It affected the rate of dispatch of export crops and resulted
in a large accumulation of imported goods in Port Sudan, the country's
only major port. However, the Railways are taking various steps, includ-
ing acquiring additional locomotives, to increase operating capacity.
2h. A number of medium-term external loans have been negotiated since
June 1967 which would raise the debt service ratio from its present level
of about 7% of export earnings to about 13% in 1973 and this trend has been
drawn to the attention of the Government. While there are a number of
weaknesses in the economy, the Sudan, nevertheless, is regarded as suf-
ficiently creditworthy for Bank assistance in the amount proposed for this
project. An economic mission returned from the Sudan in April 1968 and is
preparing a report on its findings.



- 7 -
PART VI - COMPLIANCE WITH ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT
25. I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VII - RECOMMENDATION
26.  I recommend that the Bcecutive Directors adopt the following
Resolution:
RESOLUTION NO.
Approval of a Loan to the Republic of The Sudan in an
amount equivalent to US $5,000,000.
RESOLVED:
THAT the Bank shall grant a loan to the Republic of The
Sudan in an amount in various currencies equivalent to five million
United States dollars (u.s. $5,ooo,ooo) to mature on and prior to
August 1, 1993, to bear an interest rate of six and one-quarter
percent (6k-%) per annum, and to be upon such other terms and
conditions as shall be substantially in accordance with the terms
and conditions set forth in the form of the Loan Agreement
(Mechanized Farming Project) between the Republic of The Sudan and
the Bank, which has been presented to this meeting.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
July 18, 1968
Washington, D. C.



