40OAkJ SS       -60£REST 
FILE  COPy                 ~~RESTRICTED
Report No. TO-634a
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
MECHANIZED FARMING PROJECT
SUDAN
July 17, 1968
Projects Department



CUTRRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Sudanese Pounds (LSd)
US$ 1             = LSd 0.348
tSd 1             = US$ 2.872
tSd  1,000,000    = US$ 2,872,000
IJEIGHTS AND 14EASURES
Metric Units
1 millimeter (mm)   0.039 inch (in)
1 meter (m)       = 39.37 in
1 kilogram (kg)   = 2.204 pounds (lb)
1 metric ton (m ton) = 0.98 long ton
Local Units
1 Ieddan (fed)    = 0.420 hectares
= 1.038 acre (ac)
1 large kantar    = 312 lb of.seed cotton
1 small kantar    = 99.05 lb of cotton lint
1 bale cotton lint = 420 lb approx
= 0.88 international bales of 478 lb
1 kg/fed          = 2.123 lb/ac
1 large kantar/fed
`(kpf)          = 300 lb/ac



SUDAN
MECHANIZED FARMING PROJECT
APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY                                                i
I.        INTRODUCTION                                           1
IT.       BACKGROUND                                             2
A. Mechanized Farming                                  2
B. The Role of Mechanized Farming in Agricultural
Development in the Sudan                           5
III.      TIIE PROJECT AREA                                      6
A. Climate and Soils                                   7
B.  Crops and Cropping                                 8
C.  Settlement, Water Supplies, and Communications    10
IV.       THE PROJECT                                           10
A.  Land Use and Farm Planning                        11
B.  Land Development                                  11
C.  Land Allocation                                   12
D.  Credit Service                                    13
E.  Technical Services                                14
F.  Phasing                                           14
G.  Project Costs                                     15
H. Financing of the Project                           16
V.        ORGANIZATION MIJD MANAGEMENT                          18
VI.       MARKET PROSPECTS AND FARM INCOMES                      20
A.  Market Prospects and Marketing                    20
B.  Yields and Production                             21
C.  Farm Incomes                                      22
VII.      BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION                            23
VIII.     CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS                       24
This appraisal report is based upon information supplied by the
Governrent of the Republic of the Sudan; the report of a 1965 mission con-
sisting of Messrs. Nelson, Kraske and Rinnan (of the Bank), Mr. Storrar (of
Agricultural Development Service) and Messrs. Penniket and Skerman (consul-
tants to the Bank); wad upon the findings of an appraisal mission composed
of Messrs. D.M. Ilaynes (Bank) and E.V. Miller (consultant to the Bank) which
*risited the Sudan in October 1967.



TABLE OF CONTENTS
(Cont 'dT
ANNEXES
1.   Sorghum Production and Exports
2.   Agriculture in the Project Area
3.   Project Organization and Staffing
4.   Financial Tables:
i.   Estimated Costs
ii.   Sources and Uses of Funds
5.   Crop Prices and Farm Budgets
6.   Economic Benefits
i.   Rate of Return to the Economy
ii.   Foreign Exchange Costs at Full Development
MAPS
Map 1     Sudan - Central Clay Plains
Map 2     Mechanized Farming Project



SUDAN
MECHANIZED FARMING PROJECT
APPRAISAL REPORT
SUMMARY
i.        The Government of the Republic of the Sudan applied in 1964 for
a loan to assist in financing a project for land clearance and establish-
ment of mechanized farms. A loan was negotiated in November 1966 but dif-
ficulties arose in enacting legislation to establish the project authority.
Meanwhile the site was occupied by unauthorized settlers. The present
project, on a different site, was appraised in October 1967.
ii.       The project would open up, in a systematic manner, an almost
uninhabited and uncultivated area of about 600,000 feddans (623,000 ac)
which has favorable soils and rainfall and is well suited to low-cost
mechanized cultivations. About 140 farms, averaging 1,000 feddans each,
would be established during a four-year period but, in addition, preparatory
work would be undertaken to allow uninterrupted development of adjoining
areas, which are sufficient for a further 450 farms. The project would
include regional land use planning for the whole 600,000-feddan scheme;
preparation of detailed plans for 200 farms; the construction of roads,
water supplies and project buildings; land clearing; allocation and leasing
of farms; supervised credit for machinery; and a demonstration farm and
technical services. The project would be administered and executed by the
Mechanized Farming Corporation.
iii.      The total cost of the project, including import duties and interest
during establishment, is estimated at ESd2.77 million (US$8.0 million). It
would be financed by farmers (US$0.6 million), by Government (US$2.4 million),
and by the proposed Bank loan (US$ 5 million). The proposed loan, amounting
to 62 percent of the estimated total cost, would cover the estimated foreign
exchange costs (59 percent) and interest during establishment. Clearing
costs (us$0.8 million) would be recovered, with interest, by a development
fee incorporated in each farm lease.
iv.       Farms in the project area would grow sorghum for domestic use
and export; sesame for export; and cotton for use in the local textile
mills. The market prospects for these crops are satisfactory. At full
development, achieved in the seventh year, the farm gate value of produc-
tion of the 140 farms would be about ESd6l0,000 (US$1.75 million) per annum.
The rate of return to the economy would be about 12 percent. Net farm in-
comes would be about LSdl,100 (US$3,200) per year until the initial loans
were repaid and above tSdl,500 (about US$4,300) thereafter. This is
sufficient to provide a good incentive to farmers.
v.        The project is technically and economically sound and suitable
for a Bank loan of US$ 5 million repayable over twenty-five years including
five years of grace. The borrower would be the Government of the Republic
of Sudan.






SUDAN
MECHANIZED FARMING PROJECT
APPRAISAL REPORT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of the Republic of Sudan applied in 1964 for
assistance in financing of a project for land clearance and the establish-
ment of mechanized farms. The project was appraised in 1965 by a mission
composed of Messrs. Nelson, Kraske and Rinnan (of the Bank), Mr. Storrar
(of Agricultural Development Service (ADS)) 1/ and Mr. Penniket (engineer-
ing consultant to the Bank). Dr. Skerman, Of the United Nations Special
Fund, was consulted on problems of mechanized land clearing. The mission
recommended that the project should be confined to the Abu Irwa area
(No. 4 on Map 1), covering 110,000 feddans (114,000 ac) of which about
30,000 feddans (31,000 ac) was already cleared and farmed. The project
included land clearing; the establishment of an independent authority to
provide extension and credit services; and the establishment of a credit
fund for the purchase of farm machinery. A loan of US$3.3 million was
negotiated in November 1966 but, after some delay, the legislation estab-
lishing the authority was rejected by the Constituent Assembly. Meanwhile,
a large part of the Abu Irva area was hand-cleared and new mechanized farms
were established by unauthorized settlers.
1.02      The Government of the Sudan therefore requested assistance for
the present project on a site at Simsim (Maps 1 and 2). This site was
the only area for which full soil and vegetation surveys were available. /
The project is very similar to the earlier one, but gives more emphasis to
the establishment of permanent, efficient mechanized farms. Legislation
for the project is under consideration by the legislature (see para. 5.02).
1.03      This report is based upon information supplied at various times
by the Government of Sudan and their consultants; on the reports of the
1965 mission and a subsequent visit by Messrs. Storrar and Walsh of ADS;
and on the findings of an appraisal mission composed of Messrs. D.M. Haynes
(of the Bank) and E.V. Miller (consultant to the Bank) which visited the
Sudan in October 1967.
1/ Agricultural Development Service is an organization established by IBRD
to provide management services to agricultural development projects in
Africa. It is operated under the auspices of the Permanent Mission in
East Africa, Nairobi.
2/   "Southern Gedaref Soil Survey" NEDECO and ILACO N.V. of Arnhem, Holland:
October 1966.



- 2-
II. BACKGROUND
2.01      The Sudan covers about one million square miles and has a popu-
lation of about 13.5 million. The northern one-third of the country is an
arid desert where agriculture is only possible on a narrow strip of irri-
gated land along the Nile and its tributaries. The more humid climate of
the southern one-third is suitable for a wide range of tropical crops but
poor communications and, in recent years, political unrest have limited
agricultural development. The central plains, lying 100 - 150 north of
the equator (Map 1), have been the main area for traditional farming and
the center for modern developments in irrigation and in rain-fed mechanized
agriculture. It is estimated that some eight million feddans (8.3 million
ac), or less than one percent of the available land, is cropped. Of this
area, about three million feddans are irrigated.
2.02      The economy of the Sudan depends heavily upon agriculture, which
accounts for more than half of GDP and almost all export earnings. The
per capita income is about ESd35 (US$100) per year. Cotton is the main
export crop, accounting for about 60 percent by value of exports. The
importance of groundnuts, both for domestic use and for export, has in-
creased rapidly in recent years. Sesame is exported in significant quanti-
ties.
2.03      The consumption of wheat is increasing, especially in towns, and
exceeds local production but sorghum (dura) is still the staple food of
most of the population. Traditionally, the Sudan produces a surplus of
sorghum but there have been large seasonal variations in exports and in
1966/67 a poor crop necessitated imports (see Annex 1). The production of
sorghum by the traditional farming sector is not likely to keep pace with
population growth (2.8 percent per annum) because of the drift of labor to
towns and to irrigation schemes which give priority to export crops, notably
cotton and groundnuts. In future, therefore, mechanized farms will be
increasingly important as sources of sorghum for the towns, for irrigation
areas and for export.
A. Mechanized Farming
2.04      The first "Mechanized Crop Production Schemes" (MCPS) were state
farms established northwest of Gedaref (No. 1 on Map 1) in 1945. The present
pattern of mechanized farming on the MCPS, however, may be traced to Govern-
ment's decision, taken in 1953, to allow private entrepreneurs to develop
mechanized farms.
2.05      Development has been rapid, especially in the past decade.   There
are no accurate statistics but the total area now devoted to mechanized
farming is probably about 1.8 million feddans (1.9 million ac). Government
proposes to increase this area and new schemes totalling about 2.6 million
feddans (2.7 million ac) have already been selected. The Ministry of
Agriculture will retain responsibility for expansion of existing MCPS but a



- 3 -
new authority, the Mechanized Farming Corporation (MFC), will eventually
undertake the development of new areas, yet to be specified, totalling over
one million feddans: -
Estimated Area
('000 feddans)
Existing MCPS
Officially demarcated schemes                   1,342
Scattered farms                                   500
1,842
Proposed Areas
Expansion of existing MCPS by
Ministry of Agriculture                       1,372
Development of new areas by MFC                 1 274
2.06      The type of farming practiced on the MCPS has been aptly described
as "suitcase farming." The farmer and his workers live in towns or villages
and only camp overnight on the farm during the peak cultivating and harvest
periods. Low cost, extensive farming methods are used. Farmers rely on
cultivating and planting the maximum acreage at minimum cost with modern,
tractor-drawn equipment. Fertilizers and pesticides are not used and labor
is only hired for operations which cannot be mechanized, notably weeding
and harvesting. The official farm size on the MCPS is 1,000 feddans of
crops. In practice, many entrepreneurs have acquired control, through nom-
inees, of more than the legal maximum of two farms or have cultivated land
without obtaining a lease. In Gedaref, only about 870 leases have been
issued although the total number of mechanized farms is thought to be about
1,170 with an average size of about 1,350 feddans of crops. There appears
to be about 1,200 feddans of crops per tractor.
2.07      The only crops grown on the mechanized farms are sorghum, cotton
and 3esame. Few, if any, farms follow a rotation and sorghum monoculture
is a common practice. The Ministry of Agriculture arranges for each MCPS
to be divided into rectangular, 1,000-feddan lots. The local Land Allotment
Board (LAB) 1/ issues leases to only half the total number of available lots
to farmers, the remainder being left fallow. After about four years cropping,
every farmer is supposed to give up his farm and receive a lease to a new,
fallowed lot. This system is understandably unpopular with farmers who face
the high cost of moving and of clearing 1,000 feddans of fallow every fourth
1/   The Land Allotment Boards are responsible to the Minister of Local
Government for the allotment of unirrigated government land. Each
Board comprises the Chairman of the Province Authority, the Senior
Inspector of Agriculture and another representative of the Ministry
of Agriculture, two members representing the Commissioner of Lands
and two representatives of the local council concerned. The Mechan-
ized Farming Corporation will be represented on the Gedaref Land
Allotment Board.



- 4 -
year. It has discouraged any type of farm investment, beyond the bare mini-
mum in machinery and clearing, and has encouraged farming methods which
exploit soil fertility. Moreover, the LAB and the Ministry's small staff
have been unable to enforce the rules, their task being complicated by the
legal rights of usufruct which a farmer acquires after cultivating the same
piece of land for five years. Virtually all of the land scheduled as "fallow"
is under cultivation. Continous cropping has reduced yields to the extent
that large areas of sorghum are left unharvested when prices are low. Noth-
ing is known about the rate of natural regeneration of overcropped land
1nder grass and bush fallow. It is probably extremely slow, particularly
because the grass is burnt off in most seasons by nomadic herdsmen and
hunters.
2.08      There are vast expanses of land with soils and rainfall suitable
for extensive mechanized farming but most areas near villages and roads
have already been exploited and overcropped. Private entrepreneurs seize
any opportunity to move onto new land to which Government provides access.
There is thus a clear danger that the present system may degenerate into
mechanized shifting cultivation, spreading outwards around an increasing
area of worn-out land surrounding each settlement.
2.09      Farm machinery distributors discontinued credit sales in 1960
because lengthy court actions were required to collect overdue payments or
to repossess machinery. Commercial banks may make loans to a well-estab-
lished merchant-farmer but the only official source of medium-term credit
for clearing or for the purchase of machinery is the Agricultural Bank of
Sudan, which requires mortgages on property in towns as security for loans
to individuals. 1/ The majority of existing mechanized farms, therefore,
are now owned by absentee entrepreneurs able to raise additional capital
on the security of their other interests. These same entrepreneurs, or
their nominees, tend to move into newly opened areas, since only they
command the necessary capital for clearing.
2.10      Government wishes to broaden participation in mechanized farming
by making land and credit available to two groups, (a) individuals with
potential managerial and agricultural skill but limited capital, and (b)
cooperative societies. In both cases, official help can only be justified
if it leads to a sound self-sustaining agricultural system. The proposed
project would make a major contribution in this direction by, for the first
time in the Sudan, providing the roads, water supplies, credit and technical
services essential to efficient permanent mechanized farms. Most of the
project farms would be allocated to individuals but a small number would be
leased to cooperative societies and companies.
2.11      The cooperatives that Government wishes to encourage are savings
societies, with 30 or more members, investing their capital in a mechanized
farm with a paid manager. Government has already arranged for the Agri-
cultural Bank to make loans to such registered societies, secured by a lien
1/   The Agricultural Bank has lent only ESd420,000, or less than 4.6 percent
of its total loans, for farm machinery and other medium-and long-term
farm improvements.



- 5 -
on crops and equipment. The societies are supervised and assisted by the
Department of Cooperative Societies which has concentrated its staff in the
Dali/Mazmum area (Nos. 10 and 11 Map 1) where 62 societies already lease
farms and a further 114 are scheduled to start operations during the 1967/68
season.
B. The Role of Mechanized Farming in Agricultural
Development in the Sudan
2.12      Two main soils types occur in the central plains, the sandy "Qoz"
and the heavy clays. The sandy soils, which occur mainly in the north and
northwest, have been the center of development of traditional farming, in
spite of the lower rainfall, because they can be cultivated with simple hand
tools. The southern part of the plains are covered with very heavy clay
soils which can only be cultivated when the soil moisture content is within
certain limits. Hand cultivation of these clays is arduous and a family has
difficulty in preparing enough land, in the time available, to provide sub-
sistence. Until the advent of mechanization the clay lands were used only
for grazing, charcoal-burning, and gum arabic collection but they have a
higher rainfall and are potentially more productive than the sandy areas.
2.13      There are very few perennial sources of water in the clay
plains. Villages are found near rocky outcrops, where precarious supplies
of drinking water can be obtained from shallow wells, or where deep bore-
holes have proved successful (eg. east of the Gedaref-Abu Irwa road, Map 1).
The collection and storage of rain water in artificial ponds, calied haffirs,
has long been known in the Sudan but only in the past two decades has earth-
moving machinery made possible the construction of structures large enough
to assure perennial supplies. Even with modern machinery, however, the
provision of sufficient haffirs to support the large number of workers
needed for hand cultivation of significant areas of clay soils would be
a formidable, and perhaps impossible, task.
2.14      All of the existing and proposed irrigation schemes in the Nile
Basin are on the clay plains. The Sudan's use of irrigation water is
limited by the 1959 Nile Water Agreement, however, and only a small fraction
of the plains can ever be irrigated. Mechanized, rain-fed farming is the
only satisfactory method of developing much of the remainder. Modern ma-
chines can cultivate large areas during the short period when soil conditions
are right: even with present methods, requiring relatively large numbers
of workers at harvest time, the problem of drinking water is eased because
the farm tractors and trailers can transport supplies over long distances:
fully mechanized harvesting, which may well be standard practice in five or
ten years, will further reduce the problem.
2.15      There are few crops suited to the ecological conditions of the
clay plains: sorghum, sesame and short staple cotton are the only ones which
have been proven on commercial farms and soyabean is the only readily-
marketable new crop which shows promise in research trials. Of these, only
sorghum is currently grown on irrigated land. Most existing irrigation
schemes devote up to one-third of the cropped area to sorghum or wheat but,



- 6 -
nevertheless, few are self-sufficient in foodgrains. The economic cost of
growing sorghum is very much higher on irrigated land than on mechanized
farms not only because of the cost of the water itself but also because
deeper, slower and thus more costly cultivations are necessary to produce
enough loose soil to make ridges or other means of distributing water,
and because of the cost of labor to control irrigation. These higher pro-
duction costs are not offset by any marked yield increase unless very
heavy applications of fertilizer are applied. The rotations proposed for
future irrigation schemes devote only one-sixth of the cropped area to
sorghum, which might not be included at all but for the importance which
small farmers customarily place upon growing their own staple food as well
as cash crops. These future schemes, therefore, will depend heavily upon
low-cost supplies of sorghum from rain-fed farms. On the other hand, the
mechanized rain-fed farms cannot produce the main export crops of the ir-
rigation areas, extra-long staple or Acala cotton and groundnuts.
2.16      There are three distinct areas of mechanized farms (Map 1). The
existing and proposed MCPS in the Nuba Mountains area are well placed to
supply the needs of El Obeid and the nomads of the north; those in the
Fung are closest to the irrigation schemes in the Nile Basin and to Khartoum.
The area around Gedaref has a competitive advantage in the export market
because of its proximity of Ethiopia and its direct rail link with the
Sudan's only seaport, Port Sudan on the Red Sea.
2.17      The development of rain-fed mechanized farming is complementary
to, rather than competitive with, the development of irrigation. It utilizes
land which cannot be irrigated nor used for traditional type of settlement.
In comparison with irrigation, it requires relatively small investment by
Government but provides an important outlet for private initiative, capital
and skills. This special role was recognized in the "Ten Year Plan of
Economic and Social Development of the Sudan", which gave priority to the
development of mechanized farming in the Nuba Mountains and around Gedaref.
The proposed project would enjoy the special marketing advantages of the
latter area and, as will be seen in Chapter VII, the rate of return to the
economy would be higher than that of projects for the expansion of irrigation
III. THE PROJECT AREA
3.01      The project lies to the south of the existing MCPS around Gedaref
(Map 1) and is the first area designated for development by the MFC. It
lies on a gently-sloping plain covered with bush-and-grass savanna, with
scattered thorny acacia trees and occasional patches of denser bush with
broad-leafed trees. The natural vegetation is denser than that in the
existing MCPS, because of the higher rainfall.  The area is potentially
more productive than the adjoining MCPS but there has been no settlement,
due to lack of drinking water and poor access.  The clearing of tracks by
the consultants' surveyors, in 1965, has led to some scattered cultivation,
mainly in the southwest (Map 2).



-7-
A.  Climate and Soils
3.02      The climate is tropical and continental, with a single hot humid
rainy season (May through October) and a rainless winter. Temperatures may
exceed 400C during the day but nights are cooler, often lower than 10 0C in
winter.
3.03      The average rainfall in the project area is about 800 mm (31 in)
but there is considerable variation, from year to year, from a minimum of
possibly about 250 mm (10 in) to a maximum of over 1,500 mm (60 in). In
"good" crop years, rain falls in seven months and the August rainfall
reaches 200-300 mm: rainfall exceeds evaporation for four months. In "bad"
years rain falls in only four months, exceeding evaporation only during
three months. "Good" and "bad" years each occur about once in five years.
3.04      The soils of the project area are heavy clays, impervious when wet
but deeply cracked when dry. The range of moisture content over which they
can be worked is small. Their organic content is very low, the dark color
being due to minerals. They have low levels of nitrogen and phosphorous but
adequate reserves of potash.
3.05      Water seldom penetrates more than 1 m (39 in) into the soil and
there is little leaching of plant nutrients. Much rainfall is lost by sur-
face runoff. The land slopes gently to the southwest, broken by occasional
"Jebels" (rocky hills). Surface drainage follows a defined pattern, flowing
via Khor Simsim (Map 2) to the seasonal Rahad River. Account would be
taken of drainage patterns during land planning, both to prevent erosion
and to reduce the cost of road construction and maintenance.
3.06      Further details of climate, vegetation and soils are given in
Annex 2.
Land Clearing
3.07      Felling commences as soon as the tracks are passable in the dry
season, usually in December, and must be completed by April in order to
allow time for thorough burning before the start of the rains. It there-
fore coincides with the demand of the irrigation schemes for itinerant
cotton pickers. The demand for cotton pickers is not likely to increase
markedly during the project construction period. In the longer term, the
settlement and cultivation of new irrigation schemes will create shortages
of labor, and mechanical clearing will become more competitive for the
opening of further areas by the MFC. The cost of mechanized clearing to
the high standards required for mechanized farming has not been established
but a local contractor recently bid ESd4.8 per feddan, as compared with
about ESd4 per feddan for hand clearing.



- 8 -
B.  Crops and Cropping
Yields and Yield Improvement
3.08      Official yield data include all farms in Kassala Province.   There
are no official data on yields from mechanized farms alone and the estimates
given below are based upon unofficial figures: -
Mechanized Farms
Kassala Province              Gedaref
(Official data)             (Estimated)
kg/fed   (lb/ac)         kg/fed    (lb/ac)
Sorghum         350      (745)            365      (775)
Cotton           45      ( 95)            110      (235)
Sesame          145      (310)            180      (380)
3.09      Little progress has been made in improving farm yields but re-
search results indicate that improvement is possible, especially through
the introduction of new varieties. Imported dwarf sorghum varieties have
been disappointing but short-stemmed selections from local types have given
an average of 1,100 kg/fed (2,335 lb/ac) over five consecutive years. A
new cotton variety, with superior lint qualities, was introduced on all
farms in the Gedaref area by an exchange of seed at the ginnery in 1964/65.
3.10      The objects of tillage operations are (a) to destroy weeds and
prepare a seed bed and (b) to maximize infiltration of rain water, especially
during the early rains. This can be achieved by wide level disk harrows,
which are standard equipment on existing farms, but only if every stage is
carefully carried out at exactly the right time. The standards of culti-
vation are very low on existing farms, where the objective is to cover the
maximum possible area. The cropped area on project farms will be only 750
feddans (780 ac), the maximum that can be properly cultivated by one tractor
in the time available. Burning of fallows will be discouraged since trials
have shown that disking weeds into the soil at the right time improves yields
and helps to maintain fertility.
3.11      The method of sowing cotton and sesame on existing farms is very
inefficient: one or more men, riding perilously on the disk harrow, scatter
the seed by hand. As a result plant populations are much lower than the
optimum and patches, frequently of several square meters, are left uncropped.
Farms in the project will use planting machines for cotton and sesame, as
well as the simple grain-sowing attachments to the disk harrow to plant
sorghum.
3.12      The response of crops to fertilizer is largely dependent on the
soil moisture content (see Annex 2). The improved cultivations which will
be practiced on project farms will increase infiltration of rain water and
thus the response to fertilizers. Fertilizer will be used on the project's
demonstration farm: however, it is not expected that a significant number
of farmers will use it during the early years of the project.



-9-
Cropping Pattern
3.13      The cropping pattern on project farms will be largely dictated
by (a) the agricultural need to follow a rotation of crops and (b) the labor
requirements of the various crops.
3.14      There is a need for new crops to permit diversification and
especially for a legume to permit a better rotation. Groundnuts have been
suggested by the consultants but the harvesting of nuts from hard, dry clays
presents serious mechanical problems. Soyabeans are an attractive possibil-
ity since they car be combine harvested: tests are now being made by the
Ministry of Agriculture and promising varieties would be tested on a field
scale on the project's demonstration farm. Until new crops are available,
the most suitable sequence will be: -
Cotton - Sorghum - Sesame - Fallow
3.15      Machines capable of harvesting all of these crops have been de-
veloped. The mechanical difficulty of operating complex machines is a
short-term problem in the Sudan but the more fundamental difficulty has
been the poor adaptation of local crop varieties to mechanization. This
has recently been overcome, in the case of sorghum, by selection of short-
strawed types, suitable for machine harvesting, from local varieties. There
are already 35 combine-harvesters in the Gedaref area and the project would
provide credit for a further TO. The available sesame varieties are unsuit-
able for combine-harvesters: new non-shattering varieties are being tested,
but there is little hope of an early solution to this problem. Existing
cotton varieties are suitabie for machine picking, and tests have been made,
but the machines can only work in uniform crops, grown at proper spacings
in straight rows. In time, such crops would be grown in the project area,
because of better cultivations and machine planting.
3.16      Until machines and new varieties become available, there will be
a peak demand for labor during the sesame and cotton harvest in November-
December. Sorghum will present few problems since, in the unfailing dry
weather, the harvest may be very prolonged. While the peak demand does
not correspond with the annual migration of labor to the irrigation schemes
for cotton picking, the number of laborers who can be employed on project
farms will be limited by the practical difficulties of recruiting, transport
and water supplies. Most farmers will be forced to restrict the acreage of
sesame, which has the most critical timing, and will plant extra sorghum
instead. Several alternatives are possible (see Annex 2) but a typical
cropping plan would be: -
Feddans
Sorghum                450
Sesame                  50
Cotton                250
Fallow                250
1 9000



- 10 -
Livestock
3.17      There are no resident livestock in the project area and the lack
of perennial water limits grazing by the nomadic herds which abound in the
plains. When the project farms are fully developed there will be large
quantities of crop residues, especially sorghum straw, in December-February,
at a time when the grazing in Butana (Map 1) is drying out but the irrigation
areas are still closed to livestock. Grazing of these residues will help
to maintain soil fertility.
C. Settlement, Water Supplies, and Communications
3.18      There are no villages or permanent settlement on farms in the
project area due to the lack of water. Boreholes have not proved successful
in the sandstones underlying most of the area. There are several haffirs
to the north but none within the project's boundaries.
3.19      Labor for project farms would be drawn from small settlements
along the northern edge of the area and from villages near the railway
(Map 2).  The main source of labor, however, would be Gedaref township,
whose population is said to have tripled in the past decade. Gedaref is
the commercial and administrative center for the district. It lies on the
Sennar/Port Sudan railway and has a simple airstrip. Road and telephone
communications with Kassala (the Provincial headquarters), Khartoum and
Sennar are adequate in the dry season but subject to prolonged interruptions
during the rains. Local authorities are responsible for the maintenance of
roads but they lack both the organization and the equipment to carry out the
task. The Provincial authorities are empowered to close roads during wet
weather when heavy vehicles may cause severe damage to the surface.
IV. THE PROJECT
4.01      The project, which would be executed over four years by the MFC,
would be the first phase of an 8-10 year program to develop a 600,000-feddan
scheme for mechanized farming. The project includes all the activities re-
quired to establish and bring into production 140,000 feddans divided into
about 140 farms, and some additional preparatory work to permit the next
phase to proceed without interruption. It would include: -
Land Use Planning, of the whole scheme (comprising Simsim,
Umm Seinat, Abu Sabika and Saraf Said, Map 2) and prepara-
tion of fully detailed farm plans for about 200 farms of
approximately 1,000 feddans each (para 4.02);
Land Development, including roads and water supplies
serving an area of about 200,000 feddans and land clear-
ing and any necessary soil conservation works on an
area of about 140,000 feddans (para 4.03 et seq);



Land Allocation, including the leasing of about 140 farms to
selected individuals and a small number of cooperative
societies and commercial firms (para 4.06 et seq);
Supervised Credit, for on-farm investments and farm
machinery (para 4.13);
Technical Services, including advisory staff, a demonstration
farm and, for an interim period, machinery repair (para 4.17
et seq).
The project would also include the construction of offices and staff hous-
ing; the purchase of equipment and vehicles; and the cost of staff and
operation and maintenance of equipment during the four-year establishment
period.
A. Land Use and Farm Planning
4.02      The plan for the whole scheme would show the alignment of main
roads; water supplies; village sites; land excluded from cultivation; and
the phasing of development. Farm planning would take account of drainage
patterns and soil types and, although averaging about 1,000 feddans, the
farms would not necessarily be identical in shape or size. Detailed farm
plans, including maps suitable for legal processes, would be prepared for
about 200 farms. Details of soil conservation measures, exclusion of areas
from cultivation and other leasehold conditions would be included in each
farm plar.
B. Land Development
4.03      The project would include the purchase and operation of six heavy
tractors and equipment for land development work. Details of the equipment
are given in Annex 3 Table 1. This equipment would undertake all soil conser-
vation works; road construction and maintenance; and about 60 percent of the
land clearing in the project area. The remainder of the clearing would be
carried out, by hand or by machine, by contractors, thus enabling the corpora-
tion to collect representative cost data which would be the basis for planning
land clearing in future schemes.
3
14.o4     Four main haffirs, with a combined capacity of 150,000 m , would be
constructed by the Rural Water and Development Corporation (RWDC), which has
adequate staff and equipment for the purpose. The MFC's tractor unit would
dig smaller haffirs at selected sites and, if requested, farm haffirs for
individual farmers.
4.05      The cost of clearing would be recovered by a "development fee"
(para 4.09). The rates charged for other work undertaken for farmers would
be sufficient to cover the full costs of operation and depreciation. The
Corporation would also charge for maintenance work carried out on roads which
would normal'ly be repaired by the local council. The basis of these latter
charges would be an agreed formula relating the proportion of the council's



- 12 -
revenues devoted to road repair to the crop taxes it collects in the project
area. In order to minimize road maintenance costs, the MFC would establish
effective arrangements with the Provincial authorities to ensure that roads
would be closed to traffic during wet weather.
C.  Land Allocation
4.06      All land in the project area, and most of the 600,000 feddan
scheme, have been gazetted under the Land Registration and Settlement Ordi-
nance, 1925: the remaining area in the scheme will be surveyed, described
and gazetted during the next year. Most of the land is unclaimed and there-
fore deemed to belong to Government. Claims to the remainder have been regis-
tered and proven rights will be extinguished by the allotment of land in vil-
lage farming areas, by the allotment of tenancies to mechanized farms or by
compensation. It is not anticipated that settlement of claims will present
any problems: no provision for payment of compensation is included in the
project costs.
4.07      Government will allot the gazetted land to the MFC in accordance
with the provisions of the Mechanized Farming Corporation Act, 1968 (see para
5.02). This Act also empowers the Board of Corporation to issue regulations
prescribing the terms and conditions under which the Corporation would lease
farms.
4.o8      A form of lease has been agreed during negotiations.   It would in-
clude provisions requiring, inter alia, (a) the residence on the farm of the
lessee or his representative during cultivation, weeding and harvest peri-
ods; (b) provision of adequate machinery; (c) the practice of good
husbandry, including the maintenance of a specified proportion of fallow
and the adoption of conservation measures, as detailed in the individual
farm plan. The term of the lease would be 25 years.
4.0°      The lease would provide for a "development fee" which would enable
the Corporation to recover, over the period of the lease, the cost of land
clearing with interest at a level at least equivalent to that of the-proposed
Bank loan. In the absence of accurate data on clearing costs, it has been
agreed during negotiations that a development fee of at least ESdO.35 per
feddan per year would be appropriate for the initial leases.
4.10      The annual rent of existing MCPS is ESdO.0l per feddan (!Sd 10 per
1,000-feddan farm). The MFC will provide a higher standard of services and
facilities and therefore intends to charge a higher rent, ZSdO.05 per feddan
(Ed 50 per year for an average farm of 1,000 feddans).
4.11      The legislation empowers the Board of the MFC to issue regulations
laying down the criteria by which tenants would be selected. These criteria
would include previous agricultural experience, working capital, fitness,
character and creditworthiness. Successful applicants would be required to
relinquish any interests in existing farms in other areas. The Land Allot-
ment Board has already received about 800 applications for farms in the
Gedaref area. These applications would be scrutinized and copies of those



- 13 -
that appeared to meet the criteria would be forwarded to the MFC. As farms
become available, the MFC would ask the LAB to recommend applicants from this
list: in the absence of any overriding factors, the LAB would put forward
recommendations in the order in which applications were received.
4.12      In selecting tenants for the project area, the MFC would take ac-
count of the need to establish the best combination of tenants for its sub-
sequent program. About 80 farms would be allocated to individual owners and
a further 30 to about fifteen individuals with sufficient capital and initia-
tive to develop two farms. The remainder would be allocated to cooperative
societies (20) and registered companies (10).
D. Credit Service
4.13      The project would include a revolving credit fund for loans for
farm improvements and purchase of equipment. Each applicant's creditworthi-
ness would be investigated before his lease was approved: subsequently,
applications for particular loans would be processed by MFC staff. All
loans would bear interest at the prevailing rate charged by the Agricultural
Bank. 1/ Repayments would be by equated annuity commencing after the next
harvest.
4.14      The loan agreement, which has been agreed during negotiations, would
be a form of hire purchase. The MFC would be entitled to repossess the equip-
ment if installment payments were overdue. In practice, however, repossession
might be difficult to enforce and the MFC would therefore be empowered to
deduct installment payments from the proceeds of the sale of cotton which,
under the terms of the lease, the tenant is obliged to sell through the
Corporation. The MFC would have the power to defer payments of installments,
and also of the development fee, in the event of partial or complete crop
failures.
14.15     Loans would be repayable over five years for tractors and vehicles
or over seven years for combine harvesters, implements, grain storage and
bulk handling equipment. They would cover 80 percent of the cost of farm
machinery and equipment and 65 percent of the cost of vehicles, i.e., approx-
imately the cif cost of each item.
4.16      A typical farmer would require about ZSd2,000 capital to pay the
balance of machinery costs and to provide working capital for the first
years's operation.
1/   The Agricultural Bank of Sudan currently charges seven percent per annum
on short-term and nine percent per annum on medium-and long-term loans.
Registered cooperative societies enjoy a preferential rate of six percent
per annum regardless of the period of the loan. Overdue debts bear a
surcharge of one percent.



- 14 -
E.  Technical Services
Advisory Service and Demonstration Farm
4.17      The MFC would employ four field workers to demonstrate mechanized
farming techniques in the project area. Their work would be complementary
to that of the national extension service of the Ministry of Agriculture.
The project would also include the establishment and operation of a 2,000
feddan farm. One half would be run as a demonstration farm and methods
proven in similar conditions elsewhere, e.g., bulk handling and on-farm
storage of grain, would be adopted. The other half would be used, under the
general guidance of the Research Division of the Ministry of Agriculture, to
test more advanced techniques, including the use of fertilizers and other
methods of preserving soil fertility.
Farm Machinery Repair
4.18      Distributors of most popular types of farm tractors have appointed
agents in Gedaref. Some operate mobile repair and maintenance units, but
their usefulness is restricted by the state of the roads during the all-
important cultivation season. Fast moving spare parts are available, often
at inflated prices, from traders in the major villages. Because of the
remoteness of the project area, however, it is unlikely that farmers will
be able to obtain satisfactory after-sales services during the first few
years of development. The project, therefore, would include the construc-
tion and operation of a repair workshop. It would be designed as an in-
dependent unit which could be sold off to an interested distributor.
Management and Administration
4.19      The project headquarters, including offices and stores, would be
built near Jebel Simsim. Staff houses would be of standard government
designs, fully equipped and furnished: a total of ZSdl46,000 would be
provided for 13 houses for senior staff and quarters for 46 other staff.
Provision would be made for the purchase and operation, during the four
year establishment period, of a four-wheel-drive vehicle for each member
of the project's supervisory staff and of trucks for roadwork and general
haulage.
F. Phasing
4.20      Land use and farm planning and the construction of water supplies
would be commenced as early as possible in the dry season of the first
year. 1/ The project organization would be capable of developing, allo-
cating and serving about 50 farms per year. Because of initial delays in
1/   Project years would coincide with the financial year, starting April 1.
This is also the crop year. The main construction and clearing season
is December through April.



- 15 -
procuring equipment and building staff houses, however, clearing and allot-
ment of farms would proceed at a slower pace until the second season and
would reach its full capacity only in the third year. The phasing would
be:-
Operation                    Unit                   Year             Total
1      2       3      4
Houses and quarters con-
structed                 Nos.              51      6      2      -       59
Land use planning          '000 feddans     600      -      -      -      600
Farm planning              '000   "          40     50     50     60      200
Land development           '000   "          20     50     50      50     170
Loans granted to farmers   ESd '000          72    229    421    415    1,137
Farms allocated and
cleared                  Nos.              10     30     50     50      140
G. Project Costs
4.21      The total project cost, during the four year period, is estimated
at about ESd2.77 million (us$8 million). Details are given in Annex 4,
Table 1 and are summarized below:-
Local Cost      Foreign Exchange   Total
Incl. Duties           Cost           Cost
- - - - - - - - - - ESd '000…-    … - - - - 
1.   Project Services
Buildings                       101               54              155
Equipment                        94              287              381
Staff and labor                 142               79              221
Operation and maintenance       171              222              393
508              92            1,150
Contracts:-
Water supplies                 24               37               61
Land clearing                 210               67             277
742              7             1,488
2.   Farm Investments                  221              614              835
3.   Contingencies                      77              150              227
1,040            1,510           2,550
4.   Interest During Establishment      -               220              220
1,040            1,730           2.770
4.22      Staff and operation and maintenance costs are based upon present
rates with a 3 percent per annum allowance for price escalation. Machinery
and building costs allow for a price escalation of 5 percent per annum.
Quantity contingencies were estimated for individual items averaging 8.5
percent overall.   Freight rates for the direct route to Europe and America,



- 16 -
via Suez Canal, have been used in calculating both costs and benefits of
the project. The use of abnormal routes would increase the cif cost of
imported items by about rSd4o,000.
4.23      Foreign exchange costs, 59 percent overall, were estimated for
individual items on the basis of normal sources of supply. No foreign ex-
2hange costs were imputed to staff, but separate provision was made to
cover the additional total and foreign exchange cost of employing up to
three foreign staff in posts for which no suitably qualified Sudanese could
be found. Import duties, totaling ESd223,000, have been included in project
costs.
H. Financing of the Pro.ject
4.24      The borrower of the proposed loan would be the Government of the
Republic of Sudan, which would finance the MFC by annual budgetary alloca-
tions.  The proposed loan would finance the foreign exchange costs of the
project including interest during the four-year establishment period,
ESdl.73 million (about US$ 5 million equivalent). Finance for the remainder
of the project would come from Government and participating farmers:-
Foreign Exchange   Total
Local Cost           Cost           Cost
- - - - - - - - -   Sd '000 -    … - - - -
Government:  budget allocations
to MFC                     831                -           831
Farmers                                 209                -           209
Proposed Bank Loan                       -              1,730        1,730
1,o4o             1,730         2,770
Details of sources and application of funds are given in Annex 4, Table 2.
4.25      Revenues from development fees, rents, farmers' loan repayments
and services provided by the MFC during the four-year period would total
about ESd300,000. During the four-year establishment period these revenues
would be offset against budgetary allocations but it is envisaged that the
MFC would be made financially autonomous thereafter.
4.26      Other revenues generated by the project would include import and
export duties, accruing to Government, and crop taxes accruing to local au-
thorities (see Annex 4 Table 2). The local authorities derive much of the
revenue necessary for schools, dispensaries and other activities from
"ushur" taxes levied on crop sales.  The present rates are 10 percent of
of the selling price for sorghum and sesame and 8 percent for cotton.   An
additional 2.5 percent is charged on crops sold at auctions.
Expenditures
4.27      The estimated annual expenditures (including contingencies) on
the project by the Mechanized Farming Corporation are as follows:-



- 17 -
Year             Total
1       2      3       4
- - - - - …Sd '000
Land Planning                              25       5      5      5      40
Land Development                          711     159    161    167   1,198
Advisory Service and
Demonstration Farm                       65      55     25     25     170
Management and Administration              97      40     40     40     217
Additions to Credit Fund                   34     120    247    315     716
Total Project Works                       932     379    'i7_   552   2,341
Interest during establishment              25      45     65     85     220
TOTAL MFC EXPENDITURE                     957     42     543    g3    2,561
TOTAL FARMERS EXPENDITURE                  10      35     72     92     209
PROJECT COST                               __     4             729   2.770
Of which foreign exchange
(US$ million)                          (1.25)  (1.05) (1.27) (1.40) (4.97)
Procurement and Disbursement
4.28      All goods for use in the project, including farm machinery, would
be obtained by international competitive bidding, except for fuel, spares
and building materials purchased in lots costing less than US$10,000 equi-
valent: the combined value of the latter items would not exceed US$250,000
equivalent. Building construction and land clearing by contractors would be
subject to local tendering, for which existing Government regulations ensure
a satisfactory degree of competition. Haffirs would be constructed by RWDC
at an inclusive unit price of ZSdO.40 per m3 of water stored, which is reason-
able.
4.29      At the present time, satisfactory sales and service facilities
for tractors are available only in Khartoum. Until facilities are available
in Gedaref, therefore, the MFC would make initial bulk purchases, by
international tender, of farm machinery for resale at cost to farmers.
Evaluation of bids would take account of the existing service facilities
and staff and the stocks of spare parts held by the bidder in the Sudan and
of his willingness to install spares and service facilities at Gedaref within
a specified time of acceptance of the bid. The procedure for subsequent
purchases would be reviewed in Year 2. If adequate facilities had been pro-
vided by agents, farmers would be allowed to choose their own equipment.
4.30      Withdrawals from the loan account for identifiable and docu-
mented imported goods and services would cover 100 percent of the cif cost,
totalling about ESd919,000 (US$2.64 million equivalent). Withdrawals in
respect of the foreign exchange cost of other items would be made at an
agreed percentage of the certified total expenditure. Undisbursed amounts
would be available for cancellation. Any excess over the estimated cost
of the project, US$8 million equivalent, would be met by Government and by
farmers.



- 18 -
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
The Mechanized Farming Corporation
5.01      The original Provisional Order establishing the Mechanized
Farming Corporation 1/ was rejected by the Constituent Assembly due, in
part, to general opposition to the proliferation of autonomous agencies.
This opposition has sinced disminished: for example, some of the responsi-
bilties of the Ministry of Agriculture have since been delegated to three
new corporations, the Agricultural Production Corporation, the Agricultural
Research Corporation and the Rural Water and Development Corporation.
5.02      The Assembly has under consideration "The Mechanized Farming Corpo-
ration Act, 1968", establishing the Corporation and confirming various
appointments and actions made under the 1966 Provisional Order or under a
second Order 2/ issued in 1967. It has been agreed during negotiations
that this Act would be the legal basis of the project and that any sub-
sequent abrogation, material amendment or repeal would be an act of default
under the proposed loan.
5.03      The Minister of Agriculture and Forests has appointed the Board of
Directors which consists of four ex-officio representatives of Government,
one representative of the Agricultural Bank, four private individuals ap-
pointed by the Minister, and the Managing Director.
Project Organization
5.04      The Scheme Manager would be responsible to the Managing Director
for all matters relating to the Project.
5.05      Division of responsibility within the project is shown diagram-
matically in Annex 3, Figure 1. There would be four main sections, each
headed by a suitably qualified and experienced officer:
Land Planning
The Land Planning Officer would be responsible for the
planning of development and for the preparation of farm plans.
He would be in charge of all preparatory work in the project
area until the Land Development Officer was appointed.
1/   Provisional Order "Land Clearing and Mechanized Farming Corporation
Act 1966"
2/ Provisional Order "Mechanized Farming Corporation Act 1967." This
Order was not ratified because the Assembly was dissolved during a
constitutional crisis.



- 19 -
Land Development
The Land Development Officer would be responsible for clear-
ing; for the construction of roads, farm haffirs and other proj-
ect works; for liaison with the RWDA; and for the maintenance
and repair of all project buildings, equipment and vehicles.
Technical Services
The Agricultural Superintendent would be directly
responsible for the demonstration farm as well as for the
advisory staff of four agricultural assistants.
Administration
The Accountant would be responsible for two subsections,
one responsible for project accounts and administration and
the other for the operation of the credit fund and the main-
tenance of farmers' accounts. A retaining fee would be paid
to a suitably qualified lawyer to advise on matters connected
with leases and loans.
5.06      The necessary qualifications for these posts are detailed in
Annex 3.  Assurances were obtained during negotiations that suitably quali-
fied persons, mutually acceptable to the Government and the Bank would be
appointed to these posts during the establishment period. One post, that
of Land Planning Officer, has already been filled by ADS.
5.07      The Managing Director and Scheme Manager have already been ap-
pointed, after consultation with the Bank. Assurances were obtained during
negotiations that similar consultations would be held if it became necessary
to make new appointments to these posts.
Project Accounts
5.08      Provision is made in the project for employment of accounting
staff and purchase of office equipment. The MFC and the Government would
establish and maintain appropriate accounts, including loan accounts for
individual farmers. From the beginning of the project, the project accounts
would follow normal commercial practice, showing rents, development fees,
governments' budgetary allocations and any other receipts.
5.09      These accounts would be subject to annual audit by an independent
firm of auditors appointed by the Board. The Mechanized Farming Corporation
Act 1968, makes provision for the appointment and remuneration of the auditors
and prescribes that audited accounts must be presented to the Minister of
Finan^e and Economics within 30 days of the end of the financial year.
Audited accounts will be sent to the Bank by June 1 each year.



- 20 -
VI. MARKET PROSPECTS AND FARM INCOMES
A. Market Prospects and Marketing
6.O0      Market prospects for sesame and white cotton seed are good and the
present price levels (ESd62.25 and ESd26.75 per m ton cif European port re-
spectively) are expected to be maintained until 1975. World prices for cotton
lints comparable to those grown in the project area are expected to decline
gradually from their present level of US250 per lb cif Liverpool to US19-20O
per lb by 1975. The prices paid by local mills (currently ESd8.5 per small
kantar) are related to world prices and are expected to follow a similar
downward trend. The potential demand of these mills greatly exceeds the
production of short-staple cotton by rain-fed farms 1/ and there would be no
difficulty in selling the cotton produced on the project farms.
6.02      There is a three-tier price system for sorghum in the Sudan.   The
world trade price is related to that of other feed grains, notably maize.
Three-quarters of the sorghum entering world trade is grown on highly-
mechanized farms in the United States and other developed countries, whose
policies tend to stabilize prices. World prices are therefore expected to
fluctuate around their present level, rSdl6.50 cif European port, which is
equivalent to ESdl2.5 per m ton fob Port Sudan. Domestic prices have, how-
ever, been equivalent to about ESd3.0 per m ton above world prices while
exports of food grain to the Middle East have often been more than ESd5.0
per m ton higher than world prices, indicating a strong consumer preference
for the old, traditional types of sorghum grown in the Sudan. The newly-
developed variety Umm Benein, which can be harvested mechanically, is
acceptable to these consumers.
6.03      Details of market prospects and prices are given in Annex 5.   The
prices used in valuing future production from project farms are summarized
below: -
Prices Projected for 1975
World Market          Fob         Farm Gate *
cif Europe       Port Sudan   (or ex-ginnery)
Sorghum,     ESd per m ton        16.50            12.50           8.20
Sesame       ESd per m ton        62.25            58.05          38.00
Cotton Seed  rSd per m ton        26.75            22.55         (17.13)
Cotton Lint  USO per lb           20.00            18.99         (16.35)
Seed Cotton  ESd per large
kantar              -                 -             6.32
*    Assuming export and other taxes remain at present levels.
_/   There are two mills in Khartoum and one in Equatoria has recently
reopened after having been closed for some years. The present consump-
tion is about 85,000 bales (about 16,000 m ton) but is expected to rise
to 180,000 bales (about 34,000 m ton). Short-staple lint production
from rain-fed farms is very variable, averaging about 70,000 bales over
the past decade.



6.04      The Wad el Huri ginnery has adequate capacity to process the cotton
to be grown on project farms. The ginnery is now owned and operated by the
Agricultural Production Corporation, which will purchase seed cotton from
farmers through the MFC.
6.05      There is a shortage of storage in the Gedaref area and project
farmers would be eligible for loans for on-farm storage. All grain is pres-
ently handled in bags but a 100,000-ton grain elevator has recently been
commissioned in Gedaref.    The Government has informed the Bank that this
elevator, and an associated facility on the dockside at Port Sudan, will be
ouerated by the Agricultural Bank of Sudan. Storage space for sorghum and
sesame will be rented out on a monthly basis:   the Agricultural Bank will
not undertake to purchase sorghum or sesame nor to assist in marketing
stored grain. The Agricultural Bank has acquired 10 bulk grain trucks for
the collection of grain from farms and Sudan Railways have 75 waggons spe-
~ifically designed for the transport of bulk grain.
B. Yields and Production
).o6      There are no data on present yields or on production from villager's
plots and scattered farms in the project area. The total crop production
of the whole area is probably not more than 5,000 m tons of sorghum and a
few tons of sesame. Production of gum arabic is very small indeed and there
appears to have been no recent production of charcoal. It is impossible to
estimate the number of nomadic herds passing through the area or to place a
value either on the present rough grazing or on future crop residues.
6.9/      It is expected that the following yields will be obtained in the
third and subsequent crop years: -
Sorghum         545 kg/fed             (1160 lb/ac)
Cotton         1.2 large kantars/fed   (360 lb/ac)
Sesame         182 kg/fed              (385 lb/ac)
The expected yield of sorghum is considerably higher than that obtained on
existing mechanized farms (see para 3.08), but only half the five-year
averages obtained on research farms. This yield increase and more modest
increases in cotton and sesame yields are considered attainable because of
careful selection of tenants, the influence of the MFC's technical services
and, above all, because of the use of planting machines and better methods
of cultivation.
6.o3      Farms will be opened in each of the four years and, since each
farm will not achieve the estimated yield until its third season, produc-
'ion of the area as a whole will increase until the seventh year.    Total
production and its value at the prices projected above would then be:-



- 22 -
Value
Area          Production         Farm Gate  Fob Port Sudan
'000 feddans)                         ------ LSd '000 ---…----
Sorghtm             64        34,000 m ton             285           435
Sesame               7         1,300 m ton              50            75
cotton:             36       43,200 large kantars      275            -
lint               -        9,700 bales *             -           (280)
scea               -         3,900 m ton                            90
610           600
*    International Bales of 478 lb each. The quantity of lint and Fob value
are shown for reference only:   farmers would be paid on the basis of
seed cotton and no lint would be exported.
C. Farm Incomes
6.09      The estimated budget of a typical farm, using only presently
proven methods and basic tillage equipment, is shown in Annex 5. By the
fourth year, total crop sales net of local crop taxes would be about
ESd4,570 (ESd6.1 per feddan of crops) giving a gross cash income of rSd2,260
after payment of direct expenses for labor, machinery operation and transport.
Thereafter the gross income would decline due to the expected fall in the
price of cotton. The net cash income, after the payment of rent, development
fee and loan instalments wduld rise to over ESdl,100 by the third year and
to above ESdl,500 after the machinery loan was fully repaid.
6.10      These estimates are based on European feedgrain prices and take
no account of the possibility of selling sorghum at higher prices for domes-
tic use or for export as foodgrain. They take no account of immediate
opportunities for increasing incomes through bulk handling of grain or of
the much greater increases which would be possible, in the near future, by
the use of fertilizer, improved varieties and mechanized harvesting.
6.11      There are no reliable data on the incomes of existing mechanized
farms with 1,000 feddans under crops. Farmers have indicated orally that
they achieve gross incomes equivalent to ESd5.6 per feddan of crops. Indi-
viduals claim net incomes of ESd3,000 per farm, a figure which probably
reflects lack of machinery maintenance and limited understanding of depre-
ciation costs as well as the relatively larger cropped area. On a strictly
comparable basis, there is little doubt that cash incomes, as well as the
return per feddan, would be higher on project farms than on existing mechan-
ized farms in the area. Further, the higher standards of cultivation would
markedly reduce the annual fluctuations in returns and incomes while the
advisory service and repair facilities would help to minimize the serious
loss£s incurred whsn machines break down at critic-al times.



- 23 -
VII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
7.01      The project would be the first example in the Sudan of a system-
atic, planned approach to the development of land for mechanized farming.
The longer leases, coupled with better water supplies and roads, would
cncsurage investment in adequate machinery and other on-farm investments.
Adequate machinery and improved husbandry methods would create soil con-
ditions which would help to maintain fertility, reversing the trend toward
,hifting cultivation, and make the use of fertilizer economic.
7.02      In the immediate future tne project would increase crop produc-
tion primarily through the development of uncultivated, almost uninhabited,
land which is not suitable for irrigation or for traditional forms of
settlement. The yields obtained on the new farms would be higher, and would
fluctuate less from year to year, than those on mechanized farms on existing
schemes. Since the entrepreneurs who own mechanized farms are profit-
0onscious, the project, and especially its demonstration farm, may be ex-
pected to have a considerable influence on the agricultural practices of
existing Mechanized Crop Production Schemes which already total 1.8 million
feddans, and on new schemes, totalling some 2.6 million feddans, which have
been planned.
7.03      In evaluating the project, gross benefits have been measured as
the fob value of crops, including cotton lint, less existing crop production
ard seed retention. No allowance has been made for loss of production of
roughI grazing, gum arabic or charcoal. On the other hand, no attempt has
been made to assess the additional value of crop residues to nomadic live-
stock. The cost of the project, net of import duties, and of farm inputs 1/
and replacements has been taken into account. On this basis, the rate of
return to the economy, discounted over 30 years, is estimated at about 12
percent (see Annex 6, Table 1).   This calculation, however, places no value
upon the residual value of machinery, houses and other facilities which
could be used in developing neighboring areas.
i,.-O)l   In the absence of accurate information regarding future expansion
of production elsewhere in the Sudan or on the growth of domestic consump-
tion, it is difficult to quantify the foreign exchange earnings but they
vould offse. peak foreign exchange costs of imported essential farm inputs
andi services of the proposed loan (Annex 6, Table 2).
7.05      Finally, the project would provide an opportunity for investment
or private capital and for the development of latent managerial and agri-
cultural skills. Such savings and skills cannot find a satisfactory outlet
in the large, complex irrigation schemes which hitherto have been the main
type Of development of agriculture in the oudan.
1/ All far. labor has been charged at the current rate of WSdO.30 per day.
This may overestimate its economic value, since there are few oppor-
t'.ities for alternative employment during the peak labor periods on
the project farms.



- 24 -
VIII. CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
, .0l     The proiect is economically sound and technically feasible and
s- s.itabie for a Bank Loan of US$ 5 million equivalent for 25 years includ-
.g a five-year grace period.   The borrower would be the Government of the
7epubli2 of Sudan.
Assurarces have been obtained that:-
(a)  Boundaries of the scheme have been defined by public
notification and uncontested right to all land in the
area will be obtained (para 4.06);
(b)  Regulations concerning criteria for selecting tenants,
allocation of tenancies, and the form of lease are
acceptable to the Bank (para 4.11);
(c)  Any amendment or repeal of the enabling legislation
or issuance of regulations adversely affecting the
project would be an event of default (para 5.02);
(d)  Appropriately qualified and experienced persons,
mutually acceptable to Government and the Bank,
would be appointed to the posts of Managing Direc-
tor, Scheme Manager and the four section heads
(para 5.06).



ANNEX 1
SUDAN
MECHANIZED FARMING PROJECT
SORGHUM PRODUCTION AND EXPORTS
1.        Grain products play an important role in the Sudanese
diet and per capita consumption is high, averaging 285 lb (130 kg)
per year during 1961-65. Sorghum and millet are the staple foods
but the Sudan imports wheat, flour and rice. Until 1966 exports
of sorghum and millet were approximately equal in volume to imports
of wheat and rice, but in 1967 a poor crop attributed to unfavor-
able rains necessitated imports of sorghum. This was the first time
that the Sudan had a deficit of sorghum and Government has made
strenuous efforts to increase production on traditional, as well as
on mechanized, farms in 1968. It is probable that there will be a
large surplus available for export in future years.
2.        The following table shows sorghum production and exports
in the past decade:
Year              Area                                Exports
Irrigated   Rainfed   Total   Production   Volume     Value
-------- 000-eI                  mtb onO    mton Bsd7m to n fob
1958      250       2,321    2,571     1,139        12        24.0
1959      296       2,852    3,148     1,372        73        22.8
1960      323       2,860    3,183     1,313       171        16.4
1961      376       2,645    3,021     1,051        93        20.0
1962      468       3,033    3,501     l,434        75        19.6
1963      440       3,077    3,517     1,266        73        21.1
1964      490       2,787    3,277     1,348        61        25.1
1965      464       2,693    3,157     1,138       122        23.3
1966      415       2,748    3,199     1,095        78 1/     22.7
1967      449       2,733    3,182       8S0       -51 -       NA
1968      641       3,805    4,446     1,836        NA         NA
1/  Imports.
Source: IBRD 1968 Economic Mission.
May, 1968






ANNEX 2
SUDAN
MECHANIZED FARMING PROJECT
AGRICULTURE IN THE PROJECT AREA
Rainfall and Ecology
1.        The project area lies in the central clay plains, which
stretch from the Red Sea hills to the western frontier. The climate
is tropical and continental. There is a single humid, hot, rainy
sumner (May to October) and a hot, intensely dry winter.  The general
pattern of rainfall in the central plains is shown in Map 1. There is
a general decrease from south to north but the influence of the
Ethiopian escarpment increases rainfall in the Gedaref and Fung areas.
Rainfall for three stations near the project is given in Table 1.
Since the project area lies south of these stations, the rainfall will
be slightly higher, probably averaging about 800 mm (31 in) at Jebel
Sim Sim. The vegetation of the plains varies, depending on the rain-
fall, from sparse grassland to relatively dense savanna with closely-
spaced trees surrounded by tall grasses. The vegetation of the
proJect area is shown in Table 2.
Soils and Fertilizer
2.        A distinction must be drawn between the soils of the Blue
Nile Basin generally and those around Gedaref. The former are alluvial,
having been laid down by the Nile floods, while the latter appear to
have been formed by weathering in situ. In the project area, which
overlies Nubian sandstone or gneiss rocks, the residual materials have
been diluted by admixture of basaltic material from hills around Gedaref.
3.        The soils of the project area are heavy cracking clays. The
predaminant clay mineral is montmorillonite, which accounts for the
pronounced swelling when moistened and deep cracking when dry. The
soluble salt content of the soil is negligible and there is no danger
of salinization under rainfed agriculture.
t.        A series of experiments at Tozi, from 1955 to 1963, showed
that the increase in yield of sorghum from applications of nitrogen
or phosphate fertilizer was 50 percent when the rainfall was high in
August-September but only 10 percent in dry years. The use of fertilizer
on any rainfed crop in the Sudan entails a considerable economic risk
in the short-term. There are, however, indications that economic
responses can be obtained from sorghum, and probably also from cotton
and sesame, when the annual rainfall exceeds 700 mm (28 in) and the
August rainfall is 250-300 mm (10-12 in). Economic responses to
fertilizer are more likely to be obtained in the project area than on
existing Mechanized Crop Production Schemes (MCPS), because of the
higher rainfall.






ANNEX 2
Page 2
5.        Better standards of cultivation that encourage the intake
and storage of moisture in the soil, together with early planting to
make full use of available moisture, may be sufficient to guarantee
economic responses even in the drier seasons.
6.        The official system of maintaining fertility on existing
MCPS (four-year fallowing of 50 percent of the land) greatly increases
the investment and operating cost. Green manuring with lubia (Dolichos
lablab) has been shown to have a beneficial effect on succeeding crops.
Even disking-in weed growth at the right time has been shown to help
maintain fertility, but this technique has never been adopted by
farmers. There is an urgent need for studies of the combined short
and long-term economic benefits of fertilizers in increasing crop
yields and in reducing the frequency of, or eliminating the need for,
fallows in the higher rainfall conditions of the project area. Suit-
able trials would be laid down in the projectts demonstration farm.
Cropping Patterns
7.        The labor requirements at harvest time are a limiting
factor in the cropping pattern (figures in man hours per feddan):
Sorghum               Cotton     Sesame
(Hand Harvest (Combined
Weeding                 4             4           20
Harvest                21            11          120        32
Transport              3              3            3         -
Total:                28             18          143         1
8. *The initial cropping pattern for project farms shown in
the report would not be static. Possible future changes might lead
to the diversification of the farming pattern through the adoption of
different rotations on individual farms, Farms near villages, for
example, might find enough harvesting labor to expand their cotton
area to 33 percent. Eventually, the introduction of machine harvesters
might justify specialization on cotton to the degree that the use of
aerial spraying (which is standard practice on irrigated cotton in
Sudan) would become economic. The use of fertilizer to maintain
fertility might permit specialization on mechanized sorghum growing,
using dwarf varieties and additional machinery to ensure early land
preparation and planting. The expansion of sesame acreage would
depend entirely upon the introduction of new varieties which can be
ccmbined-harvested, since the present local varieties "shatter" freely
and must be cut by hand before the pods are fully mature. Soya beans,
a legume, would be a useful addition to the rotation and might allow a
reduction in fallowing; again, the first step would be the introduction






ANNEX 2
Page 3
of suitable varieties, which are at present being investigated by the
Ministry of Agriculture. 1/ Groundnuts have been suggested but would
pose serious harvesting problems.
Farm Machinery
9.        Most farmers in existing schemes possess only a 55-60 dbhp
diesel tractor and a wide level disk harrow. The comaonest harrows
have a working width of 15 ft (4.6 m) and a working rate of 4.5 - 6.0
feddans per hour. The 750 feddans of arable land can be cultivated in
15-20 days.
10.       A tractor-drawn trailer, for haulage of water, fuel and crops,
and a raw crop planter for cotton and sesame are proposed for farms
in the project. The total cost of basic farm equipment would be about
ESd 3,870 (including duty) or about 1Sd 5.2 per feddan. Details are
given in Table 3.
11.       Imported combinable sorghum varieties gave poor results in
yield trials in 1948 and their grain was not acceptable to the
Sudanese consumer. More recently, local varieties have been selected
for mechanial harvesting. Maatuk TFM is the highest yielding (averag-
ing 2,440 lb/feddan over five years on small plots at Gabob) but Um
Benein (2,056 lb/feddan) is more acceptable for local consumption and
is suitable for export. There are already 35 combines in the Gedaref
area and a rapid increase in numbers is expected in the next few years.
The harvesting seasan is long and a 12 ft combine (costing about
ESd 5,060 delivered, including duty) can harvest 800-1,000 feddans
per season. The same combine can harvest suitable varieties of sesame
or soya beans.
12.       The Ministry of Agriculture tested a spindle cotton picking
machine in the Nuba Mountains in 1961-63. In the first two seasons
the crop was very poor, because of drought, and the machine recovered
an average of only 67 percent of the crop. In the third season, 85-96
percent was recovered from a good crop. The estimated capacity of the
picker, which cost ESd 8,150 (delivered including duty) was 750 feddans
per year. Additional cleaners, costing ESd 33,000 would be required at
the ginnery. Cotton pickers are unlikely to come into general use in
the next five to seven years and even then will only be satisfactory
in well-grown, uniform crops planted in accurately-spaced rows.
1/ Soya beans are of special interest since they act as a "trap-cropn
for the parasitic weed of sorghum, "budall (Striga hermonthica) and
because it is almost immune to the depredations of the Sudan Dioch
bird (Quelea quelea) which is found in huge flocks wherever water
is available. Quelea cause great damage to grain and sesame crops.
2/ dbhp - draw bar horse power.
May, 1968






ANNEX 2
Table 1
SUDAN
NECHANIZED FARiVUNG PROJECT
Table 1. Rainfall at Stationsl! Nearest Project Area
(MM)
Evaporation                          Rainfall
Wad el Huri       Umm Bileil         Umm Suqura           Doka
max   av   min    max    av   min      max   av   min
April       231          0    0     0    16     3      0       44    5     0
May         242         89   20    0    134    37      0      139   33     0
June        204        120  74    13    249   124     35      280 131     35
July        174        585 198    39    237   164     75      445 190     77
August      156        571  285  144    327   210     78      319  205   121
September   171        246 134    53    193   110     23      259  117    39
October     192         77  18     0     84    20      0       75   29    0
November    201         15   2     0     27     2      0       17    4     0
December    201         0 .0       0      0     0      0        0    0     0
January     186         0    0     0      0     0      0        0    0     0
February    185         0    0     0      0     0      0        0    0    0
ilarch      216         0    0     0      0     0      0        0    0     0
2,359      1,703  731   249 1,267   670    211    1,578  714   272
Inches      (93)      (66)  (29)  (10)  (49)  (26)  (8)     (62)  (28)  (11)
1/ See Nlap 2 for locations.
2/ Open pan evaporation from very limited data,
May, 1968






ANNEX 2
Table 2
SUDAN
MECHANIZED FARMING PROJECT
Table 2. Vegetation Classification of Sim Sim and
Umm Seinat Areas
Sim Sim        Umm Seinat
Tynes            Description                  Feddans Percent Feddans Percent
Vegetation of    Closed canopy; 100 percent
rock land        crowns touching; variable      1,350   1     2,438     1
tree size.
Mixed woodland   Open, vigorous vegetation
with many heavy trees; 50       4,100   2     9,833     3
percent of crowns touching
Open woodland    Open, evenly spaced trees
and shrubs 50-100 percent of
crowns touching; size vary-     5,250   3    15,331     5
ing from light to heavy
'!oodland        Closed canopy; stand of an
even height; more than 40 per-
cent of crowns touching; size     -             107     _
varying from light to heavy
Transition wood- As Woodland, but natches of
land           woodland interspersed by pat-  1.2,779  7   23,600     9
ches of open savanna and grass
Savanna wood-    Uneven trees and shrub growth
land           with broken canopy; trees mos-
tly light and medium with few 50,980   30    91,590    32
heavy; grass growth throughout
the type
Tree savanna     Very onen stands of separate
trees or small groups of trees;
ohrubs and heavy grass growth; h5,480  26  120,840    h2
canopy clowire less than 10
percent
Shrub savanna    Very open growth of shrubs or
small groups of shrubs; heavy  25,444 15     21,975    8
grass growth; few trees, wide
apart, mostly heavy
Grass savanna    Grassland with scattered shrubs
or trees; trees mostly heavy   26,998  16       -     _
172,381 100   285,714   100
Source: "Southern Gedaref Soil Survey4' NEDECO and ILACO N.V., Arnhem.






ANNEX 2
Table 3
SUDAN
MECHANIZED FAT1*ING PROJECT
Table 3.  i1chinery Costs
for ,000-f eddan Farm
Total Cost
Cif      Local                        Including
Cost      Cost           Duty            Duty
-----ESd - - -
.A. Basic Farm Eo,uiment
Diesel farm tractor,
55-60 dbhp         1,340     100            200            1,640
Wide level harrow
30-disc              850      90            210            1,150
Row-crop planter        320     50             85              455
Trailer, 3-ton         260      60             70              390
h,iscellaneous
equipment            100    110              25              235
Total basic farm
equipment          2,870     410            590            3,870
B. Optional Equipment
Four-wheel-drive
pick-up txruIc       950      40            470            1,460
Combine harvester    3,760     360            940            5,060
May, 1968






ANNEX 3
SUDAN
MECHANIZED FARMING PROJECT
PROJECT ORGANIZATION AND STAFFING
The Mechanized Fanming Corporation
1.        The objects of the Mechanized Farming Corporation (MFC),
as laid down in the Mechanized Farming Corporation Act, 1968, (Section
4), are:
(a) the preparation of the land for mechanized farming in
the rainlands;
(b) the survey and demarcation of farms on the basis of
sound land use principles;
(c) the grant of necessary loans on criteria decided by
the Corporation;
(d)  the direction of tenants towards adopting sound and
proper agricultural techniques, production and marketing.
2.        The MFC is responsibles through the Managing Director, to the
Minister of Agriculture and Forests. Its revenues may be grants,
budgetary appropriations or loans and it may open banking accounts and
establish such reserve and sinking funds as the Board may consider
appropriate. The annrual budget of the MFC must be approved by the
Minister and audited accounts must be submitted within three months
of the end of the financial year.
3.        The Act provides that the MFC would have power to hire
staff, call for tenders and negotiate contracts for necessary works
and services, and generally to manage the "Schemes" entrusted to it
by Government. "Scheme" is defined in the Act as "mechanized farming
scheme . . . . and . . such extensions or alterations in the scope of
the scheme as the Council of Ministers may from time to time make by
order published in the Gazette."1  Section 28 provides that:
"the Government shall allot to the Corporaticn the lands
falling within the scheme. The Corporation shall allot
such lands to the tenants through the Land Allotment Board
in accordance with the manner specified by the Board of
Directors".
The Board of the MFC would be given powers (under Section 29) to
issue reg;latimis governing, inter alia, the terms under which leases
would be issued and loans granted. Such regulations would be subject
to the approval of the Minister of Agriculture.






ANNEX 3
Page 2
4.        The Board of Directors of the Corporation has already been
appointed by the Minister of Agriculture and Forests under powers
conferred by the Provisional Order "The Mechanized Fanaing Corpora-
tion Act 1967". The composition of the present Board is the, same
as that proposed in the Act, which includes provisions confirming
appointments made, and acts done, under previous Provisional Orders.
The Board includes four ex-officio representatives of Ministries and
a representative of the Agricultural Bank of Sudan; the Undersecretary
for Agriculture is Chairman of the Board. The Minister of Agriculture
and Forests appoints four members, two representing the private sector
in general and two farmers. The Managing Director has a seat on the
Board. The Provisional Order provided that the Board must meet at
least four times per year, six members constituting a quorum. The
provision that members may be disqualified if they fail to attend
three consecutive meetings is intended to ensure regular attendance
of private members but the quasi-Government nature of the Corporation
is emphasized by the ratio of six "official" to four appointed
"private" members.
5.        The Managing Director has been appointed by the Council of
Ministers, after consultation with the Bank. The Mechanized Farming
Corporation Act 1968 provides that the Minister of Agriculture may
appoint Scheme Managers for specific schemes, and the Scheme Manager
for the Gedaref area has been appointed after consultation with the
Bank.
The Staff of the Corporation
6.        The MFC had no staff, nor had any working procedure been
established, at the time of the appraisal of the project. The organiza-
tion, Figure 1, has been designed to serve the needs of the project
but the basic division of responsibility into four sections willne
suitable for the long-term broader responsibilities of the MFC. 1/
7.        The problem of recruiting suitable senior staff cannot be
solved by the secondment of personnel from other ministries. The
staff of the three agricultural sections will require detailed
knowledge and expertise which has not hitherto been demanded of
Ministry of Agriculture staff in mechanized farming areas. The head
of the accounts' section will require experience of agricultural
credit operations as well as the practical knowledge to establish
modern accounting and administrative methods for an organization
which will eventually employ a staff of about 130 and will develop
1/ No special provision is necessary for the operation of ginneries
nor the marketing of short staple cotton since these are the
function of another Corporation responsible to the Minister of
Agriculture.






ANNEX 3
Page 3
and serve an area of over one million feddans. The Government
recognizes these recruiting problems and has indicated that, when
no suitably qualified and experienced Sudanese is available, they
will seek the assistance of the Bank, through ADS, in recruiting
from other countries.
8.        The qualifications and experience that the Bank considers
essential for the five senior posts included in the project would
be as follows:
Scheme Manager - A Bachelor's degree or an internationally-
recognized diploma in agriculture or a closely related subject would
be the basic qualification but at least 10 years' practical experience
would be essential. This experience should include at least five years
in a post involving responsibility for the administration of trained
agricultural, or similar, field staff.
Land Planning Officer - The essential qualification would be
a minimum of five years' experience in agricultural planning and
settlement in Africa, preferably in the savanna zone.
Agricultural Superintendent - The basic qualification would
be five years' experience of agricultural extension work with a long
association with progressive, mechanized farming.
Land Development Officer - The basic qualification would be
experience in the organization and control of earthmoving plant in
remote areas and of servicing, repair and procurement. Experience
of farm mechanization would be desirable but not essential.
Accountant - The duties of the accountant include administra-
tion, as well as finance, and basic qualifications will include five
years' practical experience of office management as well as recognized
qualification in accountancy. Practical experience of agricultural
credit operations would be a basic qualification which would only be
waived if a Superintendent of Loans, with long experience in this field,
were appointed at the same time.
Staff Conditions and Salaries
9.        Conditions of service and salaries would not be less favor.-
able than those of the Sudan Gezira Board and other quasi-government
corporations. Because of the remoteness of the site, all houses
would be fully and comfortably furnished and electricity and water,
within the limits of the available supplies, would be provided free.
Free transport would be provided in emergencies and, on the same scale
as in the Gezira, for private affairs.






ANNEX 3
Page 4
10.       Provision is made in the project for salaries and allowances
on the following scales:
Basic       Allowances
hSd/year
Managing Director              2,500
Sdh eme Manager                 2,050             -
Land Planning Officer          1,650          6,750
Agricultural Superintendent    1,650          6,000
Land Development Officer       1,650          6,000
Accountant                     1,650
Superintendent                 1,060
The allowances are included to cover the additional coat of employing
expatriates only in the event that suitably qualified and experienced
Sudanese canmot be recruited.
Machinery, Vehicles and Equipment
11.       A list of the machinery, vehicles and equipment required
by the MFC, which are included in the project are given in Table 1.
May, 1968






ANNEX 3
Table 1
SUDAN
MECHANIZED FARMING PROJECT
MACHINERY AND EQUIPMENT FOR PROJECT USE
Cif       Local              Total
Cost      Cost      Duty     Cost
(No.)   ------------- (Sd) ------ -----
LAND DEVELOPMENT UNIT
Tractors, 225-275 hp with
accessories                   6     126,600   25,400    18,000    170,000
Graders, 150 hp                  2     24,000    2,400     3,600     30,000
Graders, 110 hp                 2      16,000    1,400     2,600     20,000
Rollers                         2       4,000      300       700      5,000
Land clearing accessories       -       6 000    1 800       800      8 600
1763,600  3         25,700    233,600
Wforkshop equipment, generator         43,000    49000     8,700     55,700
lheeled tractors, 55-60 hp              3,000      450       900      4,350
Trailers, tankers, pumps        -       6 000    1 500       600      8,100
52,950   10,200  68,150
Trucks, 5 yd tipping            2       6,000      500     1,500      8,000
234,600   37,v750   37,400   309,750
DEMONSTRATION FARM
Wheeled tractors, 55-65 hp      4       5,400      600     1,200      7,200
Implements                      -       6,200    1,200     1,600      9,000
Trailers                        4       1,000      200       300      1,500
Combines                        2       7,600    1,400     1,800    10,800
Bulk handling and storage        -     20,000    2 000     2 000     24,000
40,200              6,900    -52,500
Trucks                          2       5,000      500     1,500      7,000
45,200    5,900     8,400    59,500
MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION
Four-wheel drive station wagons  4      4,800      200     2,200      7,200
Four-wheel-drive pick-ups       4       3,800      200     1,800      5,800
Office and accounting machines  -       1,500      100       400      2,000
10,100      500     4,400    15,000
TOTAL                                   £p   O    44,150    50,200    384,250
May, 1968






SUDAN: MECHANIZED FARMING PROJECT
ORGANIZATION AND FUNCTIONS
MINISTRY OF
AGRICULTURE AND FORESTS
MECHANIZED FARMING CORPORATION
MEMBERS OF THE BOARD
EX- OFFICIO
REPRESENTATIVES OF:
MINIS TRY OF :
AGRICULTURE AND FORESTS (CHAIRMAN)
ECONOMICS AND FINANCE
LOCAL GOVERNMENT
COMMERCE AND SUPPLY
AGRICULTURAL BANK OF SUDAN
MANAGING DIRECTOR OF THE CORPORATION
APPOINTED BY THE MINISTER
REPRESENTATIVES OF:
FARMERS (Z)
PRIVATE SECTOR (2)
PLANNONVASURVEYMANAGING DIRECTOR                                              A     N
LEA SE S AND LOA NS                                                           - 
|                -~~~~~LEGAL
ASSIST.NT  ASSASCHEME MANAGER                        MO NO__R
LAND PLANNING                                 LAND DEVELOPMENT                                  AGRICULTURAL 4 AGRICLTURA
OFFICER                                        OFFICER                                     SUPERINTENDENT                                    ACONTN
0     R 1N                                                                                       SUPER FICRI CAG  |ll1 INTENDENT|
(FIELD WORXI          i WORKZ iHOS                                                                (LOANS)
PLANNING    SURVEY        ~       DIVRS EC.DRVES.ET.ASSISTANT                                             ASSISTANTS
PLANNtNG   SURVEY                                                    S~~~~~~~~~~~~~   ~    ~~~~~~~~SUPERINTENDENT   UEITNNT| EXECUTIVE         EXECUTIVE
ASSISTANT             ASSISTANT                                                                                    SUPERMIINTED ENTRY           OFIE                   OFFICER
PLANNING               MAPPING                DEVELOPMENT            MAINTENANCE           DEMONSTRATION FARM     ADVICE TO FARMERS           CREDIT FUND          PROJECT ACCOUNTS
April 1968                                                                                                                                                                            (2R)16RD-3697  P1






SUDAN
MECHANIZED FARMING PROJECT
ESTIMATED COSTS
(all amounts in LSd '000)
Total      Foreign Exchange     Foreign Exchange
Cif     Local                 1/          Including      Including          Percentage of
Cost     Cost     Contingency -   Duty      Duty        Contingency          Total Cost
1. PROJECT WORKS                                                                                                 %
Buildings                      8      12           2             0         22             9                 41
Housing                       46      78          13            11        148            48                 32
Equipment and Machinery      276      44          25            43        388           298                 77
Vehicles                       8       1           2             4         15            10                 67
Minor Equipment                3       1           1             1          6             4                 67
Contracts for:
Water Supplies (RWDC)       37      23           5-            1         66            40                 61
Land Clearing               67     210          25             0        302            74                 25
369-         73            z-o       977-          W3Z                 51
Senior Staff                   -      66          10             -         76             -
Intermediate Staff             -      30           3             -         33             -
Other Staff and Labo,          -      38           3             -         4I1            -
Allowances and Fees -         79       8           -             -         87            79                  91
Vehicle 0 & M                  9       5           2             1         17            11                 65
Machinery 0 & M              206     133          45            21        405           241                  60
Building Maintenance           4       7           0             2         13             4                  31
Other Cperations               3       1           1             1          6             4                 67
Sub-total Project Works      746     657         137            85      1,625           822                  51
2. FARM INVESTEDNTS
Tractors and Implements      365      53          53            75        546           410                  75
Combines and Other           185      27          27            31        270           208                  77
Vehicles                      64       3          10            32        109.            70                64
Sub-total Farm Investment    6114     83          90           138        925           688                  74
Total Project Works and
Fanm Investment          1,360     740         227           223      2,550         1,510                 59
3. INTEREST
Interest during establish-
ment                       220       -           -             -        220          - 220                100
TOTAL ESTIMATED COST           1,580     740         227           223      2,770         1,730                  62            X
(US$ million)                  .54)  (2. X)      (O)m           (O ) )       (4I7) >
1/  Contingencies, averaging 9 percent overall, assessed for individul items.
2/  Allowances and fees include the additional cost of employing non-Sudanese (including ADS fees if applicable) if necessary.
May, 1968






ANNEX 4
Table 2
SUDAN
MECHANIZED FARMING PROJECT
SOURCES AND USES OF FUNDS
(all amounts in PSd '000)
Year 1 Year 2 Year 3 Year 4 Total
A. USES OF FUNDS (Including contingencies)
1.  By NFC
Expenditures                     849     239     218     234    1,540
Import duties                     49      20      13       3       85
Additions to credit fund          34     120     247     315      716
932     379     478    552    2,341
2. Interest and Charges on Loan       25      45      65      85      220
957     424     543    637    2,561
3. By Farmers
Machinery                          1       5      25      40       71
Import duties                      9      30      47      52      138
10      35      72      92      209
Total use of funds                   967     459     615     729    2,770
B. SOURCES OF FUNDS
1. Government's net grant to MFC     463      12      39      94      608
Revenue from import duties        58      50      60      55      223
Government's gross grant to MEC  521      62      99     149      831
2. Farmers                            10      35      72      92      209
3. Withdrawals from proposed Loan    436     362     444     488    1,730
Total sources of funds               967     459     615     729    2,770
May, 1968






ANNEX 5
SUDAN
tECHANIZED FARMING PROJECT
CROP PRICES AND FARM BUDGETS
A. Market Prospects and Crop Prices
Sorghum
1.        In the past, domestic sorghum prices have varied greatly from
month to month, reflecting the shortage of storage facilities, as well as
from year to year, reflecting good and bad seasons. Farm gate prices in
the Gedaref area, after deducting taxes, middlemen's profit and transport
have been ISd5.4-15.5, averaging about ESdlO.4 per m ton.
2.        Traditionally, sorghum has been exported as a foodgrain, often
at a premium of ESd5 per m ton over prevailing European prices of sorghum
for livestock feeding. It is doubtful whether Sudanese hope for a great
expansion of foodgrain exports will be realized, since sorghum has a very
low income elasticity and is being replaced by wheat in many Middle East
countries. Instead, increases in Sudanese exports must be sold in TWestern
Europe in competition with low-cost supplies from the highly mechanized
farms of developed countries, which account for about three-quarters of
world trade in sorghum. The Bank's price forecasts for feedgrain sorghum
indicates a price of about ESdl6.5 per m ton cif North European port by
1975.  This is equivalent to ESdl2.5 per m ton fob Port Sudan, or about
half of the export price obtained by the Sudan in Middle East markets in
recent years, and a farm gate price of about tSd8.2 per m ton at present
rates of cron taxes. Efficient bulk handling could raise the farm gate
price to at least ESd8.5 per m ton.
Cotton
3.        The unirrigated cotton grown in the Nuba Mountain and Gedaref
areas is classified as short staple in the Sudan, but would be called
medium staDle in world markets. It has a staple length of about 1-3/32
in as measured by the Shirley Institute procedure adopted in the Sudan,
but would be classified as little over "one inch" by the International
Cotton Advisory Committee (ICAC). These Nuba Mountain and Gedaref cottons
are used for similar purposes as "US Middling one inch" lints.
4.        Most of the output of the rainfed farms is sold to the local
textile mills although small amounts have been exported. especially,in the
last two years, to Yugoslavia.  The local textile mills have paid 15d8.5
per small kantar (99.05 lb) of lint, equivalent to about US2h.60 per lb
cif Liverpool. World prices for Middling one inch are currently US25.1¢
per lb, but are expected to decline to about US19¢-20¢ cif Liverpool by
1975. Cotton'seed, however, is expected to maintain its present price
level (about ISd26.75 cif European port equivalent to tSd22.5 per m ton






ANNEX 5
Page 2
fob Port Sudan). The present farm gate price of seed cotton, at current
rates of export duties and crop taxes, is about bSd 7.70 per large kantar
(312 lb). The farm gate price is expected to decline to about hSd 6.32
per large kantar by 1975.
Sesame
5.        Market prospects for oil seeds in general are favorable and
sesame, wrhich is used for specialty foods as well as for oil extraction,
is expected to maintain its 1960-64 price level, tSd 62.25 cif European
port equivalent to tSd 58.05 per m ton fob Port Sudan. This is equivalent,
at present rates of duty and taxes, to a farm gate price of tSd 38 per m
ton.
B. Farm Budgets and Incomes
6.        A typical farm budget, based upon crop yields in average years,
is shown in Table 1. Net cash farm income, before deducting depreciation,
would rise from ASd 715 per year for the first crop to about LSd 1,140 by
the fourth, because of increasing yields. The cash farm incame would
rise to fSd 1,540 when the machinery loan was repaid.
7.        The farmer's own income from the farm (after providing for
depreciation), and the return on his own capital, at different stages
would be:
Return on
Fanmer1s Average  Farmer's
Years                                              Income       Capital
(WSd/year)     (per cent)
1 to 6   While repaying machinery loan               530            18
Thereafter, after repayment of machinery loan        650            22
These returns, viewed in relation to the opportunity cost of capital in
the Sudan, are by no means excessive.
8.        The incomes quoted above are averages, taking into account
good and bad years. In drought years, lower production will be partially
offset by decreased harvest and transport costs and by a rise in sorghum
prices. Nevertheless, in years of severe drought the net cash farm income
might fall by as much as tSd 1,000: in such years the MFC would be com-
pelled to defer loan repayments. On the other hand, in years of better-
than-average crop yields, sorghum prices may be expected to fall sharply
and, after adjusting for higher harvesting and transport costs, the net
cash farm income might rise by only ESd 700.
Nay, 1968






ANNEX 5
Table 1
SUDAN
MECHANIZED FARMING PROJECT
TYPICAL FARM BUDGETS -
Year 2     Year 4     Year 8     Year 12
A. Crop Production
Area   Crop
450    Sorghum:  Yield m ton/feddan                       0.450      0.544      0.544       0.544
Production m ton                           202        245        245        245
Farm Price LSd per m ton                   8.2        8.2        8.2        8.2
Sales of Sorghum hSd                     1,650      2,010      2,010      2,010
50    Sesame:   Yield m ton/feddan                        0.18       0.18       0.18        0.18
Production m ton                             9          9          9           9
Farm Price bSd per m ton                  38.0                  38.0       38.0
Sales of Sesame LSd                        345        345        345        345
250    Cotton:   Yield, kantars/feddan                      1.0        1.2        1.2        1.2
Production, Kantars                        250        300        300        300
Farm Price SSd per kantar                 7.67       7.38       6.32       6.05
Sales of cotton LSd                      1,920      2,215      1,895      1,815
Total Sales of Crops hSd                           3,915      4,570      4,250      4,170
-----------------bSd------------------
B.  Operating Costs
Machinery Operations (excluding depreciation)        705        705         705        705
Labor 3/                                           1,225      1,450      1,450      1,450
Transport                                            150        155        155        155
2,080      2,310      2,310      2,310
C.  Gross Cash Farm Income (A-B)                              1,835      2,260      1,940      1,860
D. Development Fee,Loan Repayments and Rant
Development Fee                                      350        350        350         350
Machinery Loan Repayments                            720         720         _           _
Rent                                                  50         50         50         50
1,120      1,120        400        400
E. Net Cash Farm Income (C-D)                                   715      1,140      1,540      1,460
1/  The results shown are for average years.  In "badtF years, which occur about once in every five years
(see para 3.03), C and E would both be reduced by about LSd.1,000.
2/  The cost of bags, marketing, etc have been deductedi in computing Farm Price in Section A.
3/ Labor charged at bSd 0.30 per man day.
7/ This is the approximate cash incone available to the farmer, out of which he must save the sums
necessary for the purchase of a new tractor every 5 years and new implements every 7-10 years, as
well as reserves against bad years.
May, 1968






SUDAN
NECHAJIZED FARMING PROJECT
ECONOMIC BENEFITS
(All amounts in bSd '000)
Farm        Farm                                                                     Net
Value of       0 & M       Labor       Other      Transport          Farm           Project       Benefit
Crops         Costs       Costs       Costs-       Costs 2/      Investments 3/     Works  3!   (Deficit)
1             -             -           -           -             -             35              849          (884)
2            67             8         .13          5             4             125              239          (327)
3           235            29          54       . 16            21             272              218          (375)
4           512            65         119         37            47             355              234          (345)
5           764            95         167         43             78              0               29 4/        352
6           799            97         180         48            83              12 /             29           350
7           804           100         185         57            85              25               29           323
8           794           100         185         57            85              50               29           288
9           794           100         185         57            85              50               29           288
10-14       794           100         185         57             85             75               29           263
15-19       794           100         185          57            85             75               29           263
20-24       794           100         185         57            85              75               29           263
25-29       794           100         185          57            85             75               29           263
30          794           100         185         57            85              75               29           263
Rate of Return to the Econamy 11.5 percent.
1/ Includes ginning, bags and miscellaneous items.
v,/ Excluding railway profits.
3   Net of import duties.
Includes four advisory staff, demonstration farm cost and road maintenance.
5/ Average cost of replacements.
May, 1968
tD ol






ANNEX 6
Table 2
SUDAN
SIMSIM MECHANIZED FARMING PROJECT
FOREIGN EXCHANGE COSTS AT FULL DEVELOPMENT
Farm Inputs                                         BSL/yar
1. Spares and fuel:
Farm Machinery                               62,000
Transport                                    13,000
2. Bags                                              17,000
3. Depreciation of Machinery                         31,000
123,000
MFC Costs
Spares and Fuel                                      13,000
Depreciation                                          8,000
21,000
Government Costs
Ginnery Operation and Maintenance                    20,000
IBRD Loan Repayments                                440w,000
46o, 000
TOTAL:                                              604, 000
May, 1968






MAP I
S U D AN  Omsdurm5n  Ehofe Nh  . . - - I                          //
u                            J.~1G
SUDAN                                                             I-                    i
CENTRAL CLAY PLAINS                                                C. ',                                  A    L
0   20  40   60  6o   00                       ,      .     ', '                        ,
MILES                                                                                2 ' |
_      -. ~~~~~ED DEIUE
-i.--M"f ,,  e'.*-                         I.'e  4
U--~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
o,                                           
] M-i 1 2                                                                                        1    t|(5
9, ,     \              u jJ P P ~~~~~SonE, R            /00                       _ 
4213~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
.-.   ..........   *           .  e,,    /    N                             1I  L  E       /°  | 
U  P   P    E   R                                   22,
,,  622,,,,    MALA  AL
_.....,,...........Z=< A ; 
EXISTING SCHEMES                           PROPOSED SCHEMES               f.                             River
Aree  in feddcns                                  Area  in fodder,,a=
1. Leiya            283,000                1. Fashoga                 300,000                          R.ldy
2. E. Kawashada      47,000                2. Umm Seinat              300,000                           I.t-rnatianaI boundar.y
3. Gobob            252,150                3. Saraf So'id              130,000                          P-i'- b .nd-i-
Ri.f.nll (C)
4. Abu Irwo          163,000               4. Abu Sabika                90,000                          Ex Eisting eechmnizem  f-rning schemes (1967)
5. Matnom            26,000                6. Roseires Supply Canal    150,000                          Existi.g irrig.tion schemes
Propos-d mech-ni-ed fErming Schemes
6. Umm Suquro        70,000                7. Mozmum Extension                                         | Preposed irrigati.n schemes
7. Sanqabt           72,000                8 Agida                    500,000                           Project aree
8. Umm Bileil        35,000                9. Doli Extension
10. Doli    }        150000                10. Megeinis                422,000                               I i      .         0
11. Mozmu                                  11. Gubeiho                 300,000                                _ert sudee
12. Umm Lubia         66,000               12. Habils                  144,000                                  0020 Of
13. Karandel          18,000                                   Total 2,336,000                                      Nf0 2        .aof
14. Tosi               9,000                   Sim Sim Project         160000                                      SSi S A
Sub total 1, 191,150              5. New Wad Kobu            150,000                            ,,         P        .
9. Wad Kabu                                                                                               b .
(to close 1968)  150,000
Total 1,341,150
IBRD 2176RI
MARCH 1968






SUDAN                                               MAP 2
SIM SIM MECHANIZED FARMING PROJECT
Mlotor-bl. in dry s.ason only  3_                           .           . . .   10  15
ROADS           t-bl   t  .t tirFeJ  AIRSTRIP  //    e,,K -ILOMETERS
RAILWAY  I, I I I,                       \t   f  Z; VOt   j .                    O         MILES
HAPPIRS        BYojtiog
*     To bo built in project           ARE
pRoJecT~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~G DAJ D     RE F     Ly 
ND: Gcee                                 RAI 1  Iw 
EXISTING                                                                  GABOB
SCHEM1E     (                               1       \1                  (OpeRned  1959).
MI1NISTRY  OF AGRICULTURE  11
WORKSHOP  /
S~REME       MINISTOT OF AGRICULTURE IERY
STAT    WaRY-M;d el Hur,
,~ L
It
..,,,,,,!\\4iT AMX.t ,  I            5'
,,~~~~~~~~~5      A  ~   ~  ~   V  
.                      .  s.  /f  A  f l S -- -- - _ !~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I   '
II~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
A/
/ 1 0'' 4 -~~~~~ ~     ~~~~         ~   ~   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ rI. f7/Pf 
olffen Nlohl                   e   I                                                     'I    ABU IRWA
44~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~, (Opened 1963/67)
I t  #  I-,tOpCjeed 1962t631  '  -_ 
1.- g-       I,,,,;  _   --   *   -   J  R . sh id 'D'
t} :2p<>ZJ po = . ~~~~~~UMM SEINAT               N         1T IV
.,,,2.  rf   .- )  \ \   '-'   ., 
C..  -   SIM  SIM(\V
' PROJECT AREA
.. IH:_ASSRAIRTE4 S
._  U PT     ..                              .                        \..-.
w ... . . ,,4APPROXIM4ATE .X,i
'id
QC ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~0
SARAF SA ID
_ARCH  1i968                                                                                       IBRR -160R



