D  iD   o     of
The World Bank
MMR OMCIL USE ONIN
'§i'  '!.>
S                                                                 R      3pioN&i P-5366-PAK
MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED EXPANDED COFINANCING OPERATION
TO PARTIALLY GUARANTEE UP TO US$240 MILLION
OF A SYNDICATED COMMERCIAL BANK LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$360 MILLION
TO THE
RUB POWER COMPANY
IN THE ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
OCTOBER 29, 1991
Ths doceant has a resricted distribution and may be usd by recipients only In the performance of
tdir official dutie  Its cotents may not othwie be disclosed withou Word Bank authorition.



CuOwency Unit            Pakistan Rupee (Rs)
US$1.00            -     Rs 24.04
1 Kilometer                          -     0.6214 miles
I Ton                                -      1,000 kilogams
1 Kilovolt                           -      1,000 volts
I Miegawat                           -      1,000 kilowatts
1 Kilwatt Hour                       -      1,000 watt hours
ARREVIATIQ  N X AND ACROMS
BEL         -     Bankes Equity Limited
CDC         -     Commonwealth Development Crporation
COFACE    -       Compagnie Francaise d'Assurance pour le Comnmerce Exterieur (France)
ECAs        -     Export Credit Agencies
BOO         -     Expanded Cofinancing Opemion
ESL I       -     Energy Sector Loan I
ESL II      -     Energy Sector Loan II
FSA         -     Fuel Supply Agreement
GOP         -     Govemrnent of Pakistan
HPG         -     Hub Power Group
HUBCO       -     Hub Power Company
IA          -      Inplementation Agreement
ICB         -      International Competitive Bidding
IDC         -     Interest Dining Construction
IfF         -     International Monetary Fund
JEXIM       -      The Export-Inport Bank of Japan
kWh         -     KilowattHour
NMiT              Ministry of International Trade and Industry (Japan)
MW          -      Meawatt
NDFC        -     National Development Finance Corporaton
CDA         -     Overseas Development Administration (United Kingdom)
PPA         -     Power Purchase Agreement
PS          -     Private Sector
PSEDF       -     Private Sector Energy Development Fund
PSO         -     Pakistal State Oil Company
SACE        -     Sezione Speciale per l'Assicurazone del Credito ail'Esportazione (Italy)
SBP         -      State Bank of Pakistan
SP          -     Security Package
TKC         -     Tumnkey Construction Contract
WAPDA       -     Water and Power Development Authority
(OP's FISCAI YEAR
July 1 - June 30



FOR OFFICUIL USE ONLY
EXPANDED COFINANCING OPERATION (ECO) TO PARTIALLY GUARANTEE
UP TO US$240 MILLION OF A
SYNDICATED COMMERCIAL BANK LOAN
OF US$3C0 EQUIVALENT
TO THE HUB POWER COMPANY
IN THE ISLAMIC REPUBUC GF PAKISTAN
PROJECT SUMMARY
The proposed Project is a conventional oil-fired power station
with a capacity of 1,292 MW, to be undertaken by the Hub
Power Company (HUBCO) on a Build-Own Operate basis.
Fuel for the proposed Projecet will be supplied by a pipeline to
be constructed and operated by Pakistan State Oil ompany
(PSO), a public sector company. Two single circuit 500kV
lines of 200 kilometers each, proposed to be constuced by
WAPDA under the Transmission Extension and Reinforcement
Project (Loan 3147-PAK) would connect the proposed Project
to the 500 kV transmission grid. The proposed Project would
be located at the mouth of the Hub River in Balochistan
Province, near Karachi
HUBCO would add nearly 18% of existing capacity, thereby
addressing critical shortages of electricity currently being
experienced in the country. Since this capacity would be
established in the private sector, it would release public sector
resources for other critical investments. A comprehensive
system of penalties and bonuses, based on internationally
accepted performance standards, would ensure that the plant
would be operated efficiendy and would serve as a benchmark
for the evaluation of existng utilities in Pakist
*  £iaka:               Since the oil-fired generating units proposed to be installed by
HUBCO are based on proven technology, there are no
unforeseen risks in design and construction of these units. Risk
of unforeseen geological conditions are midgated by ensuring
that all investigation work is completed prior to the start of
construction and the release of any financing for the proposed
Project Adequate contingency provisions have been made to
address any cost increases on account of changes in financing
cost or other variations. Risks of damage due to fire, explosion,
etc. would be covered by commercial insurance provisions
secured by HUBCO. Adequate special financing arrangements
to cover sovereign risks have been put in place under the
agreements proposed to be signed by GOP and HUBCO. The
major risk would be inability of the financiers to commit the
necessary financing for the implementation of the proposed
Project However, construction activity would be inidated only
after commitments have been received from all finmciers.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipitats only Jn the peoce
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed with.ut Worl Bank authorization.



- i4 -
Proose FlnnenoPlan for the Hub Power CoMnIe
.    z - -- 1,r_E-1:1 W  gp  llE  
(VSS Millon)
Equity                       Base            Debt Service  Contingency   Total
£inancIng  12   Escrow        Finj an          c IiAnA   A2
Sp CGSOMMIG MemSbers               78    6         -          38          116      7
Offshore financialInstiutions      82    6        17                       99      7
Commoinwealth Dev. Corp.            £    .1       -           _ -                  I
Subtotal Foreign Equity            j      l        ii                      22l    15
HUB Cmvetible Bonds               100   12
SubxotalEquity                     2M    MQ        12          31           2
Debt
Foceigg
PSEDF                             355   26         -          52          407    26
Syndicated commercial bank loas   249   19        51          60          360    23
ExpoCredit Agees                  300   24         -            -         300    21
Commonwealth Dev.. Corp.           20  ..2   _          2 Q                        I
Subtotal Foreign Debt              24   21         it          1 1        I       21
Lma1
LoaxlBanks                        -m      9
Subtotal Debt                     14 AQ            i1                             12 123 
TOTAL                         1342  100%      68          150        1560   100
=~
IFigures may undergo minor adjusunents.
2TWken as a perentage of th total cost of the Complex, which incudes inrest duing ctucton and
other finance related costs.
omi Rate of Return           18.3%
Staffi*zt:                   9004-PAK
MAR No                       IBRD 22535



- iii -
SUMMARY OF TERMS OF
TO PARTIALLY GUARANTEE
THE PROPOSED EXPANDED COFINANCING OPERATION (ECO)
UP TO US$240 MILLION OF A SYNDICATED COMMERCIAL BANK. LOAN
OF US$360 MELLION EQUIVALENT (THE LOAN)
TO THE HUB POWER COMPANY
TO FINANCE A POWER GENERATION COMPLEX (THE COMPLEX)
IN THE ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
Boirrower;               Hub Power Company (HUBCO).
iuaran1nr&               International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (World
Bank) and Export-Import Bank of Japan (JEXIM) in the ratio of
2:1 (see Guarantee Provisions below).
LuLdm                    I'The commercial bank members of the syndicate (the Lenders).
AMwint                   US$360 million equivalent, consisting of four facilities:
(i) ECO guaranteed base facility of US$200 million equivalent;
(ii) ECO guaranteed secondary facility of US$40 million
equivalent;
(iii) a JEXIM guaranteed base facility of US$100 million
equivalent; and
(iv) a JEXIM guaranteed secondary facility of US$20 million
equivalent.
Currencies               U.S. Dollars and Japanese Yen.
Use of ProEeeds!         To finance part of the cost of eligible goods and services required
for the construction of the Complex. The balance of the costs will
be financed by export credit agencies, subordinated debt and
foreign and local equity. Subordinated debt consists of a sub-loan
from the Private Sector Energy Development Fund (PSEDF)
which is partially financed by the Bank (Loan No. 2982-PAK).
Procurement:             The equipment, materials and services for the Complex will be
included in the Turnkey Construction Contract which has been
awarded through a competitive process meeting the requirements
of economy and efficiency under the World Bank's Procurement
Guidelines.



- iv -
Drawdnm:                Disbursements under the Loan would be for eligible expenditures
for fte Complex. HUBCO would maintain a special account in a
bank acceptable to the Guarantors, denominated in currencies of
the Loan into which the proceeds of the Loan would be deposited
30 days prior to the start of the quarter, based on a quarterly
expenditure requirement. 1UBCO would provide the World
Bank/JEXIM with periodic reports on the use of funds for
expenditurs for the Complex, including a yearly audit repor of
the special accounts by independent auditors acceptable to the
World Bank.
Term:                   12 to 14 years from date of agreement including 4.5 to 5 years of
availability/ grace period.
AtiaMiiRv              4.5 to 5 years from date of agreement.
lul"AlHate:             I.U.S. Dollar Tranche
(a) For the bas fac :
(i) Three or six months London Interbank Offered Rate
(LIBOR) plus 2% per annum prior to completion of the
Complex;
(ii) Three or six month LIBOR plus 1-7/8% after completion
until the earlier of the 4th anniversary of the date of
completion or the 8th anniversary of the date of the loan
ageement; and
OiH) Three or six month LIBOR plus 2-1/8% therafter.
(b) For the ws&mn  facH4y:
Three or six months LIBOR plus 2-1/4% prior to completion
of the Complex; after completion, the applicable interest rate
would be the same as the interest rate for the base financing
facility for the U.S. Dollar Tranche.
Jpanese Yen Tranche
For the Japanese Yen Tranche, the applicable intest rate may be
one or a combination of the following
T lhem ts  a of an indicave and preliminary nawe ad wil be revised at the tme of eeiving a fim commitment fom the
cornmc bankm



- v -
(a) Fr the ba  fiancing: f the Yen Tranche is based on the
Long-Tenm Prime Lending Rate (LTPLR):
(i) LTPLR plus 1% per annum prior to completion of the
Complex,
(ii) LTPLR plus 7/8% afte compledon until the earlier of the
4th anniversary of the date of completion or the 8th
yof tdate of the loan agreement; and
(iii) LTPLR plus 1-1/8% thereaft.
The LTPLR would be revised every 4/5 years and/or every
6/12 months.
If the Yen Tianche is based on LIBOR, the applicable interest
rate would be LIBOR plus the same margin applicable to the
U.S. Dollar Tranche.
If the Yen Tranche is based on the Short Tenn Prime Lending
Rate (STPLR), the applicable interest rate would be STPLR
plus the same or slighdy higher margins as those applicable to
the LIBOR-based portion, depending on market conditions.
(b) Ea the second  facilk:
Ile applicable interest rate for the base financing facility of the
Yen tranche, plus 1/4% prior to completion of the Complex;
after completion, the applcable interest rate would be the same
as the interest rate for the base financing facility of the Yen
Tranche.
Renamente            lThe Loan would be repaid in 21 equal semi-annual installments
commencing on the 4.5th anniversary of the date of the syndicated
loan (the Agreement).
Documentation    The Agreement would be acceptable to the World Bank and
incorporate inter alia, the following provisions:
Esw Accoun  A Lenders' Interest Reserve Account will be
established off-shore. It wili be required that an amount equivalent
to approximately one year's interest payments to the Lenders be
reserved in the account, from the time pnncipal repayments stam



- vi -
CrQss-Default Clauses: As in the case of other cofinancing
agreements, the generally broad cross-default provisions of
commercial loan agreements would be limited. Cross-default
remedies based upon indebtedness to the World Bank may be
taken by a majority of the lenders only if the World Bank has
accelerated its loan for the Private Sector Energy Development
Project (Loan 2982-PAK) or if there is a payment default by
Paldstan under its World Bank loans in a material amnount (to be
specified) and which default persists for more an 45 days.
lafi=madun Sbahanr Non-confidential information concerning the
Complex, normally exchanged in World Bank cofinancing
transactions, would be shared by the World Bank and JEXIM with
the designated Agent (see  get below), for the benefit of the
Lenders. All information regarding the Complex and HUBCO
given to the Agent for the benefit of the Lenders would be shared
by the Agent with the World Bank and JEXIM.
AMelm gnt: Any material amendment to the terms of the
Agreement which would affect the Guarantee would require the
prior consent of the World Bank and JEXIM
Conditions              The Loan Agreement and the Guarantee will be effective only
Precedent               when:
to Effectiveness:
(i) an irrevocable letter of credit in favor of the sponsors covering
their total equity contribution has been opened and agreements for
al remaining equity and debt financing including Export Credit
Agencies as specified in the financing plan have been executed and
all conditions precedent for their effectiveness have been fufilled;
(ii) all agreements required in connection with the construction of
the Complex (including but not limited to the Implementation
Agreement, the Power Purchase Agreement, the Fuel Supply
Agreement, the Construction Conat, O&M Agreement, Escrow
Agreement, etc.), have been executed and are effective; and all
conditions precedent for their effectiveness have been fulfilled;
(iii) HUBCO has been capitalized and staffed in a manner
satisfactory to the Bank.
Provesipn&.: 2(1) The parial guarantee of the Loan is expected to be provided
by the World Bank andJEXIM in the ratioof 2:1. The World
Bank Guarantee and the JEXIM Guarantee will be callable on a
2 Te guamnzee p  s desaibed (except under "Scope-) reflect World Bank requ_met&



- vii -
pari passu and pro rata basis. The portion of the loan to be
guaranteed by JEXIM is limited to Japanese Yen Tranche to be
provided by Japanese banks including Japanese branches of non-
apanese banks. lhe Yen poron of the syndicated loan would be
at least one ird of the total amount;
(2) The World Bank Guarantee and the JEXIM Guamantee will
cover the Imndal payments due under the Loan and remaining
unpaid.
(3) The Escrow Agent of the Lenders' Debt Service Escrow
Account will be designated with the authcrity to call the guarantee
upon the occurrence of the following specified "events", which
will be properly "certified" by the Escrow Agent:
(i) HUBCO (through the Escrow Agent) has failed to make a
principal payment or a portion thereof due and payable to the
Lenders either on a scheduled payment date or on acceleraion; ad
(ii) The failure of HUBCO (through the Escrow Agent) to make
the payment is the result of the failure of the Government through
the State Bank of Pakistan to make available the equivalent foreign
exchange at the agred rate upon receipt of the local cunency funds
frm HUBCO (though the Escrow Agent);
and/or
(iii) The failure of HUBCO (through the Escrow Agent) to make a
principal payment or a portion thereof is the result of a shortfaU in
the receipt by HUBCO (through the Escrow Agent) of local and
foeign currency amounts payable by the Government under the
Implementation Agreement.
Ajcelzafio: The Guarantee will not be callable/accelerable during
the grace period of the Loan, i.e., until the 4.4th/5th anniversary
of the date of the Agreement, except in the event of tcmination (as
defined in the Implementation Agreement). If the Loan is
accelerated during this period for reasons other than termination,
the Guarantee will lapse.
Subrogation; Upon any payment by the World Bank under the
Guarantee, the World Bank would immediately become entided o
recover from HUBCO and GOP the amount so paid and would
have the immediate right of subrogation against HUBCO and GOP
in respect of such amounts regardless of whether the Lenders have
been fully repaid by HUBCO and GOP in respect of other
amounts due the Lenders under the Loan Agreement.
Requisite Auth:ri7ations: All authorizations and approvals
required to make the Guarantee effective would be obtained and
be in fuil force and effect



- vili -
gO;dn to Rt=: Provisions expessly enabling the Lenders to
release the Guarantee would be included.
Gusrnte  Fea!           A guarantee fee of SO basis points per annum, less any applicable
waivers, will be payable by HUBCO on the outstanding
guaranteed amount in line with the Bank's current guantee
pricing policies.
EM:    ment, Commitment, Arrangement and Agency Fees to be
l~z.nd  OWL             AU payments to be made under or in conecton with the Loan to
lMeduions               be free and clear of any taxes, withholdings or other deducons
whatsoever.
br             ' The Islamic Republic of Pakdstar (Pakistan) and HUBCO would
enter into an Indemity Agreement with the World Bank in respct
of its Guarantee. Under such Indemnity Agreement, Pakistan
and/or HUBCO would undealk to reimburse and idemnify the
World Bank on demand, or as the World Bank may otherwise
deternine, for any payment made by the World Bank under its
Guarantee.
GsoeninugLaw            The Agreement would be governed by Japanese and Enulish law
as appropriate and provide for the non-exclusive jurisdiction
against the World Bank of the Japanese and English courts. The
Indemnity Agreement would follow the legal regime, and include
dispute settement provisions which are customay in agreements
between member countries and the World Bank.
The Agent for the Lenders is to be appointed.



MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED
EXPANDED COFINANCING OPERATION
TO PARTIALLY GUARANTEE UP TO US$240 MILLON OF A SYNDICATED COMMERCIA! BANK
LOAN
OF US$360 MILLION EQUIVALENT TO THE HUB POWER COMPANY
IN THE ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
1.   The following memorandum and recommendation on a proposed Expanded Cofinancing
Operation (ECO) to partially guarantee up to US$240 million of a syndicated commercial bank loan
of US$360 million equivalent to the Hub Power Company (HUBCO), a power generation utility
incorpoated in Pakistan to be wholly owned and operated by local and foreign Private Sector (PS)
investors, to finance the construction of a 1,292 MW oil-fired power station for the supply of power
to the national grid, is submitted for approval.
2.    Macroeconomic Setting. In spite of impressive growth performance for most of the 1980s,
Pakistan, in recent years, has developed a large fiscal deficit, and more recently, serious balance of
payments proble.ns. Progress in the implementation of the Government's structural reform covering
FY88-91, which was aimed at correcdng these imbalances, had been less than satisfactory,
particularly regarding efforts to reduce the fiscal deficit. The country's problems have been
aggravated by the Gulf-crisis, which has led to a critical foreign exchange reserves situation. The
Gulf Crisis has demonstated once again the country's vulnerability to external shocks, which have
weakened Pakistan's external resource position. Most of this is due to higher oil prices and the
reduction in remittances from Paldstani workers in the Gulf area. The new Government, which took
office in November 1990, has moved swiftly in certain areas to reactivate the adjustment effort
Investment and import licensing have been virtually eliminated; the financial sector reform program
has been reactivated; and major enterprises in energy, telecommunications and highways are being
granted increased autonomy. Important progress has also been made in two long-standing issues:
provincial disputes over allocation of the Indus waters have been resolved with the recent agreement
{of the four nparian provinces to a water apportionment scheme; and the National Finance
Commission has recently announced new revenue sharing arrangements between the Federal
Government and the provinces.
3.    The Government's policies place a particular emphasis on industrial deregulation and
privatization. The principal aim is to shift from the public to the private sector those functions and
operations which can be more efficiently and cost effectively carried out by the latter. A significant
part of this effort is the recently initiated public enterprise privatizadon process. The first phase of
this program aims at privadizing about 115 production units, of which bids have already been invited
for four. In the financial sector, two of the nationaLized commercial banks have been privatized in
1991, one of them to that bank's employees, while bids are expected to be invited for two of the
remaining such banks very soon. In addition, the Government has initiated the privatization of the
Telecommunication Corporation and the Sui Northern Gas Pipelines Limited (SNGPL). In May
1991, the national electricity utility, the Water and Power Development Authority (WAPDA), has
been asked to prepare proposals to divest some or all of its thernal staions and the distribution
system to the private sector.
4.    The Government has also confirned its intention to address the country's fiscal constraints.
niially, the actions taken on this front were insufficient, contributing to delays in agreeing on the
third-year Structural Adjustment Facility, and in the release of second tranches under the Banles
sector loans in energy and finance. However, GOP recently implemented price adjustments for
eletricity and natural gas in the energy sector and undertook other measures in support of the
adjustment progrm. As a part of its efforts to address the fiscal constraints in the medium-term,
however, the Govermment of Pakistan (GOP) will continue to place a major emphasis on increasing
private sector investment in the energy sector to increase the flow of private risk capital for a energy



.2-
investments identified as part of the least cost investment program for the sector. The proposed Hub
Power Complex (para. 6) represents the first such private sector investment in the power sub-sector.
5.   Framework for Promotion of Private Sector Participation. The rationale for increasing the
role of PS in the development of energy is to: (a) supplement public sector investments which were
curtailed under Pakistan's macroecononic adjustment progran; (b) mobilize additional resources for
the development of the sector in the form of equity and debt financing secured under limited
recourse; and (c) improve the overall efficiency of the sector by tapping the technical and manageral
capabilities of PS in project design, finance, implementation, and operation. In 1988, GOP
requested B3ank assistance in the fonnulation of a strategy to increase PS participation in the energy
sector. The Bank's strategy called for: (i) strengthening the institutions responsible for the
evaluation, negotiations and approval of PS proposals; (ii) introducing a regulatory framework for
the operation of PS and a package of incentives to attract PS venture capital; and (iii) creating a
vehicle to provide long-term financing to PS. In support of this stategy, the Private Sector Energy
DevelopiDent Project (Loan 2S182-PAK) was approved by the Board in June 1988, which established
the Private Sector Energy D v,lopment Fund (PSEDF). The Bank provided US$150 million to
PSEJ)F with cofinancing frcm: Japan (US$150 million equivalent), the U.S.(US$46 mill:;n), the
U.K. (US$50 million equivalent), Italy (US$50 million equivalent), France (US$20 raillion
equivalent) and the Nordic Investment Bank (US$13 million). In addition, interzst has been
expressed by Germany (US$25 million equivalent), for a potential total financing for PSEDF of
about of US$504 million. It is envisaged that as funds are committed to approved PS projects,
PSEDF would be replenished. PSEDF would provide debt financing of up to 30% of eligible PS
energy investment, provided the remaining 70% of the financing is mobilized, under limited
recourse, in the form of equity (25%) and commercial loans and suppliers credit (45%). Repayment
terms for PSEDF loans would be 23 years, including a grace period of 8 years. The interest rate on
PSEDF loans would be set at the prevailing market rate, currently at 14%. Loans from PSEDF
would be subordinate to senior lenders, e.g., commercial banks and Export Credit Agencies (ECAs).
Since PS projects would be financed under limited recourse, which implies that lenders have
recourse only to the revenues generated by the projects and that the debt assumed by PS is not
guaranteed by GOP, lenders and investors require instead a security package (SP), comprised of a
set of interrelated agreements and provisions aimed at providing the safeguards needed for PS to
invest in projects without a direct GOP guarantee.
6.     The :§ub Power Complex would be constructed, owned and operated by the Hub Power
Company (HUBCO), a private utility incorporated in Pakistan, and would be the first subproject to
be undertaken under Loan 2982-PAK. The Complex is designed as a conventional oil-fired steam
power station of 1,292 MW (4 X 323 MW) which will be located at the mouth of the Hub River in
Balochistan. It would be constructed and implemented based on a fixed, lump sum price Tumkey
Construction Contract (TKC). Fuel for the Complex would be supplied by a pipeline. Pakistan
State Oil (PSO), a public sector company, would construct and operate the pipeie and supply the
fuel oil to HUBCO, based on the terms and conditions outlined in the Fuel Supply Agreement (FSA)
signed by HUBCO and PSO, which stipulates, inte ali, the price, quantity, and quality of fuel to be
delivered. All necessary provisions to ensure that the pipeline meets the environmental safe s
required of such projects are met. The plant would be operated by British Electricity InteratonaL
Ltd. of U.K., based on the terms and conditions outlined in an Operations and Maintenance
Agreement (O&MA) to be signed by HUBCO and British Electricity International. HUBCO would
sell power to the Water and Power Development Authority (WAPDA), also a public agency, based
on the terms and conditions outlined in the Power Purchase Agreement (PPA) signed between
HUBCO and WAPDA, which stipulates, inter alian the tariff level and structure for the sale of
electricity at specified levels of capacity utilization, provisions for rewards and penalties,
maintenance schedules, and billing procedures. The Complex would be connected to the national
500-kV grid at Jamshoro through the installation of two single circuit 500-kV tansmission lines of
about 200 kilometers each (see map). The transmission line would be constucted by WAPDA under
the Bank financed Transmission Extension and Reinforcement Project (Loan 3147-PAK), and would
be operated by WAPDA.



.3.-
!nS df the Nub Power Complex
7.     The total cost of the proposed Complex, including taxes and duties, development costs,
engineering and coordination, capitalized O&M costs, and initial working capital, is estimated at
US$994 million. Cost estimates are based on a lump-sum fixed price TKC, signed on July 2, 1991
whose validity would remain until December 31, 1991 by which dme the mobilization payment is
expected to be made (pam 18) which would ensure the validity of the contract Thereafter adjustment
until financial closure would be for changes in the financing terms and any increases in cost
attributable to changes in design recommended by an environmental study currentdy being
undertaken. In addition, there might be changes in civil works required once the geological site
investigation is completed. TKC already includes allowance to cover costs normally associated with
the environment and subsoil conditions. The openers provide for a pass through of extra-ordinary
costs. A reserve contingency fund of US$150 million has been included in the overall estimate of
the cost to cover increases in costs during construction. This represents approximately 15% of the
investment cost net of IDC, and is in line with normal practice for projects financed on a limited
ecourse basis. Under limited recourse project financing, lenders require the earmarling of a fund to
meet contingencies not anticipated at the time the fied price tunkey contrct is signed. The fund is
intended to ensure that delays, if any, due to unforeseen events are expeditiously addressed to
minimize the adverse impact on the forecast project revenues.
8.     Total financing required for the Complex, including interest during construction (IDC),
other finance related costs of US$348 million,the reserve contingency fund of US$150 million, and
a debt service escrow reserve for interest payments on senior debt of US$68 million (including
financing costs) would amount to US$1,560 million. Of the total financing required, about
US$1,310 million equivalent would be in foreign exchange and about US$250 million equivalent in
local crmncy. Project development costs of US$21 million include the preparation of prefeasibility
and feasibility studies, site investigation, environmental impact assessment, financial and legal
advisory fees, and the costs associated with the establishment of HUBCO. The local financing
woud cover a portion of civil works, some locally fabricated material for boiler island, IIDC on local
loans and other financing costs, as well as taxes and duties. The amount of taxes and duties
applicable to the Complex is low compared to other power projects of similar size in Pakistan
because customs duties are not applicable for investments undertaken in underdeveloped areas to
promnote their development. Pre-operational O&M costs involve costs that would be incurred during
tesdng and commissioning, while worling capital would cover inventories and other consumables.
9.     A brakdown of the costs of the Hub Power Complex and the financing plan is provided in
the attached Schedule A. The amounts and methods of procurement are provided in the attached
Schedule B and the Status of Bank Group Operations in Pakistan is provided in the attached
Schedule C Staff Report No. 9004-PAK, dated October 29,1991, is also attached.
S.u for the Proposed FCo
10.    The Hub Power Complex is one of the major projects to be undertaken in Pakistan by
either the public or private sectors. The project would require financial resources that amount to
about US$1.56 billion in the form of equity, long-term debt and contingency reserve funds. At the
imcepdon stage, the financing requirements for the Complex were to be mobilized in the form of
equity and long-term loans from PSEDF and multilateral institutions and the balance would be met
by ECAs. The financing by ECAs and multilateral institutions was to be secured under limited
recourse without soveneign guarantees. In order to mobilize the maximum amount of financing from
ECAs and other cofinanciers, the Bank concentrted its efforts on strengthening SP with a view to
minimizing the risks to be tsrme by ECAs and the other cofinanciers. Based on the composidon of
the constructon consortium, coiiamitments for export credit financing have been received for an
aggregate amount of US$300 million equivalent from MlTl of Japan, COFACE of France, and
SACE of Italy. Given tie extent of financing for the Complex to be provided by ECAs, commercial
bank loans would be needed to fill the gap in the debt portion of the financing plan. Pakistan has
hitherto not been able to mobilize foreign commercial bank financing on a limited recourse basis.
Even for sovereign debt, GOP has not been able to secure commercial loans for over US$100
million with maturities that extend beyond six months or one year. In 1988 and 1989, foreign



-4-
commercial loans to Pakistan have been primarily trade credits, characterized by both short
maturities, usually six months to one year, and amounts of less than US$100 million. In Pakistan's
case, commercial banks are unwilling to assume sovereign risks, but are prepared to assume
compledon and commercial risks, provided the security arrangements are satisfactory. Sovereign
risks encompass default by GOP or any of its agencies in complying with their obligations under SP.
GOP has agreed to guarantee the perfonnance of its agencies and provide special funding (Special
Temporary Punding and D)eficit Funding) to lenders and investors against events of political forc
majeure. However, in view of the magnitude of resources which need to be mobilized for HUBCO
and the absence of a track record for GOP involving commercial transactions with PS companies in
the area of infrastructure, commercial banks require the comfort of a recourse in the unlikely ev kt
hat GOP fails to comply fully with the provisions under SP.
Obieetive _ gnu  stur_re of The PranMW ECO
11.    The objecdve of the proposed ECO is to assist Pakistan in the implementation of its strategy
for enhancing the role of PS in energy development by mobilizing financing from the intemational
financial markets on favorable terms.
12.    The proposed ECO would provide a guarantee in respect of 100% of principal in the event
of debt service default on the loan, if the default is due to the failure of the government to fulfill its
obligations under the Implementation Agreement (IA), the central agreement comprising SP, for a
total amount of $240 million equivalent of an international syndicated loan of $360 million
equivalent. JEXIM would guarantee debt service default due to sovereign risks along the same lines
as the Bank on the remaining US$120 million equivalent of the loan. The guarantee would be
accelerable at any time after the grace period (of 4.5 years). During the grace period, acceleradon of
the loan could only occur in the event of termination of the project for reasons of GOP default under
IA; in that event, the ECO) guarantee would cover any default on the acceleration payments.
13.    HUBCO's ability to service debt to its lenders is intimately linked to the timely performance
by GOP, WAPDA, PSO, SBP, National Insurance Company, the Turnkey Contractor, etc. of their
financial and non-financial obligations under agreements comprising SP. For a Project of this
complexity, it is possible that there may be delays arising from foTce mWaiere events, disputes or
contractual non-performance, which in turn, could jeopardize the flow and level of anticipated
revenues and other payments into the Escrow Accounts. All of these contingencies are adequately
covered by special funding arrangements (e.g. Special Temporary Funding, Deficit Funding,
Liquidated Damnages), some of which are obligations of GOP. However, with respect to obligations
of GOP, the commercial bank lenders consider that SP does not provide them with sufficient
secuity, given their current perception of Pakistan country risk The banks have indicated their firm
view that, in order to successfully complete this syndication for Pakistan, with a maturity and grace
period necessary to finance a power plant, it will be necessary to obtain a partial guarantee from the
Bank in respect of debt service due to the lender commercial banks. Specifically, a guarantee
covering defaults in respect of principal payments arising from failure of GOP to fulfill its
obligations under the IA, supplemented by adequate escrow arrangements to cover interest payments
for a 12-month period, would be essential.
14.    The proposed ECO covers principal debt service defaults arising from tne failure of GOP to
perform the specific undertakings to the project it would underwrite in the Implementation
Agreement. These consist of: (a) Special Temporary Funding, (b) Deficit Funding in the event of the
occurrence of certain defined events; and (c) a guarantee for foreign exchange convertibility by the
State Bank of Pakistan. The ECO will not support other risks of the project such as completion and
operational risks which would be borne by the private sector--including the banks. Under this
arrangement, a considerable amount of risk for the project is borne by the private sector and thus is
not covered by thfe Bank or counter-guaranteed by GOP. As the Bank's past experience with public
sector projects has amply demonstrated, these risks which include cost overruns, construction
delays, and suboptimal performance, are significant.
15.    The proposed structure is in line with the intent of and the guidelines for the ECO program
that provide for support for limited recourse project finance. A particular guideline for the ECO



progamn requires that commercial banks assume at least 50% of county exposure on the financing.
This proposal, however, rquires that ECO cover all sovereign risk on the project. When the ECO
guidelines were drafted (in 1988) to define risk sharing that would ensure a catalytic role for the
Bank, risk sharing by allocating specific risks to different pardes was envisaged but not directly
addressed  Instead, the risk sharing was expressed in terms of dividing the tIQt  risk on the
financing (using the proxy of the present value of the guarantee) and the ceiling for the Bank's share
*       was set at 50%. This measure for risk sharing is appropriate to public sector projects--where all
risks can be viewed as a single (sovereign) risk. The ECO guarantee in project financing, as
exemplified by this project, is more akin to a partial casualty insurance rather than a comprehensive
guarantee aginst al risks, in the sense that the ECO covers ordy selective risks of the project leaving
the remaining risks to the private sector
16.    Providing Bank support duough a partial guarantee covering only the undertakings of GOP
to the project is more appropriate than a Bank loan since the indemnity from GOP to the Bank woud
be limited to the risks covered by the Bank under the ECO guarantee. If the Bank were to make a
direct loan to the project, it would require a full indemnity from GOP, irrespective of the cause of
debt-service default. This would mean that GOP carried commercial risks on the project at least to
the extent of the Bank loan. It would also weaken the government's case for not providing the same
protection to other lenders/guarantors (many of whom have been pressing for a comprehensive
sovereign guarantee) for this and other private sector projects in Pakistan.
17.    This structure for the guarantee is appropriate for project financing of this type.
Accordingly, it is proposed that the ECO guarantee be structured along the following lines:
(a) The partial guarantee of the Loan is expected to be provided by the World Bank and
JEXIM in the ratio of 2:1. The World Bank Guarantee and the JEXIM Guarantee will be
callable on a par! passu and pro rata basis. The portion of the loan to be guaranteed by
JEXIM is limited to Japanese Yen Tranche to be provided by Japanese banks including
Japanese branches of non-Japanese banks. The Yen portion of the syndicated loan would
be at least one thW of the total amount;
(b) The World Bank Guarantee and the JEXIM Guarantee will cover the principal payments
due under the Loan and remaining unpaid.
(c) The Escrow Agent of the Lenders' Debt Service Escrow Account will be designated with
the authority to call the guarantee upon the occurrence of the following specified "events",
which will be properly "certified" by the Escrow Agent:
(i) HUBCO (through the Escrow Agent) has failed to make a principal payment or a
portion thereof due and payable to the Lenders either on a scheduled payment date
or on acceleration; 6
(ii) The failure of HUBCO (through the Escrow Agent) to make the payment is the
result of the failure of the Government through the State Bank of Pakistan to make
available the equivalent foreign exchange at the agreed rate upon receipt of the local
currency funds fro1n HUBCO (through the Escrow Agent);
and/or
(iii) The failure of HUBCO (through the Escrow Agent) to make a principal payment
or a portion thereof is the result of a shortfall in the receipt by HUBCO (through the
Escrow Agent) of local and foreign currency amounts payable by the Government
under the Inplementation Agreement
Acceleation: The Guarantee will not be callable/accelerable during the grace period of the
Loan, ie., until the 4.5th/5th anniversary of the date of the Agreement, except in the event
of termination (as defined in the Implementation Agreement). If the Loan is accelerated
during this period for reasons other than tennination, the Guarantee will lapse.



-6-
SuluoAign: Upon any payment by the World Bank under the Guarantee, the World Bank
would immediately become entitled to recover from HUBCO and GOP the amount so paid
and would have the immediate right of subrogation against HUBCO and GOP in respect of
such amounts regardless of whether the Lenders have been fully repaid by HUBCO and
GOP in respect of other amounts due the Lenders under the Loan Agreement.
Rqisite Authorizations: All authorizations and approvals required to make the Guarantee
effective would be obtained and be in full force and effect
Otion to Releam: Provisions expressly enabling the Lenders to release the Guarantee
would be included.
Guaran  Fee: A guarantee fee of 50 basis points per annum, less any applicable waivers,
will be payable by HUBCO on the outstanding guaranteed amount in line with the Bank's
current guarantee pricing policies.
18.  JEXIM has provided a commitment to co-guarantee the principal under the Yen portion of the
syndicated loan to be extended by Japanese and foreign banks in Japan. It is proposed that the
amount of the guarantee be equivalent to about one third of the foreign commercial bank syndicated
loan of US$360 million amounting to about US$120 million. The Yen portion of the syndicated
loan is expected to be in excess of US$120 million equivalent and thus, would fully utilize the
proposed JEXIM cover. JEXIM's guarantee would be provided in conjunction with, and as a
supplement to, the Bank guarantee. The guarantees from JEXIM and the Bank would apply to
separate tanches of the loan and would be governed by each institution's respecdve policies, under
terms and conditions applicable to its guarantee operations. Each institution would negotiate and
enter into separate agreements with the commercial banks regarding their respective guarantees. In
addition, JEXIM and the Bank would enter into separate indemnification agreements with GOP.
Disbursement of the individual tranches of the syndicated loan would be according to the Bank and
JEXIM guamntee proportions at commitment. Repayvnent terms on the tranches would be identical.
Thus, amnordzation payments would reduce the outstanding guarantee of the Bank and JEXIM on a
gad as basis. The JEXIM guarantee would follow the structure of the Bank's guarantee.
ronied FiRandRn PAn
19.    Following the signing of the TKC, and the reconstitution of the construction consortium in
July 1991, HPG initiated all activities to commence construction. However, due to the complexity of
the financing package, financial closure could be delayed beyond the validity date of the contract of
December 31, 1991. Currently, financial closure is expected by March 31, 1992. If the
commencement of construction has to wait until financial closure, the contract's validity would expire,
the project would lose momentum, and the investors would find it difficult to sustain the level of
development effort which have so far cost HPG about US$21 million. Moreover, as stipulated in
TKC, extension beyond December 31, 1991 would result in a price adjustment to compensate for
inflation, exchange rate changes, etc., which would increase the cost of the project and financing
required. If, however, the initial payment for TKC is made on or before December 31, 1991, the TKC
price would be frozen. In addidon, timely inidatdon of construction would maintain HPC's
commissioning schedule. It is proposed, therefore, that in order to enable HUBCO to start
construction, financing from PSEDF be made available for eligible contracts equivalent to the down
payment. According to the estimates of HUBCO, about US$i25 million would be required to initiate
the construction of the Complex and meet HUBCO's financial obligations until financial closure. In
order to maintain the debt equity ratio of the financing plan, the Sponsors would be required to
contribute about US$10 million in new equity to meet the down payment, while the balance would be
met through a loan from PSEDF of about US$115 million. This contribution, together with the
US$21 million contributed so far by the Sponsors would maintain the equity portion of the financing at
21%. Untied funds from-the Bank and JEXIM (amounting to US$35 million equivalent each) would
be used to finance part of the initial payments for the contract for the turbine-generators under PSEDF



.7 -
awarded under Bank guidelines. The balance of the initial payment for this contract would be provided
from the Government of Italy's contribution to the PSEDF (US$24 million equivalent) since the
contract was awarded to an Italian contractor. Similarly tied French aid expected to be made available
to PSEDF (US$20 million equivalent) would be used to finance the French contract for civil works
and the USAID gmnt (US$1 million) would be used for construction supervision being carried out by
an American engineering firm.
20.    At present, the mobilization of financing for the Complex has been firmed up and by
December 31, 1991 commitments are expected from all debt financiers and equity investors.
However, in view of the complexity of the financing arrangements for the project, which involves a
wide array of financing sources for both debt and equity, it is expected that following the receipt of
firm commitments from all the financiers, at least 34 months would elapse to allow for the necessaty
coordination, cross-checking legal documentation and administrative requirements, to achieve financial
closure. In recognition of the need to freeze the price for TKC and maintain the implementation
schedule for the project, NDFC, as administrator of PSEDF, would enter into an agreement with
HUBCO to disburse the mobilization payment, provided firm commitments have been made by all
financiers and all debt and equity agreements comprising SP have been signed. These would include
the Implementation, Power Purchase, Operation and Maintenance, Fuel Supply and Escrow
Agreements.
21.  Of the total financing required of US$1,560 million, US$323 million (21 %) would be in the
forn of equity, of which US$223 million would be foreign and US$100 million local. The
remaining US$1,237 million (79 %) would be financed through long term debt from PSEDF
(US$407 million), foreign commercial banks (US$360 million), local commercial banks (US$150
milion), ECAs (US$300 million), and the Commonwealth Development Corporation (CDC) of
U.K. (US$19 million), to be secured under limited recourse. The financing plan covers TKC,
development cost, interest during construction and other finance related costs. It also covers: (a)
provisions amounting to US$150 million to cover the costs associated with project implementation;
i.e., variations in the specifications of equipment, and contingencies, which would be covered by
PSEDF (US$52 million), the commercial banks (US$60 million) and the Sponsors (US$38 million);
and (b) the establishment of debt service escrow reserve amounting to US$68 million, including
financing costs, for one year's interest payments on senior loans to be covered by commercial banks
(US$51 million) and offshore equity (US$17 million). Foreign LquijM: The Sponsors,
contractors, and institutional and private investors would contrbute about US$223 million equivalent
towards the financing of the Complex. Of this, US$168 million would be base financing, US$38
million would be committed for contingency financing to be utilized only in parallel with the debt
contingency funds are used and about US$17 million would be for the debt service escrow reserve.
Members of HPG have confimed their irrevocable commitment to provide an equity contribution of
US$78 million. HPG would also be expected to provide US$38 million in contingency reserve
funds, which woud be drawn down as equity in the event debt contingency reserve funds are drawn
down in order to maintain a constant debt/equity ratio. Guarantee against political force mieure
would be provided by MMTI for the equity contribution of Mitsui and Co. and IH1. ECGD woud
cover Hawker Siddeley and BEI, COFACE would provide coverage for the equity contribution of
Campenon Bemard, and SACE would cover Ansaldo. Xenel Industries has applied to MIGA for
coverage of up to US$22 million under the limit of US$50 million authorized under MIGA's
mandate for a single project, as coverage is not available in Saudi Arabia. The remaining US$28
million of the coverage available under MIGA's ceiling would be available for equity investors
provided they are not nationals of Pakistan or citizens of countries which are not members of MIGA.
MIGA intends to coordinate its coverage with the other national insurance schemes to enswe
consis -,ncy in the coverage being provided. The Commonwealth Development Corporation (CDC)
of U.K has confirmed its participation in providing equity of US$8 million. The remaining US$99
million, inclusive of US$17 million for the debt service escrow reserve, would be raised with private
placements from off-shore investors, a number of whom have expressed their strong interest.
Chartered West LB of U.K has entered into an agreement with HPG for the placement of offshore
equity on a best effort basis. HPG has received letters of interest from several investor groups,
including The Impact Group of the U.S. (US$ 20 million), the Al Baraka Investment Company of
Saudi Arabia (U  $15 million), and the Investment and Securities Group, Inc. in Luxembourg
(US$60 million). Citibank Pakistan has also identified off-shore investors (US$ 20 million). While



discussions are underway, definite commitments would be forthcoming once project costs and debt
financing are finalized and HUBCO is in a position to release all relevant information to the potential
investors. Ultimately, however, the responsibility for mobilizing the off-shore equity rests with
HPG which would undertake to place the off-shore equity with due diligence by the time financial
closure is achieved. Any shortfall resulting from a failure to place the off-shore equity would have to
be taken by HPG as sponsors and developers of the Project.
22.  LaLW Egujit: 'Me capacity of Pakistan's capital market is constrained as illuswated by the
fact that new equity listings issued in FY87 and FY88 amounted to Rs. 744 million (US$35.4
million) and Rs. 435 million (US$20.7 million) respectively, compared to the local equity
requirement for HUBCO of about Rs 2,400 million (US$100 million). Consequendy, a strategy
was developed involving the mobilization of local equity by issuing a convertible instrument,
HUBCO Convertible Bonds (HCBs). HCBs have been structured in the following manner. (i) five
tranches of about US$20 million each would be issued, commencing in FY91 and maturing for
mandatory conversion at intervals of four years; (ii) except for the first two tranches,which would be
issued in FY91, six months apart, the remaining 3 tranches would be issued annually from FY92 to
FY95 timed to match the disbursement profile of the project while accommodating the absorptive
capacit of the market; (iii) each HCB would carry a coupon of 16.5% payable semi- annually to be
treated as redeemable capital for the purpose of eligibility under the prevailing Islamic law which
does not allow fixed income instruments; and (iv) each tranche would be priced differently to
provide a yield to the investor which is commensurate with the time of investment and, hence the risk
assumed. This approach to compensating HCB holders for risks would result in annual yields on
the instrument between 18% for the first tranche and 15.5% for the fifth and last tranche, when the
project would be well under operation. GOP has reviewed the proposed strategy for the
mobilization of local equity and approved in general the structure of the Hub Convertible bonds as an
instrument for raising local equity. Since all financial instruments in Pakistan are not tradeable in the
secondary market, the liquidity and, therefore, the attractiveness of the instruments would be
affected. The State Bank of Pakistan has confimed that in the case of HCBs, there is no legal
barrier to local commercial banks participating either as primary underwriters or as creators of
secondary liquidity. The subscription to the issue would be open to all investors, including all
financial insttutions. The bonds would be listed on the Karachi stock exchange and would be
offered in registered and bearer form and the coupons would be treated as dividend payments for tax
purposes. In accordance with GOP's request that the local equity be underwritten by an offshore
institution, Dhabi Trading (DT) has been appointed by the Sponsors to act as leading underwriters
for HCBs of US$100 million equivalent in Pakistan, and Grinlays ANZ of Pakistan have been
appointed the managers of the issue based on their experience and knowledge of the local capital
markets. DT has also appointed two local banks as co-managers of the issue, the newly privatized
Muslim Commercial Bank and the House of Prudential, and marketing strategy for the issue has
been prepare
23.  Foreign Debt: PSEDF would finance about US$407 million equivalent, comprised of
US$355 million in base financing and US$52 million in contingency financing. This represents
25% of the total financing requirement of the Complex, including financial costs and contingencies.
These funds would be lent to HUBCO at a fixed interest rate of 14% with 23 years repayment,
including 8 years grace. A preliminary commitment by NDFC, the administrator of PSEDF, in
regard to this financing has been issued to HUBCO. In addition, it is expected that ECAs of France,
Italy and Japan would provide export credit guarantees for suppliers from their respective countries
for a total of US$300 million. SACE, MMTI and COFACE have all provided commitments to
guaantee export credit financing for US$180 million, US$70 million and US$50 million equivalent,
respectively. The French portion may change slighdy depending on the financing made available
through PSEDF by the Government of France, which has indicated support for the project through
COFACE and PSDF contribution for a total of US$70 million. CDC has made a preliminary
commitment to provide US$20 million equivalent as debt. Financing from foreign commercial banks
would amount to the balance of US$360 million equivalent, which includes contingency financing
for an amount equivalent to US$60 million and provision for a debt service escrow reserve in an
amount of US$51 million. The Sponsors have issued a conditional mandate to a group of
commercial banks consisting of Mitsui Taiyo Kobe Bank, The Bank of Tokyo, Ltd., Citicorp
Investment Bank, Ctedit Lyonnais, and Union Bank of Switzerland. Letters of preliminary



-9-
commitment for the amount of US$360 million have been received from the group of banks.
Indicative terms and conditions of fte syndicated commercial banks loan would be set out prior to
Board presentation, and would be negotiated following the Board's consideration of the proposed
ECO. However, preliminary discussions between the Bank and the group of commercial banks
indicate that the loan may be structured for a 14-year maturity with a 4-year grace period. HUBCO
would purchase exchange rate risk insurance for the commercial loans dhrough SBP and the cost of
such insuance is included in the total costs of the project. Local  The local debt requirement
of US$150 million equivalent is of an unprecedented amount for Pakistan's credit market and it is
epecxp d that this financing would be available with significandy longer maturities than has been
available in the local credit market in the past NDFC and Bankers Equity Ltd. (BEL), major
development finance institutions in Pakistan has been appointed syndication managers for the local
debt portion of the financing plan by the Sponsors based on their experience in raismg financing for
prjects in the local market and NDFC's already extensive familiat with HPC through its role as
administrator of PSEDP. With the consent of the State Bank of Pakistan, the nationalized
commercial banks have been authdoized to extend the required financing to the project under the
leadership of NDFC/BEL .-.ithout breaching the credit ceiling set under the macroeconomic
adjustment program. The trens and conditions remain to be finalized with the Sponsors but
preliminary terms for this financing have been indicated hy NDFCtBEL as 14 years maturity with a
4-year grace period.
24 .  Tlle following¢ action s are WaggvAe as condition s of effectiveness of the xrDsdECO: (a) a
letter of credit for an amount equivalent to US$128 million inclusive of development cost of US$21
million verified by an internationally reputable auditing firm, and US$38 million in contingency
financing, shall have been made by HPG; (b) agreements satisfactory to the Bank to place off-shore
equ*ty for an amount equivalent to US$99 million shall have been signed by HUBCO with off-shore
investors, or in the absence of such agreements a guarantee shall have been received frm the parent
companies of the sponsoring investors to subscribe to the equity for the same amount; (c) an equity
contribution to HUBCO in an amount equivalent to about US$8 million shall have been made by
CDC; (d) an underwriting agreement for the issuance of HCBs for equity in HUBCO in the Pakistan
capital maiket for an amount equivalent to about US$100 million shall have been signed with DT; (e)
ageements for export credits for HUBCO in an aggregate amount equivalent to about US$300
million shall have been signed with MMi, COFACE, and SACE and all conditions precedent to the
effecdveness thereof shall have been fulfilled; (f) a loan agreement between NDFC and HUBCO
shall have been signed and all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the loan agreement
between PSEDF and HUBCO in an amount equivalent to US$407 million shall have been fulfilled,
other than those for the effectveness of the proposed Bank Guarantee; (g) a loan agreement for a
foreign syndicated commercial bank loan to HUBCO in an amount equivalent to about US$360
million shall have been signed with the consortium of commercial banks, and all conditions
precedent to the effectiveness thereof shall have been fulfilled, other than the effectiveness of the
proposed Bank Guarantee; (h) a loan agreement to HUBCO for an aggregate amount equivalent to
US$20 million shall have been signed with CDC, and all conditions precedent to the effectiveness
thereof shall have been fulfilled, other than the effectiveness of the proposed Bank Guarantee; (i) a
loan agreement for a local syndicated commercial bank loan to HUBCO in an amount equivalent to
about U S$150 million shall have been signed with NDFVBEL, and aU conditons precedent to the
effecdveness thereof shall have been fulfiled, other than the effectiveness of the proposed Bank
guarantee; (j) the Shareholders' Agreement shaUl be signed by all the shareholders of HUBCO,
mcluding members of the reconstituted construction consortium, and the Memorandum and Articles
of Association amended to the satisfaction of the Bank and adopted by HUBCO's Board; (k) a
permanent Board of Directors of HUBCO shall be constituted in a manner satisfatory to the Bank,
and the Chainnan of the Board and CEO shaaU be a ted; O) the Implementation, Power Purchase,
Construction, Operton and Maintenance, Fuel Supply and Escrow Agreements shall have been
signed by authorized representatives of HUBCO and GOP, and al conditions precedent to the
effectiveness thereof shall have been fulfiled; (m) the first Annual General Board meeting of aU
shaeholders of HUBCO shall be held to ratify the Inplementation, Power Purchase, Construction,
Operaion and Maintenance, Fuel Supply, and Escrow Agreements; (n) the necessary staffing for
HUBCO shall be in place and senior management posts in finance, engneering, accounting, legal,



- 10-
administation, public relations, and project management shall be filled and personnel appointed; and
(o) title deeds for the land required for the complex shall have been executed in favor of HUBCO; (p)
the completion of a corporate development plan for HUBCO, satisfactory to the Bank; (q) the
appointment by HUBC0 of consultants acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with terms of
refeence also satisfacty to the Bank, for the purpose of introducing a commercial system of utility
accounts; (r) the Environmental and Social Soundness Assessment (Phase II) will be completed by
HUBCO; (s) HUBCO will give an undertaking to provide assistance for the preparation of an
environmental impact assessment of the oil pipeline and associated terminal facilities which will be
used to provide fuel to the plant; and (t) HUBCO shall open a Special Account in a bank, satisfactory
to the Bank.
25. In addition. HUBCO would be required to agree to: (a) achieve for each year beginning with
1996, a DSCR of at least 1.5 for its total debt, and at least 2.0 for the senior debt; (b) submit to the
Bank an audit report of annual receipt and expenditure of the Special Account for each year within
six months of closing of the year, providing details as may be reasonably requested by the Bank; and
(c) declaration of dividends subject to payment of all debt and compliance with the agreed DSCR and
debt/equity ratio.
ationske for Bank Involvement
26.    The Bank has played a critical role in the development of PS involvement in the energy
sector in Pakistan, in the area of institution building, and establishing a framework for the
solicitation, evaluation, negotiation, and ultimately financing of PS investment. In addition, the
framework provides for the monitoring of project implementation, the resolution of conflicts after
operation begins, and the orderly interaction between the private sector and the various public sector
entities. The institutions created have been staffed, and extensive training as well as suppon in the
forn of long-tern and short-term internationally experienced consultants was provided to ensure
adherence to the highest internationally accepted standards in tenms of evaluation, negotiations, and
financing of private sector investments. The Bank has also played a major role in mobilizing
concessionary financing for the PSEDF which result in a cost to the government substantially below
the onlending rate and would generate a surplus which would be reinvested back into the private
sector by providing local financing in the future and thereby avoid the need to tap the local credit
market, crowd out other investments and/or exceed the ceiling set to achieve fiscal and external
balance. The role of the Bank in structuring the guarantee transaction and SP has been instrumental
in mobilizing commercial bank lending for a project of this magnitude under limited recourse
arrangements and for the first time mobilizing co-guarantees, thus leveraging the Bank's resources.
These arrangements are highly complex and would require maximum collaboration and
understanding among the numerous agencies concerned during the implementation of the project for
successful completion. The Bank's role will remain critical during the entire implementaton period
to remove obstacles, facilitate a dialogue, promote better understanding and assist GOP and its
agencies in a highly onerous and innovative operation.
Bwea
27.  The proposed EC0 would facilitate the mobilization of resources from the international and
local capital and credit markets to supplement public sector investments in achieving the energy
objectives of the Seventh Plan. More specifically, ECO would support the establishment of
HUB:CO, on the basis of internationally acceptable standards which is pivotal to securing debt
financing under limited recourse. HUBCO would serve as a benchmark for the evaluation of the
performance of the existing utilities in Pakdstan.
28.  The Security Package has been structured to safeguard the interests of the lenders, GOP and
investors, and to address the risks associated with the different stages in the preparation,
development, implementation and operation of the Hub Power Complex. Provisions and safeguards
backed by stringent guarantees and penalties have been put in place to ensure that, throughout the life



-I l-
of the project, lenders, GOP and investors would bear the consequences of all risks except those
clearly attributable to events beyond their control.
29.    1 recommend that the Executive Directors authorize the Bank to negotiate the guarantee
provisions for the proposed syndicated commercial bank loan to the Hub Power Company,
substantially in accordance with the termns and conditions described in this Report and Term Sheet.
Upon satisfactory completion of negotiations, approval by the Executive Directors of the Bank's
participation in the proposed ECO will be sought.
Lewis T. Preston
President
Atachmet
Washington, D.C.
October, 1991



- 12-
Schedue A
(Page I of 2)
PKSTA
VPTOiIR24 MILLION OF A
X CAMr   COMMECAl, BANK L-OAN l)F ux$36 wM.l,glN
To = HB 221 COAMP
itMate Cofts pn Fluancing Plan for the Hub Power Comnie
|~~~Edg     *os et t    --i CA-PIAI
BLmufl  It$ion
A. Project Development Costs                              505           21
B. Tunkey Construction Contract Cost                    21,344         888
C. Enghnering and Coondinaion for HPG                    1,250          52
D. Preopern onal O&M Costs                                457           19
E. Wodking Capital                                        336           14
Subtotal Project Costs2/                       29             mb
F. Intenrst During Construction and oe Fnace Related Costs    8.366    348
G. Resrve Coninncy Fund (Debt and new Equity)            3,605         150
IL Debt Service Escrow Reserve                           1,635          68
Total Fiancing Requirements                   37LS2         L5
1 At exchange rate of Rs. 24.04/US$
2 ncludes the following Taxes and Duties:                1,226



*13-
Sce A
(Page 2 of 2)
(US$ MUJ8oX
Equty                            Base             Debt Service Contigency   Total
EWmnane     .2   F-arn    E1nanerg  £anrIgg &k2
Femignnet
MMem nbers            78      6                   38          116       7
Offsoe  Financial Instittions      82      6       17                       99      7
Commonweath Dev. Corp.                             - 1  _      _             8      1
SubtotaForeignEquity               1is LI           12          31           m       15
HUB Caverble Bonds               IQ      1                    _f
SboaEquity                          X     2Q       12           31           D      1
Debt
PSEDF                             355    26         -          52          407     26
Syndited cmmecial bank kas        249    19        51          60          360     23
ExpctCrediAgencies               300    24         -            -         300     21
Cmmonwealth Dev. Corp.             2X                          _ _                  1
Subtotl Foreign Debt                 A    211       a           a          102      21
LOcalBanks                        IVQ     £                                IZ 
Subo  Debt                         in4              a                      112  22
TOrAL                         1342   100%      68          150        1560    100
_ _ = _
1Figures may wudgo min  adjus_me
2Take as a p rcnm3e of the total cost of the Complex, which includes interest during consucto and other
fimewd tedcoss



- 14 -
ScheduleB
(Page I of 1)
PtAKISTAN
UP TO lJvSA    MILLION OF A
IQ THE REED =F    PN
PrcrmentArrngmeS
(US$ Million)
Item                       WI  LIa Dg    law
A. Project Development Costs before Construction           -    21      21
B. Twnkey Construction Contract                  439      -   429      888
C. Engineerig and Coordination for HPG             -       -    72      52
D. Prooperational Capitalized O&M Costs            -             19     19
D. Workdng Capital                                              14      14
Total Project Costs                     439      0    SSS    994
Of which PSEDF (Bank & JEXI1               (296)      -           (296)
Does not include IDC and fnancing costs.



Schedule C - Page 1 of 2
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PAKISTAN
A.  STATEMENT OF -ANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of June 30. 1991)
Amount (USS million)
Loan           Fiscal                                                                         (tess cancetlations)
go.            Year   Borrower                Purpose                              Bank            IDA    Undisbursed
fifty-three loans and eighty-one credits fully disbursed                         1,730.71      1,537.64
of which SECALS, SALs and Program loans a/
Ln. 2155-PA     1982 Republic of Pakistan   Structural AdJustment                  60.00
Cr. 1255-PA     1982 Republic of Pakistan   Structural Adjustment                   -           80.00
Sub-Total                                                                      60.00         80.00
Cr. 0754-PA     1978 Republic of Pakistan   Salinity Control and Reclamation        -            70.00       20.01
Cr. 0877-PA     1979 Republic of Pakistan   Salinity Control and Rect. (Mardan)   -              60.00        10.05
Ln. 2247-PA     1983 Republic of Pakistan   Reservoir Maintenance Facilities       10.20          -           0.47
Cr. 1243-PA b/  1982 Republic of Pakistan   Baluchistan Minor Irrig. & Agr.         -            14.00        5.59
Cr. 1348-PA bi  1983 Republic of Pakistan   Lahore Urban Development                -            16.00        9.50
Cr. 1374-PA bl  1983 Republic of Pakistan   Karachi Water Supply                    -            25.00        3.98
Cr. 1373-PA b/  1983 Republic of Pakistan   Fourth Drainage                         -            65.00       58.75
Cr. 1461-PA bl  1984 Republic of Pakistan   Integrated Hill Farming Dev.            -            21.00        11.16
Cr. 1487-PA b/  1984 Republic of Pakistan   Command Water Management                -            46.50       24.74
Cr. 1499-PA bl  1984 Repubitic of Pakistan   Second Small Industries                -            50.00        3.93
Cr. 1532-PA bl  1985 Republic of Pakistan   Left Sank Outfall Drain - Stage 1    -              150.00       159.25
Cr. 1533-PA bl  1985 Republic of Pakistan   Baluchistan Agricultural Extension    -               8.30        3.83
Ln. 2499-PA     1985 Water/Power Auth.        Fourth WAPDA Power                  100.00          -           11.94
Cr. 1602-PA b/  1985 Republic of Pakistan   Second Primary Education                -            52.50       43.1?
Cr. 1603-PA bf  1985 Republic of Pakistan   Second On-Farm Water Management         -            34.50        0.19
Ln. 2556-PA     1985 Water/Power Auth.        Fifth WAPDA Power                   100.00          -          17.67
Ln. 2648-PA     1986 Republic of Pakistan   Industrial Imvestment Credit          148.00          -           6.21
Cr. 1646-PA b/  1986 Republic of Pakistan   Industrial Investment Credit            -             2.00        0.96
Cr. 1652-PA b/  1986 Republic of Pakistan   Karachi Special Development             -            70.00       49.44
Cr. 1670-PA b/  1986 Republic of Pakistan   Second Vocational Training              -            40.20       29.22
Cr. 1693-PA b/  1986 Republic of Pakistan   SCARP Transition Pilot                  -            10.00        5.02
Cr. 1699-PA b/  1986 Republic of Pakistan   Agric. Dev. Bank of Pakistan VI         -            55.00        3.12
Ln. 2698-PA     1986 Water/Power Auth.       Kot Addu Combined Cycle               90.00          -          17.43
Ln. 2743-PA     1987 Republic of Pakistan   Telecommunications V                  100.00          -          21.57
Cr. 1755-PA b/  1987 Republic of Pakistan   Third Technical Assistance              -             7.00        5.22
Cr. 1762-PA b/  1987 Republic of Pakistan   AS. Extension IV                        -            42.10       31.64
Cr. 1821-PA b/  1987 Republic of Pakistan   Third Primary Education                 -           145.00       129.56
Ln. 2792-PA     1987 Water/Power Auth.       Power Plant Efficiency                70.00          -          44.99
Ln. 2814-PA     1987 Republic of Pakistan   Fourth Highways                       152.00          -          104.88
Ln. 2839-PA     1987 Republic of Pakistan   Industries III                         54.00          -          44.15
Ln. 2842-PA     1987 State Petr. Petroch.   Refinery Energy Conservation           21.00          -           17.75
Ln. 2884-PA     1988 Republic of Pakistan   Cement Industry Modernization          96.00          -          70.47
Ln. 2884-1  c/  1991 Republic of Pakistan   Cement Suppl.                          56.40          -          56.40
Cr. 1888-PA b/  1988 RepublIc of Pakistan   Second irrigation Systems Rehab.        -            79.50       65.83
Cr. 1895-PA b/  1988 Republic of Pakistan   PunJab Urban Development                -            90.00       70.32
Cr. 1936-PA b/  1988 Republic of Pakistan   National Oilseed Development            -            20.00       16.82
Ln. 2973-PA     1988 Republic of Pakistan   National Ollseed Development           31.40          -          31.40
Ln. 2982-PA     1988 Republic of Pakistan   Private Sector Energy Oevelopment   150.00            -         149.84
Cr. 1982-PA bI  1989 Republic of Pakistan   Industrial Investment Credit III        -             2.00         1.09
Ln. 3019-PA     1989 Republic of Pakistan   Industrial Investment Credit III    148.00            -          112.95
Cr. 1987-PA b/  1989 Republic of Pakistan   Karachi Water Supply                    -           125.00       107.26
*Ln. 3029-PA     1989 Republic of Pakistan   financiat Sector Ln. II               150.00          -           75.00
*Ln. 3107-PA     1989 Republic of Pakistan   Energy Sector Loan II                 250.00          -          129.15
wLn. 3107-1  e/  1991 Republic of Pakistan   Energy Sector Loan II Suppl.           28.00          -          28.00
Cr. 2003-PA b/  1969 Republic of Pakistan   Flood Restoration                       -            40.00        17.15
Cr. 2004-PA bl  1989 RepubtIc of Pakistan   Private tubeMwell                       -            34.40        19.29
Ln. 3147-PA     1990 Water/Power Auth.       Power Transmission & Extension       162.00          -          155.42
Cr. 207B-PA b/  1990 Republic of Pakistan   Rural Electrification                   -            37.00       38.34
Ln. 3148-PA     1990 Republic of Pakistan   Rural Electrification                 123.00          -          123.00



Schedule C - Page 2 of 2
THE STATU OF lANK GRMUP OPERAUTIONS I PAKNfISN
A. STATE ET OF SANK LNKLS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of June 30. 1991)
A-mowt (SmlI Ion)
Loan          Ffecat                                                                        (to"s caSfneatfons)
No.           Year   gorrower                Purpose                            Bank            IDA    Undisbursed
Cr. 2tO2-PA bf  1990 Repubtic of Pakisten   Sindh Primary Ed4catian                          112.50      105.42
Cr. 253-PA bf  1990 Repstlto of Pakistan   Agriculture Credit                                  MOso        1.58
Ln. 3226-PA     1990 Republic of Pakistan   Agriculture Credit                  148.50                   148.50
Cr. 2154-PA b/  1990 RepubLc of Pakistan   Agriculturat Reearch                               57.30       58.50
*Ln. 3241-PA     1990 RepLblic of Pakistan   Transport Sector Investients        184.00                   184.00
Ln. 3252        1991 Repshlic of Pakistan   Corp. Restrtwturing                 130.00         -         124.32
Ln. 3252-1 el   1991 Repiublic of Pakistan   Corp. Restructur1ng Stppl.         60.00          -          60.00
Cr. 2228-PA bYc/1991 Rephltc of Pakistan   Rurwl sater Supply & Sanitation                   136.70      127.02
Ln. 3318-PA c/  1991 Repbtic of Pakistan   Microenterprise                      26.00          .          26.00
Cr. 224-PA b/c/1991 Repubilc of Pakistan   Family Heelth                                      45.00       41.90
Cr. 2245-PA b/c/1991 RepbhLic of Pakistan   Third On-Farm Nanagement                          47.30       44.01
Ln. 3327-PA ct  1991 Rephbtic of Pakistan   Third On-Fan Management             36.30          -          36.30
Cr. 2247-PA b/c/1991 Repubilc of Pakistan   Second Scerp. Transition                          20.00       19.S0
Ln. 3335-PA c/  1991 Repubtle of Pakistan   Karachi Port Noderizaticn            91.40         *          91.40
Total                                                   4,446.91     3,369.94    3,231.S7
of which has been repaid                                 W.8S         129.61
Total now outstanding                                   3.6806       3,240.3
Amests sold                                     33.46            12.00
of which has ben repaId                       31.75            12.00
Tootl now held by the Sank and IDA                      3,664.60     3,228.33
Total undisburs.d                                                                 3,231.57
a/ Approved during or after FY80.
bI  IDA Credits begf ming with the 6th Replenishmant are denominated In SR, snd are shoum in USS equivalents at
the time of negotiations. Disbursed amounts are cosputed at the exchange rate applicable on the transction
dates. Undisbursed amouts are valued at the exchange rate apptfeable on the date of thfs statement.
cI Not effective at the time of this statement.
* SAL, SECAIL or Program Loan.
Au:fS,1I:l1Cm0TNER,PAs5M00.T3L
ASt  29, 1991



Schedule D - Page 1 of 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PAKISTAN
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of June 30, 1991)
Amount (Smiltion)
(tless cancel lations)
Date             Borrower                   Purpose                     Loan        Equity        Total
1959            AdamJee                 Textiles                         0.75          0.00         0.75
1987/89         Anglo-Suisse            Petroleum & Gas                  0.00         6.80          6.80
1983/88          Asbestos Cement        Cement manufacturing             4.02          0.51         4.53
1979/82/84      Attock                  Petroleum & Gas                 15.00          0.86        15.86
1965             Crescent Jute          Rope & twine                     1.95          0.11         2.06
1969/89         oawood                  Fertilizers & Pesticides        18.30          2.92        21.22
1991             Exxon Chemical         Fertilizers & Pesticides        40.95          8.50        49.45
1981             Fauji                  Plastic manufacturing            1.78          0.00         1.78
19*88            Fecto Cement           Cement manufacturing            18.58          0.00        18.58
1990             FIIB                   Mortgage/housing/Savings Bank    0.00          0.68         0.68
1962/65          Gharibial              Cement manufacturing             5.25          0.42         5.67
1981             Habib Arkady           Grain mill products              3.15          0.16         3.31
1989             Hala                   Textiles                         3.26          0.66         3.92
1986             Mari Gas               Petroleum & Gas                 46.53          0.00        46.53
1979/87         Mi tkpak                Food/Berage/Tobacco              2.40          0.40         2.80
1988            Millat Tractors         Agric. mach. & equipment         4.90          0.00         4.90
1985            NDLC                    Leasing                          5.49          0.37         5.86
1965/81/82/87/88 Packages               Container manufacturing         26.00          1.01        27.01
1980             Pak. Oltfields         Petroleun & Gas                 14.00          1.19        15.19
1967             Pakistan Paper         Paper manufacturing              5.38          2.02         7.40
1990             Pak. Suzuki            Motor vehicles manufacturing     17.46         0.00        17.46
1963/75/89       PICIC                  DFC                              0.00          0.63         0.63
1987             PICIC-AL               Small & medium ent.              0.00          3.00         3.00
1991             PILCO                  Leasing                          5.00          0.00         5.00
1983/85         PPL                     Petroleum products             104.50          1.56       106.06
1980             Premium Board          Sawnills planing                 2.70          0.00         2.70
1991             Prudential             Securities Mkt. Financing        0.00          0.41         0.41
1990             Rupali                 Resins & Plastics Mfg.          22.38          2.00        24.38
1960             SCP                    Basic Metals                     0.63          0.00         0.63
1989             Shams Textile          Textiles                         2.76          0.00         2.76
1989             Surai Cotton           Textiles                         2.76          0.00         2.76
Total Gross Commitments                               375.88         34.21       410.09
'C
Less: Cancellations, Terminations                     255.69         14.07       269.76
Exchange adjustments, Repayw.ients
Writeoffs and Sales
Total Conmitments now held by IFC                     120.19         20.14       140.33
Total Undisbursed IFC                                  69.56          7.79        77.35
N:\em1co\other\pak\sifc. tbl
Aug t. 101



LAHORE RING           u. S s    R       ,   CHINA          \%   _--              .                      -
IAt SHAM KAKU            > 
-mp~ ~ ~ ~~~.
W~~~ ,:2 .,-
ZDtAQ                ZSH K7 AfG                                   ,_fAXPNEDIOINNINANEN
o        \       PAKISTAN                       1*
.     - r*                                             UNDER    EXIENSFON ANINDIAD
O ° ., ' t / EXIS~~~~TINGO PApNDPROIECT
NEW KO                               70.
LAKH                                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~JAM4MU
FAISALABAD RING                                                                                                              ENG
F- T.                                    /Ibd0                      @                              HEM
C7 
CHINIO                                                  c:I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  AOOW  
VI~~~~~~~~~~~~Io
/                1                     IAOLORE     *W 0W .00 LA.-OAT
91
;..,EXPANDED COFINANCING OPERATION
1  .'~~0IIr(I(UR           /   ~                         FOR THE HUB POWER COMPANY
/                 ~~~~MAIN POWER STATIONS AND TRANSMISSION LINES
TRANSSMITSOON
UNDER    ETENSIO AND SNSO  XITN 50
CONSTRUCTION ROEERFSTATIONT
OR PLANNEDLPROJECT
EXISTING              L~-.-  ERANATISIONA  BOUNDAIE
DADU                                                                      500 kV~~~~~~~~~~~010  20MIE
-26-                                                                                                                      26,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~70.2



