Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
aèA v 2 q 42 ?-PA
Report No. 7226-PAK
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PARTSTAN
PRIVATE SECTOR ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
June 10, 1988
Energy Operations Division
Country Department 1
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit            =    Pakisti Rupees (PRs)
Rupee 1                  =    Paisa 100
Rupee 1                  =    US$0.0571
Rupees 1,000.000         =    US$57,100
US$1                     =    Rs 17.50
US$1,000,000             =    Rs 17,500,000
MEASURES AND EQUIVALENTS
1 kilometer (km)                  =    0.6214 miles (mi)
1 kilovolt (kV)                   =    1,000 volts
1 megavolt-ampere (MVA)           =    1,000 kilovolt-amperes (kVA)
1 kilowatt hour (kWh)             =    1,000 watt-hours
1 megawatt (MW)                   =    1.000 kilowatts (kW)
1 gigawatt hour (GWh)             =    1,000,000  kilowatt hours (kWh)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB       -     Asian Development Bank
ADP       -     Annual Development Plan
CDWP      -     Central Development Working Party
CIDA      -     Canadian International Development Agency
CIP       -     Core Investment Program
CMC       -     Coal Mining Cell
CMU       -     Cofinanciers' Memorandum of Understanding
ECC       -     Economic Coordination Committee
ECNEC     -     Executive Committee of the National Economic Council
EPA       -     Energy Purchase Agreement
ERG       -     Energy Review Group
ESL I    -      Energy Sector Loan I
GOP       -     Government of Pakistan
IA        -     Implementation Agreement
ICB       -     International Competitive Bidding
JEXIM     -     The Export Import Bank of Japan
KESC      -     Karachi Electric Supply Company
LES       -     Long-Term Strategy for the Development of Energy
LIB       -     Limited International Bidding
LOI       -     Letter of Intent
LRMC      -     Long-Run Marginal Cost
MMCFD     -     Million Cubic Feet per Day
MOP       -     Ministry of Production
MPNR      -     Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Resources
MPD       -     Ministry of Planning and Development
MWP       -     Ministry of Water and Power
NDFC      -     National Development Finance Corporation
NEPC      -     National Energy Policy Committee
ODA       -     Overseas Development Administration
OGDC      -     Oil and Gas Development Corporation
PMDC      -     Pakistan Mineral Development Corporation
PPA       -     Power Purchase Agreement
PPC       -     Private Power Cell
PS        -     Private Sector
SNGPL     -     Sui Northern Gas Pipelines Limited
SP        -     Security Package
USAID     -     United States Agency for International Development
WAPDA     -     Water and Power Development Authority
WPPC      -     WAPDA's Private Power Cell
GOP'S FISCAL YEAR (FY)
July I - June 30



PAKISTAN
PRIVATE SECTOR ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Loan and Project Sumary
Borrower:              Islamic Republic of Pakistan
Beneficiaries:         Private   Sector   Energy   Development   Fund   to   be
administered   by   the   National   Development   Finance
Corporation, and through the Fund, private sector (PS)
subprojects which meet the eligibility criteria and
qualify for financing.
Amount:                US$150 million equivalent.
Terms:                 Repayment over 20 years,  including  a  five-year  grace
period at the Bank's standard variable interest rate.
Onlending Terms:       The  oniending  interest  rate  from  the  Fund  to  the
eligible private sector entities would currently be 14%
p.a. The repayment terms for onlending would be up to
23 years including up to eight years' grace. GOP would
'ear the foreign exchange and interest rate risks.
Project Description:  The proposed Project would provide:  (a) up to 2,300 MW
of power generation capacity, 2 million tons per year of
domestic coal and 132 MMCFD of natural gas by FY93,
financed through a newly established Energy Development
Fund to be administered by NDFC, to cover up to 30% of
the total cost of private sector subprojects to be
implemented        under        build-own-operate-transfer
arrangements through limited recourse financing; and (b)
consulting services to train and support the staff of:
(i) the institutions responsible for the approval of
private  sector  proposals,  and  (ii)  the  Fund  in  the
appraisal, finance of subprojects and the supervision of
their implementation.
Benefits:              The proposed Project would assist GOP in attracting the
participation of PS in the development  of energy.   It
would facilitate the achievement of the objectives of
the  Seventh  Plan,   and  create   the  framework  and
procedures during the Seventh Plan that could lead to
an even bigger PS participation during the Eighth Plan.
By introducing fluidized bed combustion technology for
using low-quality domestic coal in power ganeration and
state-of-the-art coal mining and oil/gas production
techniques,  the  proposed  Project  iiould  assist   in
overcoming   the   technological   barriers   to   energy
development currently being experienced by  the  public
sector agencies.
This documentlhas arestricted distribution and mayhe used byrecipients only in the performance
of their official duties.lIts contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



(ii)
The proposed Project would also introduce the concept of
limited recourse financing in Pakistan which could be
applied to other sectors, particularly industry and
transport.  The Fund to be created under the proposed
Project  would  mobilize   resources   for   the   future
development of the energy sector by recycling the
revenues attributable to the interest rate spreads.
These funds could be leveraged to mobilize additional
resources for financing future PS energy subprojects,
particularly if the study for assessinK the future
structure for the Fund recommends its evolution into a
separate energy development finance institution.
Risks:                The  proposed  Project  faces  two  types  of risks.   The
first is that the expected participation by the local
financial institutions (other than the Fund) may not be
sufficient  to  mobilize  the  large  amount  of  local
financing involved.   Alternatively, the project-related
investments may preempt such a large share of the
investible local resources that the non-energy sectors
might become severely constrained.   In anticipation of
these possibilities, GOP will allow an expansion of
credit  by  local  institutions   to  accommodate   the
incremental financing needs of PS projects il energy.
Moreover,  in  order  to  avoid  the  possibility  of
overburdening the local institutions, GOP will reach an
agreement with overseas investors that any shortfall in
the contribution of local institutions (equity or loans)
would  be  made  up  by  overseas  investors,  on  the
understanding   that   the   local   institutions   could
subsequently assume the equity or loans when they are
able to do so.  The second source of risk associated
with the proposed Project is that the pipeline of
subprojects may not be built up to fully utilize the
resources of the Fund.   However,  the subprojects,  for
which letters of intent have already been issued, would
utilize about US$300 million from the Fund.   Moreover,
the three other proposals, which are now being prepared
for subm-ssion to GOP, could utilize a further US$115
million.  The above subproject pipeline wab built prior
to the establishment of the Fund, and it is expected
that the establishment of the Fund will lead to other
subproject proposals. A thiid risk associated with the
project pertains to the possible failure of PS companies
to  generate  the  revenue  required  to  cover   their
financial commitments. Revenue generation is a function
of the agreed price and the quantity to be delivered to
energy purchasing agencies. The price for sale of energy
is stipulated in EPAs, which are structured to cover
operating costs, debt service and provide returns.
Automatic adjustment mechanisms would be introduced in
these   agreements   to   ensure   that   investors   are
compensated for changes in the costs of their inputs,



including the erosion in the value of the rupee relative
to foreign currencies.  Energy sales by PS enterprises
would be carried out under a letter of credit to ensure
that payments would be made in a timely fashion. As for
the willingness of agencies to purchase the quantities
stipulated in EPAs, the likelihood of a failure in
compliance with this agreement is fairly minimal in that
the investment undertaken by PS are complements rather
than substitutes for public sector investments, and also
that there is a substantial unsatisfied demand for
energy. In addition, the EPAs are designed to allow for
a delivery of specified quantities of energy for which
GOP would guarantee purchase irrespective of whether the
energy is taken or not under a take-or-pay arrangement.
These provisions would minimize the possibility that the
revenues associated with the operation of PS subprojects
would not materialize.
Proiect Cost and Financing: (in US$ Million)
Bank   Cofinanciers PS Equity  PS Loans        Total
Subprojects           146         409         470         858         1,883
Technical
Assistance             4           6            -          -            10
150        415          470        858         1.893
Disbursements:
FY89     FY90     FY91      FY92     FY93      FY94
Annual (US$ M)        11.7      33.2     41.4      43.1     17.7       2.9
Cumulative (US$ M)    11.7      44.9     86.3    129.4    147.1    150.0
Cumulative (%)          7.8     29.9     57.5      86.3     98.1    100.0



PAKISTAN
PRIVATE SECTOR ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I    ENERGY SECTOR     .      ................ c.......                    1
A.    Introduction   ...  ........              ..... .....  .. .0. .......  1
Bo Sectoral Setting         o.....  o..oo.o....oo-                    2
C.  Developments in the Sector, FY79-FY87                             3
D.  Long-Term Energy Strategy ..*. ..... . ... . ..  -......  ..... ..  3
E.  The Seventh Five-Year Plan for Energy (FY89-FY93)        ..      8
F.  Past Investment and Future Strategy of the Bank Group            8
II.   TEE PROJECT ............*.o....oo..*.......... o.... o.. o . .....   10
A.  Overall Structure o.......................... 00..... 00o..4... e00.......to    10
B.  Institutional Framework ...... ...............  .... .... .0 .....  14
C.  Operation of the Private Sector Energy Development Fund ....  18
III.   SECURITY PACKAGE ...  ........ . ...   .......... too ..... o.......  ....   25
A. Introduction to ......... .o..o.........               .oo#....  25
B.  Measures to Attract PS Investment    ..........................  25
C.  Eligibility Criteria .........................    27
D.  Agreements to Delineate Responsibilities
of Lenders, Investors and GOP  ...o ........        ......   29
E.  Provisions to Minimize the Risks
of Limited Recourse Financing                       ...   31
F.  Kole of the Bank Group  .................  a........* a.....   33
IV.   PROJECT JUSTIFICATION ................... ... ......  ...... .... .  35
A.  Rationale for Bank Involvement .........                .....    35
B.  Benefits ... o.... ..o... oo........ too....... ..o... -........   35
C. Risks ...... o  .... o........ -...o... to... o......o....... ..   36
V.   SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS       .....       . o....  37
This Report was prepared by Ibrahim I. Elwan (Division Chief), Suman Babbar
(Senior Engineer), Raghuveer Sharma (Financial Analyst), Maria Elena
Barrientos (Consultant), Catalina Cunanan, Young Ok Hong and Lesley Surridge
(Secretaries).



ANNEXES
1.1    Organization Chart
2.1    Subprojects under Consideration
2.2    Consulting Services and Training
2.3    Timetable for Implementing Institutional Improvements
2.4    Proposed Arrangements to Facilitate PS Investments in Energy
2.5    Relationship between NDFC and the Fund
2.6    Sources and Application of Funds Statements
2.7    Estimated Schedule of Disbursement3
5.1    Documents and Information in the Project File
IBRD MAP No. 16248R



I. ENERGY SECTOR
A. Introduction
1.01     Pakistan's performance during the Fifth and Sixth Plans has been
impressive relative to that of the developed and developing countries. Growth
in GDP has averaged over 6Z annually, spread across virtually all sectors of
the  economy.   This  growth  has  been  accompanied by a steady decline  in
inflation, from about 107 in FY79 to 47 in FY87, and a generally satisfactory
balance of payments situation.  The Government's prudent economic nidnagement
and structural reforms have contributed to the overall improvement in economic
performance.    The  reforms  included:   deregulation  of  imports  and  the
introduction   of   flexible   exchange   rate;   rationalization   of   prices,
particularly of crops and petroleum products; and directing public development
expenditures toward priority sectors. Despite these achievements, however, a
number  of  structural  constraints  continue  to  persist.    The  overall
investment-saving performance remains lower than needed to support essential
public and private investments without straining the balance of payments.
Public sector expenditures have increased faster than resource mobilization,
resulting in higher budget deficits which reached almost 9% of GDP in FY87,
compared to 5% in FY80. Deficits were financed principally through increased
domestic borrowing, with greater reliance on sources carrying relatively
higher interest rates, raising the share of Government's interest payments in
public outlays.
1.02     The Government's adjustment program for the Seventh Plan is aimed at:
sustaining  the  growth  momentum;   providing  essential  public  services;
replenishing the foreign exchange reserves; and keeping irflationary pressures
under control.   The Government intends to increase  public  sector resource
mobilization  to free private  savings and expand domestic Bank credit for
private investments. This would be achieved by restructuring the tax system,
X     improving the price system, enhancing cost recovery for public services, and
emphasizing profitability of public enterprises.  On the expenditure side, the
Government plans to reduce producer and consumer subsidies, contain the growth
of non-development spending and ensure that the targeted levels of development
expenditures are not exceeded.  Appropriate annual credit growth targets for
the non-government sectors will be set to achieve the projected gains in real
private investments. Moreover, given the relatively unfavorable outlook for
increased workers' remittances, sustained improvements in exports and more
effective use of foreign capital are envisaged.  In the energy sector, the
Government  plans  to  continue  the  process  of  structural  reforms  (paras
1.07-1.19).   These  reforms  will:  emphasize  resource  mobilization  through
improved energy pricing and the rationalization of consumption through better
demand management; eliminate the dependence of the revenue earning public
enterprises on budgetary surport in favor of direct borrowing in the capite.l
market to reduce the Government debt; rationalize investment in the public
sector to ensure that priority projects are implemented and financed within
the available resources, and the shortfalls in investments undertaken by the
private sector; and introduce incenti-ves for the private sector and a
framework for its operation to ensure a more prominent role in the development
of energy.  The proposed Project is designed to support GOP's  efforts  in
increasing private sector investments in the energy sector.



- 2 -
B. Sectoral Setting
1.03     Energy   Resources.    Pakistan's   commercially   exploitable   energy
resources consist of hydropower, natural gas, oil and coal.  The hydropower
potential is estimated at about 30,000 MW.  Proven and probable reserves of
natural gas are estimated at about 16 trillion cubic feet (TCF) or 400 million
tons of oil equivalent (mtoe) and 3.3 TCF or 80 mtoe, respectively. Reserves
of oil, both probable and proven, are estimated at about 58 million tons.
Coal and lignite reserves are estimated at about 900 million tons, of which
oniy 175 million tons are proven.  In addition, the country has a large base
of traditional fuels in the form of fuelwood and agr.cultural and animal
waste, which play an important role in meeting the rural consumers' energy
needs. However, the supply of fuelwood which is its major compornent has been
diminishing because of rapid deforestation.  Consequently, -n the foreseeable
future, the share of traditional fuels in the overall supply of energy is
expected to decline relative to that of commercial energy resources. Despite
the  potential   abundance  of  its  overall  energy  resources,  Pakistan's
exploitation of these resources remains low.  The future development of energy
would require the formulation and implementation of an integrated s:rategy for
the accelerated exploitation of domestic resources, the rationalization of
investments, pricing and supply, and the strengthening of institutions in the
sector (paras 1.07-1.20).
1.04     Institutional Setting.  Four ministries share the responsibility for
the energy sector:  the Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Resources (MPNR),
the Ministry of Water and Power (MWP), the Ministry of Production (MOP), and
the Ministry  of  Planning and Development  (MPD).   Coordination between the
ministries on energy matters is provided by the Energy Wing of MPD, which acts
as a secretariat for the National Energy Policy Committee (NEPC) and Energy
Review Group (ERG). NEPC is responsible for the formulation of GOP's overall
energy policy.   The review of the investment plans of the sector and the
approval of energy pricing proposals is under the jurisdiction of Economic
Coordination  Committee  (ECC).   The  Executive  Committee  of  the  National
Economic Council (ECNEC) and Central Development Working Party (CDWP) review
and approve major proposals and projects in all sectors, including energy.
1.05     The  day-to-day  management  of  operations  in  the  energy  sector is
vested in a number of public and private sector entities.  The public sector
entities are: the Water and Power Development Authority (WAPDA), which is
responsible   for  developing   Pakistan's   water   resources   and   for   the
construction, operation and maintenance of power generation, transmission and
distribution facilities throughout the country, except the Karachi area; the
Oil and Gas Development Corporation (OGDC) for exploration and development of
oil and gas;  the Pakistan Mineral  Development  Corporation  (PMDC)  for  the
exploration and development of mineral resources; the State Petroleum Refinery
and Petrochemical Corporation (PERAC) and the National Refinery Limited (NRL)
for processing   rude oil; and the National  Petroleum Limited  (NPL) for a
proposed hydrocra^ker project.   Also involved  in  the energy  sector  are  a
number of semi-autonomous entities in which the Government has, either
directly or through public institutions, a controlling interest.  These are:
Karachi Electric Supply Corporation (KESC), which is responsible for the
construction, operation and maintenance of generation facilities, as well as
the transmission and distribution for electricity supply in the Karachi area;
Sui Northern Gas Pipelines Limited (SNGPL) and Sui Southern Gas Corporation
(SSGC) for the transmission and distribution of natural gas; and the Pakistan
State Oil Limited (PSO) for marketing and distribution of petroleum products.
The private sector (PS) entities include: a large number of Pakistani coal



mining  companies;  two  refineries,  the Attock  Refinery  Limited  (ARL)  and
Pakistan Refinery Limited (PRL); and five oil and gas development companies
namely, Pakistan Petroleum Limited (PPL), Pakistan Oilfields Limited (POL),
the Fauji Foundation, Union Texas and Occidental PetroleuTr  imited.  As shown
in the organization chart (Annex 1.1), all operational entities (public and
semi-autonomous) are under the jurisdiction of MPNR, except for WAPDA, KESC,
NRL and PRL. MWP has jurisdiction over WAPDA and KESC and MOP over NRL and
NPL.
C. Developments in the Sector, FY79-FY87
1.06     The  Fifth  Five-Year  Plan  (FY79-FY83)  emphasized  the  accelerated
development of domestic energy resources and rationalization of energy
prices.   A  shortage  of  fi.ancial  resources  and  inadequate  implementation
capabilities impeded the achievement of the supply targets for all energy
products except natural gas.  The largest shortfall was in the power subsector
where only 50% of the target was achieved, followed by the oil subsector where
only 36% of the output target was attained. The shortfalls, together with the
rapid growth of consumption, precipitated by GOP's policy of underpricing
energy in an effort to stimulate economic growth, resulted in acute shortages
and increased the country's dependence on imported energy.  In recognition of
the growing supply gap, the Government accorded high priority to restructuring
the  sector  during  the  Sixth  Plan  (FY84-FY88).   Its  objectives  were  to
accelerate and rationalize the development of energy, correct distortions in
energy pricing, streamline the institutions and agencies in the sector and
mobilize PS involvement in the development, production and delivery of
energy.   However,  as  these  objectives  were  not  translated  into  concrete
policies and programs in the first two years of the Plan, only one-half of
planned investments for the sector were implemented, energy prices were
allowed to decline in real terms, and the institutions in the sector remained
unresponsive to the pressing needs of the economy. These setbacks prompted
the Government to formulate in 1985, with assistance from the Bank, a
Long-term Energy Strategy (LES), covering a period of about 20 years, which
outlines a program of integrated structural reforms to be implemented over
five-year intervals corresponding to the planning cycle. These are discussed
below  under  the  following  subheadings:   resource  development  and  energy
investments;   pricing,   demand   management   and   resource   mobilization;
institutional development; and progress in the implementation of LES.
D. Long-Term Energy Strategy (LES)
Resource Development and Enerv-r Investments
1.07     Primary  Energy.   Of  the  country's  30,000 MW hydropower potential
(para 1.03), only 2,897 MW has been developed, mainly because of delays in
site  selection,  inadequate  preparation  and  shortage  of  resources.   While
projects which will generate a further 1,928 MW are at an advanced stage of
implementation, LES also calls for the development of another 6,000 MW by the
year 2000. Of this, 5,000 MW would be in large schemes of between 1,000 MW
and 3,0C0 MV to be implemented in sequence, and the remaining 1,0O0 MW, in
relatively small schemes of between 100 MW and 300 MW, to be implemented
concurrently with the large schemes.
1.08     The share of domestic coal in Pakistan's total energy supply has
remained stagnant at about 6% over the past ten years. This is attributable
to the failure of PMDC, which holds 75% of total reserves, to mobilize the
resources to increase its output, and the absence of long term financing that



would stimulate PS investment in the development of its reserves.  LES calls
for the implementation of a program to assess the reserves held by PMDC and
delineate  tracts suitable for exploration t. d development.  Also, there has
been no attempt hitherto to formulate a framework for allowing PMDC to enter
into joint ventures with local and international PS companies as a means of
overcoming the former's technical and managerial constraints, and providing
the  capital  to  supplement  its  investments.   In  order  to accelerate  the
development of reserves held by PS, LES calls for putting the concessions for
coal on an equal footing with those in the oil and gas subsector. This would
allow for the termination of coal concessions should the concessionaire(s)
fail to invest in resource a3sessment and development within a specified
period of time rather than continuing the present practice of holding to
concessions indefinitely without initiating activities to develop them.
Emphasis would also be placed on expanding domestic markets for coal by
constructing coal-based power stations of economic sizes and appropriate
technology near the mines, and providing incentives for PS to invest in the
modernization of mines to increase output. However, Pakistan's output of coal
is not expected to meet all of its future needs and, as a result, some coal
would have to be imported to ensure that future demand for energy is met at
least cost. Accordingly, LES calls for iacreasing the annual imports of coal
from 0.5 mtoe to 5 mtoe by the year 2010 as a substitute for higher value
fuels  i.e.  petroleum  products  and  natural  gas.   This  would  require  the
development of the ir.frastructure for coal handling including port facilities
and transport systems.
1.09     The rate at which oil and gas are being developed is far slower than
the resource base warrants.   LES calls for the formulation of a long-term
program for exploration and development, particularly in geologically risky
areas, where exploration is to be undertaken through joint ventures with PS
who would provide risk capital  and  know-how  to  supplement  that  of  OGDC.
Moreover, the program would delineate the areas where OGDC is to take the sole
responsibility for development,  and  other areas  which would be  developed
through work programs,  subcontracts, etc. with PS.  LES also calls for the
accelerated development of the dormant low quality gas fields and its use for
the generation of electricity.
1.10     Traditional  fuels'  share  of  the  rural  consumers  energy  needs  is
declining  because  of  deforestation  caused  primarily  by  the  continued
unrestrained use of fuelwood and the absence of a national program for
afforestation to replenish the supply.   As  a  result,  the availability  of
fuelwood has declined forcing its price in terms of heat content to about
twice the price of fuel oil. This has had adverse impact on the income of the
rural and low-income households which prompted GOP to subsidize the price of
kerosene  whose  consumption  continues  to  rise.   If  this  trend  continues
unabated, the subsidies for kerosene in the national budget would absorb the
revenues generated from the sale of unsubsidized petroleum products and deny
the Government one of its principal sources for mobilizing resources.
Accordingly, LES proposes a household energy survey to determine the pattern
of energy consumption, the potential for substitution between traditional and
commercial fuels and the means for meeting the energy needs of the rural poor
at least cost. Concurrently, it also calls for an assessment of the potential
for increased use of solar energy for meeting low-temperature hot water
needs.   Finally,  LES proposes  the formulation of a national afforestation
program to be implemented as a part of the Five Year development plans.
1.11     Secondary  Energy.   LES  calls  for  the  formulation  of  long-term
comprehensive least cost development plan for the production. transport and



distribution  of  electricity,  coal,  gas  and  petroleum  products  to  be
implemented in successive five year intervals to correspond with the planning
cycle. The five-year investment plans , referred to as the Core Investment
Plan (CIP), would represent the minimum required to maintain the development
of  the sector.   CIP would  receive  priority  in  terms  of  resources,  both
financial  and  technical.   In  the power  subsector,  investmert  would move
towards  increased reliance on domestic energy resources,  such as coal and
hydropower, and the use of petroleum products and gas would be allowed only
when such use is deemed economic.  In this respect, the use of natural gas
would he shifted away from conventional base load plants to combined cycle and
peaking plants.  Domestic coal production should be increased to substitute
for hydrocarbons in the power and industrial sectors.  In order to supplement
domestic coal, future increases in the thermal generating capacity for base
load  plants  would  be  based  on  imported  coal.   LES  also  calls  for  thc
implementation of a long term plan for the reinforcement and extension of
transmission  and  distribution  to  ensure  that  power  is  transported  and
delivered efficiently. Finally, the rural electrification networks should be
expanded in accordance with a master plan prepared on the basis of economic
and commercial principles.
1.12     As  the  demand  for  petroleum  products  increases,  and  also  the
production of oil from existing fields, the refining capacity would need to be
augmented to meet the growing demand at least cost.  Therefore,  in order to
meet the future demand for petroleum products, LES calls for increasing the
refining capacity between 1989 and 2010 by 5 million tons, of which 1 million
tons would be  in  the  form  of secondary refining to crack fuel oil.   In
addition, there is a need for increasing the storage and handling facilities
for petroleum products, particularly at Port Qasim and Karachi. As for the
infrastructure for the transport and distribution of natural gas, LES calls
for the expansion of the processing capability to meet the increased demand
and the reinforcement and extension of the distribution network in the urban
areas based on a long-term plan, the implementation of which is phased over
the successive five year plans.
Pricing, Resource Mobilization and Demand Management
1.13     LES calls for rationalization of energy prices to promote efficiency,
better  demand  management  and  resource  mobilization.    To  achieve  this
objective, prices of tradeable energy sources, such as oil and petroleum
products would be set, as a minimum, at their equivalent border price plus the
cost of inland handling. As for electricity, lignite and gas, which in the
case of Pakistan are considered non-tradeable, the strategy calls for setting
prices  to  cover  their  economic  cost  of  supply,  including  a  premium  for
depletable  resources,  and  finance an acceptable level of their investment
programs from internal sources.  Moreover, the structure of prices for gas,
coal and electricity should reflect the structure dictated by the economic
cost of supply.  WAPDA's electricity tariffs which are at about 682 of the
estimated long run marginal cost of supply (LRMC) should be adjusted annually
to reach parity with LRMC by the mid-1990s while ensuring that in each year at
least 40% of its investment program is financed from internal sources. As the
projected demand for natural gas exceeds the supply, economic pricing of this
resource dictates that in order to rationalize its consumption and mobilize
resources for GOP, its price to various consumer categories should be adjusted
to reach parity with the prices of the petroleum products it displaces. As a
first step, the average gas tariff should be increased to reach, as a
minimum,the border price of fuel oil by 1993.  In addition, the structure of
gas tariffs should be revised and seasonal tariffs introduced to curtail



- 6 -
demand during the peak seasons. Prices of domestic coal would be adjusted to
the economic cost of supply and provide an acceptable financial rate of return
on investment.
Institutional Development
1.14     LES calls for the improvement of the efficiency of the entities in
the sector by decentralizing decision making and moving towards financial and
administrative  autonomy.   This  would apply,  in particular,  to OGDC, which
should become increasingly self-reliant in financing its exploration and
development program, either through joint ventures or through internal
resources. KESC would restructure its finances to ensure that revenues cover
all costs and provide at least 40% of the cost of the investment program. As
for WAPDA, dependence on annual allocations under 'he budget would be phased
out through greater reliance on the commercial markets for mobilizing
financing. In the area of planning, the strategy calls for strengthening the
capabilities of the Energy Wing in MPD to assume the lead role in integrating
the plans of the entities in the sector into a comprehensive energy
development plan dictated by national priorities and taking into account
financial and resource constraints. In the power subsector, LES calls for the
integrated operation of the sector which would require greater cooperation
between WAPDA and KESC in investment planning and exchange of power to ensure
that demand for electricity is met at least cost. Moreover, the functions and
responsibilities of WAPDA (both for water and power) have grown substantially
over the years to a point where its operational efficiency is beginning to be
strained.  As a means of reducing the burden on WAPDA,  LES  foresees  the
separation  of  WAPDA's  distribution  wing  into  a  National  Distribution
Corporation,  which  would  purchase  power  from  WAPDA  and  distribute  it
nationally.   This would allow WAPDA  to concentrate on the generation and
transmission which would account for about 65X of the total investments in the
subsector.  In that event, KESC could be restructured into a privately-owned
power generation corporation that would sell electricity to WAPDA, and the
proposed distribution corporation to take over the distribution in Karachi.
PMDC could be restructured to assume a more active role in the development of
its coal reserves by entering into joint venture for the sole purpose of
developing  specific  proven  reserves.   OGDC's  technical  and  managerial
capabilities should be strengthened, particularly in the area of production of
hydrocarbons.
1.15     The implementation of the investment plans for  the  energy sector
continues to be constrained by the shortage of financial resources and, to
some  extent,  also  the  lack  of  technical  know-how.   The  implementation
capabilities of the public sector and semi-autonomous entities in the sector
are also taxed and, consequently, their ability to achieve the targets under
the five-year development plans are hindered. LES calls for GOP to take all
the necessary measures to outline and introduce an institutional framework
aimed at providing the security and incentives for PS to increase its
involvement in the development of energy to ccmplement the investments of the
public sector. While PS involvement in the oil anti gas subsector has been
under way for several years, its role would be further strengthened with the
introduction of a better compensation package and fiscal incentives. As for
the power and coal subsectors, LES calls for the reduction in the investment
outlays of the public sector and the delineation of specific investments that
would be earmarked for consideration by PS to provide by 1998 up to 6,000 MW
of generating capacity and increase the production of domestic coal by 4
million tons per year.



-7-
Progress in the Implementation of LES
1.16     To assist the Government in initiating and subsequently reinforcing
and extending the reforms proposed under LES, a series of sector loans were
envisaged by the Bank. Each sector loan was to support the implementation of
a monitorable program of policy actions which would form the umbrella for the
Bank's expanded lending for specific energy investments and for the more
effective coordination of external financing for the sector.  The first Energy
Sector Loan (ESL I)(Ln. 2552-PAK) was made in 1985 in support of such a
program covering the period FY86-FY88.   The program involved a two-pronged
approach. The first, which focused on minimizing the shortfalls in energy
during the period FY86-FY88, concentrated on: (i) rationalizing investments;
and (ii) implementing policy actions and institutional reforms needed to
mobilize resources for priority projects, restrain the growth of demand for
energy and enhance the planning and project implementation capabilities of the
entities involved in the sector.  The second called for studies that would
provide the inputs needed for the formulation of an integrated least cost
development plan for energy.
1.17     As a first step toward rationalizing investments, a Core Investment
Program (CIP) was outlined in ESL I for the remaining three years of the Sixth
Plan.  The CIP consisted of high priority projects which, when aggregated
within and across subsector, were designed to meet the forecast demand at
least  cost.   The sources  of  financing  for each  project  in the CIP were
identified, including the contribution of the Government through the Annual
Development  Plan  (ADP)  and  that  of  the  sector  entities  from  their
internally-generated funds.  To date, progress in the implementation of the
CIP has been satisfactory.   The four public sector entities and the four
semi-autonomous entities covered under the loan are all expected to fully
implement  the  agreed  priority  projects,  although  actual  investments  are
expected to be about 102 lower than was originally envisaged, because of lower
than anticipated price for equipment and materials.   In fact, cost savings
together with the more efficient deployment of resources enabled OGDC to
reduce its expenditures to a level below those allocated under ADP and yet
implement a larger program than was agreed to under ESL I.  The satisfactory
implementation of the CIP clearly reaffirms the Government's commitment to LES
in general and to the rationalization of investment in particular.
1.18     In order to restrain the growth of demand for energy, and mobilize
resources for the priority projects, agreement was reached under ESL I on the
rationalization of both producer and consumer prices.  As producer prices of
gas were insufficient to provide incentives to PS to undertake exploration and
development, GOP adopted a new formula which links the price paid to producers
to the border price of fuel oil. The response of PS has led the government to
consider the application of this formula to new fields which were already
discovered, but not yet in production, and to future gas fields which could be
developed in existing concessions. The consumer price of natural gas has also
been increased five times since July 1981, averaging about 242 annually in
nominal terms. As of July 1987 the weighted average consumer price of gas was
at about 801 of the border price of fuel oil which is well above the target of
662 agreed with  the  Bank.   Power  tariffs,  which  had  remained  virtually
unchanged since 1981, were also adjusted in FY86, FY87 and FY88, to enable
WAPDA to finance 402 of its CIP from internal sources.   In addition,  the
Government has initiated a load research and demand management study which
would provide the means for introducing a structure of tariffs that are based
on marginal cost and for reducing power demand during peak periods.



- 8 -
1.19     As for institutional reforms, the Government has taken concrete steps
to encourage PS involvement in energy development, wbich the proposel Project
would further strengthen and support.   In addition,  GOP has established a
National Energy Conservation Center for the overall coordination of energy
conservation activities and an office of Energy Planning to address
substantive pilicy issues. The latter was merged with the Energy Wing of MOP
(para 1.02) to streamline planning activities.  The Government has completed
studies to reorganize WAPDA and restructure PMDC.  Furthermore a program to
strengthen the financial, technical  and managerial capabilities of OGDC has
been initiated.
E. The Seventh Five-Year Plan for Energy (FY89-93)
1.20     The Seventh Five-Year Plan for energy, which was prepared by the
Energy Wing of MPD, was reviewed and found satisfactory by the Bank.  The
Seventh Plan's objectives and strategy are largely a continuation of those of
the Sixth Plan (para 1.07) with the added emphasis on actions to increase the
reliance on the financial resources and expertise of PS for energy development
and production.   The total investment required to meet energy supply targets
during the plan period is estimated at Rs 200 billion (US$11.6 billion) in
nominal terms.  The public sector investment program which is achievable in
terms of implementation capability and availability of financial resources
during the Seventh Plan amounts to Rs 128 billion (US$7.3 billion),
representing 64% of the total energy investment in the plan while that for the
semi-autonomous   agencies  amounts   to  Rs  32  billion   (US$2.0  billion)
representing 16%. The remaining Rs 40 billion (US$2.3 billion) representing
20% of total energy investment is expected to be mobilized through the PS. In
physical terms, the public sector's investment program in power would add
3,600 MW of generation capacity by FY93 and extend and reinforce the
transmission and distribution networks.  Investments planned to be undertaken
by KESC would add about 420 MW of thermal generation capacity, leaving a
requirement of 2,300 MW to be provided by the PS. Together, these investments
would achieve the objectives of the Seventh Plan and provide a smooth
transition into the Eighth Five-Year Plan (FY94-FY98).  In the oil and gas
subsector, to increase the supply of oil and gas by 16 mtoe per year by FY93,
public sector investments would be utilized to drill 65 exploratory wells and
100 development wells, while PS is expected to drill another 60 exploration
wells and 150 development wells.  In the coal subsector, to increase the coal
supply by about two million tons per year by FY93, PMDC's investment would
finance the drilling of 60 exploratory bore holes as well as development and
expansion schemes, while PS would invest in drilling an additional 600 bore
holes.
F. Past Investment and Future Strategy of the Bank Group
1.21     The Bank Group's involvement in Pakistan's energy sector began in
1955, with a loan to KESC for the construction of a thermal power station.
Since then, it has assisted in implementation of projects in all energy
subsectors.   In the power subsector, the Bank has participated in the Indus
Basin Development Projects, which include the hydro developments at Mangla and
Tarbela.  A series of four credits/loans were made to KESC between 1955 and
1967 for the development of its generation capacity.  Since 1970, the Bank has
been more dirtctly involved in GOP's program for the expansion of generating
capacity  and  transmission  and  distribution  networks,  for  which  seven
credits/loans were made to WAPDA. The first (Cr. 213-PAK) of US$23 million,
made in 1970, covered the cost of upgrading the transmission network.   The
second operation, a Third Window Loan (Ln. 1208T-PAK) of US$50 million,



- 9 -
subsequently  reduced  by  US$15  million  due  to  savings  achieved  under
international competitive bidding, was made in 1975 to finance the development
of part of the 500-kV transmission system to connect the hydro resources of
the north with the thermal generation in the center and south in order to
provide the most economic means of supplying power throughout the country.
The third operation (Cr. 968-PAK) of US$45 million was made to cover four
years of WAPDA's p_ogram for the development of the secondary transmission
system (FY79-FY83), involving the erection of about 4,345 km of single and
double circuit lines and the construction, expansion and reinforcement of 216
substations. Implementation of this project has been completed satisfactorily.
1.22     In the petroleum subsector, the Bank has had a long relationship with
three principal entities, SNGPL, OGDC and NRL. The first Bank loan to SNGPL
(377-PAK) in 1964 for US$15 million, was made to finance construction of the
Sui to Lahore pipeline. The second loan (597-PAK) in 1969 increased SNGPL's
capacity to deliver gas  to the Dawood fertilizer plant.  The third loan
(696-PAK) for US$19.2 million in 1970, the fourth loan (1107-PAK) for US$60
million in 1975, and the fifth loan for US$43.0 million in 1983 were all made
to SNGPL, and have cumulatively achieved the technical objectives of expanding
the transmission and distribution system for the northern part of the country
to a present capacity of 450 MMCFD. In the exploration and development field,
the first lending operation to OGDC was a credit of US$30 million for Toot Oil
Development  I  (867-PAK)  which  was  made  in  1978.   In  support  of  GOP's
continuing efforts to increase petroleum exploration, a loan (2351-PAK) of
US$51.5 million was made to OGDC in 1983 followed by the Toot Oil and Gas II
loan (2374-PAK) in 1984 to improve the reservoir drainage and other surface
facilities at the Toot oil field.  The Bank has also financed a Refinery
Engineering and Energy Efficiency loan (2218-PAK) to the National Refinery
Limited (NRL) in 1982 for US$12 million which has been satisfactorily
completed.
1.23     ESL I (2552-PAK), made  in support of measures to be implemented
during the last three years of the Sixth plan to minimize the shortfall in
achieving the plan targets and maintain a smooth transition into the Seventh
Plan, provided resources for the ongoing projects to be implemented in
FY86-88.   In addition the Bank has made  investment loans to support the
implementation of LES.  Fourth WAPDA (2499-PAK) and Fifth WAPDA (2556-PAK)
power loans, which coincided with the preparation of ESL I, support the
extension and reinforcement of the high and medium voltage transmission
networks to evacuate the power to be generated by plants under construction
and reduce technical losses. Kot Addu Combined Cycle loan (2649-PAK) supports
the expansion of generating capacity of WAPDA based on combined cycle
technology, representing the state-of-the-art in terms of efficiency in the
consumption  of  hydrocarbons.   Petroleum Resources and Joint Venture  loan
(2553-PAK) supports GOP's objective of accelerating the development of
hydrocarbons through joint ventures with PS firms which would supplement
OGDC's technical capabilities and financial resources. Power Plant Efficiency
Improvement loan (2798-PAM) assists in implementing one of the key objectives
of LES in the area of secondary energy.  It supports WAPDA in improving the
efficiency of its power plants to reduce fuel consumption, reduce maintenance
time and forced outage of plants and provide additional capacity from existing
plants. Implementation of these projects is progressing satisfactorily, with
the exception of Fourth and Fifth WAPDA Power Projects which are behind
schedule by over one year because of delays in the preparation and clearance
of the bidding documents. This since has been resolved and currently most of
the bidding documents have been issued and a substantial number of contracts
awarded.  A follow-up Refinery Energy Conservation and Modernization  loan



- 10 -
(2842-PAK) for US$21 million was also made to the same entity in 1987 to
reduce refinery energy consumption and modify the NRL refinery output mix to
better match demand.
1.24     The  implementation  of  ESL  I  has  provided  a  framework  for  the
coordination of donors' assistance for the implementation of the policies and
core investment program agreed with GOP.  The framework has facilitated the
Bank and ADB to coordinate their lending with that of the bilateral agencies,
and also to mobilize resources for GOP. In turn, this has enabled the Bank to
become effective in assisting GOP to initiate restructuring the energy sector
and mobilize additional funding for investment in the sector. A second sector
loan, ESL II, would provide the umbrella of policies to be introduced during
the Seventh Plan, identify investments which would be critical to the
achievements of the plan objectives, and reach agreement with GOP on a
monitorable  program  of actions  for  restructuring  the  energy  sector.   The
Bank's own financial support for specific investment agreed under the core
investment program would be kept to a minimum to allow for a higher level of
cofinancing. Priority would be given to increasing the involvement of PS in
the development of energy, and accelerate the development of infrastructure
for the transport, storage and distribution of oil, gas and petroleum
products.   In particular,  support  would  be provided to OGDC in promoting
greater  involvement  of PS  in  the  development  of  gas  and  oil.   Finally,
assistance would be extended to WAPDA in the implementation of small
hydropower schemes and in the extension of the low-voltage network in the
rural areas.
II. THE PROJECT
A. Overall Structure
Project Setting
2.01     The Fifth Plan called for the increased participation of PS in the
development  of energy  resources.   Success  in achieving this objective was
limited to the oil and gas subsector.  PS investments in the coal and power
subsectors remained stagnant, mainly because of inadequate incentives.  In an
effort to address the constraints experienced under the Fifth Plan, the Sixth
Plan provided for the increased involvement of PS in energy development as one
of its priorities.  However, as specific policies to achieve this objective
were not introduced, PS investments increased only marginally during the first
two years of the Plan.  Subsequently, LES reaffirmed GOP's emphasis on the
development of a more prominent role for PS to overcome the shortage of
resources and the constraints on the implementation capabilities of the public
sector  (para  1.06).   As  a  first  step  in  the  implementation of LES,  GOP
announced, in November 1985, several measures aimed at stimulating PS interest
in the power and coal subsectors.  These included: (a) treatment of PS power
plants as industrial undertakings,  thereby making them eligible  for fiscal
incentives available to industry; (b) extension of income tax holiday for coal
mining in new areas; and (c) exemption of mining and power generation
equipment from import duties. Despite these measures, the response of PS was
inadequate. Proposals for the expansion of coal mining and power generation
capacities required extensive ;upport in terms of subsidies, guarantees and
compensations.



- 11 -
Project Preparation
2.02     In  1987,  GOP  requested  the  Bank  Group''to  assist  with  the
initiation of a plan to increase PS participation in energy development. At
the outset, the forecast of energy consumption for the Seventh and Eighth Plan
period was derived, based on:  (a) the projected rates of growth for the main
sectors of the economy which correspond to an average annual rate of growth in
GDP of 52; (b) increases in the prices of petroleum products to maintain them
at their present level relative to their equivalent border prices; and
(c) increases in the prices of natural gas, coal and electricity to generate
40% of the investments from internal sources and achieve parity with  the
economic cost of supply by the end of the Seventh Plan, and maintain them
constant in real terms thereafter.   This analysis showed that the average
annual rate of increase in the consumption of energy would be 7.02 for the
Seventh Plan and 6.0% for the Eighth Plan. The investments needed to meet the
forecast consumption of energy at least cost were identified by selecting new
projects which, together with existing facilities, would minimize the capital
cost of new projects and the operating costs of existing and new projects.
The results provided the annual outlays in terms of foreign and local
currencies for each project, whose sum represented the total investments
required  in  the  Seventh  and  Eighth  Plans.   In  order  to  divide  these
investments between the public and private sectors, the investments to be
undertaken by the public sector were estimated by: (a) increasing the average
investments of each entity over the last three years of the Sixth Plan by 3%
in real terms to reflect improvements in their implementation capabilities;
and (b) limiting the increases in the prices of energy produced by them to a
maximum of 102 annual nominal increase and the coverage of 40% of the yearly
cost of their investments from internal sources. The difference between the
overall investments required to meet the forecast demand at least cost and the
estimated investments which could realistically be undertaken by the public
sector represent the shortfall in investments which, if not undertaken, would
result in shortages in energy supply.
2.03     The projected shortages in energy supply to meet the demand during
the Seventh and Eighth Plans would be significant: (a) the deficit in
electricity supply would increase from 1,000 MW in 1988 to 2,000 MW by 1993
and 4,000 MW by 1998; (b) the shortfall in the supply of coal would increase
from 2 million tons in 1993 to 4 million tons in 1998; (c) the shortage of
natural gas would increase from 132 MMCFD in 1993 to 200 MMCFD in 1998. These
shortfalls would impede the growth of the economy through frequent and
prolonged interruption in the supply of electricity to industry and
agriculture, which together account for 75% of total consumption of
electricity, 802 of the annual coal production and 602 of natural gas
consumption. Alternatively, if substitute fuels are to be used to eliminate
the expected shortages, the annual cost of substitute imports of petroleum
products would reach US$200 million by 1993, and increase to about US$400
million by 1998. This would have an adverse impact on the economy,
particularly in view of the expected constraints on the availability of
foreign exchange during the Seventh and Eighth Plans. The constraints on the
implementation capabilities of the public sector, shortage of financial
resources, and the need to sustain the growth of the economy were critical in
inducing GOP to aggressively pursue PS involvement in assuming the leading
role for bridging the expected shortages in energy supply. In order to ensure
| ' IFC has participated in the preparation and appraisal of the proposed
Project.



- 12 -
the timely implementation of the Seventh and Eighth Plans, GOP decided that PS
investments in energy would be undertaken under build-own-operate-transfer
(BOOT)-'arrangements involving the design, construction, commissioning and
operations of projects by investors, and the transfer of the facilities to the
Government after the completion of their economic life. In addition, since
public investments had to be rationalized to reduce the burden of the
development plans on the national budget, only BOOT projects involving limited
recourse  financing  would  be  considered.   This  would  contribute  to  the
reduction of the GOP's debt burden in the future while providing resources
needed for development. The targets for PS investment during the Seventh and
Eighth Plans approved by GOP are summarized in Table 2.1.
Table 2.1:
Incremental Capacities to be Financed by
PS Investments During Seventh and Eighth Plans
Seventh Plan            Eighth Plan
Power Generation            2,300 MW                2,400 MW
Coal Production             2 million tons/year    3 million tons/year
Natural Gas                 132 MMCFD               200 MMCFD
The impact of PS investment during the Seventh Plan on WAPDA's tariffs was
assessed, assuming that electricity purchased by the Authority would be priced
at economic cost of supply, to cover 402 of WAPDA's average annual investment
from internal sources as agreed with the Bank.  The average tariff for sale to
consumers would increase at an average annual rate of 82 with investment by
PS, compared to 101, if WAPDA would implement the same capacity as a part of
its investment program.
2.04     In order to identify the institutional and policy constraints that
could hinder the achievement of the targets set for investments by PS, a study
was undertaken by the Bank, with the assistance of Arthur D. Little (US
consultants),  financed  by  the  United  States  Agency  for  International
Development (USAID), and Coopers & Lybrand Associates (UK consultants),
financed by the Overseas Development Administration, United Kingdom (ODA).
The study recommended:
(a) strengthening the institutions responsible for the evaluation
and approval of PS proposals;
(b) creating a vehicle to provide long term financing for PS
investments; and
(c) designing a framework of incentives for PS development of energy.
These recommendations were reviewed and agreed with GOP, and as a first step
towards their implementation, ECC approved on November 22, 1987 the creation
of a Private Sector Energy Development Fund (Fund) to be administered by the
National Development Finance Corporation (NDFC), one of the principal
development finance institutions in Pakistan, and the beneficiary under
several Bank operations.
This approach to project development is also referred to as
build-operate-transfer (BOT). The difference lies mainly in the time
horizon involved in the transfer of facilities. Under BOT, the
facilities are transferred at the end of a lock-in period of ten years
or less.



- 13 -
Project Objectives
2.05     The proposed Project would assist GOP in: (a) mobilizing resources
for cofinancing private sector investments in energy development to contribute
towards the achievement of the objectives of the Seventh and Eighth Plans; and
(b) setting an institutional framework to sustain PS investment and operation
in the energy sector.
Project Description
2.06     The proposed Project would provide:
(a) up to 2,300 MW of power generation capacity, 2 million tons per
year of domestic coal and 132 MMCFD of natural gas by FY93,
financed through a newly established Energy Development Fund to
be administered by NDFC to cover up to 30% of the total cost of
private   sector   subprojects   to   be    implemented   under
build-own-operate-transfer arrangements through limited recourse
financing; and
(b) consulting services to train and support the staff of: (i) the
institutions responsible for the approval of private sector
proposals, and (ii) the Fund in the appraisal, finance of
subprojects and the supervision of their implementation.
Project Cost and Financing Plan
2.07     The estimated total cost of the proposed Project is about US$1,893
million equivalent. The proposed Bank loan of US$150 million, together with
loans and grants from bilateral aid agencies, amounting to US$415 million,
would  finance  the Fund and  consulting  services.   The  remaining  US$1,328
million would be provided by PS, comprised of US$470 million (25X) equity and
US$858 million (45X) in local and foreign commercial loans and suppliers'
credits.   Of the total PS equity, about US$235 million wiould be in foreign
exchange and the rest would be provided by Pakistani institutional and
individual investors.
Table 2.2:
Project Cost and Financing
(in US$ Million)
Bank   Cofinanciers   PS Equity   PS Loans         Total
Subprojects            146        409             470        858          1,883
Consulting
Services               4          6                          -             10
150        415             470        858          1,893
2=~=2                   =2=2==_
Tne proposed loans and grants from the Bank and bilateral agencies to finance
the Fund would be made to GOP with sovereign guarantee.  The commercial loans
and suppliers' credit of US$893 million would be provided under a limited
recourse financing arrangement involving no direct sovereign guarantee.
2.08     All subprojects approved by GOP and financed by the Fund should meet
the eligibility criteria, which among other things, requires that prices for
energy produced by subprojects are lower than the cost to the economy of



- 14 -
producing the same product.   Presently,  proposals for  the  installation of
about 2,000 MW have either been approved in principle (subject to subsequent
appraisal) or are under review by GOP.  In addition,  proposals  are under
preparation for increasing the output of domestic coal.  These proposals were
used to derive the estimated cost of the proposed Project (Annex 2.1). Letter
of Intent (LOI) have been signed by GOP for the following proposals:
(a) Habibullah Mines of Pakistan and Siemens of Germany to install 2X50 MW and
2X15 MW power stations, based on domestic coal, at a total cost of about
US$158 million; and (b) Xenel Industries of Saudi Arabia and Hawker Siddeley
Power Engineering of the UK to install 4X300 MW oil-based steam power stations
at a total cost of about US$840 million; and (c) Fecto of Pakistan to install
6X20 MW diesel units at a total cost of about US$70 million.  In addition, two
proposals are currently under review: (a) a consortium comprising Pakland of
Pakistan, and Pyropower and Bechtel of USA to install a 3X44 MW station, based
on domestic coal, at an estimated cost of about US$165 million.  Currently,
the above consortium is negotiating the incorporation of a local mining
company  which  would  contribute  equity  to  the  subproject  and  develop
unexploited but proven reserves of coal to produce 700,000 tons of coal to
supply the stations; and (b) INTRAG of USA to install a 1X80 MW station, also
based on domestic coal, at an estimated cost of about US$113 million. Three
other proposals are currently at an advanced stage of preparation:
(a) Deutsch Babcock of Germany to install a 2X80 MW domestic coal-based
station, at an estimated cost of about US$207 million, which would also
include the development of a privately-owned coal mine dedicated to the
station; (b) a 140 MW hydroelectric power station at an estimated cost of
US$210 million; and (c) Kumagai-Gumi of Japan and Davy McKee of UK, in a joint
venture with PMDC, to develop a coal mine at Lakhra for the production of 1.2
million tons per year at an estimated cost of US$180 million. All proposals
have been prepared in accordance with the Bank's guidelines, and would be
appraised by the Fund, following the appointment of consultants to assist in
this task (para 2.09).
2.09     The proposed Project includes a provision of US$10 million to cover
the cost of consultancy services and training, which would be financed by the
Bank (US$4 million), USAID (US$5 million) and ODA (US$1 million equivalent).
This would provide about 120 manmonths of long-term advisory services, 290
manmonths consultancy support and 30 manmonths for training. The consultancy
serviceb for the power subsector would be administered by MWP, and by MPNR for
petroleum and coal subsectors. NDFC would manage the training and consulting
services for the staff administering the Fund.  The proposed Bank loan, and
the grants from USAID and ODA, would finance the consulting services required
to assist MWP and MPNR in review and approval of subprojects and the Fund
appraisal aud supervision of subprojects. Details are provided in Annex 2.2.
B. Institutional Framework
2.10     So far PS proposals have been dealt with on an ad hoc basis rather
than within a comprehensive framework that outlines the institutions and
procedures involved.  In addition, the absence of adequately trained staff to
support the decision makers has been responsible for the delays in the review
and approval of proposals. As a result, PS interest in the energy sector was
dampened.  If GOP is to achieve the level of PS investments envisaged under
the Seventh and Eighth Plans, existing institutions should be rationalized,
their capabilities  strengthened, and procedures streamlined.  This would be
achieved under the proposed Project within the existing organizational
structure.   The timetable for implementing the institutional improvement is
presented in Annex 2.3.  MWP would be  responsible  for approval  of  power



- 15 -
proposals, and MPNR for oil/gas and coal proposals. The ministries would, on
a case-to-case basis, seek the views of other ministries and entities
concerned, e.g. Planning, Transport, Finance, WAPDA,  KESC, SNGPL, etc.  In
addition, the creation and operations of the fund would provide the long-term
financing required for PS investment, the appraisal of PS subprojects and the
supervision of their implementation in accordance with standards acceptable to
the  Bank  and  cofinanciers.   The  proposed  Project  would  assist  GOP  in
increasing PS investments under a BOOT arrangement through limited recourse
financing.   This  approach  to project  development  would  require a  set of
criteria, measures, provisions and agreements which, together, referred to as
Security Package (SP), that safeguards the interests of the lenders, investors
and the Government.   SP is intended to minimize the impact  of  identified
risks.  GOP has requested the Bank to take the lead in outlining a framework
for SP to serve as a basis for the formulacion of subprojects specific SPs to
be agreed among those involved. The role of the institutions involved with PS
operations is discussed below and SP is outlined in Chapter III.  The outline
of the process involved in the review and approval of PS proposals by GOP, and
the appraisal and supervision of PS subprojects are presented in Annex 2.4.
MWP and MPNR
2.11     PS proposals for power subprojects have been submitted to MWP in
response to GOP's policy announcement in November 1985 (para 2.01).
Uncertainties concerning required scope of proposals, evaluation process and
criteria, and timetable for approval have been responsible for the limited
response of PS.   In order  to assist  GOP,  the Bank has  provided  interim
guidelines  for  the formulation and review of proposals.   These guidelines
should be elaborated, formalized,  documented and publicized.   MWP and MPNR
would need the support of experienced consultants to prepare a brochure
outlining the policy framework, the format for proposals, evaluation criteria,
and drafts of all agreements required (para 3.07).   PS proposals would be
submitted by the investors to the concerned ministries for review, which would
be followed by negotiations with investors.   Upon successful completion of
negotiations, the concerned ministry would seek ECC's approval of the
subproject. MWP, MPNR, the Fund and the energy purchasing entity would review
the proposal for technical viability, integration into the national energy
plan, financing arrangements and price. There is a need to formalize the
process of review and approval of PS proposals.  MWP and MPNR would require
the services of consultants, with experience in the preparation and evaluation
of PS energy projects, to assist in the preparation of the brochure.  The
consultancy effort required for this task would be about 35 manmonths.
Therefore,  in  order  to  ensure  the  timely  preparation  of  the  brochure
describing  policies  and  procedures  for  evaluating  PS  proposals,  the
preparation of a brochure, satisfactory to the Bank, detailing the guidelines
for the preparation, review and evaluation of PS proposals, will be a
condition of loan effectiveness (para 5.03(a)).
2.12     The implementation of GOP's policy of increasing PS involvement in
the power subsector is the responsibility of the Secretary in MWP, assisted by
the Additional Secretary for Power. In MPNR, the Director-General, Petroleum
Concessions and Secretary, Mineral Coordination Board assist the Secretary to
deal with PS in the coal and petroleum subsector. The secretaries and their
directors are qualified and competent administrators; however, in both
ministries, they are not adequately supported by experienced staff. A Private
Power Cell (PPC) in MWP and a Coal Mining Cell (CMC) in MPNR are needed to
provide technical support to the Secretaries.   PPC  would be headed by a
Director General, supported by five professional staff. The Director General



- 16 -
would be a qualified engineer with experience in management of power utilities
with special emphasis on system operation, power supply contracts, and
supervision of projects. He would be assisted by two power engineers with
experience in the operation of power systems, appraisal of power projects, and
contract management.  The Cell would also require two financial specialists
with experience in project finance, financial management of power utilities
and the development of computer-based financial models. The Director General
for Mining at MPNR would be supported by specialists in coal mining, geology,
and  finance.   The  coal  mining  specialist  should  be  experienced  in  the
construction,  operation  and management of mines.   The geologist should be
experienced  in  geological  investigation  of  mining  reserves,  review  of
geological  data  and  mine  plans.   The  financial  specialist  should  be
experienced in financial management of companies dealing with coal mines.  As
for the Directorate for Petroleum Concessions, it has had a long tradition of
monitoring PS operation in the sector and it is currently being strengthened
under USAID and CIDA financing.   In order to strengthen the institutional
capabilities  for  mobilizing  PS  investments  for  energy  development,  the
establishment and sta_fing, satisfactory to the Bank, of a Private Power Cell
in Ministry of Watet and Power, and a Coal Mining Cell in Ministry of
Petroleum and Natural RP-ources, to strengthen the institutional capabilities
for mobilizing PS investments, will be a condition of loan effectiveness (Para
5.03(b)).
2.13     PPC and CMC would require the support of specialized consultants to
assist  in  the  review  and  evaluation  of  proposals  and  negotiations  of
agreements under SPs.  The staff of PPC and CMC, although experienced, would
require training in the review of PS proposals, development of software for
evaluation  and  financial  analysis,  use  of  export  credits and  commercial
financing, particularly under limited recourse arrangements. This task would
require about 50 manmonths of consulting effort. The draft Terms of Reference
for the consultancy services would be reviewed during negotiations.   In view
of the critical role PPC and CMC would play in processing the PS subprojects
and  in  order  to  strengthen   thei:  capabilities,   GOP  agreed,   during
negotiations, to appoint, no later than December 31, 1988, consultants under
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, to assist PPC and CMC in the
review   and   evaluation   of   private   sector   proposals,   negotiation  of
Implementation Agreement and other agreements under the Security Package, and
training of their staff (Para 5.01(a)).
WAPDA
2.14     WAPDA  currently  meets  its  power  needs  from  its  own  generating
stations and power purchases from KESC.  As a result  of  GOP's  policy of
encouraging PS participation in power generation, WAPDA's sources of supply
are expected to be diversified with the commissioning of a number of privately
owned  power  plants.   This  would  raise  complex  issues  regarding  load
dispatching, compensation, penalties for failure to perform, etc. WAPDA, at
present, has no single group responsible for coordination of the operation of
privately owned power plants and negotiation of long-term power purchase
agreements.  As the conLractual and .echnical aspects of the operation of PS
power plant would involve coordination with a number of groups in WAPDA, e.g.
load dispatch, system operation, finance, system planning, etc., there is a
need for a WAPDA Private Power Cell (WPPC) to negotiate and administer power
purchase agreements and coordinate the operation of privately owned power
plants within WAPDA's system. WPPC should be headed by either an engineer or
a finance specialist reporting directly to Member, Power.  The head of the
WPPC should be assisted by a power engineer with experience in power system



- 17 -
operation, load dispatch, commercial aspects of bulk power transfers, and a
financial analyst with experience in financial management of power utility.
In order to ensure that WAPDA is adequately prepared for the negotiations of
the first power purchase agreement, which is expected in October 1988. as a
condition of loan effectiveness, GOP will cause WAPDA to establish and staff.
satisfactory to the Bank, a private power cell in the Authority (para 5.03(c)).
2.15     Although WAPDA has the engineering expertise in the areas of system
operation, power plant design, etc., it has limited experience in reviewing,
negotiating  and  administering  long-term  power  purchase  agreements  and
coordinating  the  operation  of  privately-owned  source  plant.   WPPC  would,
therefore, require consultants' services to support and train its staff. The
consultants  services  required  for  this  purpose are estimated at about  15
manmonths. The terms of reference for consultancy services would be reviewed
during  negotiations.    In  n-der  to  strengthen  WAPDA's  capabilities  in
negotiating and administering power purchase agreements, GOP agreed, during
negotiations, to cause WAPDA to appoint, by December 31, 1988, consultants
under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank to assist and train the
WPPC staff in reviewing, negotiating and administering all aspects of power
purchase agreements (para 5.01(b)).
Private Sector Energy Development Fund
2.16     In view of the size of the projected portfolio of the Fund,  there
could be merit in setting it as an independent, publicly or privately owned,
financial institution.   Iowever,  the  creation  of  a new  institution would
require about two years in view of the extensive work needed to outline the
future role of the Fund,  sources of financing for its future  operations,
financial performance criteria, guidelines for operations, and staffing.  PS
investments cannot be held in abeyance during this period jeopardizing the
achievement of the objectives of the Seventh Plan, particularly in view of the
fact that public investments were reduced because of constraints on government
finances. PS resources for financing energy sector should materialize at the
initiation  of  the  Plan.   The  Fund,  therefore,  needs  to  be  established
immediately.  This can only be achieved by its establishment as a functional
unit  of  an  existing  financial  institution.   GOP  has  designated  NDFC  to
administer the Fund. The latter's operations would, however, be structured to
allow for possible future detachment from NDFC at a later date. Consequently,
the development of the Fund would be implemented in stages. The first stage
would cover its establishment, the recruitment of the core staff and the
appointment of consultants to support the operations during the first few
years.   The second stage would involve  the  recruitment  of  consultants  to
design  the  organizational  structure  for  the  Fund,  prepare  the operation
manuals, and staffing strategy. The third stage would cover a study by the
consultants  to  assess  the  feasibility  of  establishing  the  Fund  as  an
autonomous finance institution. GOP agreed, during negotiations, to apPOint,
by October 31, 1989, consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms of
reference are satisfactory to the Bank, to undertake a study to assess the
merit of establishing the Fund as an autonomous finance institution: and to
review, with the Bank by March 31, 1990, the results of the study and agree on
a timetable for the implementation of the agreed recommendations (para
5.01(c)).
2.17     The Fund would be administered by NDFC through a Division specially
created  for  that purpose.   The relatioriship between NDFC and the Fund is
presented in Annex 2.5.  The terms and conditiens under which NDFC would
manage the Fund would be set out in an administration agreement between GOP



- 18 -
and NDFC. The manager of the Fund should be at the level of senior executive
vice president/deputy managing director.   He should report directly to the
Chairman. He would be supported by an executive vice president and two senior
vice presidents with proven expertise in the areas of engineering and
finance.   The  executive  vice  president  will  supervise  and  coordinate  the
functions of the senior vice presidents, finance and engineering.  The senior
vice  president  for  engineering  would  be  responsible  for  the  technical
appraisal  and  supervision  of  subproject  implementation.   The  senior  vice
president for finance would be responsible for the financial appraisal of
subprojects, assessment of the adequacy of financial plans and review of the
SPs, and supervision.   The senior vice president  for engineering would be
supported by three engineers with experience in the area of power generation
and coal mining, a specialist in contract management and procurement and an
environmental  specialist.   The  senior vice president for finance would be
supported by two finance specialists.  The proposed staffing for the Fund,
which represents the core team, would be supported by consulting firms and
financial advisors with expertise in project appraisal, enginecring and
supervision,  and  in  investment  banking.    The  Fund  should  be  legally
established and staffed before September 1988, when the first request for
subproject financing is expected.  Therefore, the establishment and staffing
of the Fund, and the execution of an Administration Agreement between GOP and
NDFC, satisfactory to the Bank, will be a condition of loan effectiveness
(para 5.03(d))
2.18     The staff of the Fund would require the support of consultants  to
outline the guidelines for the operations of the Fund, including its
operating, reporting, and monitoring procedures. Until the consultants' work
is completed and its recommendations reviewed and agreed, these procedures
would be identical to those of NDFC. Moreover, in view of the fact that the
Fund could be established as an autonomous finance institution, its procedures
would be established to allow for its detachment from NDFC at a later date,
should that decision be made.   NDFC has extensive experience  in financing
large industrial subprojects and the corporation's procedures are satisfactory
to the Bank.   However,  in view of the corporation's limited experience in
appraisal, financing and supervision of capital intensive energy projects, as
well as the varying procurement/disbursement requirements of the Fund's
cofinanciers, NDFC's existing guidelines and procedures for appraisal and
supervision would  require  adaptation for energy subprojects.   In order  to
carry out this task, NDFC would require about 30 manmonths of consultants
assistance. Consultants have already been recruited under ODA financing. The
furnishing for approval, to the Bank, of the guidelines for the operation of
the Fund, including guidelines for appraisal, approval and supervision of
subproiects will be a condition of loan effectiveness (para 5.03(e)).
C. Operations of the Private Sector Energy Development Fund
Sources of Financing for the Fund
2.19     The Fund would be financed through loans and grants made  to  GOP
amounting to US$520 million, of which the Bank would provide a loan of US$146
million.  The remaining US$374 million would be in the form of loans from
JEXIM (US$150 million), ODA (US$49 million) and the Italian Government (US$50
million); and a grant from USAID (US$125 million). All loans and grants made
by the Bank and bilateral agencies to finance the Fund, i.e., Italy, USAID,
JEXIM, Germany, etc., would be guaranteed by the Government.   The Fund would
provide subloans to cover up to 301 of tht total cost of PS subproject
approved by GOP and NDFC. A summary of the terms and conditions for financing
the Fund is presented in Table 2.3.



- 19 -
Table 2.3:
Terms and Conditions for Financin8 the Fund
Exchange
Rate           Overall
Source       Amount                         Interest       Insurance       Interest
Loans        US$ million        Weight      Rate (X)       Premium (X)    Rate (%)
Bank              146            0.26         7.72             3.25         10.97
JEXIM4'           150            0.27         5.30             7.00         12.30
ODA                54            0.10         5.50             3.00          8.00
Italy             50             0.09         1.50             3.00          4.50
Canada             30                -        5.20             3.25          8.45
Grants
USAID             125            0.23            -                -             -
Total            555              1.00                                      7.857
=   _                                         e=
'a Weighted average.
/b The loan amount is tentative.
Commitments for financing the Fund have been given by USAID, ODA, Italy and
Canada.  The Export-Import Bank of Japan is also coiAsidering cofinancing the
Fund. The Governments of Germany and France have expressed their interest in
cofinarcing the Fund. ADB has also been requested by GOP to participate in
cofinancing the Fund and it is presently assessing its position. GOP prefers
that the financing of the Fund be finalized as early as possible. However,
delays in internal clearances and reviews of official assistance programs
could  delay  the  completion  of  the  financing  package.   Consequently,  the
financing of the Fund has been structured after taking the views of all
potenti..l cofinanciers into consideration to allow for thAir participation in
the future. The procedures for the coordination among cofinanciers would be
detailed in a Cofinanciers' Memorandum of Understanding (CMU) to be finalized
between the Bank, GOP and the cofinanciers. CMU would outline the processes
involved in the approval of the decision of NDFC for financing subprojects,
clearance of bidding documents, and approval of award recommendations,
reporting format, and annual audit arrangements. At present, however, there
is a need, for a critical level of resources to be available in the Fund by
the time the first few subprojects are ready to be appraised for possible
financing.  Based on the proposals approved and those under review,  it is
estimated that at least US$300 million should be available by September 1988,
when requests for financing of subprojects are expected to be r_ceived by the
Fund.  In order to ensure the timely implementation of the proposed Project,
GOP reviewed with the Bank, during negotiations, the status of commitments by
the cofinanciers. Fulfillment of all conditions precedent to effectiveness of
the Cofinancing Agreements providing for cofinancing funds in an aggregate
amount equivalent to about US$150 million, in addition to the proposed Bank
loan, will -  a condition of loan effectiveness (para 5.03(f)).



- 20 -
Onlending Interest Rate
2.20     The Fund's onlending interest rate for the subprojects would be 14%.
which is equal to the prevailing rate on foreign loans to industrial
enterprises and GOP's loans to most energy sector entities, i.e. OGDC, SNGPL,
etc.  The onlending interest rate would cover: cost of borrowirg, and cost of
operations, and allow for the accumulation of reserves.  Cost of Borrowing:
Table 2.3 shows contributions in US dollar equivalent from various sources to
the Fund with their respective interest rates.   In order to arrive at the
Fund's cost of borrowing in rupees, the exchange rate insurance scheme offered
by State Bank of Pakistan to both public and private sector entities is used.
The essential feature of the scheme, applicable particularly to long-term
foreign borrowings, is that for the payment of an insurance premium, the State
Bank of Pakistan would freeze the rupee to the currency exchange rate
prevailing at the time of opening letters of credit to utilize the loan
funds. The insurance premiums, which are di£ferent for different currencies,
are fixed for the life of the loan, anti a:i  applicable to the outstanding
amounts of the loan insured.  On May 1, 118, the premiums on the currencies
expected to flow into the Fund were 3.25% tor US Dollar, 3.25% for Canadian
dollar, 3.01 for Pounds Sterling, 7.0% for Japanese Yen and 3.01 for Italian
Lira. Accordingly, the weighted average interest rate to be paid by the Fund
is about 8.02.  Cost of Operations:  The onlending rate would recover the cost
of operating and administering the funds, expected to be up to 0.51 of the
disbursed   amount.    This   would   cover   costs   such  as   personnel  and
administration, auditing, reporting, loan documentation, and supervision of
subproject  implementation.   Spread  to Accumulate  Reserves:   The onlending
interest rate would result in a spread of approximately 5.51, which would
assist in the accumulation of reserves that could then form the equity capital
for the Fund (para 2.23).
2.21     The onlending rate of interest for each subloan would be fixed.  In
view of the fapet that expected inflation is about 61 for the Seventh Plan
period, the 14%    *nding rate would result in a positive real interest rate.
Moreover, takinb into account the cost of resources to the Fund (para 2.20)
and the fee to be paid to NDFC, the interest rate spread is positive.  If the
onlending rate is to remain positive, mobilize resources for both the Fund and
the Government, and maintain parity with the rates for commercial loans, the
level of the onlending rate should be reviewed periodically to ensure
compliance with these conditions. Therefore, GOP agreed, during negotiations,
to review  with the Bank hy April 30 of each year beginning with 1989, the
Fund's onlending interest rate for new loans, with a view to ensuring that the
rate remains positive in real terms and, when appropriate, revise the interest
rate starting July 1st of the same year (para 5.01(d)).
Repayment Terms for Onlending
2.22     The repayment period for onlending the Fund's resources,  including
the resources received from the Bank, to subprojects would be up to 23 years.
This  repayment  period  corresponds  with  the  economic  life  of  energy
subprojects, thus alleviating one of the constraints to increased involvement
of PS in energy development. The sub'oans made by the Fund would have a grace
period of up to eight years in order to facilitate completion of construction
of long gestation projects, e.g., hydroelectric projects, and the repayment of
export credits and commercial loans which normally would have repayment
periods of eight years, including grace.  If the proposed grace and repayment
periods for subloans from the Fund are shortened, a peaking in amortization in
the first few years would occur, necessitating exceptionally high tariffs that
could render the subprojects financially unattractive.



- 21 -
Forecast of Sources and Applications of Funds
2.23     The Fund's forecast sources and application of funds statements for
the period FY89-FY98 are presented in Annex 2.6 and summarized in Table 2.4.
Table 2.4:
Summary Forecast of Sources and Applications of Funds (FY89-FY98)
Sources                                US$ Million   Rs Million         a
Interest Income                       521.0         9,118           47
Repayment Received                     13.1            229           1
534.1         9,347           48
Capital Raised                        555.0          9,712          50
Other Income
Commitment Fee                        6.1            106           1
Appraisal Fee                        14.4            252           1
Total Sources                       1,109.6        19,417          100
Applications
Disbursements                         555.0          9,712          50
Debt Service                          239.9         4,197           21
Operating Expenses                     19.9            348           2
Equity Reserves                       294.8         5,159           27
1,109.6        19,417          100
The forecast interest income of the Fund amounts to US$521 million over the
ten-year  period  (FY89-98).   Capital  raised amounting  to US$555 million,
represents  the  withdrawal  frL   loans  and  grants  financing  the  Fund.
Additional  income,  through  appraisal  fees,  amounting  to  just  over US$14
million, and commitment fees on undisbursed subloans, amounting to just over
US$6 million, would be generated. These two sources of revenue would allow
the Fund to cover the fost of consulting services required for the appraisal,
and supervision of implementation of PS subprojects. As regards the uses of
funds, debt service, which includes interest and repayment on each of the
loan currencies flowing into the Fund (para 2.19) would amount to about
US$240 million over the ten-year period. Operating expenses would amount to
about US$20 million.  This results in accumulated net income to the Fund of
about US$295 million over the ten-year period accumulated at an average of
about US$25 million a year in the Seventh Plan and US$34 million a year in
the Eighth Plan. If the study to assess the merit of detaching the Fund from
NDFC (para 2.16) does recohmend its detachment from NDFC and setting it as an
autonomous financial institution, the accumulated reserves could form the
equity capital of the Fund without depending upon allocation from GOP's
budget. Assuming a 5:1 debt:equity ratio, which is conservative relative to
7:1 ratio allowed for NDFC, this equity would enable the Fund to mobilize an
additional US$250 million each year to finance energy projects in the Eighth
Plan.
Appraisal and Supervision of Subproiects
2.24     Approval of the subproject by GOP involves its signing a Letter of
Intent (LOI) with a prospective investor, and implies a commitment in
principle only.  It would not guarantee financing by the Fund.  Financing of



- 22 -
subprojects by the Fund would only materialize when subprojects are appraised
and  found  to be  technically,  economically and  financially viable.   Each
investor would be required to submit a feasibility study carried out in
accordance with guidelines approved by the Bank which would form the basis of
appraisal by the Fund.  The study would cover project design, engineering,
cost estimates, implementation arrangements, specifications of equipment and
goods, financing plan, prices, financial projections,  draft agreements for
supply  of  fuels,  services  and  sale  of  output,  environmental  impact
assessment, resettlement plans, etc and all elements of SP.  The Fund would
be assisted by engineering consultants and financial advisory firms in the
appraisal  of  subprojects.   The  engineering  consultants  would  inter  alia
review: (i) suitability of site; (ii) availability of inputs;
(iii) appropriateness of, and proven experience with technology offered;
(iv) project design; (v) arrangements of detailed engineering;
(vi)  construction  strategy;   (vii)  cost  estimates;   (viii)  procurement
arrangements; (ix) arrangements for project nperation and maintenance; and
(x)  compliance  with  Bank's  environmental  guidelines  and  resettlement
requirements, and submit a comprehensive assessment of the technical
feasibility of the subproject. The financial advisors would review:
(i) adequacy of financing package; (ii) financial viability of the project
over its life under various tariff scenarios; (iii) SP; and (iv) corporate
structure.   Based  on  the  consultants'  report,  the  Fund  would  prepare
comprehensive appraisal report including its own recommendations.   In order
to ensure that the subprojects meet the cofinanciers' requirements regarding
quality and viability, the Fund's recommendations would be sent to the Bank
for  review  on  behalf  of  the  cofinanciers.   To ensure  that  subproiects
supported by the Fund are technically and financially viable, during
negotiations, NDFC agreed that all loans to subprojects costing more than
US$30 million would be subiect to prior review and approval by the Bank (para
5.02(a)).
2.25     As the Fund is expected to deal with a relatively small but diverse
subprojects, it is not practical to maintain the necessary professional staff
for appraisal and supervision of subprojects. The in-house staff in the Fund
would, therefore, be essentially limited to the core staff required for the
appraisal, supervision and financing operations. The Fund would need to draw
upon specialized consultancy firms for support in technical aspects of
appraisal and supervision of the subprojects.   Similarly, it would require
the support of financial advisors to assist in the specialized review of the
financing plans and SP. Consultancy services for this work are estimated at
about 150 manmonths.  In order to ensure that appraisal and supervision of
subprojects is carried out to standards acceptable to the Bank and the
cofinanciers, appointment of technical consultants and financial firms, under
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Barnk, to assist the Fund in
appraisal and supervision of subprojects will be a condition of loan
effectiveness (para 5.03(g)).
Procurement
2.26     The procurement of equipment, materials and services financed by the
Bank would be in accordance with the Bank guidelines. The investors would be
able to utilize tied funds available from a country's donor agency by
following the procurement procedures acceptable to that agency.   Financing
from ODA and Italian Aid agency would be available for procurement from
their respective countries.  USAID funds would finance procurement from US
and Pakistan.  JEXIM's loan to the Fund would be untied with procurement of
goods and services in accordance with the Bank's guidelines.   In the event



- 23 -
that the lowest evaluated bidder under ICB is from one of the countries
offering tied aid, the contract, to the extent of available financing, would
be financed by the tied aid provided by that agency to the Fund, supplemented
by the funds provided by the Bank and JEXIM. GOP has requested the Bank to
coordinate  all  procurement  under  Bank  guidelines.   The  Fund would  send
bidding documents and evaluation reports for equipment and services to the
Bank for review. The procurement arrangements and the compensation by the
cofinanciers for the cost incurred by the Bank in the coordination of
procurement under the proposed Project would be specified in CMU (para 2.19).
2.27     The proposed loan would finance equipment, materials, services and
costs of consultants and training.   Contracts financed under the proposed
loan for supply and erection of equipment would be awarded through
International Competitive Bidding (ICB).  investors would also be permitted
to use Limited International Bidding (LIB) for procurement of equipments
having only limited number of  suppliers.   The  list  of  equipments  to be
procured through LIB would be approved by the Bank before the initiation of
procurement. In the event the investors procure equipment and services using
LIB, they will be required to seek bids from a list of potential suppliers
broad enough to ensure competitive  prices.   As  the Fund  is expected  to
finance large and complex contracts, and in order to minimize the time
required for procurement using ICB, the investors would have the option to
prequalify, prospective bidders for equipment supply and erection contracts,
prior  to appraisal  of  the  subprojects.   Investors would be  required  to
advertise the procurement in local and international press, and to notify
trade representatives of Bank group member countries and Switzerland.
Bidding documents and award recommendations for contracts valued at more than
US$2.5 million would require prior review by the Bank. Consultants would be
selected according to guidelines of the respective cofinancing agencies
financing the services. Consultants financed from the proceeds of the Bank
loan would be selected according to Bank guidelines.
Disbursements
2.28     The proceeds of the proposed Bank loan would be disbursed against
(a) 100% of the cif (ex-works if manufactured locally) cost of equipment and
materials and 100% of foreign expenditure for erection, both being subject to
ICB; and (c) 1002 of cost of consultants. The percentage of Bank financing
would need to be modified for the ccatracts which are jointly financed by the
Bank and cofinanciers following procurement guidelines compatible with those
of the Bank, i.e. JEXIM, ADB, etc. Disbursements would be fully documented,
except for payments not exceeding US$0.5 million.  Such disbursements would
be made against statement of expenditures, the documentation for which would
not be submitted to the Bank but retained for inspection by the supervision
mission.  The standard procedures for auditing SOE would apply.  In order to
facilitate disbursements, a special account would be established in a
commercial Bank, in accordance with terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank.  The initial deposit in the Special Account would be US$5 million.  A
schedule  of  disbursements  is  presented  in Annex  2.7.   The  disbursement
schedule covers a six-year period. As the proposed Project is first of its
type,  there  is  no  standard  profile  for  such  projects.   The  estimated
disbursement profile takes into consideration identified subproject and the
expected composition of the portfolio to be financed from the proposed loan.
The loan closing date would be December 31, 1994.
2.29     The disbursements of cofinanciers' funds would be in accordance with
their respective guidelines.  In case the successful bidder is from a country



- 24 -
eligible for financing under the guidelines of the Bank, ADB and JEXIM, the
contracts would be financed from all the agencies in proportion to their
contribution to the Fund. Similarly , if the bidder is from a country which
qualifies for financing from two agencies providing untied funds, the
contract would be financed from the proceeds of the loans from these two
agencies in proportion to their contribution to the Fund. These disbursement
arrangements would be set out in CMU (para 2.19).
Environmental and Resettlement Aspects
2.30     The environment and resettlement  guidelines  for  the  subprojects,
satisfactory to the Bank, would be outlined in a brochure issued by GOP (para
2.12).   These guidelines should,  inter alia,  cover critical  environmental
factors to be reviewed and monitored, permissible pollutant levels, principal
control methods, treatment and disposal of gaseous, liquid and solid wastes,
occupational   health   and   safety   standards,   planning   standards   for
rehabilitation in the case of involuntary resettlement, and procedures for
implementing and monitoring rehabilitation plans. Prior to the issue of LOI,
GOP should, for projects which may have significant environmental and social
impact, carry out a preliminary environmental/resettlement screening to
assess the site and technology alternatives. The investors would be required
to submit to the Fund as a part of the Feasibility Study, an environmental
impact assessment for the subproject and, in the event of any dislocation of
inhabitants, a plan for their resettlement.  Both these documents would be
submitted to the Bank along with the Fund's recommendations for the approval
of loan to the subproject.  In order to ensure that the subprojects comply
with the Bank's environmental guidelines, GOP confirmed, during negotiations,
that subproiects approved for loans by the Fund would include provisions
requiring   compliance   with   environmental   guidelines   and   resettlement
requirements, satisfactory to the Bank (para 5.01(e)).
Reporting, Accounts and Auditing
2.31     In order  to streamline  the  process  of  satisfying  the reporting
requirements of various cofinanciers of the Fund, GOP has requested the Bank
to formulate a common reporting package that would be furnished to all
cofinanciers. Accordingly, in cooperation with the other cofinanciers, the
Bank has recommended thcst the reporting package should comprise, as regards
the Fund, a quarterly progress report on the Fund's operations including a
statement on utilization of funds from each cofinancier, annual financial
statements duly audited by an independent auditor acceptable to the Bank and
a Project Completion Report within six months after the completion of the
proposed Project.  In addition, for each of the subprojects, the reporting
package would include a quarterly progress report and annual audited
financial  statements.   A  Project  Completion  Report  would  be  required
following the completion of each subproject. In order to facilitate the Bank
to monitor the implementation of the proposed Project, GOP agreed, during
negotiations, to furnish to the Bank and the other cofinanciers of the Fund:
(a) quarterly progress reports in a format satisfactory to the Bank;
(b) annual financial statements audited by an independent auditor acceptable
to the Bank, no later than six months after the end of each financial year;
and (c) within six months of the completion of the proposed Project, a
Project Completion Report in a format acceptable to the Bank (para 5.01(f)).



- 25 -
III. SECURITY PACKAGE
A. Introduction
3.01     Pakistan's economic growth over the decade has been accompanied by
increased public sector outlays, financed increasingly through government
borrowing.  Domestic debt has been growing at over 20% annually since FY80,
and external debt, at about 6.51 per year.  Such eytensive borrowing limits
the access of PS to credit needed to achieve the development goals.
Consequently, GOP has initiated a program under the Seventh Plan aimed at
mobilizing resources and curtailing expenditures.  On the revenue side, the
tax base would be broadened and prices would be rationalized, and on the
expenditure side, investments would be focussed on the priority sectors and a
balance   maintained   between   the   level   of   development   outlays   and
implementation  capabilities  of  public  enterprises.   This  strategy  would
result in a reduced share of public investments in key sectors and provide an
opportunity for GOP to seek a greater role for PS in achieving the
development objectives in these sectors of the economy. Consequently, in the
energy sector, the achievement of the Seventh and Eighth Plan targets is now
dependent on both the public sector performance and the ability of PS to
mobilize the technical and financial resources needed for the timely
implementation of investments.  The Government has decided that PS would have
complete freedom to identify investments within the broader framework of the
development plans and take full responsibility for their preparation,
finance, implementation, operations and, possibly, transfer at the end of
their economic life. As stated above, this approach to project development
is referred to as BOOT. GOP's objective in encouraging PS investments under
BOOT schemes is to shift the burden of such investment onto PS.  In other
words, sovereign guarantees for loans assumed by PS would not be provided,
thereby not increasing the Government's debt burden.  Instead of sovereign
guarantee, the Government would establish an institutional framework for the
operation of PS and agree to a SP needed to provide the incentive for lenders
and investors to consider limited recourse financing.
3.02     In accordance with GOP's request, the Bank assisted in the design
and implementation of a framework for SP. This framework is not intended to
be applicable to all PS subprojects, but to serve as a basis for the design
of subproject specific SPs.  In some cases, it might exceed what is required
and in others,  it would require strengthening.   The framework of the SP
involves four elements: (a) incentives to PS to undertake investments under
BOOT schemes with limited recourse financing; (b) the eligibility criteria
for PS investments to be considered by GOP and the Fund which would safeguard
the interests of lenders, investors and the Government; (c) provisions to
minimize the impact on lenders, investors and GOP of identified risks that
could occur in the process of preparation, implementation and operation of PS
subprojects; and (d) the Bank role in subproject formulation, appraisal and
supervision.
B. Measures to Attract PS Investments
3.03     SP includes a set of measures, applicable to all PS investments in
the energy sector to be financed by the Fund, which provide incentives to
investors  and  outlines  the  commitments  of  GOP  in  maintaining  these
incentives. These measures are discussed in detail below:



- 26 -
(a)  Price for the purchase of energy:  GOP's objectives of agreeing
to a price to be paid for energy produced by PS is to provide
incentive to efficiently implement and operate subprojects; and
is, therefore, not a cost plus mechanism. GOP would agree with
investors on firm prices for energy, expressed in constant
terms i.e., prices of the year during which negotiations take
place. These prices would be structured based on a set of
agreed assumptions regarding operating efficiency, level of
output, and capital cost parameters.   The prices would cover
operating  costs,  debt  service,   and  returns  on  equity.
Adjustments in prices would only be made to accommodate changes
in input prices such as labor, fuel, cost of spares etc.
Adjustments would not be allowed to ensure specific rates of
return on equity.   In effect,  returns on equity would be a
residual, and would not be adjusted, except for exchange rate
variation to maintain their value unaltered in real terms. If
the assumptions and parameters used in the determination of
prices are not maintained, the shareholders' returns could be
adversely  affected.   Conversely,  provided  the  venture  were
operated efficiently according to assumptions and parameters
agreed in the LOI,  it would earn the minimum return, which
could be increased by greater efficiency of operation;
(b)  Adiustment  Indices:   In  order  to  compensate  investors  for
changes in the prices of inputs which are beyond their control,
indices would be agreed between GOP and the investors to
reflect these changes. These could include changes in price of
fuels,   operation,  maintenance,   administration  costs,  and
exchange rate movements, etc.  The cost of debt financing is
expected to be fixed by securing fixed interest rate funds, and
the insurance of foreign exchange risk through the Government's
existing forward foreign exchange scheme;
(c)  Fiscal Incentives:  GOP has reduced import duties and taxes on
electrical and mining equipment to allow PS to offer prices for
energy that are attractive. In addition, specific areas and
localities have been declared industrial zones and are allowed
income tax holidays of up to five years. However, in view of
the fact that the laws could be altered, GOP has decided that
the price for energy would be net of income tax.  GOP would
insulate the PS against changes in duties and taxes or other
actions by the Government;
(d)  Repatriation  of  Profits  and  Debt  Service:   Investors  and
lenders  would  require  assurance  that  the  foreign  exchange
necessary  to  pay  dividends  and  service  the  foreign  debt
requirement would be  available.   While  GOP  is unwilling  to
contemplate a traditional sovereign guarantee of foreign debt,
GOP has agreed that, given that the Rupees are made available,
State Bank of Pakistan will undertake to make available the
foreign exchange to meet foreign debt service obligations and
pay dividends to foreign shareholders; and
(e)  Price Reopeners:   GOP has decided that price for purchase of
energy from PS, indicated in the LOI, would be adjusted for
future changes based on indices (para 3.03(a)). The only areas
of uncertainty relate to impact of some aspects of costs which



- 27 -
are beyond the control of PS and lenders.   These are civil
works,  impact of environmental safeguards,  and  unanticipated
foreign exchange movements  on project and financing costs.
These would represent areas where price could be reopened.  PS
and GCP would negotiate a revised purchase price for energy
after cost estimates for these items are firmed up.
In order to ensure that the incentives to PS are formalized,  GOP
agreed, during negotiations, that it would: (i) determine the price of energy
produced by  PS  taking  into account a  reasonable  real  return on  equity
investment, net of income tax; (ii) permit repatriation of profits and debt
=-ice under arrangements with the State Bank of Pakistan; (iii) allow the
revision of energy purchase prices in accordance with agreed indices to
reflect changes in the prices of input and exchange rate movements; and (iv)
allow price reopeners in areas where there are uncertainties which could
include civil works, environment, and foreign exchange movement (para
5.01(g)).
C. Eligibility Criteria
3.04     The institutional framework for review, approval and financing PS
subproject involves two sequential processes: the review of PS proposals by
GOP and the issuance of an LOI, and the appraisal of subprojects by the
Fund. Criteria are needed to determine whether PS investments are eligible
for consideration first by GOP then by the Fund.The brochure to be issued by
GOP would outline the policy framework, and the guidelines for the
preparation, and the criteria for review and evaluation of PS proposals. The
Fund would also issue guidelines outlining the procedures for appraisal and
supervision of  PS subprojects.   All  PS investments would be screened to
ensure that they a.a consistent with national priorities.
Eligibility Criteria for Consideration of PS Proposals by GOP
3.05     The eligibility criteria fcr consideration of PS proposals by GOP
are: (a) integrability; (b) competitiveness; and (c) viability.
(a)  Integrability:   Public  and private sector investments should
form an integral part of the national least cost development
plans for the energy subsectors involved. These plans maximize
the benefits to the economy by identifying projects, their
technology, size and implementation schedules which would meet
energy  requirements  and  ensure  that  public  and  private
investments are consistent. Least cost plan should be based on
economic prices, which would eliminate distortion in the
prevailing prices attributable to factors such as price and
exchange rate controls, taxes, subsidies, etc.;
(b) Competitiveness: PS investments could be mobilized through:
(i) a general announcement which provides parameters to be
adhered to in the preparation of proposals, or (ii) proposal
from PS investors solicited through a bidding process, to
implement projects at identified sites, for which feasibility
and environmental impact studies have already been prepared by
the  Government.   PS  subprojects  should  emerge  through  a
competitive process.   Competitiveness would be ensured under
the two options by considering proposal. that offer prices
which, for electricity, would be less than the unit cost of



- 28 -
generation  that  WAPDA  would  heve  incurred,  adjusted  for
financing available to PS; for coal, is equal to or less than
the economic cost of supply (Long-Run Marginal Cost) expressed
in terms of thermal equivalency; and for gas, the cif price of
fuel oil, expressed in thermal equivalency; and
(c)  Viability:   PS proposals should be viable from the economic
point of view. Their economic rate of return should exceed the
financial rate of return, estimated between 15% and 20%, which
is considered appropriate to attract foreign investors in the
international market and correspond to the rates of return
secured by PS in Pakistan at present.  In addition, investors
should be creditworthy to undertake the investments. To ensure
commitment to subprojects, equity contribution of at least 25%
would  be  required  which  would  result  in  viable  capital
structure and an acceptable debt service coverage ratio.
(d)  Limited Recourse Financing:   PS investors should not require
direct   sovereign   guarantee   for   suppliers'   credits   and
commercial loans. Institutions providing these funds should be
prepared to assume project specific risks.   In the event of
occurrence of these risk(s), the recourse of lenders would be
limited to the provisions broadly outlined in SP.
In order to ensure that PS investments are dictated by national
priorities, GOP agreed, during negotiations, that PS subprojects financed by
the Fund: (i) would form a part of the national least cost investment plan;
(ii) would be selected only if the price offered by PS (a) for electricity,
is less than the unit cost of generation that WAPDA would have incurr0d,
adjusted for financing terms available to PS, (b) for coal, is equal to or
less than the economic cost of supply (Long-Run Marginal Cost) expressed in
terms of thermal equivalency; and (c) for gas, is below the cif price of fuel
oil,  expressed  in  thermal  equivalency;   and   (iii)  are   technically,
economically and financially viable (para 5.01(h)).
Criteria for Consideration of SubErojects by the Fund
3.06     Although GOP's review of PS proposals would generally establish the
technical, economic and financial viability of subprojects, such reviews
would be undertaken without reference to any firm financing terms and
conditions. Therefore, GOP's approval of proposals, evidenced by issuance of
LOIs, is a necessary but not a sufficient condition for advancing loans from
the Fund. The Fund would have its own guidelines for assessing the technical
and financial  viability of PS proposals.   In order for subproject to be
considered for loans from the Fund, they should meet the eligibility criteria
outlined below:
(a)  Corporate   Structure:     Subproject   companies   should   be
incorporated in Pakistan under  the Companies  Ordinance.   In
cases of joint venture with public sector agencies, at least
511 of the equity of the subproject company should be held by
PS; and
(b)  Subproject Planning and Implementation:   Subproject companies
should appoint: (i) Engineering Consultants with international
experience to prepare detailed design, bidding documents, etc.,
and supervise implementation; (ii) Financial Advisors with



- 29 -
international experience to prepare the financing package and
negotiate agreements to mobilize limited recourse financing;
and (iii) Principal Contractors with adequate experience to
take   full   responsibility   fEr   the   implementation   of
subprojects.   They  should provide  performance bonds,  of at
least 10% of the contract value and underscore their commitment
to the subprojects by taking up to 52 of the equity; and
(c)  Subproject  Financing:   Not  less  than  50%  of  the  foreign
exchange debt for the subproject shall be obtained from sources
other than the Fund, i.e., foreign commercial loans and/or
export credits.
In order to ensure that resources mobilized from PS are maximized
---s  th^t  PS  subprojects  are  implemented  to  internationally  acceptable
NDFC agreed, during negotiations,  that  all  subprojects  to be
by the Fund: (i) would be undertaken by companies incorporated
stan Companies Ordinance with at least 51% PS ownership;
ld be assisted by engineering consultants and financial advisors.
iry to the Bank, in the preparation and implementation of
.; (iii) should engage principal contractors, satisfactory to the
;he construction and commissioning of subproiects; and (iv) not less
of the foreign debt requirements shall be obtained from sources
_the Fund (para 5.02(b)).
D. Agreements to Delineate Responsibilities of Lenders, Investors and GOP
3.07     GOP, investors, lenders and creditors would need to enter into a set
of   agreements   which   would   define   their   mutual   obligations   and
responsibilities during construction and operation of the subproject.   The
scope of these agreements is detailed below:
(a) Letter of Intent (LOI): LOI would be issued following review
of proposal for investment in the energy sector and the
acceptance  by  various  government  agencies  of  the  major
technical and financial parameters and economic viability of
the proposed investment.   The LOI would provide the sponsors
the exclusive right to the project for a period to be
stipulated and GOP's concurrence to initiate the feasibility
studies, selection of contractors and sourcing of financing.
LOI would include an energy purchase price with provision for
reopeners,  outline  the  incentives,   and  price  adjustment
mecha-ism.  It will also commit the sponsors to complete the
feasibility study within a stipulated period;
(b) Implementation Agreement (IA): IA would be signed between GOP
and   investors,   following   the   acceptance   of   investors'
feasibility studies and would supersede the LOI.  IA would be
operative over the expected life of subprojects and would
define   the   investors'   and   GOP's   obligations   during
implementation   and  operation   of   the   subprojects.    The
investors' responsibilities would include financing, design,
construction, operation and maintenance of subprojects to
mutually agreed  standards  and  parameters.   GOP's  obligation
would include approvals to establish and operate subproject,
permission for foreign private investments and remittance of
foreign exchange, underwriting of energy purchase obligations



- 30 -
and risks borne by GOP, etc.  IA would alsc deltne tF-i terms
and conditions under which the subproject cot-Ld. b2 transferred
to the Government;
(c)  Energy Purchase Agreement:   EPA would be ,.i -                the
subproject companies and the energy purc!:asi.:   ;.  es, whose
obligations thereunder would be guaranteed   _Or.  "F would
define  the purchase  price of the output,  tae mec'. antsz for
annual adjustments based on indices, to be agr>ed.  .;t w.ild
also specify performance standards, level of guarante- JutpUt
which the energy purchasing entity would bdy and tte sU..projecc
companies would be obligated to deliver, perforswwce linked
rewards and penalties, arrangements and frequency of p..yments.
The arrangements for resolution of disputes regarding purchase
price and operation of the contract would also be defined;
(d)  Construction Agreement:   The Construction Agreement  would be
signed   between   the   subproject   companies   and   principal
contractor responsible for construction and commissioning of
subproject. The Construction Agreement would define the scope,
sources of supply, contract value, implementation schedule,
construction standards, penalty and bonus provisions linked
with  performance.   The  arrangements  for  the  resoluticn  of
disputes, price adjustments, if any, would also be defined in
the agreement.  The principal contractor would be required to
submit a performance guarantee to the subproject company which
may be expected to assign the benefits of such guarantees to
the lenders;
(e)  Operation and Maintenance Agreement:   In the event that the
subproject companies are not the subproject operators, they
would be required to sign agreements with entities which would
be responsible for operation and maintenance (O & M) of
subproject according to performance standards outlined in IA
and  EPA.   These  agreements  would  outline  the  role  and
resnonsibilities of the operator vis-a-vis the subproject
company.   In  order  to  ensure  that  the  operations  and
maintenance   contractor   is   capable   of   fulfilling   his
responsibilities, GOP would approve the 0 & M contractor;
(f)  Fuel Supply Agreement:  In the case of thermal power plants,
the  subproject  companies  and  the  fuel  supplier  would  be
required to enter into a long-term agreement  for supply of
fuel.  The agreement would stipulate the quality, quantity and
frequency  of  fuel  supply,  and  penalties  for  inadequate
performance.   The performance of the fuel supplier under the
terms of the fuel supply agreement would be guaranteed by the
Government; and
(g)  Other Agreements:   SP, in addition to the above, would also
include Shareholders' Agreement, Loan Agreements, and Escrow
Agreements, whose scope and content would depend upon the size
and type of the subprojects.
In order to clearly set out the mutual rights and obligations of
GOP, the investors, lenders and creditors for subprojects to be financed by
the Fund, GOP agreed, during negotiations, to (i) issue a Letter of Intent to



- 31 -
the sponsors and thereafter execute an Implementation Agreement with the
subproject company; and (ii) cause the subproiect company to enter into an
Energy Purchase Agreement, Fuel Supply Agreement, Construction Agreement,
Operation and Maintenance Agreement, and any other agreement required for the
implementation  and operation  of the subproject  (para 5.01(i)).   GOP also
agreed to guarantee the Energy Purchase Agreement and the Fuel Supply
Agreement and ensure that the above agreements are satisfactory to the Bank
(para 5.01(j)).
E. Provisions to Minimize the Risks of Limited Recourse Financing
3.08     Implementation.    The   principal   source   of   risk   during   the
implementation stage is delay in project completion. Delays in subproject
completion would involve: risk to the lenders in that their debt would not be
serviced; risk to the investors by foregoing the return; and risk to the
Government in that the supply of energy would not materialize.  Delays in
subproject implementation could take place because of:
(a)  Force Maieure:  In the case of delay in subproject completion
or suspension of operation from causes beyond the control of
the subproject company, the investors would only be protected
to the extent of the insurance coverage obtained by the
subproject companies and, on a case-to-case basis, agree to
assume  the  risk.   The  Government  would  provide  financing
through the Fund to complete the subprojects, provided that its
completion  remains  technically  and  financially  viable,  and
covers  debt  servicing  to  the  lenders  and  thereby  ensure
continued debt servicing.  GOP agreed, during negotiations, to
extend, in the event of delay in completion of construction or
suspension of operation on account of causes beyond the control
of subproject company, loans from the Fund on terms and
conditions,  satisfactory  to  the  Bank,  to  the  subprojects
companies to meet their debt service obligations without
affecting the provisions agreed under the IA and EPA; (para
5.01(k)); and
(b)  Failure by the Principal Contractor:   In the cases of delay
attributable to failure of principal contractors or any
subcontractor, the Company wauld have recourse to the principal
contractors' performance guarantee. If this is not adequate to
cover debt service, the Company may need to seek a rescheduling
by the lenders. In case of protracted delay in implementation,
the lender may be expected to have a first call on the turnkey
contractor's performance guarantee and ultimately would have
recourse to the project assets.  In addition, the Government
would be compensated for the loss of energy by exercising their
right  to  encash  the  performance  guarantee  given  by  the
subproject  companies.   GOP  agreed, diring  negotiations,  to
require all PS investors in subprojects, to be financed by the
Fund to: (i) if required, assign to the lenders/creditors the
performance guarantee furnished to PS subproiect company by the
main   contractor   responsible   for   implementation   of   the
subproject to which such lenders and creditors could have
recourse in the event of delay in the implementation of the
subproiect; and (ii) provide for the PS subProjects' lenders
and creditors to have recourse to the project assets (Para
5.01(1)).



- 32 -
3.09     Operations.   Once  the  subprojects  are  completed,  the  principal
source of risk involves the loss of revenue on account of the following two
reasons:
(a)  Performance  Shortfall:   Shortfall  in  performance  could  be
either on  account  of  less  than  guaranteed  offtake  by  the
purchasers, or failure by the 0 & M contractor to perform. In
the first case, there would be no shortfall in revenue as the
subproject would be fully compensated under the take-or-pay
arrangements in the EPA. The performance guarantee provided by
the operating companies may be assigned to the lenders.  In
case of shortfall on account of failure in performance of the 0
& M contractor, there may, be inadequate revenue to meet debt
service and, thereafter, other obligations. To provide lenders
with a cushion, an escrow account would be maintained (para
3.10(b)).   GOP  agreed,  during  negotiations,  to  require PS
subprojects   financed  by  the  Fund,  to  assign  to  their
lenders/creditors the performance guarantee furnished to the
subproiect   companies   by   the   operator,   to  which   such
lenders/creditors will have recourse, in the event of shortfall
in the performance (para 5.01(m)); and
(b)  Default   by   the   Energy   Purchasing   Entity:    Under   the
institutional arrangement proposed by GOP for the operation of
PS, the energy purchasing ertities are expected to be partly or
wholly owned by the Government. Where the purchasing entity is
a government-controlled body, the Government would be the
guarantor of the energy purchasing agreements (Para 3.07).
3.10     Additional Provisions.   In addition to the above provisions, there
is a need for additional provisions to cover cost overruns and to establish a
Debt Service Reserve Escrow Account which would enhance SP to provide
incentives for lenders and investors to consider limited recourse financing.
(a)  Failure by Contractors:  In order to provide for contingencies
arising during project construction, a standby facility would
be arranged.  Similarly, the investors could also be requi:ed
to provide an undertaking to furnish additional equity to
finance  cost  overruns.   The  additional  financing  would  be
capitalized based on the arrangements agreed in IA, i.e.
provisions regarding cost escalations. The Fund would earmark
a portion of its resources to support the standby facility.
The subproject companies would be required to pay a commitment
charge for the standby facility. The modalities of utilization
and servicing the facility would be detailed in the procedures
for the Fund to be prepared by the consultants.  GOP agreed,
during negotiations, to provide up to 75% of the additional
financing needs arising from an increase in the agreed project
costs, through loans from the Fund, subject to at least 25% of
the additional financing being funded by investors equity and
without affecting the provisions agreed under the IA and EPA
(Para 5.01(n)); and
(b) Debt Service Reserve Escrow A'2ount: As part of the security
to the lenders, a Debt Service Reserve Escrow Account, holding
the ensuing six months' debt service requirement, would be



- 33 -
established by the subproject companies to coincide with the
commissioning of the  subproject.   If  the escrow account  is
depleted, the subproject companies would be required to
replenish the escrow account from future earnings. GOP agreed.
during negotiations, to cause the subproiect companies to
establish at the time of the commissioning of PS subproiects a
debt service escrow account which would at all times hold
sufficient funds to meet six months debt service requirements
(para 5.02(o)); and
(c)  Debt Seniority:  The Fund would be created in order tc provide
financing for PS subprojects that would serve as a catalyst in
attracting investors equity and commercial  loans.   The terms
for lending from the Fund call for an eight-year grace period,
which has been set long enough to allow for the repayment of
most  of  the  commercial  loans  and  suppliers  credits.   This
implies that commercial loans would be senior in repayment to
the loans provided by the Fund. The Fund would, however, be
pari passu with commercial lenders in liquidation. In order to
formalize this arrangement and provide comfort to the lenders,
GOP agreed, during negotiations, to enter into arrangements
under which the commercial loans and/or export credits obtained
for the purposes of the subproject company shall have priority
over the financing obtained from the Fund for zuch purposes in
the allocation and distribution of funds available with the
subproject  company  for  repayment   ,Para  5.01(p)).   Export
credits and commercial loans will be treated pari passu.
P. The Role of the Bank Group
The Bank
3.11     The Bank's involvement in the formulation of the SP as well as the
implementation of its provisions would provide comfort to the lenders and
investors in considering limited recourse financing.  The role of the Bank
follows the cycle of project development from inception to operation.  The
functions through each stage is discussed in detail below.
(a)  Framework for the operation of PS:  The Bank has taken the lead
in the formulation of the institutional framework for the
solicitation, review and approval of PS proposals by the
Government, and the appraisal and finance of subprojects, and
the supervision of their implementation.  The framework would
involve the strengthening of existing institutions through the
appointment of qualified staff, their training and their
support  by  internationally  experienced  consultants.    The
creation and staffing of the Fund and its design as a
self-contained institution capable of appraising subprojects
and monitoring their implementation, supported by retained
long-term   engineering   and   financial   consultants   with
international experience. The Bank would monitor the process of
review of proposals prior to the submission of recommendations
to the ECC and the issuance of LOI. This would be undertaken
through the process of supervision for the duration of the
project implementation expected to be about six years.



- 34 -
(b)  Appraisal  and  Finance  of Subproiect by the Fund:   The Fund
would be created and staffed in a manner satisfactory to the
Bank. The guidelines for the operation of the Fund would be
prepared by consultants acceptable to the Bank.  The timetable
for the implementation of the procedures for the appraisal and
finance  of  subprojects  would  be  monitored  by  the  Bank.
Moreover, the long-term consultants to assist the Fund in the
appraisal and tho supervision of projects would be appointed in
accordance with terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
Prior to the approval of subprojects for financing by the Fund
the Bank would review the appraisal report and the basis on
which a decision was made by the Fund to assist a subproject.
(c)  Supervision  of  Subproject  Implementation:   The  consultants
appoiuted to assist the Fund in the supervision of subproject
implementation would provide a quarterly report of their
findings and recommendations to the Bank. In the course of its
supervision of the proposed Project, Bank staff would review
the  operations  of  the  Fund  and  the  status  of  project
implementation, including disbursement, procurement, etc.
3.12     The  Bank,  in accordance  with CMU, would  coordinate  all  of  the
activities relating to the supervision of the implementation of the proposed
Project, including the status of approval of proposals by GOP, appraisal of
PS projects,  and  their implementation.   The modalities  for reporting and
clearances would be defined in CMU. The cost of undertaking this work would
be supported through resources provided by the cofinanciers.
3.13     IFC has worked closely with the Bank team in the overall appraisal
and design of the proposed fund and stands ready to assist, on a case-by-case
basis, individual subprojects as both a financial advisor and an at risk
investor.  Indeed, IFC is already closely involved with several of the more
advanced subprojects  sunmarized in para 2.08 and has met with many other
potential  sponsor  groups.   IFC,  with  its  wide  experience  of  successful
investments in LDC private sector enterprises and the knowledge of what is
required to make ventures of this size and type commercially attractive to
equity investors and lenders, has three potential roles:
(a)  Financial/Commercial  Advisor:   The negotiation of a bankable
implementation agreement, power purchase agreement, turnkey
construction contract and operating/maintenance contract are
essential prerequisites to investors'  confidence.   While some
project sponsors have already retained financial adviL.%s, IFC
stands  ready,  where  desired,  to  assist  sponsors  in  the
negotiation  of  these  essential  contracts.   With its special
relationship with GOP, its commercial/financial expertise and
its ability to be an at risk investor, IFC is uniquely placed
to play an essential role in negotiating an equitable and
commercially sound project package which can attract the
necessary risk and debt finance. Given the large investment in
time to ensure subprojects of the magnitude envisaged are
bankable, IFC would need to be compensated in its role as a
financial advisor.  Such compensation would be negotiated with
individual subproject sponsors on a case-by-case basis.
(b) Equity Investor: IFC has indicated its willingness to consider
equity investments in the subprojects expected to benefit from
the Fund.



- 35 -
(c)  Debt Finance:  Equity, together with funds available from the
Fund, are expected to account for 551 of individual subproject
cost, leaving 45% to be debt funded on a project risk basis.
In cases where IFC is desired as a financial advisor, IFC would
be prepared to work with the subproject sponsors to approach
international lenders and export credit agencies for financing
without a government guarantee. In order to marshall the very
large local debt finance requirement associated with this
program, IFC would also be prepared to work on behalf of the
sponsors with the local DFIs and local branches of foreign
banks to raise the Rupee finance. Additionally, IFC would be
willing to consider loans for its own account and arrange,
through international syndication, foreign commerciai loans.
IV. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION
A. Rationale for Bank Involvement
4.01     The Bank has played a major role in assisting GOP to create an
institutional framework which will facilitate the participation of PS in
energy development on a hitherto unprecedented scale.  PS participation on
the scale envisaged could not have been contemplated without such a
framework, which resulted from the Bank's strong catalytic role in bringing
together  the  i-nvestors/lenders,  suppliers,  cofinanciers,  and  GOP.   In
particular, the creation of a Fund within NDFC would not only serve as a
vehicle for mobilizing resources from bilateral cofinanciers and the Bank,
but for channeling funds to viable enterprises on a basis which will generate
resources from the PS (equity, foreign commercial loans, suppliers' credits)
on a scale which will substantially exceed the Fund's own contribution.
4.02     While  the  institutional  framework noted  above  serves as  a good
foundation for the proposed Project, there is a continuing role for the Bank
during its implementation. All cofinanciers will rely, wholly or in part, on
the Bank in ensuring that the preparation of guidelines for PS participation,
the recruitment and appointment of consultants, the selection of subprojects,
the adoption of appropriate safeguards with regard to environmental and
settlement matters would not only meet high technical standards but would be
fully  consistent with  the Bank's  guidelines.   Moreover,  the  Bank  would
coordinate on behalf of all the cofinanciers the requirements concerning
procurement, disbursements and reporting.
B. Benefits
4.03     The  proposed  Project  would   assist   GOP   in  attracting   the
participation of PS in the development of energy.  It would facilitate the
achievement of the objectives of the Seventh Plan, and create the framework
and procedures during the Seventh Plan that could lead to an even bigger PS
participation  during  the  Eighth  Plan.   By  introducing  fluidized  bed
combustion technology for using low-quality domestic coal in power generation
and state-of-the-art coal mining and oil/gas production techniques, the
proposed Project would assist in overcoming the technolrgical barriers to
energy development currently being experienced by the public sector agencies.
4.04     The proposed Project would also introduce the concept of limited
recourse financing in Pakistan which could be applied to other sectors,



- 36 -
particularly  industry and  transport.   The  Fund  to be  created under  the
proposed Project would mobilize resources for the future development of t4e
energy sector by recycling the revenues attributable to the interest rate
spreads. These funds could be leveraged to mobilize additional resources for
financing future PS energy subprojects through the Fund, if the proposed
study for assessing the future structure for the Fund recommends its
evolution into a separate energy development finance institution.
C. Risks
4.05     One of the risks associated with the proposed Project relates to the
fact that the pipeline of subprojects may not be built up to fully utilize
the loans and grants made to GOP to finance the Fund.  The subprojects for
which letters of intent have already been issued, namely, Hawker Siddeley and
Habibullah/Siemens, whose total amount to US$1,000 million, representing 50%
of the overall cost of the proposed Project would utilize about US$300 million
from the Fund. Moreover, considering the very detailed preparation of the
Pyropower, INTRAG and Hub Chowki subprojects, which have been submitted to GOP
for approval, another US$115 million could be committed to these.  There are
other proposals under preparation whose total cost is estimated to amount to
US$600 million, and which would be seeking approximately US$200 in loans from
the Fund. As a result, approximately US$415 of the Fund's resources of US$520
million are likely to be utilized.  The above subproject pipeline has been
built up prior to the establishment of the Fund, and a further subproject
pipeline is expected to be built up after the Fund's establishment.
4.06.    The subprojects, presently being considered by GOP (para 2.08), are
expected to require a total of about US$700 million equivalent in local
financing. This would amount to about US$130 million per year during the
first three years, tapering down to US$100 million equivalent per year during
the remaining three years of the implementation period for the proposed
Project.   A  second risk is that the projected participation by the local
financial institutions, other than the Fund, may not be sufficient to mobilize
the very large amounts of local financing involved in view of the credit
limits  set  by  GOP.   Alternatively,  the  project-related  investments  may
pre-empt a large share of the investible local resources that the non-energy
sectors  might  become  severely  constrained.   In  anticipation  of  these
possibilities, GOP has allowed for expansion in the credit under the Seventh
Plan to accommodate the incremental financing needs of PS subprojects in
energy.   Moreover,  in order  to guard against  overburdening  the financing
capabilities of the Pakistani institutions, PS investors are required to
provide an undertaking that gaps in local financing would, if necessary, be
covered by funds from outside Pakistan to ensure timely implementation of
subprojects. At a later date to be decided by the financial advisors of the
investors, the Fund and NDFC, the foreign financing of local funds could be
replaced with loans or equity from Pakistani financial institutions.  These
measures would minimize the risk of non-availability of funds to finance local
costs of subprojects.
4.07     A third risk associated with the project pertains to the possible
failure of PS companies to generate  the  revenue  required  to cover  their
financial commitments.  Revenue generation is a function of the agreed price
and the quantity to be delivered to energy purchasing agencies. The price for
sale of energy is stipulated in EPAs, which are structured to cover operating
costs, debt service and provide returns. Automatic adjustment mechanisms would
be introduced in these agreements to ensure that investors are compensated for
changes in the costs of their inputs, including the erosion in the value of



- 37 -
the rupee relative to foreign currencies.   Energy sales by PS enterprises
would be carried out under a letter of credit to ensure that payments would be
made in a timely fashion. As for the willingness of agencies to purchase the
quantities stipulated in EPAs, the likelihood of a failure in compliance with
this agreement is fairly minimal in that the investment undertaken by PS are
complements rather than substitutes for public sector investments, and also
that there is a substantial unsatisfied demand for energy. In addition, the
EPAs are designed to allow for a delivery of specified quantities of energy
for which GOP would guarantee purchase irrespective of whether the energy is
taken or not under a take-or-pay arrangement. These provisions would minimize
the possibility that the revenues associated with the operation of PS
subprojects would not materialize.
V. SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
5.01     During negotiations, GOP agreed to:
(a)  appoint, no later than December 31, 1988, consultants,  under
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, to assist PPC and
CMC in the review and evaluation of private sector proposals,
negotiation of Implementation Agreements and other agreements
under the Security Package, and training of their staff (para
2.13);
(b)  cause WAPDA to appoint, by December 31, 1988, consultants under
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, to assist and
train the WPPC staff in reviewing, negotiating and administering
all aspects of Power Purchase Agreements (para 2.15);
(c)  recruit, by October 31, 1989, consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms of reference are satisfactory to the Bank
to undertake a study to assess the merit of establishing the
Fund as an autonomois finance institution; and to review, with
the Bank, by March 31, 1990, the recommendations of the study
and agree on a timet;able for the implementation of the agreed
recommendations (para 2.16);
(d)  review with the Bank, by April 30 of each year, beginning with
1989, the Fund's onlending interest rate for new loans, with a
view to ensuring that the rate remains positive in real terms
and, when appropriate, revise the interest rate starting July
1st of the same year (para 2.21);
(e)  confirm that subprojects approved for loans by the Fund would
include  provisions  requiring  compliance  with  environmental
guidelines and resettlement requirements, satisfactory to the
Bank (para 2.30); and
(f)  furnish to the Bank and the other cofinanciers of the Fund
(i) quarterly progress reports in a format satisfactory to the
Bank; (ii) annual financial statements audited by an independent
auditor acceptable to the Bank, no later than six months after
the end of each financial year; and (iii) within six months of
the completion of the proposed Project, a Project Completion
Report in a format acceptable to the Bank (para 2.31).



- 38 -
(g)  (i) determine the price of energy produced by PS, taking into
account a reasonable real return on equity investment,  net of
income tax; (ii) permit repatriation of profits and debt service
under arrangements with the State Bank of Pakistan; (iii) allow
tbe revision of energy purchase prices in accordance with agreed
indices to reflect changes in the prices of input and exchange
rate movements; and (iv) allow price reopeners in areas where
there  are  uncertainties  which  would  include  civil  works,
environment, and foreign exchange movement (para 3.03);
(h) ensure that PS subprojects financed by the Fund: (i) would form
a part of the national least cost investment plan; (ii) would be
selected only if the price offered by PS (a) for electricity, is
less than the unit cost of generation that WAPDA would have
incurred adjusted for financing terms available to PS, (b) for
coal, is equal to or less than the economic cost of supply
(Long-Run  Marginal  Cost)  expressed  in  terms  of  thermal
equivalency, and (c) for gas, is below the cif price of fuel oil
expressed in thermal equivalence; and (iii) are technically,
economically and financially viable (para 3.05);
(i) (i) issue a Letter of Intent to the sponsors and thereafter
execute an Implementation Agreement with the subproject company;
and (ii) cause the subproject company to ente-: into an Energy
Purchase   Agreement,   Fuel   Supply   Agreemeat,   Construction
Agreement,  Operations  Agreement,  and  any  other  agreement
required for the implementation and operation of the subproject
(para 3.07);
(j) guarantee the Energy Purchase Agreement and the Fuel Supply
Agreement and ensure that the above agreements are satisfactory
to the Bank (para 3.07);
(k) extend, in the event of delay in completion of construction or
suspension of operation on account of causes beyond the control
of subproject company, loans from the Fund on terms and
conditions,   satisfactory  to  the  Bank,  to  the  subproject
companies to meet their debt service obligations without
affecting the provisions agreed under IA and EPA (para 3.OL(a));
(1) require all PS investors in subprojects, to be financed by the
Fund to: (i) if required, assign to their lenders/creditors the
performance guarantee furnished to PS subproject company by the
main contractor responsible for implementation of the subproject
to which such lenders and creditors would have recourse in the
event of delay in the implementation of the subproject; and
(ii) provide for the PS subproject's lenders and creditors to
have recourse to the project assets, in the event of delay in
the implementation of the subproject (para 3.08(b));
(m) require PS subprojects financed by the Fund, to assign to their
lenders/creditors the performance guarantee furnished to the
subproject   companies   by   the   operator,   to   which   such
lenders/creditors will have recourse in the event of short fall
in the performance (para 3.09(a));



- 39 -
(n)  provide up to 75% of the additional financing needs arising from
an increase in the agreed project cost through loans from the
Fund, subject to at least 252 of the additional financing being
funded by investors equity and without affecting the provisions
agreed on the IA and EPA (para 3.10 (a));
(o) cause the subproject companies to establish at the time of the
commissioning of PS su.ibprojects a debt service escrow account
which would at all times hold sufficient funds to meet six
months debt service requirements (para 3.10(b)); and
(p) enter into arrangements under which the commercial loans and/or
export credits obtained for the purposes of the subproject
company shall have priority over the financing obtained from the
Fund for such purposes in the allocation and distribution of
funds available with the subproject company for repayment (para
3.10(c)).
5.02     During negotiations, NDFC agreed to:
(a) ensure that all loans to subprojects costing more than US$30
million would be subject to prior review and approval by the
Bank (para 2.24); and
(b) ensure that all subprojects to be financed by the Fund:
(i) would be undertaken by companies incorporated under Pakistan
Companies Ordinance with at least 51% PS ownership, (ii) should
be assisted by engineering consultants and financial advisors,
satisfactory to the Bank, in the preparation and implementation
of  subproject,  (iii)  should  engage  principal  contractors,
satisfactory to the Bank, in the construction and commissioning
of subprojects; (iv) not less than 50% of the foreign debt
requirements shall be obtained from sources other than the Fund
(para 3.06).
5.03     The following will be conditions of loan effectiveness:
(a) the preparation of a brochure, satisfactory to the Bank,
detailing  the  guidelines  for  the  preparation,  review  and
evaluation of PS proposals (para 2.11);
(b) the establishment and staffing, satisfactory to the Bank, of a
Private Power Cell in Ministry of Water and Power, and a Coal
Mining Cell in Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Resources to
strengthen the institutional capabilities for mobilizing PS
investments (para 2.12);
(c) GOP's causing WAPDA to establish and staff, satisfactory to the
Bank, a private power cell in the Authority (para 2.14);
(d) the establishment and staffing of the Fund, and the execution of
an Administration Agreement between GOP and NDFC, to the
satisfaction of the Bankc (para 2.17);
(e) the furnishing for approval, to the Bank, of the guidelines for
the operation of the Fund, including guidelines for appraisal,
approval and supervision of subprojects (para 2.18);



- 40 -
(f) the fulfillment of all conditions precedent to the effectiveness
of the Cofinancing Agreements providing for cofinancing funds in
an aggregate amount equivalent to about US$150 million in
addition to the proposed Bank loan (para 2.19); and
(g) the appointment of technical consultants and financial firms,
under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, to assist
the Fund in appraisal and supervision of subprojects (para 2.25).
Recommendation
5.04     Subject to the above conditions, the Project is suitable for a Bank
loan of US$150.0 million equivalent.



PAKISTAN
PRIVATE SECTOR ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Organization Chart
I ECII                              EI Il      l  ZP
(Hgh w  GA'WV                               &                             (poactppd    d   __Q
pdY brmowkn co                 of c                                       M%e OMd b  -D___
dcdby rAtUd                    d ed bx FhW*erd                            nt Polavtg canrvS &
RlorM& F        &              m:e& pbr)                                  EQIEC d*d bV MPt
~~~~~~~~~~~Mht 1 V d                            b               ln9MWwdaMbsb 
IZTTZ1 h|I                              M yI __    j  p
*     Pyo~~~jctIm  ~Pwer             Mi                   Scienay            Pl;oIv*Co&I
.   .    .              .      | 1  .ss    i              ;71    1                                      _ L 7 1TecNoQyc 
n~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Fm Gwm io                                                               Gl "' -   N at )( 
a                       I                               I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~&fwrc)a"&apa
a               t                      I                                        a .,                             a I  I~~l           C_               &
I                                I             a                g               I              a                 a                 RaKE
OGDC             Fl             SN          (Dewm  atDC                           C             WA                P£C                AMO
PORLA                           SCC              F              GSP              N              ICI
WPL              PARCO          SSC                                             .Nt
Fu(MAt)          P5o            &lWE cE          aNon&                                                                                                                            *
UNON             PBS           FAUJ         hfl      d t N0
OaY              clx            FSO        tdowwo                                                                                                                                 i
LO'
NEC-NotIon        d 8gyPcvyCoa            OIY - OC=bft0 Ca 0dUSA               --t1101V of &51h & SWB 0
- &yAm4 sWWQGUIXp                    PMDC- Poldatanw   DevebpmunCapaInon       PERWC- S9tpetPolsmb Ruti*g&ociw.0Corp.
6C- CCb-*:rEOwMv CoaMnaf a CoamWt         GSP - Ggco 9 0 IVd                         ML - Nofi Ralney Ltd
OEiC  - bMc    watee0d theN9IW              PRL -  P<oWt Re&yV Ld                       .-to  PeNti- aLd (fr pw v       oao")
Economi Counca                       ARL - Ana Reiil Ltd                    WADA- W& Po DmOxnmntA;1hoft
CCWP - Cen"d De-eodmx WO.k  rof          PA MCO   *-  m Rela*V Cca                  IEC - KOOli Bect &q* Ca,=hm
OSDC - 00 & Gas D&ogVmg,tCaporatla         PSO - Pdmn  fta tn Ca Ltd                 PAEC - Pdan Atomic BvwgComntion
POL - Pdhm O01id Ltd                      PBS - PdaW  Sjt..h Shu                   AMDO - AO-pdat TectOog Develert Ogonlon
P;L - Pdsn Pelrolmn Ltd                  CIX - Catex d USA L61'LA  - taW PAv*g & D&MOOPTWO
FALW -  4 Fo u  9oGR - SL Nwthum Gam Piperne Ltd,                                  Nd  - &nwWy Coarmyoon C4r
UN1M - Ur_*n Tom Ca d LSA                  STC - S9l Gas Tr wd Co Ld
9SC - So~  GosCa  8n8



- 42-                       AM   2. 1
Page 1 of 4
PAKISTAN
PBIVATE SECTOR ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SubDrolects Under Consideration
1.       GOP  has  so far issued letters of  intent to  four  investors  for
subprojects, which form a part of the least cost development plan and fulfill
the eligibility criteria for PS investments. These proposals are expected to
add about 1450 MW of installed capaclty, of the 2,300 MW expected to be
provided by PS during the Seventh Plan. In addition, three proposals that
would provide  another 212 MW are  presently  under  review.   Some  of  the
subprojects presently under consideration would, in addition to augmenting the
installed capacity, introduce Fluidized Bed Combustion technology in Pakistan,
which would enable the use of domestic coal for power generation. A proposal
for the development of coal mining at Lakhra for the production of about 1.2
million tons is also currently under preparation. The proposals submitted to
GOP and at an advanced stage of formulation, are listed in Table 1.0. The
scope and status of each subproject is discussed below.
Table 1.Q:
Status of SubDrolects
Suboro-iect           Calacit    Project costl/    Preseat Status
(US$ million)
1.  Habibullah Mines Ltd      130 MW     158          LOI issued in August 1987
2.  Hab River Power Project 1200 MW      840          Two LOIs for 600 MW each,
issued in April 1988
3.  Bab Chowki Diesel         120 MW      70          LOI issued in May 1988
4.  Pakland Energy Phase I   132 MW      165           Proposal submitted in
March 1988
5.  INTRAG                     80 MW     113          Proposal submitted in
April 1988
6.  Deutsch Babcock           160 MW     207 2V       Proposal under preparation
7.  Hydro Station             140 MW     210 2V        Proposal under preparation
8.  Lakhra Coal               1.2 MT/    180 21        Proposal under preparation
annum
9.  Hadson Corporation        120 MW     145 2!        Proposal under preparation
1/ Includes IDC.
2! Preliminary estimates.



- 43 -                    AMiEX 2.1
Page 2 of 4
Habibullah Mines Ltd
2.       The  subproject,  submitted  to GOP  by  a  consortium  comprised  of
Habibullah Mines Ltd (Pakistan) and Siemens AG (West Germany) in June 1987,
would involve the development of a 100 MW coal fired steam station at Lakhra
in Sind Province and a 30 KW steam station at Quetta in Baluchistan. The
proposed plant at Lakhra would comprise two Fluidized Bed Boilers with
matching steam turbine generators rated at 50 MW. The power would be supplied
to WAPDA at 132-kV. The coal requirement of about 0.5 MT would be supplied
from the coal mines owned by Habibullah Mines Ltd. The two 15 MW units at
Quetta would be conventional coal fired units. The coal requirement of about
0.1 MT for the plant would be also supplied by coal mines owned by Habibullah
Mines in Baluchistan. The first unit at each of the power stations would be
commissioned in mid-1991. The estimated cost of subproject, expressed in 1987
prices, is US$158 million.
Hab River Power Comnlex
3.       A joint proposal by XENEL Industries Limited, Saudi Arabia and Hawker
Siddeley Power Engineering, Ur., was submitted to GOP in December 1987. A
letter of intent was issued in April 1988.  The proposed subproject would
involve the development of a 1200 MW oil fired steam power plant located in
Baluchistan province, about 4 kas south of Khalifa Point at the northern shore
of the mouth of Hab River.  The proposed site comprises of sandy ground
adjacent to the shore line and is uninhabited. A preliminary environmental
impact screening study for the project has been completed and no environmental
problems are anticipated. The access to the plant site will be through a 25
km road to be constructed from the city of Hab Chowki and would be used to
transport personnel and material to the project site. The heavy construction
equipment and fuel oil supply to the plant will be through barges. These will
be unloaded at the jetty proposed to be constructed at the mouth of the river.
4.       The power plant will comprise of four oil fired units of 300 MW each
along with associated mechanical and electrical facilities. The units would
be drum type steam boiler units, with superheater and reheater steam sections
operating in unison with four tandem compound turbine generator units. The
turbines will exhaust into condensers with once through cooling system using
sea water drawn though an intake channel from the Arabian sea. The hot water
will be discharged into a basin in the Hab river which will also be used for
unloading oil. A seaside breakwater structure will be constructed to protect
the barges during high seas and to guide the cooling water from the basin into
the sea. The power plant will operate on heavy fuel oil containing about 3.5X
sulphur. The oil is proposed to be supplied through barges by Pakistan State
Oil. The plant will seud out 1200 MW at 220 kV/500 kV and is proposed to be
connected to the grid substation at Jamshoro and Karachi. The plant design
will be such as to ensure compliance with Bank's environmental guidelines.
5.       The feasibility study for the proposed project is expected to be
submitted by October 1988, and would include details of project design, basis
of   system   selection,   specification   of   equipment,   cost   estimates,
implementation arrangements, financing plan, price, draft agreements for
supply of fuels and services, draft power purchase agreement, environmental
impact assessment study, details of other elements forming the security
package, etc. During this period, the investors will also select consultants
for detailed engineering, contractors for project construction, and finalize
operation and maintenance arrangements. The project will be implemented by a
tr'-  nV 4r'nrnnrnt.d 4n Pm''48stsk. The schedule envisages the commissioning



- 44 -                   ANNEX 2.1
Page 3 of 4
of the first unit within 36 months of financial closing i.e. October 1991.
The subsequent units would be commissioned at an interval of two months each,
thereafter. The estimated cost of the subproject expressed in September 1987
prices, is US$840 million.
Pakland Energv Phase I
6.       A  proposal  by  a  consortium  comprising  of  Pakland  Energy  Ltd.
(Pakistan), Pyropower Corporation (USA), and Bechtel Inc. (USA) has been
submitted to GOP . The proposed subproject involves the development of a 132
MW generating station with possible expansion to 264 MW. The plant site is
located near Petaro, 18 kms from the city of Hyderabad in Sind Province of
Pakistan. Land for the plant is owne4 by Pakland Energy Ltd and is in close
proximity of the coal mines and limestone quarry. The plant would comprise of
three Ahlstrom Pyroflow Circulating Fluidized Bed (CFB) boilers with a
superheater outlet rating of 190 tons steam flow at 1500 psig, 955∞F steam
temperature, three condensing type steam turbines with generators, each
producing a net output of 44 KW.  The boiler would use limestone as the
fluidizing medium with bag filters removing the fly ash from the boiler
effluent. The fuel is indigenous low grade Lakhra coal with a 5750 Btu/lb
heating value, 19.5X ash, 32% moisture and 5.2X sulphur. Average fuel burn at
full ratings is 29.5 tons/hr. Heavy fuel will be used for startup and as
supplemental fuel for up to 30X load. The coal requirement of 0.70 MT/annum
for the power plant would be supplied from four privately owned mines located
in   the   Lakhra   area.    The   coal   would   be   transported   from   the
Jamshoro-Khanot-Lakhra road by, dump trucks.   The  limestone requirement  of
about 0.3 million tons would be supplied from the Pakland mining leases which
are located within a radius of about 3 kma from the power plant. The ash from
the plant will be transported to the abandoned limestone quarry sites. The
cooling water system proposed is a closed circuit system using cooling tower.
Water for the plant will be pumped from Indus river located at about 6.5 kms.
A single circuit 132-kV transmission line would connect the plant  to the
grid. The first 44 MW units is planned for commissioning within twenty-eight
months of financial closing and the other two units at an interval of two
months thereafter.  The estimated cost of the aubproject, expressed in 1987
prices, is US$165 million.
Diesel Station at Rab Chowki
7.       Proposals for installation of diesel power plant of 120 NW at Hab
Chowki in Baluchistan were invited by KESC.  The proposal of Fecto, which was
ranked the best by the consultants is being currently reviewed by GOP. The
plant, which would comprise six diesel engines of 20 MW each, would operate on
furnace oil and sell power to WAPDA at 132 kV.  Part of the 25% equity
contributed by the investors is expected from Sulzer, Switzerland. The plant
is expected to be commissioned two years after the signing of the
Implementation Agreement. The estimated cost of the subproject, expressed in
September 1987 prices, is US$70 million.
80 MW Coal-Fired Plant by INTBAG
8. The proposed subproject includes the development of a 80 MW coal-fired
steam station and associated facilities located at Kallar Kahar in Punjab. A



45 -ANNE  2.1
Page 4 of 4
proposal by  Inter Redec Group of Pakistan and INTRAG,  Inc.  of USA  was
submitted to GOP on April 5, 1988.  The power plant would consist of a one
unit of 80 MW using circulating fluidized bed boiler suitable for domestic
coal.  Coal requirements estimated at 0.4 million tons/annum would be met from
operating coal mines within 50 kms of the plant, in the Makarwal coal fields
of  Salt  Range.  The coal to the plant would be  transported by  trucks.
Limestone  requirement of 0.06% MT/annum would be met from  the  limestone
quarries located within 50 km of the plant.  The investors are also explorzng
the possibility of obtaining leases of lime mines from GOP. The plant would
consist of single fluidized bed boiler, non reheat condensing turbine with an
air cooled generator capable of delivering 80 MW.  Closed circuit cooling
using mechanical draft cooling towers would be used. The unit is expected to
be commissioned in January 1992 within 30 months of financial closing. The
estimated cost of the subproject, expressed in January 1988 prices, is US$113
million.
Proposals under Preparation
9.       Four proposals, three for installation of power plants and one for
the development of the Lakhra coal mine are presently under formulation and
are expected to be submitted to GOP shortly. A proposal for installation of
two units of 80 MW each is being prepared by Deutsch Babcock of West Germany.
These proposals would be based on fluidized bed technology and would use coal
from the private mines at Lakhra. A proposal for installation of two 60 MW
units is being prepared by Hadson Corporation of USA, in joint venture with
Haideria Minerals Ltd., of Pakistan. The generating units would be based on
circulating fluidized bed technology and would use coal from mines located in
Chakwal district in Punjab Province. A foreign investor group has also shown
interest in developing a 140 MW hydro site. Kumagai-Gumi of Japan and Davy
McKee of UK are presently preparing a proposal for the development of Lakhra
mine using a mechanized system of multiseam underground mining for initial
annual input of 1.2 MT. The first stage of the mine development is expected
to take about two years after financial closing.



- 46 -
APNEX 2. 2
PAKISTA
grivate Sector Eoeray Develonment Proigeet
Cnsulting Services and Training
Consultancy Long-term
Aaency                           Services    Advisors  Trainia
----Estimated Manmonths--
1. MS
(i) Preparation of Brochure          20)
(ii) Appraisal and evaluation           )        24          5
of subprojects                   40)
2. WAPDA
(i) Review and negotiation
of PPA                           1S        24           3
3. MPU
(i) Preparation of Brochure          15)
(it) Appraisal and evaluation           )        12          4
of subprojects                   10)
4. NDMC
(i) Preparation of guidelines
for operation of fund, and
appraisal and supervision
of subprojects                   30)
(ii) Appraisal and supervision          )        60         18
of subprojecta                  150)
(ß) Feasibility for
separation of the Fund                     -           -
290       120          30
1122Q



- 47 -
pMlSTIA                                                              AOI   2.3
PRIVATE SECTO  ENERGY BEVELON         PRI4ECT
Timetable for moleentinp Institutional Igaronement
Effectiveness
Extutigl Am9                  (Oetohr 31 19881   Dec.31                brAh1 I            JDLJ3  I      o@l2 31 I       RN  31 IM      NarchJU9M
intistry of Water & Power    Estelish PPC
and appoint
0irector General
and one Power
Engineer
Prepare              Recruit consul-
Brochure             tants to assist
in review ad
evaluation of PS
proposals and
negotiation  of IA
Ministry of Petrolew          Establish CHC
and   tural Resources        and appoint
Director
Prepare              Recruit consul-
Brochure             tants to assist
in rview  nd
evaluation of
PS proposals and
negotiations of tA
tional Development                                                   Prere the
Fnance Corporation                                                     procedures and
furnish to Bank
Recruit consul-
tants to assist
in appraisal.
procurenent
packaging and
supervision of
subprojects and
training the Fund
staff
Recruit consul-
tants in prepare-
tion of procedures
for the Fund
Water & Power Developmnt    Establish WPPC          Recruit consult-
Authority l/                and staff it with    tents to assist
Manager and on       in PPA prepration
Power Engineer       end negtiations
and train VPPC staff
Ministry of Finance           Establish and                                                            Recruit consul-                 Review recmend-
staff the Fund
and sign                                                                 tants to undertake              ations of the study
Administration                                                           a study to assess                nd agree on
Agreement with                                                           the feasibility                 timtable for
NDFC                                                                     of separating the               implmenting areed
Fund.                           recowwnation
./ Ministry of Water and Power would be the executing agency for this oeeonent.



-48 -                     ANNEX 2.4
Page 1 of 3
PAKISTAN
Private Sector Energv Development Prolect
Proposed Arrangements to Facilitate PS Investments in Rnerav
1.       The  process  for  review  and  approval  of  PS  proposals,  and  the
appraisal, finance of subproject and the supervision of their implementation
involves four phases:  Phase 1 covers the activities from the response of PS
to call for proposals or submission of unsolicited proposal to the issue of
letter of intent; Phase 2 covers the activities from issues of letter of
intent to the start of physical implementation; Phase 3 covers the
implementation stage; and Phase 4 covers the operations stage. Flow charts of
the process are presented in Attachment to this Annex.
Phase 1: Resoonse of PS to Issue of Letter of Intent
2.       Proposals from PS could be invited through a general announcement, or
a bidding process to implement projects at identified sites, for which studies
e.g feasibility, environmental impact etc., have been prepared by the
Government.  The Bank would assist GOP in identifying such sites.  Proposals
would be submitted to the responsible unit in each ministry, i.e. power
subproject proposals to PPC in MWP, oil/ges development proposals to DGPC in
MPNR and coal development proposals to CV^ in MPNR. Each proposal would be
accompanied by a non-reimbursible fee of US$20,000 equivalent and a copy would
be submitted to the Bank to review.
;.       --e6po.sible ualt'- 4ith4  thc .p.-tie mi"'istry would review each
proposal  received  in which  they would be  supported  by  consultants.   The
reviews would ensure competitiveness under the two proposed solicitation
options by considering proposals that offer prices below the avoidable cost.
The responsible unit would involve on a case to case basis, other GOP
ministries and organizations. The Ministry of Planning and Development would
review the integrability of the proposed subproject with the least cost plan
for the subsector. Ministry of Transport and Communications would review t
necessity and feasibility of any infrastructural facilities to be ma
available  to the proposed subproject.   Ministry of Petroleum  and Natur
Resources would review the arrangements for supply of fuel to thermal powv-
projects, or for evacuation of fuel produced in case of oil, gas and coal
development projects. Ministry of Flance and Economic Affairs would review
the foreign exchange requirements proposed as vell as coordinate the review of
proposals by the Fund and the Bank. The Bank would review the proposal on
behalf of all the donors and make available its comments on the proposal to
GOP. In case of power subprojects, WAPDA would review the proposals from the
points of view  of technical  feasibility  and  system  interconnection.   The
investors would be requested to provide any clarifications and be asked to
revise the proposal if necessary.
4.       After the successful conclusion of discussions with the  investors
where the queries raised by all the revievers, Including the Bank, have been
resolved, the responsible unit would prepare a brief to the ECC which includes
a draft LOI. The brief would be circulated to all the concerned ministries.
The draft LOI would be sent to the Bank for comment. The LOI would provide:



- 49 -             ~~ANNr  9 .4
4Page 2 of- 3
(a)  exclusive   rights  to  the  particular   investor   to  undertake  site
configuration; (b) adequate time as well as checks and balances such as
requiring a performance guarantee from the investors to prepare the detailed
feasibility; (c) a price to be paid for energy produced by the subproject in
constant terms, i.e., in prices prevailing at the time of issue of LOI;
(d) appropriate reopeners to revise the energy purchase price if necessary;
(e) for indices that would be applicable to periodically revise certain
aspects of the energy purchase price; and (f) an undertaking by GOP that it
would be willing to sign an IA and guarantee an EPA which includes a
guaranteed off-take level on a take-or-pay basis.  The draft LOI submitted to
ECC with the Ministry's brief would have incorporated all comments received
from the Bank, GOP's other ministries and organizations.  ECC's review could
result  in calling for revisions in the brief or in the proposal.  If the
revisions are required in the brief, the concerned ministry would revise the
brief.  If the revisions are to be made in the proposal, the investor would be
instructed accordingly. On the other hand, ECC could itself recommend certain
modifications to the brief and authorize the concerned ministry to issue the
LOI.
Phase 2: Issue of LOI to Physical Imolementation
5.            The  concerned  ministry,  MWP  in  cases  of  power  subproject
proposals, MPNR in cases of oil/gas and coal proposals, would issue the LOI.
Tne LOT would have a specific validity period e.g, nine months, from date cf
issue.   The  investor would be allowed  a specific time pariod,  e.g., six
months, to prepare a detailed feasibility study. This would allow sufficient
time e.g., three months, for review of the detailed feasibility, negotiate and
execute the agreements before the LOX eXp4res.  The investor WoUtld  e given
one month from the date of issue of LOI to accept the LOI during which time he
could seek clarifications from GOP. If the LOI is acceptable to the investor,
he;would accept the LOI and provide a performance guarantee of US$1 million to
GOP indicating his commitment to complete the detailed feasibility.
6.       The investor would incorporate a subproject company in Pakistan under
the Companies Ordinance and complete a detailed engineering with the
assistance of an internationally reputable engineering consultancy firm.
Parallely, he would couplete the financial engineering process with the help
of an internationally reputable investment banking firm, to mobilize the
necessary  limited  recourse  financing.   The  completed detailed  feasibility
would include confirmed sources of supply of equipment as well as firm
commitments of financing from commercial lenders and export credit agencies.
At the time of submisa.on of the detailed feasibility to GOP, the subproject
company would also submit a copy of the proposal to the Fund, 1/ accompanied
by an appraisal fee of 1/4X of the loan amount being requested.
1/ The investor need not necessarily approach the Fund to mobilize 30% of the
project cost. However, in view of: (i) the attractiveness of the Fund's
resources in terms of repayment period; (ii) participation by the Fund in
the subproject implies GOP's commitment to the subproject which would
greatly help mobilization of limited recourse financing; and (iii) the
Cost overrun and debt service reserve facilities offered by the Fund for
subprojects that the Fund is cofinancing, it ts expected that each
investor would approach the Fund for resources.



- 50'-                     ANNEX 2.4
Page 3 of 3
The detailed feasibility would be reviewed by GOP to ensure that the proposei
subproject is technically viable and offers the minimum price below te
avoidable "cost.  The Bank would review the detailed feasibility study.  It as
well as review the draft IAs, EPAs and other agreements as necessary and
provide its comments to GOP.  NDFC's PED would appraise the subproject on
behalf of the Fund and furnish a detailed appraisal report to the Bank
including the recommendation on the loan from the Fund for the Bank's
approval.  In case of: subprojects introducing new technology, e.g., fluidized
bed combustion plants, and large scale projects, the Bank would appraise the
project with NDFC.   Subject to successful completion of the review of the
detailed feasibility by GOP, NDFC's Board, acting on behalf of the Fund, would
approve the loan to the subproject. The subproject company would immediately
initiate the negotiations and execution of: (a) the IA with GOP; (b) the EPA
with the energy purchasing entity; (c) the Contractors Agreement with the
principal contractor; and (d) the Loan Agreement with the various lenders,
including the Fund.  On a case-to-case basis, the subproject company would
execute a Shareholders' Agreement, Operation and Maintenance Agreements and
Fuel Supply Agreements.
Phase 3: Imolementation Stage
7.       The  subproject company would implement the subproject through the
principal contractor in accordance with the schedule agreed to in the IA. PED
would supervise the subproject implementation on behalf of the Fund and send
quarterly progress reports to the Bank.  PED would also be responsible for
ensuring that the subproject company mobilizes the equity portion of the
financing, debt financing to match the cost expenditure profile of the
su--roject.  The Bank woul' s-uprwse the ImpIementa " of                 fa et  ir"    -
the supervision of the proposed Project.   In addition,  the Bank would be
responsible for monitoring procurement under Bank funds. In order to finance
any cost overruns, if any, the subproject companies would utilize the lines of
credit provided by the lenders and also provide an additional equity not
exceeding  10   of  original  amounts.   The  additional  financing  would  be
capitalized based on  the cost  escalation provisions  agreed  in  IA.   Cost
overruns that cannot be covered by the above funds, if any, would be covered
by a cost overrun facility established by the Fund. The subproject companies
would pay a commitment charge for the cost overrun facility.
Phase 4: Operations Stage
9.       The subproject company would operate the subproject plant (through an
operations and maintenance contractor if the subproject company is itself not
the operator) in accordance with the stipulations of the EPA.   FED would
monitor the operation of the subproject on behalf of the Fund. In doing so,
it would ensure that the subproject company maintains three escrow accounts:
one for receiving all the revenues due to the subproject company from the
energy  purchaser  and  channelling  them  to  meet  the  obligations  of  the
subproject company;  another for holding the ensuing six months' debt service
obligations of the subproject company; and yet another for holding a portion
of the investor's return on equity to ensure the investors' continued
commitment to the subproject.



Phase 1. Call f or Proposals to Issue of Letter of Intent
Reject or CoQl for Revised Proposal
Investor
Commounity                            |
GOP           vnestor               GOIP             NO
r,~~ al
Revision in Brief
Rvlslon
|                    Revisions in Proposals
Abbreviatlons
PPC  = Private Power Cell (Min. of Water & Power)
0 Institution(s)  DGPC = Directorate General of Petroleum Concessions (Min. of Petroleum & Natural Resources)
Decision Point CMC  = Cool Mining Cell (Min. of Petro(eur & Natural Resources)
ECC  = Economic Coordination Committee of Cabinet
D  Process          LOI  = Letter of Intent
_-   _- -- - -



Phase 2: Issue of Letter of Intent to Start of Implementation
tF el.nUer X      
Reject or Request fw' Revision
GOP                                                           GOP
PPC                                             CSubnt
DGPeCtcr           Accept                ,1DGPC11  DetsIted                 subvroJec             to Fund           SI ject  onpaentctN
Intent                       ~~~~~~~~Detailed        Feasbit                                                                             _____
CMC                                              Feasibilty    CMC                                                                                          __u]
be out of Cansld-ratlon
LEGEND,                                  SA      L
- =Necessary Agreenent             P 
----Subproject DependantII
LA    = Locan Agreement               IA  =Inplenentation Agreemient
CA    = Contractors Agreemient        SA  = Shiareholders Agreewnt
FSA   X Fuet Suppty Agreement         EPA = Energy Purchase Agreerment



PHASE 3: IMPLEMENTATION STAGE
Investors    Equity
Injection
Suppliers'
Export   Credit
Credit
-Agencies
SubproJect 4                                 '              eL s               5|Subproject
Company  |Impleient                       IA           Utlze Lenders"                     Company lCo ssion the
there     YES      Specify  ,~A0 10%z Ules Of                YSPoetadSl
Cost            Fixed Ca~pita                         un
jec   Ove  u      ost?       ~~Iiinject ia      oerd?Pr nceal Prgyho1e
Principal   Pret Over                      Cost? /     Eqrity up to                                    Purchser
|contractorl             \WiWI Y                         OilMot             \              Contractorl
e = 1 40 T YOES                                                         NO i- 
Commercial    l
Banks    Looans
Foreign/
Local                                                                     ,          . ,     
Fundi                                                                                  FuN
LoaLns



PHASE  4: OPERATIJN  STAGE                                                      (1)
a & Mb a & M
cos'ts -Contractor
(2)
Subproject                                                                                                           (3>
ICo,mpany    l    Produce and     [Energy    Pay Revenues into        Escrow      Meet Subproject         Debt   ECAs and
Sell Energy      Purchaser  an Escrow Accouu 8   Account                            I CompSny's Obtlgatons  Commercial
o & M                                                                                                             Lenders
contractor                                                                                                            4
FDebt
S,,,ce     Fund
]~~ -" (5)
! Escrow
Return i
EquityI
Repltratrte
Prof;ts



PAKISTAN
Private Sector Energy DeveLopment Project
Relationship Between NDFC anol the Fund
NDFC                           ~~~~~~~~~~AdministrationGOTOFPKSA
NDFC                                        ASXreetent   D    bOVT. OF PAKISTAN
CHAIRMAN         |U 3
MANAGING DIRECTOR      CC
COPNSKUL.TANCY   |                            NGINEERIILIG
| SERVICES                               L      CELL J
PRO.3JECT          PROJ ECT          CORPO RATE          MERCHANT           INVESTM1ENT      AMNSRTO
FINANCE         SUPERVISION          AFFAIRS &           BANKING           MANAGEMENT s      ADMINISTRATION
DIVISION           DIVISION         LAW DIVISION         DIVISION        MDNITORIIG DIVISION    DIVISION



Pakistan
Private Sector Energy DevelopFrent Project
Private Sector Energy Development Fund
Sources And Applications Of Funds Statements
(US S Millions)
1989     1990      1991      1992      1993      1994      1995      1996      1997     1998    Total
Sources                   ----      .--       .... .-   -....               ----      -  ---              - ---    ----    -----
From Subprojects
Interest       2.8      13.8     32.6      53.8      68.2      73.3      72.5      70.8      68.3      65.0    521.0
Repasment                                                                                      2.7      10.4      13.1
...      ....      ....      ....      . ...     ....      ....      ....       .       ....       --
Subtotal                   2.8      13.8      32.6      53.8      68.2      73.3     72.5      70.8      71.0      75.4    534.1
Capital Raised
IBRD     11.3      32.1      42.5      42.0      15.0       3.0                                            146.0
USAID       9.7      27.5     36.4      36.0      12.8       2.6                                             125.0
ITALY      3.9      11.0      14.6      14.4       5.1       1.1                                             50.0
JEXIN      11.6     33.0      43.7      43.2      15.4       3.2                                            150.0
ODA      4.2      11.9      15.7      15.6       5.5       1.1                                             54.0
CANADA       2.3       6.6       8.7       8.6      3.1       0.6                                              30.0
......   ----.   ....        ....      .....  ....         .....  ....         .....  . .. .      .... .. ..... ..... ..
Subtotal                  42.9    122.1    161.7    159.8         57.0      11.5                                            555.0
Other Income
Commitment Fee        2.6       1.9       1.1      0.3       0.1                                                        6.1
Appraisal Fee        2.5      2.4       3.2       3.2       3.0                                                        14.4
.--  ....----- --*-- --*--- .. .                      . .I..              . .        . .      . .
SubtotaL                   5.1       4.4       4.4       3.5       3.1       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0      20.4
....   .....       ....      ....      ....      ....      ....      ----      ...   *.*..
Total Sources             50.8    140.3    198.6    217.2    128.3         84.8      72.5      70.8      71.0      75.4   1109.5
3333     333 3=       3          3     333       33        33        33        3          3
Applications
... ..........
Oisburue_nts              42.9    122.1    161.7    159.8         57.0      11.5                                            555.0
Debt Service I/
IBRD      0.5       2.2       5.2       8.6      10.8      12.3      14.3      16.7      18.8     19.0    108.2
CANADA       0.1       0.4       0.9       1.5       1.9      2.2       2.5       2.9       3.2       3.3      19.0
JEXIN       0.3       1.5      3.5       5.8       7.4       8.6      10.7      13.3      15.7      16.3     83.2
ODA       0.1      046        1.3      2.2       2.8       2.9       3.0       3.0       3.2       4.0     23.0
ITALY      0.1       0.7        1.6      2.6       3.2       3.5       3.5       3.5       3.7      4.2      26.5
........ .......  .......  ... .  .....  ......  ....  ....  ......
Subtotal                   1.1       5.3      12.5      20.7      26.2     29.5      34.0      39.3      44.7      46.7    259.9
Operating Fee              0.2       0.8       1.5       2.3       2.6       2.6       2.6      2.5       2.4       2.3      19.9
Equity Reserves            6.6      12.1      22.9      34.4      42.5     41.1      35.9      29.0      23.9      26.4    274.8
...      .....  ....         ....      ....      ....      ....      .. ..     ....      . .. .   ...
Total Applications        50.8    140.3    198.6    217.2    128.3         84.8      72.5      70.8      71.0      75.4   1109.5
a===     a==       G:elA     =           =       =-         :=         X       =S       =:          m 
................ ............................ ... .......... 
1/ Excludes Excharge Rate Insurance Premum.
0'



- 57 -
PAKISTAN
NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT FINANCE CORPORATION
PRIVATE SECTOR ENERGY DEVELOPMENT FULND
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
(USs Million)
Bank Fiscal Year
and Semester                In Semester        Cumulative        Cumulative 2
1989
December 31, 1988                 4.7               4.7                 3.13
June 30, 1989                     7.0              11.7                 7.80
1990
December 31, 1989                13.3              25                  16.67
June 30, 1990                    19.9              44.9                29.93
1991
December 31, 1990                16.6              61.5                41.00
June 30, 1991                    24.8              86.3                57.53
1992
December 31, 1991                25.9             112.2                74.80
June 30, 1992                    17.2             129.4               86.27
1993
December 31, 1992                10.6             140                  93.33
June 30, 1993                     7.1             147.1                98.07
i1994
Qecember 31, 1993                 1.7             148.8                99.20
June 30, 1994                     1.2             150.0              100.00



-58 -                    ANNEX 5.1
PAKISTAN
PRIVATE SECTOR ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Documents and Information in the Project File
-   Proposal for 132 MW Power Generation Project /PAKLAND
-   Proposal for 600 MW Power Plant /NIDC, Xenel
- Proposal for 80 MW Power Plant /INTRAG
-   Proposal for 1200 MW Power Plant Hab River
- Draft Implementation Agreement
- Draft Power Purchase Agreement
-   1200 MW Hab River Power Complex - Financial Model
-   Draft Letter of Intent for the Establishment of Private Power
Generating Plant in Baluchistan
!   1200 MW Private Power Generating Plant - Khalifa Point
- Pre-feasibility Study - 1200 MW Oil Fired Power Station
- Southern Pipeline Project
-   Proposal for a Feasibility Study for a Coal Fired Plant in Baluchistan
- Draft Operating Framework for Private Sector Window
- Environmental Assessment for WAPDA Coal Fired Power Plant and Hab River
Complex at Khalifa Point.
- National Development Finance Corporation Act, 1973
- National Development Finance Corporation, Statement of Policy (Revised
September 1987)



IBRD 16248R1
64                                        68'                                 I  72I2       Li S R S
i   5'CHINA
PAKISTAN                                                          ./'
*     NATIONA. CAPITAL
o     CITIES AND TOWNS                                                      ,                   "'du
NATIONAL  ROADS
PRIMARY  AND  SECONDARY  ROADS                                          Q.
-  |     RAILWAYS
4      AIRPORTS                                                            3 ho sodo5,o.omo 1.n. ol con,roi
-  -  PROVINCE BOUNDARIES                                                         hem
INTERNATIONAL  bOUNDARIES                                                             LlsAeAD
RIVERS                                                                                    l.Xip,d4  JAMMU and K4S4MJR
-32'                                                                                                                        go)                            3
J         AFGHANISTAN
N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~INI
/Kolot   }tAs     9  jBohow~~~~ohoolp.oJ
28'                                                                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~28'
- 28-   (                                 9   2.            / ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Y"obobod                                                         8-
ISLAMIC   j                                                   / t-
REPUBLIC OF                                                                         Dh.
I RAN             .                                                  Kond,ayo                             0         10      200        300      400
_._i  s / tN   D                                            K IL OMETERS
.0 .0 .        0 0 t   l   o  so  l  150  200  250
elo    \                            7                                                          I
Nowobshoho                                           MILES
'I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~dn -T 4                                                                           71. "70707.77 D'77770-7d by
f      J      _S-,in;Z S H+yde,abod                        Th W,7J, 6r/ ntrs e-nd .*
Buleii    .t                                                           70,t 7~tedr 770a 77e707000r77
so.i. Pt.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.,en,,so 10W.7 77
An  7.0 *#I,7.nIk-r  F -~c
IOd 077700 .01470007 .077
24'lt                                                                                                                                    f-V/   0          4
B1   -1o F77     C,-8-  0.
24-                                                         , _/~~~~b 5e                                                 ,Vw .- rV,rhs >∞ f7,n  ,rtnn7 M
07 s, or    777y o. Ally
64-                                       6       -3  '                            2-
MARCH 1987



