Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 22157
vIPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(03370; 29820)
ONA
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$150 MILLION
TO THE
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
FORA
PRIVATE SECTOR ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
May 11, 2001
Energy Sector Unit
South Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective December 31, 2000)
Currency Unit = Rupees (Rs.)
Rs I = US$ 0.02
US$ 1 = Rs 58.15
FISCAL YEAR
July 1  June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
APL          Asia Petroleum Limited
CDC          Commonwealth Development Corporation of the United Kingdom
COD          Commercial Operations Date
COFACE       Compagnie Francaise d'Assurance pour le Commerce Exterieur (France's export
credit agency)
DFID         Department for International Development (UK)
EAD          Economic Affairs Division, Ministry of Finance
ECAs         Export Credit Agencies
ECO          Expanded Cofinancing Operation
ESBI         Electricity Supply Board International (Ireland)
EPC          Engineering, Procurement and Construction
FSA          Fuel Supply Agreement
GOP          Government of Pakistan
HUBCO        Hub Power Company Limited
IA           Implementation Agreement
ICB          International Competitive Bidding
IDC          Interest during Construction
IFC          International Finance Corporation
IPP          Independent Power Producer
IRR          Internal Rate of Return
JBIC         Japan Bank for International Cooperation
JEXIM        The Export Import Bank of Japan (now referred to as Japan Bank for International
Cooperation.
KESC         Karachi Electric Supply Company
kW           Kilo Watt
kWh          Kilo watt hour
LOI          Letter of Intent
LOS          Letter of Support
LTCF         Long Term Credit Fund (the "Fund", formerly known as the Private Sector Energy
Development Fund)
Vice President:    Mieko Nizhimizu
Country Director:    John W. Wall
Sector Director:    Alastair J. McKechnie
Team Leader:    Tjaarda P. Storm van Leeuwen
Task Leader:    Julie M. Fraser



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MMCFD        Million Cubic Feet per Day
MITI         Ministry of International Trade and Industry of Japan
MOF          Ministry of Finance
MOU          Memorandum of Understanding
MPNR         Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Resources
MW           Mega Watt (one million watts)
MWP          Ministry of Water and Power
NEPRA        National Electric Power Regulatory Authority
NDFC         National Development Finance Corporation (Administrator of the LTCF)
O&M          operations and maintenance
ODA          Overseas Development Administration (UK)
OGDC         Oil and Gas Development Corporation
PED          Private Energy Division of NDFC
PPA          Power Purchase Agreement
PPC          Private Power Cell
PPIB         Private Power and Infrastructure Board
PRG          Partial Risk Guarantee
PSEDP        Private Sector Energy Development Project
PSO          Pakistan State Oil
QAG          Quality Assurance Group
RPPL         Rousch (Pakistan) Power Limited
SACE         Sezione Speciale per l'Assicurazione del Credito all'Esportazione (Italy's
export credit agency)
SEPCOL       Southern Electric Power Company Limited
SNGPL        Sui Northern Gas Pipelines Limited
UPL          Uch Power Limited
USAID        United States Agency for International Development
WAPDA        Water and Power Development Authority
WPPO         WAPDA's Private Power Organization
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






PAKISTAN
Private Sector Energy Development Project
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                   1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                  1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry        2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                           6
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            13
6. Sustainability                                                                17
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 18
8. Lessons Learned                                                               24
9. Partner Comments                                                              29
1 0. Additional Information                                                      35
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             42
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             43
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             45
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             46
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             48
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                49
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            50
Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results                                              51
Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Results                                            52
Annex 10. Review of Sub-Projects                                                 54
Annex 11. Borrower's Contribution                                                72
NOTE: The main text is identicalfor the intensive learning ICRspreparedfor the Pakistan Private Sector
Energy Development Project (Ln. 2982) and thefollow-on, Second Private Sector Energy Development Project
(Ln. 38)2). Theflrstproject was extended to be co-terminus with the second, and the loan agreement
2982-PAK was amended to match that of Ln. 3812-PAK. In particular, the implementation program as well as
theproceduresfor and terms and conditions of subloans under theflrst Project were amended to be consistent
with the second Project. Therefore, whie two separate ICRs are produced; the text is identical while the project
data, ratings, and statistical annexes are specificfor each project.
Various sections of this report draw extensivdy on previous analytical work and internal memoranda prepared
by Bank staff and consultants in the Energy Network and the South Asia Energy Unit on the Pakistan energy
sector portfolio, the dialogue on the power sector reform program, and the private powerprogram during
1998-2000, in addition to the report by M. Gerrard titled "Financing Pakistan's Hub Power Project: A Review
of Experiencefor Future Projects" dated August 1997, sponsored by the Project Finance and Guarantees
Department.






Project ID: P0103 13                                             Project Name: PRIVATE SECTOR ENERGY
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Team Leader: Julia M. Fraser                                     TL Unit: SASIN
ICR Type: Intensive Learning Model (ILM) of ICR                   Report Date: May 11, 2001
1. Project Data
Name:  PRIVATE SECTOR ENERGY DEVELOPMENT                     L/C/ITFNumber:  03370; 29820
PROJECT
Country/Department:  PAKISTAN                                                    Region:  South Asia Regional
Office
Sector/subsector:  PT - Thermal
KEY DATES
Original              Revised/Actual
PCD:   10/22/87                                      Effective:  10/26/88             03/16/89
Appraisal:   12/10/87                                       MTR:
Approval:  06/29/88                                      Closing:   12/31/94              11/30/98
Borrower/lImplementing Agency:   Government of Pakistan/National Development Finance Corporation
Other Partners:   The Export Import Bank of Japan, Government of Italy, Government of France,
US Eximbank
STAFF                   Current                                         At Appraisal
Vice President:         Mieko Nishimizu                                Wilfred Thalwitz
Country Manager:        John W. Wall                                    Hans Eberhard Kopp
Sector Manager:         Alastair J. Mckechnie                           Ibrahim I. Elwan
Team Leader at ICR:     Tjaarda P. Storm Van Leeuwen
ICR Primary Author:     Julia M. Fraser; Marc L. Heitner;
Peter A. Cordukes
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: U
Sustainability: UN
Institutional Development Impact: N
Bank Performance: U
Borrower Performance: U
QAG (if available)          ICR
Quality at Entry:                            U
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
3.1.1    Until 1988, the Bank had been involved in Pakistan's power sector primarily through lending to
the two govermment utilities, the Karachi Electric Supply Company (KESC) and the Water and Power
Development Authority (WAPDA). In 1988, economic growth remained constrained due to severe power
shortages. It was estimated that during the Seventh Five-Year Plan (1989-93), 6,300 MW of additional
generating capacity would be required, of which the public sector would only be able to construct 4,000
MW. Hence, it was proposed that 2,300 MW be built by the private sector during the Seventh Plan and,
similarly, an additional 2,400 MW during the Eighth Plan (1994-98).
3.1.2    The objectives of the first Private Sector Energy Development Project (PSEDP 1), approved in
June 1988, were to: (i) assist Pakistan in mobilizing, from the private sector, the resources required to meet
the anticipated deficit in power supply; (ii) establish incentives to encourage private sector participation;
and (iii) establish an institutional framework required to facilitate private sector transactions in energy on a
sustainable basis. The Second Private Sector Energy Development Project (PSEDP I), approved in
November 1994, replenished the Long Term Credit Fund (originally known as the Private Sector Energy
Development Fund) established under the first project (PSEDP I) with the objective of continuing to (i)
assist the Govermment in mobilizing additional private sector resources; and (ii) build on the institutional
and policy framework established to facilitate private sector participation in the energy sector.
3.1.3    The objectives were clear and were not modified during project implementation. The objectives
were also consistent with the Govermment's strategy to encourage a greater role for the private sector in
energy. However, the power shortage on which the private power program was predicated was due in large
part to policy and institutional failures. Looking back, low average prices of electricity, cross subsidization
of residential and agricultural consumers, weak payment discipline and widespread theft of electricity
(unaccounted for electricity was estimated to be as high as 35 percent rather than the officially recorded 26
percent) exaggerated the shortage of electricity supply.
3.1.4   In many respects, the agenda for reform outlined in the strategy was well ahead of its time.
Although the international development community had come to realize that the role of the public sector
needed to be redefined and reduced, no other low-income country had made private investments a corner
stone of its energy policy. This strategy was a reflection of hard economic realities: a non-sustainable
fiscal deficit; a serious balance of payment situation; and the inability of the public sector to mobilize the
funds required to make the investments needed to keep pace with power demand (which was growing
around seven percent per year). However, even if sound demand management policies had reduced the
growth of electricity demand below seven percent, the Government's strategy to rely increasingly on private
investment in power was relevant as budgetary resources were needed to meet Pakistan's pressing social
needs. The Projects were designed to support the implementation of a program of agreed measures that
consisted of: (a) policies for the promotion of private sector investment in energy; (b) creation of a vehicle
to provide long-term financing for private energy projects; and (c) establishment of new institutions for the
evaluation, negotiation, and approval of private energy investments.
3.1.5  These two Projects were innovative and represented a major shift in the Bank's power sector
lending policies. The Projects embedded the lessons drawn from Bank lending to govermnent utilities, as
reflected in the Policy Paper entitled "Bank Lending for Electric Power" (1993). The Projects, however,
were demanding as they required inter alia: (a) the Govermment and its agencies to leam and adapt policies
to enable private sector transactions in power; (b) the creation of three new entities - (i) the Private Power
and Infrastructure Board (PPIIB) in charge of negotiating the contractual framework (referred to as the
Security Package) on behalf of the Government; (ii) WAPDA Private Power Organization (WPPO) in
- 2 -



charge of negotiating the power purchase agreements (PPA); and (iii) the Private Energy Division (PED) of
the National Development Finance Corporation (NDFC) in charge of administering the funds under the two
Bank loans (referred to as the Long Term Credit Fund - LTCF or the Fund); and (c) the power utility,
WAPDA, to abandon its virtal monopoly on power generation, and adjust its activities including
purchasing power from plants it did not own.
3.2 Revised Objective:
n.a.
3.3 Original Components:
3.3.1   In refining and implementing the private sector energy strategy, the Govemment relied primarily
on the advice of the Bank and a consulting firm (with the US Agency for Intemational Developmnent
support). Three constraints to greater private sector energy investments were identified: (a) the absence of
a comprehensive policy framework concerning incentives, fiscal treatment, repatriation of profits and
capital, availability of foreign exchange, and pricing; (b) the lack of long term financing for projects with
long gestation periods and economic life; and (c) the inadequacy of the institutional arrangements for the
review, negotiation and approval of private sector projects.
3.3.2    An initial framework of incentives to attract private investment in the energy sector was put in
place in 1988 which addressed these constraints under the Private Sector Energy Development Project
(PSEDP I). In addition to these incentives, a new lending facility-the Private Sector Energy Development
Fund which was later renamed the Long Term Credit Fund (LTCF or the Fund)--was established under
PSEDP I to finance private energy investments. The Fund provided long term subordinated debt financing
up to 23 years, including eight years grace - tenors which were previously unavailable in Pakistan but
necessary for power and other energy projects with long economic lives. The Fund was created to bridge
the gap in the financial intermediation system of Pakistan. The purpose of this arrangement was to provide
security and comfort to commercial lenders to encourage them to finance the projects as well. The Fund is
administered by the National Development Finance Corporation (NDFC) on behalf of the Government.
3.3.3    During the preparation and appraisal of PSEDP I, it was thought that private sector resources
for financing the energy sector needed to materialize more or less immediately in order to avoid
jeopardizing the achievement of the objectives of the Seventh Plan which, in turn, necessitated the
immediate establishment of the Fund as a functional unit of an existing financial institution. It was to act
as the focal point for mobilizing financing from bilateral and multilateral agencies and, as its financial
strengths developed, gradually seek commercial loans in the market, securing them against the strength of
its balance sheet. The Government had designated NDFC to administer the Fund although the latter's
operations were to be structured to allow for possible detachment from NDFC at a later date. As such the
Fund was set up as a self-contained unit within NDFC-the Private Energy Division-which was expected
to reach its own independent decision as to the technical and financial viability of subprojects presented for
financing, after they had been approved by Private Power Cell of the Ministry of Water and Power
(MWP). During the appraisal of PSEDP II, it was recognized that the Fund's continued presence in NDFC
was leading to its bureaucratic absorption as another arm of the public sector, and as such, the process of
detaching the Fund from NDFC was to begin with the effectiveness of PSEDP II. In fact, this was made a
dated covenant although no real progress was made in detaching the Fund from NDFC. In addition, no
additional resources were mobilized for the Fund beyond those provided by the initial financiers of PSEDP
I and II.
3.3.4 During the negotiation for the Hub Project (the sole subproject financed under PSEDP I) and the
preparation of PSEDP II, the Government recognized the need to fine-tune the incentive framework to take
- 3 -



into account the feedback received from private investors and the international financial community.
Refinements in the framework were also needed to make Pakistan intemnationally competitive in attracting
financial resources, and to integrate these measures with the actions taken by the Government to deregulate
the economy and increase reliance on the private sector. The result was a new policy for private power
("Policy Framework and Package of Incentives for Private Sector Power Generation Projects in Pakistan"),
promulgated in March 1994 (hereto referred to as the 1994 Private Power Policy), which incorporated the
original policies introduced in 1988 together with subsequent modifications as detailed in Box 1 below.
The above policy, which was supported under the Second Private Sector Energy Development Project (Ln.
3812-PAK), was successful in attracting an additional 19 private power projects, totaling over 3,000 MW.
Box 1:
Salient Features of 1994 Policy and Package of Incentives
for Private Sector Power Generation
.     Bulk Tariffof USO 6.5/kWh" (to be paid in Rs.) for sale of electricity to WAPDA/KESC, with
indexation mechanism for fuel price, US and Pakistani inflation, exchange rate, O&M costs, and others;
.     Fiscal Incentives consisting of: exemption from corporate income tax, customs duties, sales tax, and
other surcharges on imported equipment;
.     Standardized Security Package which includes a model Implementation Agreement, Power Purchase
Agreement and Fuel Supply Agreement;
.      Creation of a Private Power Board, so as to facilitate one window operation; and
•     Financial incentives to facilitate the creation of a corporate securities market in the country, including
permission for power generation companies to issue corporate bonds and shares at discounted prices, and
establishment of an Independent Rating Agency.
a/ The bulk tariff was later reduced to USe 6.1/kWh with the elimination of the foreign exchange risk insurance scheme.
Source: Pakistan Energy Options Study, Report No. 14025-PAK, June 15, 1995
3.3.5 PSEDP I and II each consisted of two components: (i) investment sub-projects and (ii) institution
building. They provided for the financing of subordinated debt to private energy companies, together with
technical assistance to govemment entities implementing the private power policy. They were successful in
mobilizing considerable cofinancing for the Long Term Credit Fund as reflected in Table 1 below.
-4 -



Table 1
Long Term Credit Fund
Co-financing Funds Mobilized for Private Energy Projects under PSEDP I and PSEDP II
(US$ million equivalent)
PSEDP I                 PSEDP ll
Ln. 2982                 Ln. 3812          TOTAL
IBRD                             150           1,3        250         2      400
JEX4I                           150            3          250                400
Govemment of Italy               49            3                              50
Government of France             29            3           10         3       39
US Eximbank                      12            3           97         4      110
Bank of China                                  _           80         4       80
TOTAL                           390                       687               1,077
(Thesefigures do not include other debt and equity mobilizedfor the sub-projects financed
under PSEDP I and I.)
Of which $4 million is for technical assistance.
Of which $6 million is for technical assistance.
Funds used exclusively for the 1292 MW Hub Power Project.
4Funds contributed exclusively for the 586 MW Uch Power Project.
3.3.6 The Bank and JEXIM each contributed US$400 nillion to the Long Term Credit Fund, and other
bi-lateral agencies together contributed over US$600 million equivalent. Five sub-projects (one pipeline
and four power projects) were financed under PSEDP I and II. It was anticipated-given the Fund's ceiling
of 30 percent financing per subproject-that Paldstan would be able to mobilize at least US$1.9 billion
under PSEDP I and US$1.2 billion under PSEDP II, targets which were vastly exceeded in reality as
overall private sector investments in power over 1990-99 have been in excess of US$5 billion (four out of
twenty private power plants utilized LTCF financing).ccc
3.3.7 Recognizing the complexity of project finance, the two loans also provided for a considerable
amount of technical assistance to two new units: (i) the Private Power Cell (PPC), located in Islamabad, to
evaluate and negotiate proposals on behalf of the Government (PPC was converted in 1994 into the Private
Power and Infrastructure Board - (PPEB), a "single stop investment window" with full responsibility for
negotiating power investments); and (ii) the Private Energy Division (PED), a unit of the National
Development Finance Corporation (NDFC), located in Karachi, and entrusted with the administration of
the LTCF.
3.3.8 In all, the design of the project was consistent with its objectives.
3.4 Revised Components:
-5 -



3.5 Quality at Entry:
3.5.1    The Quality Assurance Group (QAG) made a post-approval Quality at Entry assessment of
PSEDP II in mid-1997 as part of a QAG review of South Asia Private Sector Infrastrcture Development
Operations. QAG rated the Project as fully satisfactory on account of its many innovative and
groundbreaking features that have been a model for other countries. The report recognized the "pioneer"
features of these types of operations "not only for the country but for the Bank", and that these funds "can
be valuable instruments for encouraging private participation in infrastructure" provided there is strong
government commitment to reform. Their importance in helping to develop local capital markets was also
recognized.
3.5.2    However, the QAG panel did not identify flaws which have been present in the financial structure
of both PSEDP I and II from the outset. Most notably, in arriving at their "fully satisfactory" assessment,
the QAG panel remarked that "the appointment of competent fund managers...[is] an important factor in
the success." In fact, the LTCF has never been managed as a fund and does not have the operational
structures to respond to events. The panel failed to notice the substantial asset/liability mismatches in the
Fund, which could then have been partially offset through conversion to a single currency loan. In
addition, the panel did not recognize that NDFC was essentially insolvent and dependent upon the LTCF
for liquidity, a weakness in NDFC which should have been apparent at the time.
3.5.3   While the panel commented upon the delays in converting LTCF to an "autonomous,
commercially oriented" entity, even noting that the fulfillment of this covenant was already more than two
and a half years overdue, the panel should also have identified the absence of a realistic "sunset" plan for
LTCF. In reality, the outline for the future of the Fund was vague, and there was no work undertaken to
advise a more suitable structure or develop a timeline to implernentation. The QAG panel, similar to the
Bank's appraisal teams, did not include a finance expert (as distinct from a financial analyst) to examine
the financial structuring aspects and implications of the Projects.
3.5.4 With hindsight, the Projects, while being highly innovative, were a high-risk activity that has now
tumed out to have significant shortcomings. Other weaknesses at entry identified by QAG resulted in a
much larger negative impact than foreseen at the time of the QAG review. These included: (i) inadequate
analysis of IPPs' impact on WAPDA's finances, (ii) inadequate review of the Government's thermal power
policy which may have revealed the need to limit the amount of new capacity; (iii) not enough emphasis on
social consequences and affordability of private power generation; and (iv) no technical specialist on the
team to focus on location of IPPs and choice of technology. Under the circumstances and in retrospect, the
Projects are rated unsatisfactory in terms of quality at entry.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
4.1.1    Although originally intended to finance several subprojects, PSEDP I focused on one very large
transaction - the 1,292 MW Hub Power subproject. (Annex 10 describes the five subprojects financed
under PSEDP I and II.) The Hub transaction required over six years from the detailed feasibility study
(April 1988) to financial closure (January 1995). This subproject paved the way for private power projects
internationally, and the complex documentation it generated is used to this date as a reference for such
transactions worldwide. Furthermore, the transaction also involved for the first time the utilization of a
new Bank instrument for power projects, the Partial Risk Guarantee, under which the Bank backstops
- 6 -



certain undertakings given by the Govermment Thus, the LTCF loan of US$616 million enabled the
mobilization of another US$1.2 billion in the form of equity and debt. Subsequently, under PSEDP II,
three more power plants were partially financed by the LTCF involving approximately 1,100 MW with a
total investment cost of US$1.3 billion. LTCF, which was initially intended to also support subprojects
other than power plants, helped finance a pipeline connecting an oil storage depot with the Hub power
plant. More importantly, the framework which evolved under the Bank projects enabled the financing and
construction of an additional 16 power plants involving an additional generating capacity of 2,350 MW
with a total investment cost of almost US$2.5 billion. Thus, the physical outcomes are consistent with the
initial targets for private power set under the Seventh Plan (2,300 MW) and the Eighth Plan (2,400 MW).
4.1.2   In the case of NDFC, the administrator of LTCF, and PPIB, the one-stop shop for private
investors, solid expertise was developed in private power transactions although most of the qualified staff
subsequently left. While Pakistan created institutional capacity to approve IPPs, WAPDA did not develop
the institutional capability required to manage their new commercial contracts.
4.1.3 Unfortunately, the implementation of the private power program under PSEDP I and II experienced
difficulties which negatively impacted the Projects' ability to achieve their objectives and/or sustainable
results. (PSEDP I is included in the analysis of the 1994 private power program, even though it was
designed prior, since the implementation program, evaluation criteria, as well as the procedure for and
tenms and conditions of subloans were amended to match that of PSEDP II.) Implementation difficulties
included the following:
*    The selection criteria under the 1994 Policy enabled the implementation of many
subprojects which are not consistent with the least-cost expansion program in terms of (i)
capacity (too small given the system size and requirements); (ii) fuel selection (excessive
reliance on imported fuel oil, as opposed to domestic natural gas although at the time gas
allocation for power was difficult to secure and overall gas reserves were thought to be on
the decline3); and (iii) technology (too many diesel sets and steam turbines, as opposed to
efficient combined cycle plants). The 1994 IPP Policy did not provide an incentive for
project promoters to reduce costs, and the tariff for virtually every IPP reached the bulk
tariff ceiling set under the Policy, regardless of technology. This resulted in relatively high
project costs with a high proportion of "soft" costs (i.e. project development costs and
fmancing costs). In addition, the incentives provided by the 1994 Policy, particularly the
price of electricity and the Government's guarantees, proved with hindsight to be too
generous as reflected in the overwhelming response from the private sector. Although
GOP had intended to review the bulk tariff annually, it never did so.
*     The pace of the private power program was faster than the restructuring and privatization
of WAPDA and the creation of a suitable regulatory system. The mix of private generation
and monopoly public sector transmission/distribution, and the introduction of private
power under the 1994 IPP Policy (see para. 3.3.4), has rendered the sector vulnerable to
financial shocks and external events such as changes in fuel prices. While the Bank
promoted measures for sector management and restructuring, as well as public sector
policy reforns, including introduction of pass-through mechanisms for cost of fuel and
power purchased, they were not implemented at the intended pace. The delays in sector
reforms adversely impacted the efficiency of both WAPDA and the IPP program, and left
the sector overly vulnerable to economic downturns.
- 7 -



*     The demand for power increased at a slower pace than anticipated resulting in excess
capacity in the system for which WAPDA has to pay capacity charges under long term
power purchase agreements (PPAs). Despite the Bank's caution to limit the new policy to
about 2,000 MW of additional capacity and the advice to switch to a competitive bidding
process thereafter, GOP issued Letters of Support to projects for more than 9,000 MW.
Ultimately, 19 IPPs totaling about 3,100 MW reached financial close. (This figure does
not include Hub, which was negotiated prior to the 1994 Policy.)
*     A new government in 1997 alleged that private power transactions involved corruption
money, and took legal and other measures against subproject sponsors. This resulted in
costly delays in the comrnissioning of some of the power plants, renegotiations of
contracts, and reductions in sale tariffs. While most IPPs were willing to renegotiate
tariffs, given the precarious financial condition of WAPDA and Pakistan, the
Government's approach was perceived to be heavy-handed and coercive and nearly led to
government guarantees being called and a financial default by Pakistan. These perceptions
also destroyed investor confidence in Pakistan, and foreign investment flowed to a trickle
exacerbating the recent economic crisis.
•     The institutional framework has demonstrated that it is capable of processing an
impressive number of transactions over a short period. Unfortunately, NDFC, PPIB and
WPPO were subject to considerable political interference, and a high staff tumover at the
managerial level (between four and eight Managing Directors in each of the three
organizations over an eight-year period). In addition, most of the key staff in NDFC and
PPIB, who had developed significant expertise under the implementation of PSEDP I and
II, are no longer employed by these agencies. Furthermore, one unit or another was
sidelined through political decisions at various times throughout implementation.
*     The financial framework for LTCF is in a state of flux - which is exacerbated by NDFC
"capturing" the Fund to the extent that it is dependent on the LTCF for its own liquidity
needs. (NDFC is currently insolvent and would not be in a position to remit funds held on
deposit on behalf of LTCF without liquidity assistance from the State Bank of Pakistan.)
The Bank had always perceived NDFC to act as LTCF administrator on a temporary
basis. The alternatives realistically available for the future operation of the LTCF have
diminished over time due to: (i) the absence of an identified pipeline of viable
infrastructure projects in the energy sector that would realistically reach financial close in
the next few years; (ii) reduced investment appetite for Pakistan, and (iii) the deteriorating
condition of NDFC. In the end, the Bank agreed with the Government that creating yet
another financial "institution" would be inconsistent with the Government's current
strategy, supported by the Bank, to consolidate the financial sector. However, no
agreement was ever reached on the future management and ownership of the LTCF.
4.1.4  On balance, the physical targets set out under the two Projects have largely been achieved resulting
in investments totaling some US$5 billion. However, the outcome of both Projects is rated unsatisfactory as
the related economic, financial, institutional and technical aspects fell short of expectations and, therefore,
negatively affected the Projects' development outcomes.
4.2 Outputs by components:
4.2.1 Macroeconomic Impact: Under the 1994 Private Power Policy, the Government guaranteed the
-8 -



availability of foreign exchange and payment obligations of the state-owned power offtakers (WAPDA or
KESC) and the state-owned fuel suppliers (PSO or OGDC). While WAPDA was in good financial
condition at the tine of both appraisals, several developments led to the deterioration of its financial
performance, as a result of which it faced difficulties in meeting its obligations to IPPs which required
on-time cash payments. These developments included: (i) front-loaded IPP tariffs which are indexed to the
US Dollar, combined with a 45 percent devaluation of the Rupee; (ii) a decline in electricity demand due to
low economic growth which led to a temporary over-capacity in generation; (iii) poor collection rates from
govermnent customers which account for 30 percent of WAPDA's sales; and (iv) widening tariff cross
subsidies that play against industrial and commercial consumers, who have installed their own captive
capacity.
4.2.2 In addition, Pakistan's federal system and narrow fiscal base makes it prone to types of
behavior--e.g. government arrears and unpredictable increases in fuel taxes-that makes cost recovery for
power supply more difficult. The IPP program also put pressure on the country's historically precarious
balance of payments position. Foreign debt service obligations related to the IPPs are estimated at about
US$500 million per annum in addition to the foreign exchange cost of imported fuel, O&M and repatriation
of profits. The country's foreign exchange reserves fell to less than US$400 million in Novernber 1998,
recovered to US$1.5 billion around March 1999, and has subsequently stabilized to about US$0.6 billion
in 2000 (equivalent to about three weeks of imports)--which has seriously jeopardized the Govermment's
ability to honor its obligations in providing foreign exchange. Lastly, the Government is exposed to large
contingent liabilities under the Implementation Agreements (IAs) signed with the IPPs which were not
sufficiently addressed by the Government or the Bank. The Government did not establish a system for
managing contingent liabilities even when confronted with the real possibility that government guarantees
under the LAs could be called as a result of political events of default as defined under the agreements.
Conclusion: unsatisfactory.
4.2.3 Financial Impact: Both PSEDP I and II have generated financial stresses for the borrower due to
the fact that there is a complete currency mismatch between the liabilities and the ultimate source of
revenues (domestic power consumers). In principle, this risk can be mitigated if the ultimate revenue
source is itself linked to foreign currency, such as for electricity sales to export related industries. In the
case of PSEDP I, the foreign exchange risk on the loans which funded the LTCF was assumed by the
Goverrmnent as the loan to Hubco was made in Rupee terms. For PSEDP I the foreign exchange exposure
is not only against the World Bank lending, which has been on currency pool terms,' but also to loans from
other donors denominated in Italian Lira, French Francs and Japanese Yen. In the case of PSEDP II, the
Rupee foreign exchange risk was passed on to the IPP, as the various sub-loans were made on Dollar
terms, who in turn were able to pass on a substantial part of the foreign exchange risk to WAPDA by
indexing the tariffs in Dollars. However, for the LTCF, this gives protection only against Dollars while the
indebtedness is in a mix of currencies.
4.2.4 Overall, PSEDP I and II have exposed the various parties, most particularly Pakistan, to
substantial foreign exchange exposures, not only between the Rupee and Dollar but also between the Dollar
and the Yen and the Euro. Furthermore, there has been a persistent failure to recognize the Currency Pool
rather than Dollar denomination of the World Bank loans in LTCF accounts.! Despite this, the experience
of the LTCF has been relatively fortuitous in that the Dollar has been strong against the Yen and the Euro
over the term of the loans to date, which has counterbalanced depreciation in the Rupee. With the
movement of exchange rates over the term of the Projects, the LTCF has experienced foreign exchange loss
and gains on an annual basis. However, it is noteworthy that in 1998, the LTCF realized foreign exchange
losses of some $75 million. In addition to the currency exposure, the Projects also present Pakistan with
-9-



interest rate exposure. The interest rates for the loans made by the LTCF under PSEDP I and II are fixed
for some time and then are referenced to the Bank's borrowing rate, which is an average of long tern rates
and adjusts gradually with time. This creates a mismatch with the loans from other donors which are a
mixture of fixed and floating rates.
4.2.5 Lastly, WAPDA was not able to absorb the financial impact of the new IPPs and, together with
GOP, resorted to negotiating tariff reductions before many were even commissioned. The total cost of
power purchased on a per kilowatt basis increased rapidly due to Rupee depreciation, increases in fuel
prices, and lower than anticipated plant load factors. The terms of the Power Purchase Agreements
allowed IPPs to pass through fuel costs and to index various components of the energy and capacity
payments against exchange rate variations of Rupee to US Dollar and US inflation rate. However,
WAPDA was unable to pass these escalated costs on to its retail consumers or to improve its efficiency of
operations sufficiently to mitigate the financial imnpact of the IPPs. The slowdown in electricity demand
growth exacerbated this situation as most IPPs were commissioned over a two to three year period.
Conclusion: unsatisfactory.
4.2.6 Sector Policies: The 1994 Policy was highly effective in attracting significant private power
investment to Pakistan and, as a result, load shedding due to insufficient generation capacity has been
largely eliminated. Nevertheless too many subprojects were given letters of support (34 subprojects for
9,000 MW) and too much capacity (3,150 MW) was contracted, despite the Bank's caution to cap the
amount at 2000 MW. Rather than proceed through competitive bidding for private power, Pakistan instead
set a tariff ceiling for investors in an effort to accelerate the private power program which proved very
successful. The ceiling price set in the 1994 Policy (US06.1/kWh as an average for the first ten years and
USO 5.5/kWh over the life of the project on a levelized basis) was competitive with levelized prices in other
developing countries at the time, including Indonesia, Philippines and India. These prices were not
determined competitively, and some of the comparative countries, similar to Pakistan, ranked low on
intemational indices of corruption.
4.2.7 The 1994 Policy led to many projects being supported which were too small and not suitably
located to system requirements. In addition, a bidding mechanism for IPPs could have resulted in lower
prices and promoted transparency (although higher prices are also due to limited gas availability, so that
most projects could not use efficient combined cycle technology). Projects which received a Letter of
Support, were supposed to reach financial close within one year, however, the Govemment was not able to
devote equal attention to each of the sponsor groups. This led to extensions being granted for several
projects. Moreover, the basis on which projects were selected and accorded attention was not transparent
and subject to political influence which led to perceptions of corruption by successive governments.
4.2.8 In all, the 1994 Policy led to far more subprojects and investment in IPPs than GOP could have
anticipated. Power shortages were eliminated, but the cost of the surplus capacity has been taxing
WAPDA's financial position. With the benefit of hindsight, there were flaws in the Policy that
subsequently became apparent to GOP and led to its revision in 1998, which did much to address the
shortcomings in the 1994 Policy. It provided for competitive bidding for new subprojects needed after
2003. Additional capacity needs by 2008 were estimated to be 5,000-8,500 MW. The new policy was
designed to attract bids for hydro and indigenous coal-fired plants for which feasibility studies had already
been prepared. No subprojects, however, have been approved under the new policy although PPIB is
preparing prequalification and bidding documents for several hydro subprojects. Selection will be based on
price with restrictions on front-end loading of tariffs. Conclusion: unsatisfactory.
- 10 -



4.2.9 Physical Development: Hub was the first IPP and was built on time and within budget. The total
cost was US$1.6 billion (US$1,238 per kW), of which "soft" costs absorbed US$520 million, mostly
interest during construction and financing costs. Development costs-mostly legal costs- required about
US$81 million. The original financing for Hub included US$615 million from the Fund (US$386 million
under PSEDP I, including IBRD financing of US$146 million, and US$230 million under PSEDP II,
including IBRD financing of US$110 million). The Hub project absorbed all the financing available under
PSEDP I. The additional funding provided under PSEDP 1I (approved six years after PSEDP 1), together
with a Partial Risk Guarantee, secured the completion of the financing plan for Hub. The subproject took
almost 10 years to develop and build. This experience leads to the conclusion that the first IPP in Pakistan
should have been a smaller subproject, which could have been more easily financed. Nevertheless, it did
demonstrate to GOP how limited recourse subprojects could be prepared and provide a good learming
experience for NDFC, PPIB, the Bank, commercial lenders, developers, and the lawyers.
4.2.10 The next three power plants financed through PSEDP II-Rousch, Southern Electric, and
Uch-were all approved under GOP's 1994 Power Policy. The APL Pipeline subproject, which provided
fuel to Hub, was also financed under PSEDP II. All the power subprojects were delayed, from 20 months
(for Rousch) to over two years (for Uch), resulting in cost increases of over 20 percent in each instance.
The final total cost per kW was similar, ranging from US$1,310 for Uch (gas-fired combined cycle plant),
US$1,342 for Southern Electric (diesel plant) to US$1,396 for Rousch (oil-fired combined cycle plant).
The original project cost of between US$1,030 and US$1,200 per kW (not including standby financing) for
these three projects was more or less in line with the assumed project cost of US$1,000 per kW under the
1994 Policy. (However, starting in about 1997, capital equipment costs for combined cycle plants dropped
to about US$450 to US$600 per kW.) The APL pipeline subproject was completed five months late but
US$10 million below initial estimates. Conclusion: satisfactory.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
4.3.1 Given the nature of PSEDP I and II, neither an overall economic rate of return (ERR) or financial
rate of return were estimated at the time of appraisal since subprojects were not identified in sufficient
detail. However, the Loan Agreements specified as part of the evaluation and approval criteria that the
investment subprojects must be "technically, economically and financially viable" to the satisfaction of the
Bank - without defining specific hurdle rates. While the economic analysis contained in the appraisal
reports prepared by NDFC for each subproject is rather weak (no ERR was calculated), sufficient analysis
was provided on the technical and financial feasibility of the subprojects. Financial feasibility was justified
based on adequate debt service coverage ratios, project rates of return and equity rates of retum. The Bank
(and IFC in the case of the Uch Project) carried out economic analysis of both the Hub and Uch projects as
part of the due diligence of the partial risk guarantee operations and an estimated economic rate of return
was calculated as 18.3 percent and 20 percent, respectively. Revised economic and financial rates of return
were not calculated for each sub-project as the required data was not accessible from the private power
companies. However, given the extended delays in plant commissioning for Rousch, Southern Electric and
Uch, the corresponding increase in project costs, and the reduction in tariff for each of the four power
sub-projects negotiated by WAPDA during 1998-2000 (see paras 5.2.2 and 6.1.1), one can deduce that the
revised rates of return, both economic and financial, have decreased since sub-project appraisal.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
4.4.1  See Section 4.3 above.
- 11 -



4.S Institutional development impact:
4.5.1 The Bank was instrumental in creating three agencies: (i) the Private Power Cell (PPC),
subsequently converted to the Private Power and Infrastructure Board (PPIB); (ii) the Private Energy
Division (PED), a unit of NDFC in charge of administering the LTCF; and (iii) the WAPDA Private Power
Organization (WPPO). All three benefitted from technical assistance under the project (funded by USAID,
DFID and the Bank) and gained considerable expertise in IPPs during the past 12 years. However:
*     PPIB carried out its mandate to act as a single window, but its performance was adversely
affected by political interference resulting in frequent managerial changes and
organizational instability. To ensure its autonomy, staff costs were covered in its initial
two years under PSEDP II (subsequently extended to three years). Thereafter, PPIB was
to receive 0.25 percent of the intermediation spread charged on the sub-loans to cover its
costs and ensure its independence from budget transfers. Although PPIB has received
some limited funds from the LTCF on an ad hoc basis, the mechanism has not been
finalized in part due to confusion as to the amount PPIB was owed as a result of
ambiguous language in the loan agreements. To date, PPIB has relied on the application
and other fees charged to IPPs to meet its budgetary needs, but this is not sustainable since
new projects on which to earn additional fees are not forthconing. While the allocation of
25 basis points was, in hindsight, excessive and would have greatly exceeded PPIB's needs
if the full amount was made available; the balance was retained in the Fund, and as the
Fund was held on deposit with NDFC, was ultimately used by NDFC for its own liquidity
needs.
*     The Private Energy Division of NDFC carried out appraisals of private sector subprojects,
and negotiated long term, subordinated loans on a limited recourse basis in accordance
with the Administration Agreement (1989) and the Operational Guidelines (1994). As
lender on record, it collects the debt service due from the project companies and monitors
loan and project performance. Debt service and other fees received are held on deposit by
NDFC on behalf of the Government. Although NDFC was one of the better development
financial institutions when the projects were appraised, its financial condition has steadily
deteriorated to the point where it is now, not only illiquid, but insolvent. As a result,
NDFC has not always been able to transfer the full amount due to the Government to
repay the underlying loans which financed the LTCF. (The Government met the
differences from other sources.) While the Government took steps in mid-1999 to protect
the assets of the Fund by instructing NDFC to deposit reflows into the National Savings
Scheme, this Scheme no longer accepts institutional deposits and alternative arrangements
have not been made to date. Moreover, notwithstanding agreements to that effect, the
Government did not spinoff the LTCF from NDFC and convert it into a fully operational,
autonomous, commercially-oriented financial institution. Finally, while significant
capacity was built through training of PED staff in project fnance transactions, NDFC
has recently let go most of the senior staff resulting in a loss of institutional strengthening
that was achieved under the Projects. In hindsight, issues regarding the future of LTCF
should have been sorted out prior to approval of the PSEDP II.
•     WPPO, which was entrusted with coordinating with the different units of WAPDA during
the negotiations of IPPs, was formally deprived of this function under the 1994 Policy.
However, in practice it has continued, on and off, to negotiate PPAs and the applicable
- 12 -



tariff since that time. WPPO aiso suffered from continuous turnover in its senior
management and never fully developed the capacity to implement and monitor the PPAs
signed.
4.5.2  In all, the three entities never enjoyed managerial autonomy, so that their decision making process
was heavily influenced by political considerations. Given the uncertainties surrounding them and the lack
of transparency, the institutional objectives of the project have not been fully attained.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implemerting age"cy:
5.1.1  The finalization of the security package and mobilization of the financitg for the Hub Power
Project, the sole sub-project financed under PSEDP 1, was delayed by almost four years due to unforeseen
events such as: (i) the Gulf war which suspended most of the development activities for almost fourteen
months (1990-91); (ii) the withdrawal of two of the main contractors which made it necessary to
reconstitute the construction consortium (1990); (iii) the occasional losses of continuity that attended six
changes in government in Pakistan which at times required renegotiation of key agreements; and (iv) the
declaration of interest on loans illegal by the Federal Shariah Court in Pakistan (an issue that took some
seven months to resolve). These delays led to an escalation of around US$ 150 million in the turn-key
contract price. In addition, the senior lenders insisted on higher contingencies and standby financing
amounting to around US$100 million. This necessitated new loans from the Bank and [EXIM to replenish
the Fund, and PSEDP II was approved at the end of November 1994. Therefore, while PSEDP I became
effective in October 1988, Hub did not reach financial close until December 1994. Based on the
experiences of Hub, the Government announced a new set of incentives in 1994 and introduced streamlined
approval procedures and standardized agreements. This allowed the subsequent IPPs, including the
sub-projects financed under PSEDP II, to reach financial closure in a relatively short time for project
finance transactions. Therefore, factors outside the control of government had a significant effect on
project implementation for PSEDP I, but not PSEDP II.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control.,
5.2.1  The Government, through the Private Power and Infrastructure Board (PPIB). was responsible for
implementing the private power policy and the tariff structure but failed to review the policy and tariff on
an annual basis as was the original intention. The 1994 Policy should have been amended in light of
changing circumstances such as the reduction in load growth and the subsequent fall in the cost of power
plant equipment. In hindsight, the Govemmert should have placed a cap on the number of letters of
support issued, and the tariff offered should have been reduced when it became apparent that the response
from the private sector was exceptionally high. In retrospect, the percentage of letters of support which
was expected to result in a completed project was underestimated.
5.2.2  Starting in 1998, the Government through the PPIB issued seven Notices of Intent to Terminate on
grounds of cozruption and two on technical grounds which represented about two-thirds of private power
capacity contracted (including two sub-projects financed under PSEDP II). Whatever the substance of the
Government's allegations of corruption--such allegations are difficult to prove generally and no evidence
was produced in court--these actions were largely perceived by the developers as means to delay the
completion of IPP projects under the 1994 Policy and to extort tariff concessions given WAPDA's
cashflow problems, political pressure not to increase retail tariffs, as well as the shortage of foreign
exchange available in the country. IPPs expressed frustration at being called to appear before no fewer
13 -



than a dozen IPP Committees constituted by the Government in an attempt to negotiate lower tariffs. The
different incarnations of the IPP Committee comprised, at various times and combinations, representatives
of the Accountability Bureau, PPIB, WAPDA, Ministry of Finance and independent local businessmen,
among others. None of these commnittees proved effective as no clear authority to negotiate was delegated.
In the end, one-on-one negotiations with WAPDA combined with intervention at the highest government
level, resulted in several IPPs agreeing to tariff reductions. Separately, the Hub Power Company was
accused of corruption in securing the amendments to the Power Purchase Agreement which resulted in a
court mandated reduction in the capacity price to be paid by WAPDA. Furthermnore, changing
governments sought to place the blame for the perceived high cost of private power on previous
governments, and as a result, the IPP program became highly politicized. The handling of corruption
allegations contributed to the erosion of investor confidence in Pakistan and has reflected adversely on
GOP. This has had a substantial negative impact on the outcome of both PSEDP I and H.
5.2.3 Lastly, each of the institutions involved in the private power program (PPIB, NDFC and WPPO)
were adversely affected by political interventions. These contributed to the high turnover of officials and
undernined the autonomy of the concemed institutions with adverse implications for the outcome.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
5.3.1  The actions of WAPDA to delay commissioning of IPPs and secure tariff reductions in return for
pernitting the plants to comnmence operations contravened at least the spirit of project documents signed
with the subproject sponsors. The result is that tariff reductions have been obtained and WAPDA has been
able to delay paying capacity charges, but the overall subproject costs have risen by 20-30 percent (except
for HUB and the APL pipeline subproject which were completed on time) which affected return on equity
as the construction risk had been assumed by the IPPs. This resulted in the three IPPs financed under
PSEDP 11 to be commissioned between 14 and 30 months behind schedule, as well as the Government
assuming more risk to the three subprojects as LTCF contributed to meeting the cost overruns.
5.3.2 In addition, WAPDA alleged corruption charges against Hubco and prevented the company from
pursuing international arbitration through injunctions sought by WAPDA in the local courts. On June 14,
2000 the Supreme Court of Pakistan upheld, in a 3-2 decision, that the dispute between Hubco and
WAPDA is not subject to arbitration, ruling that the dispute centers around alleged criiinality and
therefore, as a matter of public policy, it should be resolved within Pakistan in accordance with local laws.
Hubco filed petitions in the Supreme Court seeking a review and reversal of this judgmnent. The matter was
resolved in a Settlement Agreement signed by Hubco and WAPDA on December 17, 2000 which lowered
payments to Hubco by WAPDA, provided for corruption charges and lawsuits to be resolved or withdrawn
by March 31, 2001, and reaffirmed the validity of the contract. These factors have substantially effected
the outcome of the Projects.
5.3.3 NDFC and PPIB played key roles in the implementation of the policies and in selection, appraisal,
and financing of the subprojects. However, the frequent changes of key personnel, the political nature of
appointments, and at times interference by GOP hindered their effectiveness. The failure of NDFC to
provide agreed funding under GOP's directions for PPIB's operations preoccupied PPIB managers. More
recently, the financial problems of NDFC's own account operations have jeopardized its ability to
administer the LTCF as it has used the Fund's cash assets for its own liquidity needs, and has in effect
"captured" the Fund. In addition, the politicization of the IPP program during 1998-1999 prevented PPIB
and NDFC staff from taking decisions for fear of retribution which further frustrated the resolution of
issues. This has negatively affected the outcome of the Projects.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
- 14 -



5.4.1 Strict comparisons of appraisal estimates of project cost and financing with actual costs are not
very meaningful given the project design where the Long Tenn Credit Fund created under the project, was
intended to catalyze financing for private sector sub-projects which, for the most part, were not identified in
detail at the time of appraisal. The Hub project was the only subproject identified at the time of appraisal
for PSEDP I and II, and the APL Pipeline subproject was identified during PSEDP H appraisal.
5.4.2 Under PSEDP I, total project cost was estimated to be US$1,893 million equivalent. The proposed
Bank loan of US$150 million, together with loans and grants from bilateral aid agencies, amounting to
US$415 million would finance the Fund and consulting services. The remaining US$1,328 million was to
be provided by the private sector, comprised of US$470 million (25 percent) equity and US$858 million
(45 percent) in local and foreign commercial loans and suppliers' credits. Under PSEDP II, the estimated
total cost of the Project was about US$2,388 million of which US$11 million was for technical assistance
and US$2,377 million for subprojects. The Hub Power Project would account for US$1,832 mnillion and
the APL pipeline, US$100 million. The remaining US$445 million would be for power subprojects.
5.4.3 In reality, PSEDP I and II led to the financing of five private energy investments in Pakistan, for a
total cost of over US$3 billion. Table 2 below compares subproject appraisal estimates (as prepared by
NDFC) with actual costs. (Annex 10 provides additional details on each of the subprojects.) It should be
noted that with the exception of the Hub subproject and the APL pipeline, which were completed within
budget, the other three subprojects experienced cost overruns on the order of 20-30 percent.
5.4.4 Given the incentive structure under the 1994 Policy, the capital costs per kW of the subprojects
were relatively high, largely due to high "soft" costs (i.e. sponsor/project development costs, interest during
construction and other financing fees). Not including standby financing, the estimated cost per kW for the
four power projects financed under the two loans (Hub, Uch, Rousch and Southern Electric) was estimated
to be US$1245, US$1200, US$1090 and US$1035, respectively. Using actual figures, the cost per kW for
these same projects was approximately US$1205, US$1365, US$1395 and US$1325, respectively. In
addition, the percent of "soft" costs for the Hub and Uch projects were about 30 percent (including II
percent and 7 percent, respectively, for project development costs). The "soft" costs for the Rousch and
Southern Electric projects were more modest around 14 percent and 17 percent respectively, including 3
percent for project development costs. As a comparison to the Uch and Rousch plants which used
combined cycle technology, the 360 MW combined cycle power plant in Bangladesh, which was
competitively bid in 1997, has a total estimated cost per kW of US$510, including "soft" costs of 17
percent and project development costs of 4 percent. However, these prices were obtained at a time when
world market prices for this type of equipment were at an all time low, and manufacturers were introducing
new combined cycle technology. Equipment prices have since increased in large part due to increased
demand in developed countries, notable the USA.
- 15 -



Table 2
Project Cost and Financing Plan
(Comparison of NDFC Subprojects: Appraisal Estimates vs. Actual)
(amounts are in US$ million)
HU8ai            APL             Rousch           SEPCOL            Uch        l Technical Assistance    TOTAL
ap pi sa l actua  apasal acua       araisa   wacia  appaisal actual apprasal  actual appraisal  actual   appraisal  actual
Subordinatbd Debt - PSEDP I                                                                              _._
IBRD                           148    116                      _                _,                                    4          1      150      117
Cobancib                       240    198                                                                                               240      198
O_e                                     18 =s==                                                                                           0       18
TOTAL                          306    330         0       0        0       0         a      a         0      0        4          1      390      331   11%
Si*Ow*ated Debt - PSEDP If
IWMIR                            110     so       20       20       70     120        35     35         5  _   5        6          4      248      234
CoIsnde                        120     58         0       0       70      49         0      0       182    175                          372      282
06.13'                                    __ = _                          12                8               30                              ____ OD
TOTAL                          230    108       20       20      140     181l       35     43       187    2101       8          41    618       so6   18%
Tobd         s  Dt                 816    438        20      20       140     181       35      43      187    210          _w ___          100             29%
ePR             _                 .___.....240    148        _                                   75      75                          315     221
-Njr                                1      4     _        _      _    _     _       _                        _.____ _  11  11                3t1 21 11
_        ,0~CdAeniaec    -                -    -           -1 -1 -                   -                                   __ _    _ __X               t1  
C"Agwdes______               492    462                          46      47       22      25       163    138                          713       7
137     14t       35      40                                           172     1SO
LG ABans                        84     75       40       30                                                              _2 _                    195
_    OTAL                          816    883       40U              183      1S8       57     65       34     326    -         -           4       129W   42%
_E_u_y372    372                                     35      35       127     188       26      53      160    185                           722     813   25%
Ote                                                      --                                                -                             -        -
owe_ _ _    _ _       _          8     55                                 11                6 __   _        196    3%
GAWD TOTAL                        1860   1556        95      85      450      S7!      120    147       690    73         10          5     3225    3106 1 %
I     rla litiacl  pt 9for Hub wii    $2  mo,of slanyfinanc: US$40r Milon under tfe Barks ECOguarantee; US$20 mllon   underthe JEXIM guaantee; $25 mw i u ff der U te
blora debt fadiy, sod $2S, milIn undv PSEDP I am 1.
V'  tOInal fI          plan tUf i hcbi US    mllln Of tady    financdng, $30 mn  i equy* sadby and $16 mlain eath undr the IFC B Loan Faciy and theWold Bank Guaranee
FaIy. Th  Rg      en h Vie actua! ahmn are    a   sinc  i financil ucufing hs n t be  c
Inludes          _ apabton  tert chrd..
4i  Indude evnueduuivg won*uct, n ;riudated damages caims.



6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
6.1.1 The sustainability for both PSEDP I and II is unlikely. While the IPP program moved ahead quite
aggressively, the reform of WAPDA is proceeding at a much slower pace than originally envisaged and
only started in earnest in 1998. In fact, there was no cross conditionality between PSEDP I and II and
other Bank projects in the Pakistan power sector. The economy, and hence the demand for power, did not
grow as anticipated, and too much private power was contracted under the 1994 Policy. The general
economic weakness of Pakistan, which has necessitated IMF programs and rescheduling of commercial
debt, places future IPP foreign exchange transfers at risk-although the record of governments in
facilitating these transfers has been good, even at the low point of relations with IPPs-and any future
calling of govemment guarantees and acceleration of IPP debt could trigger Pakistan default with uncertain
political outcomes. Also, the entire energy sector was jeopardized by the poor financial performance of
WAPDA and KESC, which resulted from the failure (i) to achieve efficiency improvements through
restructuring and privatization (which would have improved meter reading and billing and reduced
electricity theft); (ii) to receive regular tariff adjustments; and (iii) of government, particularly at the
provincial level, to pay for electricity. Furthermore, WAPDA had difficulty honoring its commitments to
the IPPs which necessitated a lengthy renegotiation process on tariffs. Under the circumstances,
particularly as long as an excess of capacity prevails, there could be further pressures on the twenty private
generators to reduce their tariffs and/or on the commercial lenders to restructure the IPP debt.
Notwithstanding the above, WAPDA has now made substantive progress in implementing the reform
program since 1997/98 and has renegotiated a lower tariff from the majority of the IPPs that has brought
some relief to their cashflow problem. However, the IPP crisis has contributed to the lack of confidence in
Pakistan by potential investors needed to tumaround the financial performance of the power sector. This
leads to the conclusion that unless the power sector reform is filly implemented, the framework is
unsustainable.
6.1.2  The institutional framework created under the project does not appear sustainable, unless the
Government takes drastic measures, given: (i) the lack of secure funding for PPIB, (ii) the insolvent state of
NDFC which has, in effect, captured the reflows of the LTCF, (iii) the reluctance of the Govemment to
address the future management and structure of LTCF; (iv) the limited ability of WAPDA's Private Power
Organization (WPPO) to effectively manage its commercial relationship with the IPPs; and (v) the delay in
reforning WAPDA and restructuring the sector. The financial difficulties faced by NDFC as a financial
institution severely jeopardizes the sustainability of the Fund since recent indications are that NDFC is
dependent upon the Fund for income and liquidity. The Govermment is yet to decide on the use of such
funds or to implement satisfactory safeguard measures to prevent the reflows from being held hostage by
NDFC. On the positive side, there is currently progress on the implementation of the power sector reforms,
including the financial restructuring of WAPDA and KESC, but there is still some way to go to fully
restore the financial viability of the sector.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
6.2.1  The Bank has recommended that the Govenmment replaces NDFC as the Administrator, given its
inability to effectively manage the Fund, and to put in place an interim arrangement to monitor the current
portfolio of assets. Unfortunately, the Government has not yet made suitable arrangements to safeguard
the assets of the Fund or address its future.
- 17 -



7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 ILending:
7.1.1  Bank performance during project preparation of PSEDP I can be considered unsatisfactory. In
many ways, the project was highly innovative and challenging in that it sought to assist the Government in
undertaking build-own-operate projects using limited recourse financing - a financing technique that had
been seldom, if ever, used in developing countries until then for large scale infrastructure projects. It
required the creation of a Private Sector Energy Development Fund (later renamed the Long Term Credit
Facility - LTCF), and the development of GOP institutions to appraise and supervise subprojects, and
manage the Fund (the Private Energy Division of NDFC) and develop and administer a private power
policy on behalf of GOP (initially the Private Power Cell which subsequently became the Private Power
and Infrastructure Board -- PPIB). However, insufficient thought was given to the financial aspects of the
Fund and to its future. In terms of Bank procedure, appraisal of both Projects was carried out directly by
the Energy Operations Division Manager. High level senior management attention may have led to
inadequate attention being given to dissenting views during the review process.
7.1.2  Despite its innovation, in retrospect the Project may have been too large. Although several
subprojects were identified as potential candidates for LTCF funding during appraisal of PSEDP I, all the
proceeds of the first loan and a portion of the proceeds from the second loan were devoted to finance the
Hub subproject and the related pipeline. Given the slow progress in bringing the Hub project to financial
closure, the Bank should have at least considered ending its involvement in the project. Furthermore, this
large project required many sponsors and lenders, leading to excessively complex arrangements and
decision making processes.
7.1.3 The Bank not only played a coordinating role on behalf of cofinanciers, but also played the role of
"broker" to help resolve issues between the Government and the Hub project sponsors. These roles were
viewed by most stakeholders as invaluable since the project was pioneering and the sectoral initiative was
new for Pakistan. Without the Bank's contribution as unofficial leader of the cofinanciers and confidante of
the Government, development of the Hub project could have presented insurmountable problems to the
Govermment and sponsors. The downside was that some parties viewed the Hub project as a "Bank
project", especially as the Bank acted like a promoter representing sponsors, lenders and government. In
hindsight, Bank involvement went far beyond what was prudent for a development banker and exposed the
Bank to conflicts of interest and reputational risk.
7.1.4  Insufficient attention was devoted during appraisal of PSEDP II to the affordability of private
power in Pakistan. In 1994 when PSEDP n was approved, WAPDA's average tariff was approximately
Rs. 1.45/kWh (US¢4.5/kWh). The levelized tariff recommended under the 1994 Policy at US¢6.5 kWh for
the first 10 years increased, taking into account losses at 24.2 percent, to US08.6/kWh. Thus, the issue
whereby WAPDA would lose implicitly US04. l/kWh bought from IPPs was acknowledged but not
addressed through the loan. This issue would have been appropriately addressed had the Government more
vigorously pursued the power sector reform program early on and allowed WAPDA to treat the cost of
purchases from IPPs as a pass-through in its tariffs. However, it is highly unlikely that tariff increases of
this magnitude would have been politically or socially acceptable, or even commercially sustainable.
7.1.5 Lastly, the Bank required through covenants under PSEDP II (and as amended under PSEDP I)
that the Government offer concessions to IPPs which would be deemed excessive by today's standards,
-18 -



including a provision whereby the applicable tariff will be such that it yields a return on equity of 25
percent after tax, provided that it does not exceed the avoidable cost of WAPDA which at the time was set
at US06.5/kWh. In retrospect, the Bank should not have encouraged such a provision in its loan covenants
on what was essentially a cormmercial matter.
7.1.6  Under the circumstances, the performance of the Bank at appraisal is rated as unsatisfactory for
PSEDP I and II.
7.2 Supervision:
7.2.1  As a practical matter, it is difficult to assess separately the supervision efforts of PSEDP I and 11
since the Loan Agreement for PSEDP I was substantially amended to match that of PSEDP R and its
closing date was extended to be co-terminus with PSEDP II. In general terms, the supervision effort
focused to a very large extent on the review, preparation, appraisal, and negotiations of specific IPP
transactions, as opposed to ensuring that the framework for inviting private power, and the related
institutions, perform in accordance with expectations. This is also apparent from the staffing profile of
supervision missions. In addition, the exceptional success of the IPP program in mobilizing private finance
created a diversion for management, both in the design and supervision stages, lessening their attention on
the reform of the sector itself (which was to be implemented under a separate Bank project and by a
separate tearn). On the credit side, the Bank was very innovative and forceful in overcoming the difficulties
of seeing through the IPP program once it ran into trouble starting in 1998, and worked in a coordinated
fashion with both IFC and MIGA which were also involved in Pakistan IPP projects. In addition, the
consolidation of the Bank teams working on the IPPs and sector reform issues has been beneficial.
7.2.2 Acceptable audited financial statements for the LTCF and the various subprojects were submitted
to the Bank as required in the legal agreements. Except in the last two years of implementation, NDFC
submitted these reports in a timely fashion. The last two annual audited statements for the LTCF were
delayed by over a year due to several changes in NDFCs management, which left the organization without
a permanent NDFC Chairman in a position to call Board meetings to endorse and sign the accounts. In
fact, the audit for the last fiscal year is yet to be received. The Bank followed up on the delays in an
appropriate manner and there were no accountability issues raised in the audits received. Compliance with
the Bank's procurement and environmental and resettlement safeguard policies was a condition under the
subloan agreements between the LTCF and the subproject companies. Each subproject met the Bank's
safeguard policies applicable at the time. Since NDFC did not have the capacity to ensure compliance, the
Bank took the lead in reviewing and clearing the Environmnental and Social Soundness Assessment reports
prepared by independent consultants, financed by the sponsors, for each of the five subprojects. Until the
loans are repaid, the Lenders' Engineer is responsible for monitoring environmental compliance. As such,
supervision missions did not include environment or social development specialists. According to
information available, each subproject is operating within the environmental standards as per Bank
guidelines. Except for the Rousch subproject where seven households were resettled, no other persons were
resettled. Table 4 (see page 35) provides additional information on environmental and resettlement aspects
for each of the subprojects including land acquisition and people affected, if any.
7.2.3 The supervision missions initially focused on the Hub project and securing its financial closure
which also required arranging the financing for the related APL fuel oil pipeline. (It should be noted that
gaps were discovered in the supervision records during the period 1992-95 which corresponds with the
intensive period during which the Bank was focused on closing the Hub project.) The Bank made
exceptional efforts to enable the closure of Hub, including: (i) the identification of the sponsors for the
pipeline, and helping arrange for its financing; (ii) the use of IBRD funds under LTCF for mobilization
payments to contractors prior to financial close; and (iii) the initial utilization of the ECO Guarantee
- 19-



instrument designed to protect commercial lenders against certain political risks (after three years of
preparation, the Bank and JEXIM processed parallel guarantees of US$240 million and US$120 million,
respectively). The Hub guarantee was the first partial risk guarantee extended by the Bank and the lessons
were subsequently incorporated in the Board paper on "Mainstreaniing of Guarantees", which streamlined
processing of the product. In April 1996, the Bank approved a similar guarantee in the amount of US$75
million for Uch Power Limited."
7.2.4 When the Hub project ran into trouble with the Government in 1998 and Hubco's management was
accused of corruption, the Bank's position was conflicted given its many roles (i.e. as guarantor to the
commercial lenders, indirect lender to the project company, lender to WAPDA, and advisor to the
Government). On the one hand, the sponsors and lenders were looking to the Bank to support the project
and intervene with the Government on their behalf, in light of what they viewed were politically motivated
charges and which they considered were unfounded and driven by the desire of GOP/WAPDA to reduce
Hub's tariff. The Governnent, on the other hand, was seeking the Banks assistance in pursuing the
corruption charges and lowering of tariffs which WAPDA could not afford to pay without politically
infeasible tariff increases. Ultimately, the Bank assisted in developing an orderly framework for resolving
the IPP disputes, and facilitated meetings between Hubco and the Government, at their request, to reach a
mutually agreed settlement which was ultimately concluded without the Bank's presence.
7.2.5  Overall, there was insufficient attention paid to the institutional development aspects of the
projects. Significant covenants affecting institutional objectives that were not complied with included the
following:
*     Establishing LTCF as an autonomous, commercially oriented financial institution was
included as a loan covenant under PSEDP I. In addition, it was agreed that a study to that
effect would be conducted in 1989, and its recommendation would be implernented
subsequently. However, this was postponed by GOP, with the concurrence of the Bank
and cofinanciers, until the first subproject (Hub) was launched. Therefore, a covenant to
reconstitute the Fund along the above principles and to appoint a board of directors and
managing director for the LTCF was included under PSEDP II. (It is noted that this was
stated as a condition of effectiveness in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), although the
Minutes of Negotiation reveals that it was included in the Loan Agreement. It is unclear
why the SAR was not updated to reflect this change in condition.) In addition, consultants
were to be appointed to formulate a framework for the operation of LTCF as a
administratively and financially autonomous institution. While the board and a managing
director were appointed, their powers were (rightly) questioned by NDFC, which was still
operating the Fund under an Administration Agreement with the Government. Both the
Government and the Bank were preoccupied with the details of the subprojects and did not
give priority to addressing the spirit of the covenant.
*     For the first time in 1999, the Bank supervision team included a financial sector/capital
markets specialist in an attempt to focus on achieving an autonomous, commercially
oriented long term credit fund, to reassess the need to create a separate financial
"institution", and to explore options for the Fund to achieve its objective in line with
the Bank's current financial sector policy dialogue. Although there were several false
starts in attempting to engage the Government in a discussion on a terms of reference to
explore options for the future management, ownership and structure of the Fund, the
Government did not meet its commitment to conduct this study. During the final
- 20 -



supervision mission, it was agreed that the loan condition to establish the LTCF as an
autonomous, commercially oriented entity could not be fulfilled in the near term, given the
unfavorable market conditions for private provision of infrastructure in Pakistan. In
addition, the sale of existing assets is hindered by the overall adverse investmnent climate in
the country. In exchange for a waiver to this covenant, the Government agreed to submit
to the Bank an alternative, interim arrangemnent for the Fund which included details on the
matter in which the assets of the Fund shall be safeguarded and a process under which the
Bank shall be consulted as to the ultimate use of the LTCF funds. However, no plan has
been submitted to the Bank, and so no satisfactory agreement was ever reached.
*     An amount equivalent to 0.25 percent (25 basis point) of the proceeds of the intermediation
spread charged on subloans was to be made available to PPIB to cover the cost of its
services under the Project and to ensure its financial autonomy. However, the first partial
payment was not made to PPIB until 1998/99 since NDFC, the Ministry of Finance and
PPIB could not agree on the interpretation of the covenant to ascertain whether or not
amounts were due to PPIB in the early years of project implementation. While the Bank
agreed to fund an additional year of PPEB's incremental staff costs through December 31,
1997 under PSEDP II, it declined further requests and ultimately facilitated a common
understanding between MOF, NDFC and PPIB to enable an annual payment to be made to
PPIB to cover its reasonable expenses, subject to the amount not exceeding 25 b.p. of the
intermediation spread.
*     Government approval of the security package for the fuel oil pipeline for Hub is stated to
be a condition of effectiveness in the Staff Appraisal Report for PSEDP II. In the Loan
Agreement, it is presented as a dated covenant. One should note that the subproject, three
years after commissioning, has not reached technical financial closure since the
Implementation Agreement was never signed. The US$20 million subloan has, however,
been fully disbursed and repayments to the LTCF have begun.
7.2.6  Lastly, the "highly satisfactory" rating of supervision missions for PSEDP I and II during 1995-97
was misplaced and focused too much on the apparent success of GOP's policies in attracting IPPs and
private investment to Pakistan. It was only in FY99 that PSEDP II received an "unsatisfactory" rating in
terms of attainment of Development Objectives.
7.2.7  Under the circumstances, the Bank's overall supervision effort for both PSEDP I and II is rated as
unsatisfactory.
7.3 Overall Bankperformance:
7.3.1 Overall, the Bank seemed to have been too involved in promoting specific transactions (to the
extent that it even helped find partners in some instances), especially the Hub subproject and the related
pipeline. It did not pay enough attention to the manner in which the Government was implementing its
1994 Private Power Policy. The Bank ought to have reacted when it was clear that too many letters of
support were being issued and when it was apparent WAPDA was taking on excessive obligations with
IPPs, and that less than optimal projects were being selected. The early lack of focus on the impact on
WAPDA's financial situation and the covenants relating to PPIB and LTCF also contributed to an
unsatisfactory outcome. There were management shortcomings during preparation, appraisal and early
supervision of the Projects. The responsible managers were too closely involved in promoting projects, and
senior management failed to pursue adequate quality assurance and ignored waming signs. Early
supervision was entrusted to loosely managed long term consultants. In addition, Pakistani authorities
-21 -



alleged malfeasance against a former Bank staff closely associated with the Projects in the context of the
Hub subproject, which led to an internal investigation. It was only after 1998 that substantial management
attention, both in Washington and the field, was accorded to the supervision efforts of the projects and to
the underlying structural problems in the sector once it became clear that the current sector condition was
unsustainable and threatened the macroeconomic stability of the country (FY99); by that time, the damage
was done.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
7.4.1  The institutions responsible for managing GOP's policy and negotiating agreements on its behalf
(PPIB) and for administering the LTCF (NDFC) were government-owned bodies that performed
satisfactorily during project preparation and development. Creation of PPIB under PSEDP II was a sound
decision, and PPIB was effective in carrying out its role for GOP in the implementation of the 1994 Private
Power Policy. However, it is now apparent that both PPIB and NDFC's effectiveness were undermined by
changes of government that reduced their independence and decision-making during implementation. The
Bank sought, unsuccessfully, to prevent this from happening through covenants in the PSEDP loans.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
7.5.1 (i) PPIB: PPIB reputedly performed well initially, and all parties -- NDFC, WAPDA and private
power developers -- praised the quality and effectiveness of its staff. However, over time better salaries
and opportunities in the private sector attracted many of its best professionals especially with some of the
IPPs. A Special Assistant to the Prime Minister headed PPIB after its formation in August 1994, and this
enabled it to obtain prompt government decisions and approvals. Subsequently, with changes in
government -- the Ministry of Water and Power controlled PPIB at various times and then the Ministry of
Investment -- its authority and reputation were reduced. For example, some sponsors questioned the
transparency and impartiality of the process by which letters of support were granted. PPIB, to its credit,
does not seem to have taken a prominent role in GOP measures adopted by GOP/WAPDA to delay
commissioning of IPP generators and actions aimed at forcing renegotiation of IPP tariffs. Overall, PPIB's
implementation performance is rated satisfactory.
7.5.2 (ii) WAPDA - WPPO: WAPDA's Private Power Organization (WPPO) was originally set up to
negotiate tariffs and power purchase agreements. It also managed the integration of private power supplies
into its system. Most of these functions were taken over by PPIB from WPPO in 1994 when it assumed
full responsibility for negotiations with private sector subproject sponsors. When the financial problems of
WAPDA emerged in 1997, WAPDA and the Government began to dispute the PPAs and discredit IPPs
through allegations of corruption. Several IPPs faced delays due to WAPDA's failure to provide
transmission inter-connections on time. WAPDA sought to delay commencement of IPP operations by
refusing to cooperate with them during plant testing and commissioning. This led to significant start up
delays for several IPPs and contributed to undermining international investor confidence in the country.
Both GOP and WAPDA have alleged that their consent to the Hubco PPA was obtained improperly and
corruption was involved. To date, no evidence has been provided to the courts to support these allegations,
and both sides have mutually agreed to drop pending legal cases. In hindsight, it is apparent that WAPDA
was not fully committed to purchasing power from IPPs or to reformiing itself
7.5.3 During implementation of PSEDP nI, WAPDA's financial performance began to deteriorate
significantly. Prior to 1994, WAPDA had achieved good financial performance and had consistently
maintained a high level of self-financing although this can at least be partly explained by low costs of old
hydro plants, such as Tarbela, shown in WAPDA's financial statements. However during implementation
of the project, a serious decline in WAPDA's finances occurred. WAPDA was not able to reduce its costs,
- 22 -



reduce theft of electricity (except when the army took responsibility for meter reading and billing in 1999),
recover revenues from provincial governments and government entities, and obtain GOP/NEPRA approval
for tariff increases needed to maintain its financial viability. One of the principal consequences is that
WAPDA had difficulty meeting its power purchase obligations to IPPs. WAPDA's financial crisis was
predictable, yet the management within WAPDA at that time remained complacent as finances deteriorated
and poor quality service led to loss of customer goodwill. Overall, WAPDA's implementation performance
is rated as highly unsatisfactory.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
7.6.1 NDFC: The Private Energy Division (PED) of NDFC performed in a satisfactory manner during
the early years of implementation in processing the appraisal and approval of subprojects, but was
subsequently found to be unsatisfactory. While PED was staffed with well qualified personnel, the
autonomy of the PED and the ability of its staff to undertake decisions was often frustrated during
1998-2000 when the private power program was highly politicized. Subsequently, most of the PED's
senior staff have left. The financial condition of NDFC jeopardized its ability to fulfill its functions as
administrator of the LTCF. Furthermore, the compensation arrangements for NDFC, in addition to their
access to LTCF funds (by virtue of the LTCF account being held on deposit at NDFC), made it extremely
unlikely that NDFC would facilitate the creation of an alternative arrangement. The deterioration in the
financial condition of NDFC commenced some time before the approval of PSEDP I and continued through
the last decade, largely as a result of Government intervention and directed lending. NDFC's ability to
continue to administer the Fund is tied to its own future, which is in question given its insolvent state. It is
unclear that NDFC would be in a position to remit funds held on deposit on behalf of LTCF without
liquidity assistance from the State Bank of Pakistan. NDFC and GOP failed to act on the establishment of
LTCF as an autonomous, commercially oriented institution. Following the loss of confidence by private
investors in Pakistan, the Bank has agreed with GOP that spinning off the LTCF as a separate financial
institution is no longer warranted. However, concerns remain about how surpluses generated by the Fund
and reflows from debt service payments by the IPPs will be used by GOP.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
7.7.1  The borrower and the implementing agencies (i.e. NDFC and PPIB) were fully committed to the
project and this is evidenced by the success in completing 19 IPPs under the 1994 policy in addition to the
Hub project Beneficiaries of the LTCF, without exception, praised the role of LTCF in providing
long-term subordinated loan flmds without which their subprojects could not have been financed. However,
the Government and WAPDA were criticized by IPPs for politically-motivated obstructions and delays in
the past two years which led to substantial cost overruns for several IPPs and contributed to the overall
decline in foreign investor confidence in the country.
7.7.2 WAPDA's commitment as the power purchaser was much more problematic in 1998/99.
GOP/WAPDA vigorously pursued the renegotiation of tariffs through corruption allegations and impeded
completion of several IPPs by not providing them with inter connection facilities or the approval to run
their plants until lower tariffs were agreed. WAPDA was ultimately successful in securing tariff
concessions from about a dozen IPPs, all of which had yet to be commissioned in 1998/9 as these were the
plants over wbich WAPDA had the most leverage. Significantly, no IPP (other than Hubco) which had
achieved commercial operations prior to this time, conceded to WAPDA's desire to reduce tariffs.
7.7.3  Lastly, the Government should have reduced its commitments for new IPPs once it became aware
that an excess of generating capacity was developing. In all, the performance of GOP and its agencies
(NDFC and WPPO) is deemed unsatisfactory.
- 23 -



8. Lessons Learned
8.1    The following are some of the lessons learned from PSEDP I and II.
8.2    Sector Reform and IPPs. The Bank mobilized over time an impressive amount of resources for the
power sector in Pakistan and helped eliminate power shortages. The IPP program, unprecedented both in
concept and scope, elicited an enthusiastic buy-in both within and outside the Bank. The Bank promoted
measures for sector management and restructuring, as well as public sector policy reforms, which were
generally right and timely. The Government, however, failed to have them implemented at the intended
pace. While failures in sector reforms did not precipitate the financial crisis of WAPDA, they compounded
it, crippled the efficiency of both WAPDA and the IPP program, and left the sector overly vulnerable to
economic downturns. The debate within the Bank on whether sector reforms should precede private
investment in power generation or whether private investment acts as a catalyst for sector reform is
unresolved; however, there is a strong consensus that private investment is not a substitute for reform and
that private investment in generation should not take place in front of reforms which at a minimum address
distribution efficiency and tariff policies. Once IPPs start to operate in a power system, it would be
preferable for an integrated utility sector to be unbundled, so that competition for the market can be
introduced and, over time, generating plants can be operated on a competitive basis. This further market
development is anticipated as part of the ongoing power sector reform program, but details are yet to he
determined. In addition, automatic indexation formulae should be in place to protect the purchasing
utility from changes in fuel costs, currency devaluation, and the cost ofpurchased power.
8.3    By supporting the establishment of PPIB and WPPO to implement the 1994 IPP policy, and by
giving emphasis under that policy on the use of government guarantees, it may have had the unintended
effect of enabling vested interest in the sector (WAPDA and the Sector Ministry) to "capture and stall" the
implementation of the structural changes envisaged by the Government in the 1992 Strategic Plan for the
privatization of the Pakistan Power Sector, i.e. the unbundling of the WAPDA Power Wing and the
introduction of competition in the market. After substantial delays, the first phase of the power sector
reform program is now nearing completion (i.e. restructuring of WAPDA's power wing into 12 corporate
entities with the remaining WAPDA responsible for hydel generation, with the National Transmission and
Dispatch Company initially operating as a single buyer). The single buyer model has risks in terms of
preserving the role of the sector ministry in investment decisions, possibly shielding financiers of generation
projects from market risks and govermnent interference in electricity wholesale trading. The current
NEPRA Act envisages that generators over time will be able to enter into bilateral contracts with
distribution companies. The institutional/regulatory framework which is now being finalized is being
designed so as to not hinder the ultimate creation of a competitive wholesale market.
8.4    Benchmark Pricing vs. Competitive Biddinz. Rather than proceed through competitive bidding for
private power, Pakistan instead set a bulk tariff ceiling for investors in an effort to accelerate the private
power programn and reduce transaction costs in order to quickly address the blackout situation facing the
country. This was a very successful tactic in attracting foreign investors, but too many projects were
approved and the selection process was not transparent. In fact, it is likely that some projects for which
Letters of Support were issued, and indeed some of those which ultimately reached financial close,
benefited from political support since no clear criteria existed to determine which projects to prioritize
when the Government was faced with negotiating project agreements with almost 80 potential IPP
developers. In addition, setting prices rather than bidding allowed for inefficiencies (e.g. projects which
were too small and not least cost) and corruption opportunities on non-price issues (e.g. securing the
attendant fuel supplies and WAPDA's transmission investments). Furthermore, setting the ceiling price for
- 24 -



power which, in hindsight, was too high led to perhaps inflated costs. However, competitive biddingfor
IPPs combined with incentives for providing least cost power could have resulted in lower tariffs,
prevented too many and suboptimal projects being developed, and promoted transparency.
8.5  Le IPP programs need to be carefully managed. The IPP program was "cutting edge" and
perhaps ahead of its time given the country's state of development (in terms of social, economic, political,
and institutional governance), and may have been better being piloted before encouraging wider use. A
power system can accommodate a small IPP program without major financial dislocation. Indeed, adding
IPP capacity to a slow reforming sector can be a catalyst for reform. However, project economics still
matter if the govermnent is assuming some risk and several lessons emerge from the Pakistan experience
including the need to:
*     tailor public financial support and guarantees to facilitate an efficient investment
program. Pakistan was successful in limiting Bank supported political risk guarantees to
only two large projects and in providing subordinate debt under PSEDP I and II to only
four large or medium size IPPs. However, all of the 20 IPPs received government support
under Implementation Agreements whereby the government backstopped the payment
obligations of WAPDA/KESC and the state-owned fuel suppliers. It is doubtful whether
any IPPs could have been financed in Pakistan without government guarantees since
perceptions of Pakistan's risk had limited financing to terms of 18-36 months.
Nevertheless, such support should have been limited only to projects of clear priority that
could be afforded by the country.
*     limit the size of the first IPP to enable ready substitution if a key participant drops out and
allow the Bank to take a more hands-off role in the details of the transaction. The 1,292
MW, US$1.6 billion Hub Power Project was the first IPP transaction in Pakistan and the
first subproject financed under PSEDP I and II. The project emanated from two
unsolicited offers which were subsequently consolidated and required six years to reach
financial close. The difficulties with the project can largely be attributed to its size. The
Hub subproject absorbed the full provision for PSEDP I (US$146 million) as well as a
significant share of PSEDP II (US$130 million including the financing of the associated
fuel oil pipeline). The Bank also provided a US$240 million partial risk guarantee to
commercial lenders in order to close the financing plan. In addition, the Bank played a
vital role in brokering the transaction and assisting the parties in negotiating key
agreements, including commercial agreements to which the Bank was not a party.
However, this approach later backfired as the Hub sponsors expected the Bank to play a
key role in resolving their dispute with the Government - a role the Bank was ill-equipped
to perform as it was a conflicted player in as much as the Bank is also an advisor to the
Government. Until Pakistan had developed a track record of GOP contractual
performance and successful implementation of power projects in the power sector, the
Government should have concentrated its efforts on modest-sized, and as a consequence,
more easily financeable projects.
*     have an efficientfuel supply policy particularly the rational use of natural gas (electricity
generation is usually one of the highest value uses of gas) and allow IPPs to procure fuels
in competitive markets, both foreign and domestic.
*     create capacity to manage IPP contracts. While Pakistan created institutional capacity to
approve new IPPs, and the creation of PPIB as a "one stop shop" for investors is widely
- 25 -



credited as a key advantage in preventing bureaucratic delays, WAPDA did not put in
place an effective contract management unit to manage their commercial contracts with the
private sector. Furthermore, WAPDA was conflicted as the sole buyer, system operator
and competing power generator which argues for unbundling, at least, transmission.
ensure efficient plant dispatch. Since fuel is the main element of WAPDA and IPP costs,
the power system needs to be operated to ensure that the plant with the lowest variable
operating cost is dispatched first, subject to transmission constraints, and that undue
preference is not given to any plant, public or private. WAPDA's current dispatch
facilities do not fully recognize all relevant factors.
8.6    Due Diligence by Other Lenders. Given the overall government guarantees provided through the
Implementation Agreements, it appears that private sector lenders, export credit agencies and even the IFC
and the Bank primarily relied on the risk allocation framework as contained in the security package, and
discounted the potential country, macroeconomic and sector risk. The parties may have also drawn undue
comfort from the Bank Group's involvement in the 1994 Private Power Policy. The lesson is that one
cannot fully rely on the risk mnitigation measures provided in the security package when the underlying
economics of the project are compromised by an unsound macroeconomic situation in the country.
8.7   Procurement. Most IPP projects which gained Letters of Support under the 1994 Policy, and
which were interested in seeking subordinated financing under the Long Term Credit Fund, were not
ultimately able to avail themselves of the Fund due to procurement restrictions. Any application of LTCF
financing (utilizing the Bank or JEXIM funds) had to meet Bank procurement guidelines. Of the five
subprojects financed by the Bank through the LTCF, one (Southern Electric) selected the EPC contractor
through limited international bidding and four sub-contracted various items of the EPC contract through
intemational competitive bidding (ICB) which were to be procured with Bank funds. However, Bank
procurement guidelines existing at the time did not fit well with the philosophy of build-own-operate and
limited recourse projects. As a result, the Bank had to include special procurement provisions in the Loan
Agreement for the Hub and APL pipeline subprojects, including allowing equipment and works estimated
to cost up to US$29 million to be procured under contracts awarded with due considerations of economy
and efficiency and in accordance with sound commercial practices. Revised Bank procurement guidelines
now allow project output costs (rather than input costs), such as the electricity tariff charged by the power
station, to be subject to intemational competitive bidding (rather than the underlying equipment
procurement), which opens the way for Bank financing of virtually all costs (soft and hard) during
construction or for refinancing after completion of construction. International competitive bidding
upstream (i.e. for the IPP concession on the basis ofprice) leads to greater transparency, reduces the
risk of corruption, and allows more flexibility for Bankfinancing.
8.8    Contingent Liabilities. Under Implementation Agreements signed with IPPs, the Government
guaranteed the payment obligations of the state-owned power offtaker (WAPDA or KESC) and the fuel
supplier. In addition, GOP guaranteed the availability and convertibility of payments in foreign exchange.
While foreign investments have many beneficial effects, they also entail at some point the repatriation of
profits and the servicing of foreign debts. The capacity of a country to meet these new obligations is
necessarily related to its capacity to increase foreign exchange eamings through exports. Particularly in the
case of the power sector, where investrnents in excess of US$5 billion were made, the incremental foreign
exchange outflow is on the order of US$800 million per annum, equivalent to eight percent of Pakistan's
exports. The Bank did not investigate the matter until 1995 in the context of the due diligence process for
the Uch partial risk guarantee. The analysis concluded that under most scenarios, Pakistan would have
serious difficulties in meeting the incremental foreign exchange obligations. Furthermore, given that
- 26-



contingent liabilities also arise in the case of oil and gas development, Pakistan ought to put in place,
possibly at the Central Bank, a monitoring system for contingent liabilities.
8.9   Financing Issues. It is imperative to assess infrastructure fund projects on an holistic basis,
including the financial implications beyond the energy sector. The focus of the Bank in this case would
seem to have been on the construction of power plants and the production of electricity. Little or no
attention was given to the significant risks accumulated through the financing structure, nor to the overall
ability of the Pakistan economy to bear the very significant balance of payments burden created through the
projects. These risks, if properly addressed at the outset, may have led to the overall rationale of the
projects being questioned. The oversight in this regard extends also to the QAG who failed even to address
these issues in the Quality at Entry Review. The preparation/appraisal team should include a capital
markets/finance sector specialist to ensure that all the financing issues associated with creating an
infrastructure fund are properly addressed at the outset.
8.10  Insufficient care was lent to the role of LTCF as a quasi-financial intermediarv. The Long Term
Credit Fund was created without any measures to ensure that its various assets and liabilities are matched
(i.e. in terms of currency and interest rate structure). Furthermore, the implementing agent has not until
recently been required to prepare any type of cash flow projections or assetlliability management - which
should be standard functions for a fund manager. As a result, the LTCF has suffered excessive volatility in
profitability. These weaknesses stem from a lack of attention to detail in the design of the project
(onlending terms, asset and liability management, etc.) and an absence of a mechanism to allow for the
accommodation of a variety of outcomes. The LTCF is without suitable guidelines in terms of its financing
structure and without the capacity or mandate to respond to significant changes in circumstances.
Moreover, given the terms of the Administration Agreement signed between NDFC and the Govermment,
there would not appear to have been a full understanding as to how the managing agents would ever have
the incentive structure to behave in the fashion required for the project to be a success. For example,
NDFC not only eamed a significant fee by administering the LTCF in addition to receiving other fees under
the subloans, but also was able to use the LTCF money held on deposit with NDFC to shore up its own
liquidity needs (at one point, the LTCF constituted 25 percent of NDFC's total deposits). It must be
recognized that a project of this nature represents a relatively long chain of interdependent processes, the
overall strength of the project is only that of its weakest link.
8.11   Enforcement of Covenants. When two material covenants remained unfulfilled well past the dates
stipulated in the Loan Agreement, namely establishing the Fund as an autonomous, commercially-oriented
financial institution and finalizing the security package for the APL pipeline, the Bank essentially had no
leverage to enforce the covenants. Suspension of disbursements was not a viable option since (i) the funds
were disbursed for the APL pipeline prior to the covenant date for finalizing the security package and (ii)
the Bank could not suspend disbursements for other subprojects due to noncompliance with the LTCF
covenant since these funds were committed to private entities which had nothing to do with the
Government's commitment to spin off the Fund. In hindsight, both of these conditions should have
remained conditions of loan effectiveness, as originally indicated in the Staff Appraisal Report, or other
remedies should have been designed.
8.12   Corruption allegations. When corruption was alleged in some of the sub-projects (especially
Hubco), the Bank found it difficult to respond given its multiple roles (i.e. advisor to the Government,
lender to WAPDA, indirect lender to IPPs through the LTCF, and guarantor to commercial lenders through
the partial risk guarantees). In the case of the four IPPs financed under PSEDP I and II, and in particular
the Hub and Uch projects for which the Bank also provided partial risk guarantees, the Bank was a party to
the private sector transaction and was looked upon by both the Government and the private sector as
- 27 -



having a positive role to play in resolving the dispute. Standard Bank practice would dictate that the Bank
not get involved in commercial disputes; however, the Bank had a responsibility to act once the partial risk
guarantees were under threat of being called by the lenders as a result of what was perceived to be
government events of default. The difficulty for the Bank was in trying to maintain an "honest broker" role
in a situation where different parts of the Bank Group often played conflicting rotes: IFC as a lender to
IPPs was trying to mitigate its reputational risk vis-a-vis its syndicated B loans; the Project Finance Group
in the Bank which was focusing on mitigating calls to the Bank's partial risk guarantee; the country
economic team and energy team were concerned about the macro impact and were advising the Government
on the reform agenda. Furthermore, IPP sponsors applied pressure on the Bank through their Executive
Directors, govermments and legislators, whereas the Govermment applied pressure on the Bank to live up to
its zero tolerance policy on corruption and requested assistance in their corruption investigation. Their
argument for Bank assistance centered on the Bank's earlier, pervasive role in putting the Hubco deal
together and approving the documentation, in addition to being the main advisor to the Govermnent in
developing the IPP Policy. In all, this pushed Bank staff and management to play a more proactive role
than may have otherwise been the case. However, despite the varied interests of the World Bank Group in
the dispute, the Bank's overall objective remained the development of Pakistan and this objective guided the
Bank decision making.
8.13  Initially, the Bank had advised the Government to separate the commercial and criminal issues in
an attempt to bring the perception of an orderly framework to resolving the IPP disputes. WAPDA was
facing severe cashflow problems and was not in a position to honor its payment obligations under the
PPAs. In addition, the country's foreign exchange reserves were dangerously low which jeopardized the
Government's obligation under the Implementation Agreements to convert rupees into foreign exchange.
Some IPPs indicated a willingness to renegotiate in recognition of the country's difficulties, but not under
duress and coercive tactics. However, separating the commercial and corruption issues proved difficult to
do in practice in the case of Hubco, where the Govermnent/WAPDA was of the view that the original
commercial terms were fraudulently obtained. Ultimately, both Hubco and the Govermment/WAPDA
requested the Bank to act as a facilitator in resolving the dispute since attempts by the parties to renegotiate
the commercial terms were continuously bogged down in corruption allegations and refutations. Overall,
the lesson leamed is that govermnents and governmental agencies should be encouraged to pursue
corruption strictly according to law and internationally recognized due process, and in the meantime
contractual obligations should be honored.
8.14   Renegotiations. Renegotiating concession agreements is not unusual in the private sector,
particularly when prevailing conditions substantially change (e.g. external macro shocks). However,
negotiations will more likely result in a prompt and mutually acceptable solutions when they occur in a
commercial atmosphere, free of coercion.
-28 -



9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency.
COMMENTS BY NDFC
ON
PRIVATE SECTOR ENERGY EVAELOPMENT PROJECT I & IJ
(LN 2982-lPA  AND 3812-PAK)
INTENSIVE LEARNING IPLEMIENTATION
COMPLETION REPORT (DRAFM)
Note: The cornuents hereunder are restricted to NDFC related components of the ICR.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1.4 The Bank's ICR has rated the oucome of both the Projects as unsatisfaetory on the
basis that the related economic, financial, istitutional and technical aspects fell short of
expectations. Although the related conndc expectstions did not materiarie to the level
perceived, however, development of financial, institutional and technical aspects was not
entirely insignificant. We consider that duo cognizanc. needs to be taken of the sizeable
investmett in the power se<tr. elimination / reduciain of load shedding and crticbn of
expertise within WPPO, PPIB and PED/NDPC. As such, we consider Bark's assessment
as conservative.
4.2.3 & 4 Flusial Impact: The Bank hax highlite.d the currncy mismatch, which
leaves PSEIP-I&l1 exposed to adverse exchange raite movements. It needs to be roted
thxt while for P$IP-1 tbis aspect was totally ignored, however, in PSDP-1I the
excbhange risk fbr USS miovement to Pak Rxpee was coefd. The ae in the
structuring of PSEDP-II demonstates a learning curve. Although, he find is still
exposed to exchange risk of currencies oth  than TS $. in ftre, this exchange risk
exposre could be assessed in detil and appropriate mitigants could be exercised. With
regards to interest rate a reasonable level of cushion is available between the- Wted
average interest ates of the borrowing vis-&-vis on lepding to the investmenpt enterpises.
As such, the financial impact could be rated as moderate rather than urisatisfactory.
4.2.6 to 4.2.8 Sector Policies: It needs to be acknowledged that the general economic
scenaio of a country play a pivotal role in achievement of targeted obJtcfiveaSgoals Ik
case am antiocp*ted/targted ecooomic development would have materialized, it would
hive ecorplnertteid the Sector Poliies inated by te:0?.. It was unfortunate That
economic development was not able to keep up the pace with the sector rembrins or
energy policy initiated by the GoP.
43 Not Present Value/Economic rate of return: Since Hubco was conceved on the
basis that it should remain in the least cost pln, terfore, NDFC's apraisal rdportp
covored ERR. However, the other IPPs were not part of leat cost generaidon plan,
therefore, necessity for computation of ERR was fet neither by NDVC nor thV Bank.
With regards to financial rates of retarns, NDFC's appraisal included an in-depth
financial analysis, including MR calulaos of dte sub-procts. Tis stands vali fbr
the restreuturing proposals for Rousch and Sepcol submitted to the Bank for its approval.
I
-29 -



4.5 lntjtUttalUd deV4lPIent impact: .The ICR is citroal of NDFC' s apetite of LTCE
funids.    ive  it nes to  e kit was the wae   ib
Administration Agrcemenit (AA), whichallowed thi*s situat to happen. Perthet f
the AA, I4FC VaS required to   ii a sertacco   for the Fund Sn  this
requirenent WAS cmplied with, however, rired tt       as not foused towards
monitoring: of thisia6d6nt.
The isue relating to security of future rpaYmnerns fom. borrowing com*panes is
somehow resolved ini view of "peifc inruc sfroM  'OF (dtd December 20).
ccrigy aLCF  eositAcWthsbe opne   ithEEt NB: 3where llfuture
repaynts fo  LTF                  to b depst  .It,ma be more appropite itf dx
Fnd's icome is deposited with more than one b1nk. Wbilst it may be t  t  xa
certain provisining fis required for the Fund's prast ear s due to N 's cu0rent
ffrnancill Dstandin, howeverl the perfortnaxce obligations ~f OlP are in. no way d
towrd th co4iajcs.I short  Xthe s llaw  as. the: abec of Qsepameters
policy framework for depl;oyment of LT refoWS, as this could have been eaSIlY
estakblished prior to makng PSEDP4I eftilva.
The ICR has also critiied1F  for l     g ost o te seo  tf of PED. While
someof thesenio:r O rof FE havele          Fhweer,theeertise, ved i
gcneti :is such that it has ot crateW    c.he learn curveofove a
decade hja eabled  i) staff to         y  POs to
Thte mostiorat featur, whihpealedin PEI-pwas07 th 0disseminatn Iof (knolge
and expertis bythe enisto their uio       u    t iS oo on ave to cotr
that insional obectiv haVe nOt bn  ie.
5.,3.3 Bank has comend tha fixlue: of NtFCt poide gred fundng uder Go's
dietIofor PPIB 's peratio  preoccupi                  It tnay be rl6ld thate
N4DPC was not the 'decision    i  by fr  el         i Ue o          ,    C
6 JSUtiablt (.1.2): It has      f bensttd ht fianl Sdiffclte faed( bLy NE)C
sevrly jeopri1zes  te ustanailty o Fud.  OPasow  esabished an rralgeint:
(refer DScto 4.; alo and asa rsut re.net  f LC   orwr  ilntb under
cnro f   FC. Tiherefoe th yis se O  is                       f
that are with   C   over last few yars Eta        t of  a rk  for fture
deplgoymen, utiization and hedging of Funds inomeanopmentthedstinDbilyty.
The other najor: risk of LTCF's sustinabity is abilt of LTCF borrwsk to nake
payments ina time, which amjong other, things is4 alodpnet o Wapda's prorac
in terms ofmeetingiiitsPayienit obigations. I view  f sttlmntti Agreemets, ther overall
situatilon hais improved altho'ugih we unertad h* agra deal ofwork is yet to be done
towars impovemnt of inaiol- W'd  healh f he t*o power utilities.
2
-30 -



7.6 Implemenatifg Agency (7.61. NDFC): It bas been stated that NDFC and GOP failed
to act on the establishment of LTCF as an autonomous, commercaluy oriented instituon.
As far as ND)FC is concerned., this job was, ever entrusted to N1FC. However, NDFC
did provide its input (for instance ih prepaiatn of TOIs for appointment of conaultants)
whenever the World Bank or GOP requested it.
7.7.3 Whilc cetegorizing NDFC's perfo9uance as unsatisft.i  the ICR did not-take due
cognizance of NDFC's contribution in overall loan stztoa of sub-projects during
all phases (pre anid post financial close) of the projects.
ICR ANNEXURE
Annex- 10. A. Hub Power Project, Para 7: It has beef stated that construction was
completed in two years (1995-1997). The conssruton period for tho project was 47
months from Efifctive Date (RD). The RD for tho prposes of TfC was December 12,
1992, however, due to delay in financial close and delays in payments to the oontators,
Ilubco and the contractors agreed an extenion ottiie wheeby the period for project's
completion was computed from Apxil 30, 1993 With 47 mOiths cinstruction period the
trgeted conmpletion was March 31, 1997. Commercial operations were ofitially declared
on hMh 331, 1997 i.e. on schedule.
Annex- 10. B. The Asia Pipeline Ltd (APL) Project Para 9: It has been stated that
APL still owes approxirnately USS I million to PS orn account of extcess tariff charged
between November 1996 and July 1 99. Tbe actual liability of APL towards PSO is of
Rs. 447 million, which at the current chnse ri6e  f RAs. 61 to US$ 1 tranisltes to
approximately US$ 7.328 million.
-31 -



COA(MMNS.&Y WAPDA
ON
INTENSWE  WLAPNUNG fi"3LMENTATION
COMOPLTION REPORT (DRArIr)
PRiVATE SECTOR ELERGYDEVELOPMENT PROJECTS & r7
(LX2992AND 312-P)
TORt FO]R COzNT DY WABDA
Our commentfs se esbioted to tbe WAPDA - related cortponewns of the report
VjTR ODUTORHEMARKS
As a esult of due digence aried out by S. We difer with the perfbrmanre zating of   -
aatistory' pcrtlzig to W:APTA  inzlud1ng WPPOC  DesPie cons_zmta, in4uding
in*-quaM saport fmm tho Bank itaeU WA?DA performed SSALOIY. HAi
upon the Por secot reatructnr g prowaxne and ecency iraptovoeent mesxure8, we
can safety  btccast a fineciauy viable fiimr for WAPIA and its succe5sors0 in our
: tsessmen thoe XPPs: p io  is very much sasiable. WAPDA's self-assesSed trrng
rxgmeding implemotntation of£PSEDP-I and I is satisfctxy
PAR4WISE COMMNTS
- '1NSZ7XUTIONAL OBJECTIVES ILlVH NOT BEEN FIPJLLY
A(PARA 4.1A4)
As fr as WAPDA is concemed. a ceeofelece samds ereatd in the ftan of
WP hs :inwtinzin Is otr only capable of handlng the preseit IPPs bu is liIela to
uejbrherow of fbrtign ivesftment during next 25 years, as envisaged by us-
* -VAPD - 's F1X NCE4L PERFORMAArCB ILS ]BENVPOOR'?-
(PARAS 4.1-1, 4.1.3 AND 4.2.5)
WADAs financial position sutands iproved- The total revenne oaUection tuargt fisr lY
o00o - 2001 isLover RupeS 165 Billion. The target for teperiod July 2000 to Mhrch2091
bas already been exceeded. Systemn losses oM a igh leVel of 42% were reduced to2 273%
in FY l9         Ths taxget for the current isoal standsaset at 2,4.5% The cxrrn Agaves
indicate that the t:at stens aJchieved. WAPDA's developnt programme ix back oa
fist trfck. Development budget for the 1-Y 2000 - 20301 is over Us. 20 bilon- Gbazi
Barots, and ChashmAa Hydro Project are now  on schedule. Psyables position is
-32 -



Public Sector recevables remain a source of con**rr. The recervables ex:cludig Ohose
frim  RESC as of riov stand at Rs. 23 biloa. Hisor!call balloonodkVp Bg=   of
receivables bowe been n0ht-sizcd by wrxting off the eacesm. Posiio on publc sctor
receivbles is improving, albet sb-*4r. Tb. proscur q-atum ofr-eevables from zEsc is
to the tune of Rs. 13 Billion. WAPDA is makng fbllowiug effiots fow recovery
a.  Meatin   with Finance Division GOP  aft regularly beig h}ld for
paym&entVdnedtion at sourc* of the oufttading electrcity duos of the publc
sector consumers-
b   Matter was t*keu up with the Chief xrcctiv. of Pakistan in meetin$p held on
-une 29% 2000 and August 10, 2000. As per certain decisions amotmla payable
by ite public secr consumets weta deducted at source tnd for the i
receivables continuous liaison is being kept with the inistry ofFinance
c.  To resolvc the currnt bixg disputes the procedure for payrens vitim 90
days was evolved and all fhe provincai/fedet governmt depme    ere
infozmed to implement.
d  Meeting hold with the Govenors of NWF"  and Sindla for recovery of
outstading dectricity cues including against FATA  Meetns beld with
Governor of Puxiab to expedite the recovery.
e.  Mectimg held in inist of Finance on Apra 12. 2Q01 wherein all concerned
were instucted to clear the ontstanding eaectricty bins-
f.  The Matter is corninuously being ken up With KBSC / Mnitry of Fi3ance
for the payment of the outtmnding KESC electicity dues.
WAPDA has never dcfaulted on payment to IPPs even at the lowest poit of its
relatosbhip with IPPs. Presenty the 1994 Policy crop of IPPs alongwitb }IUBCO and
KAPCO are ejoying troublc free relations with WA.PDA.
Tho World Bsak, itscwbas through its energy secr mission in San-Feb. 2001, owprssed
atiefaction about th progress o- the =arix of agrement and action imder its loan No.
3746-PAX fog Power Sector rana. Almost all acevities roqoired of WAPX)A mad GOp
are on the dot The Woxid Bank through lett  dated Marob 20. 2001 addxessd to
Secretory Water and Power on the sabject of. Energy Secto NCssion bas projeced a
financially viable artre for WAPDA and its successors.
We, therefore, take an exception to the poor rating about the liran=al perfbrmance of
WAPDA.
'W"APDA RESORIzD ro A'.EGsoTJ4ATVG .TARIF WiTH M4NY WPS
BEFfORE THEIUR  COMMIWZSSIONIG'?                             (PAIRA 4-2~.5)
It is correct that WAPDA faced diffculty to absorb the financial impct of new IPPs due
to the reason tht LOS were issued for capacity ir excess of regpireqat arid trxff
inereasealadjustreafr as demanded by. WAPDA were not aproved by the Govemert.
- 33 -



lowever. it is macOZrct tba WAPDA resorted to negotiating tariff reductions due to itr
~nanoil prolems.The IPPs requestd WAD  to h       ate iststing / cmanissipring of
the pte de               tactualuk-ents and in mettm agteed to negoiations of
taf WAPO s con i  proves coect Afrom tdh fact tat ithe two AES projects we
tix(:0ly coaniioned and acepted wiho'ut any tariff reductons- They a  being ptaid
regularly and are eMfpying good %UfrlatL wh W-.P On t   other had  the
commissioning of the plant of lt IPPa who signed MOtU were delayed even after signing
MOU agnd allowtag relaxstions in test speciffcatifos. Negoatia;ons were a win-qKu
sitation fr both parties.
*'WPZPO    SUFEE             iFROM'  TUNOXR   IN              17'S.E'~ ZO.
MA2'A GEM EINT' v?                                            (Al   .
The rate of turnover in WPPO might have been high  owevem it did not adversely in4act
perfo-narwe as there Was contdriny of coxxnand at the level of Chaiman rescltnX in a
uniform poli&r.
* 'WFPO IVEWR ADRVELOPED FULL CAPACI2Y TO L&UPILE&tNT
AND MO,TMOR-     PPAs?                                        (PAA 4.5.1)
WPPO bas all tho ncessary invenbory of sldlls. adoquate level of governance, exceptona
support frm  enior most management in W*P     and a. team of highly qalifie&,and
de&iated pv*:iqIals. WPPO has ween x=cceslly maintainng continuous trouble-fee
irelatio 13?tf    P ,   resolution of disputes
. 'IPPs FI4CD  DEL4YS DUE  TO  FAIUAE  TO  PROVrDE
INTfPERCO2VNEWCTF  ON 7Mg'? (PARAS  1.3.IL, 75.2 &                        JANNEX-i)
Intarconnection to WAPDA System was provided before schedule in case off 1UIC[ ad
SEPCOL. Thus HU1CO Plat stod cxmrssiioned ahead of is scheddle. The dWIy in
COXM f_g~ hin SuPCOL was not due to dela m: intconnetion- Actually SEPCOL
could not met with the tecical pi      n as evidenced by its tbiteen unsw=ess*il
spels of testing betore ecbieving commercial operution. It coul atn. cs
operadon. only ater relaxatio on th-e t-chnical paramersanted by WAPDA as a qvid-
pro-quo forrevision of tai
in case of ROUiSCH and UCK the delayed coinissioning can also not be attri-bted to any
fault of WAPDA. Rather it was their own itea pmblems that led to delay.
- WPPO  DI D  NOT COOPERAT:E i  PIANT TESZTNG
COI I   YSSrONG-?                                            (PARA 53:1)
As above
3
- 34 -



- 'mE Qr               ff$'TION4'LE  FMzJTy OP W!vPro To R                  l
M4NA E fl COMfnl4 kBAIPSI  Twl?Pa 
- pA:A 6J.2Ew)
Nzot a-ee4      
,* 'UNLess  7wE  POWZR  SWCTO   RBF0ORw  is  F1ZLY
J7AfPLFJJZNTRD, THE FR                 OAis (NSV$TA1W<At'
[PAPA 6.1.2 C()J
The Power Sctor zuform s am being =plemmtecL
* '4PVA 's i PLEAENTA2IONPIF ORMA NCE CAN   PR.ASO 4$
IJ      Y UNI r  4S75'A C TO.(                                              7 N  3-
WAPDA's i=V10MOO  CapaWlity -egw4ic the P1I£P I &Eu7Ird,    oud. t II- fUEsa.
be iudzgd In. 1he bekdrop of lhe p ffiUa6c* _of the B-;2 itsaf and :*q:
ntey level of the Pejeict- VqWi hizd t* the bak jumlff X*IM*& &It .WL
as un-satisfae*az7nd the self - .s..efA  Ver1ro=mmce of B  Bank      o
_t"_eft _ Ulm  the ce                it would 1ve beSe               if W
pcndbrm      was <JtrwF9V
(b) Cofinanciers:
None received.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
None received.
10. Additional Information
10.1   Please see Annex 10 for a summary of the individual subprojects financed under PSEDP I and IL.
Table 3 below provides a list of IPPs which achieved financial close under the 1994 Private Power Policy,
including details on technology, capacity, and date of commercial operations.
-35-



Table 3
Pakdstan Private Power Projects
(Projects which achieved financial close)
Name/Location     Notes    Technology      Capacity    Capacity             Commercial
Gross        Net                 Oprations
(MW)         MW)                    Date
I    AES Lalpir            /a     Steam             362        351.3*              Nov. 6, 1997
Limited                     turbines on                                       (achieved)
Lalpir                      fuel oil
2    AES Pak Gen           /a     Steam             365        343.9*               Jan. 2, 1998
(Pvt) Co.                   turbines on                                       (achieved)
Lalpir                      fuel oil
3    Altern Energy                Flared gas         14          13                Apr. 30, 2000
Limited                                                                       (estimated)
Fateh Jang, Attock
4     Davis Energen               Gas turbines      10.5         9.8               Dec. 31, 2002
(Pvt) Ltd.                  on flared gas                                     (estimated)
Fim Kassar,
Chakwal
5    Eeshatech (Pvt)              Coal              20           18                 Terminated
Ltd
Kalar Kahar
(Chakwal)
6    Fauji Kabirwala       /d     Combined          157         150*               Oct. 21, 1999
Power Co.                   cycle on gas                                      (achieved)
Kabirwala, Dist
Khanewal
7    Gul Ahmed            /a /e    Fuel oil        136.17       128.5*              Nov. 3, 1997
Energy Ltd.                                                                    (achieved)
Korangi Town,
Karachi
8    Habibullah                   Combined          140         126*               Sep. 11, 1999
Coastal Power               cycle on                                           (achieved)
Quetta                      natural gas
9    Japan Power                  Diesel            120         107*               Mar. 14, 2000
Generation                  engines on                                         (achieved)
Off Raiwind Rd,             fuel oil
Near Jia Baggo
1 0   Kohinoor Energy      /a     Diesel           131.44       126*               Jun. 20,1997
Limited                     engines on                                         (achieved)
Raiwind- Manga               fuel oil
Road
- 36 -



11   Liberty Power                 Combined         235          211.9              Apr. 30, 2000
Project                      cycle on
Daharki                      natural gas
12   Northern Electric             Steam             6            5.5               Jun. 30, 2003
Co. Ltd.                    turbines on
Choa Saidan Shah,            coal
Chakwal
13   Power Generation              Diesel            116          110               June 30, 2005
Systems                      engines on
Patoki                       fuel oil
14   Rousch (Pakistan)     lb      Combined         412         355.1*              Dec. 11, 1999
Power Ltd                    cycle on fuel                                      (achieved)
Sidhnai Barrage              oil
Punjab
15   Saba Power            /d      Steam             114          109               Dec. 31, 1999
Company Ltd.                 turbines on                                        (achieved)
9 km from                    fuel oil
Sheikhupura
16   Sabah Shipyard        le      Fuel oil         288.6        273.6               Terminated
Pakistan Ltd.
Korangi, Karachi
17   SouthernElectric      /b      Diesel           115.2       112.1*              Jul. 12, 1999
Power Co.                    engines on                                         (achieved)
Raiwind, Lahore              fuel oil
18   Tapal Energy         /d /e    Fuel oil          126        125.5*              Jun. 20, 1997
Limnited                                                                        (achieved)
West Karachi
19   Uch Power           /a /b /c   Combined        586          548*               Oct. 18, 2000
Limited                      cycle on low                                       (achieved)
Dera Murad                   btu gas
Jamali
TOTAL under                                   3455         3224
1994 Policy 
20   Hub Power Project    /b/c    Steam             1292         1200               Mar. 31, 1997
Tehsil Hub,                  turbines on                                        (achieved)
District Lasbela             fuel oil
TOTAL incl.                                   4747         4424
Hub
/a      IFC participation                                           *Actual Initial Dependable Capacity
/b      PSEDF participation
/c      IBRD Guarantee
/d      MIGA participation
/e      PPA with KESC
Source: Private Power and Infrastructure Board, November 2000
-37-



Tsble 4
PSEFI ad I
Retlemenut ad Efroimt Asptw   d Subpr
Name of                       Retle*Met                                 FMhvIniwlM$alt*Ha                      MA RPor
A*qui sio of lM             Peopke A ltede    S_b-eoetb Rqpt        Ladm  agw          soak    R t  d
Cmrg EuNhe-tvbl  tspevn w          me at    by      byWB  adny
a    bpe  tLers Lpeedrliuteius    Sporn              oter
Piv"e          Goveat                                                    ea*uniem I
ced              Prperly                                                 col       biy ws
HUBCO   74(A    acqAlcd  717 Aaes          D Nil             Smannual p   g       LeE&gw               Feb. 1993  Mvh 199
no C     _mutal    GOB                              fivnIb               ud * Xits na
RPPL      144AmaGqmkd,  No                 7-boscoI      m   Monu"lbvbDgrt            dlesEn r          May 1996  My31, 1996
no  dvmmta                       vWofP ,tiotof   fomSlhmasma-            wk aesvi sbotla
Wnfu=c                           22. Tbwwmtlw       nuwin"Wdgfi1m        skiaI basisand
scowtmd Pi=    LWM&&m                   rivkuintaoo
cfcrASTHR*w=                            Omngl MP"  r
da  ed May 17,1996                      Mkowmm      c      I__
SEPCOL   48 Acrts aqu     No               Nil               Q(uarttr       fom    I=kEn  hme           June 19S  Nov. 22, 1995
ideuew                                              Lcoder OaBae.                   anqr d
an
mqwptw



UCH   .    Am  qur        616 Acsr from   NIL                 Mod*bbyocinrc        L.*a  EI= 1995  We August 19i
XoBf             X  WBO                              ACWUIfMO   d    *i 0                               PC August1995
LandAcqwm                                           smihmai qw* qs.y revbedsut                          BEPA: Oct. 1995
Land ACLc                                                                         t
Ad 189. And                                                              .mqy'smtm
subequntl                                                                operEn R~pmd cova*g
won*y.d to the                                                           te .u nt actL
APL      .                233.18 Ah1osuof NIL                 Qu         oPan rpot g lcrw    i*ws   Oc 1993  SfPhA subecive
wbich 167.7 Am s                    Aom co vandon                                        1wal dad 16.
acquwd hem GOS                                           eo"Ows  8g                    0941995.
n3Q6Aais on                                                          an
~~~~~~~~~~~~Aunecpo                                                                            envkasnenta aspots
Anuy A .62 Amr
Nt:
a   PWsfpebel'rpJctddo wtbe sa atWobeWl~c rmssro art amthik i.
WB  - Wuda
IPC      la eid sulWIkac"Cmprainu
MIA  -     lK*eettnetmpe
BEPA  =   BshIUa ambI?tniAgme
GOS  -   GwLdeSbneyqa pL
COB  -   GwLdOfinu



Endnotes
1.   This figure does not include the 1,292 MW Hub Power Project which was negotiated prior to the
1994 Private Power Policy.
2.    Of the $616 mnillion, $146 million was financed by the Bank under PSEDP I and $110 million
under PSEDP II.
3.    New gas fields were discovered in the late 1990s, and it is likely that additional gas resources will
be made available to the power sector. In fact, studies have been initiated recently to convert existing IPPs
to gas, including Hub and Rousch.
4.    Under the terms of the PPAs, WAPDA pays a two-part tariff: (i) a capacity charge designed to
recover debt service obligations, fixed O&M and equity regardless of generation output; and (ii) an energy
charge, covering fuel and variable O&M, only for electricity produced.
5.    It should be noted that there is a disconnect in the development objective (DO) rating for the first
PSEDP between the last Project Sumrnmary Report (PSR) rating dated June 15, 1999 when PSEDP I was
rated satisfactory, and this ICR where the DO is rated unsatisfactory. At the time of the last PSR, the
summary DO rating was stated as satisfactory based on the Project meeting its first two objectives:
mobilizing additional resources for private sector participation in the energy sector, and establishing an
incentive framework to encourage such participation. However, the sustainability of the incentive
framework was questioned in addition to the sustainability of the project's third objective, establishment of
an institutional framework to facilitate the Government's dealings with the private sector.
6.   The loan documentation is not particularly clear as to how the repayment amount is calculated, but
this is reflected in the interest rates charged and is also the understanding of the various parties. It is also
not clear to what extent the foreign exchange exposure was borne by the State Bank of Pakistan through its
Foreign Exchange Risk Insurance (FERI) program or by the LTCF. FERI was discontinued in 1994 and
since that time the Rupee foreign exchange risk has been borne by LTCF.
7.   Currency pool has reflected approximately equal exposure to Dollars, Yen and Deutschmarks
(Euros).
8.    The loans made under PSEDP I and II would have been obvious candidates for conversion into
Dollar denominated Single Currency Loans when the Bank made this option available in 1998.
9.     The onlending rates are actually set against the higher of the Bank's lending rate or the US 1-year
Treasury Rate.
10.   The average bulk tariff set under the 1994 Policy of US06.5 kWh for the first ten years was
reduced to US¢6.1 per kWh shortly after the Policy was announced following the abolishment of the
foreign exchange risk insurance (FERI) scheme by the Government.
11.    The ICR does not assess directly the guarantee aspects for the Hub and Uch projects. However,
the project Finance and Guarantees Departrnent published an extensive discussion paper in 1997 on
"Financing Pakistan's Hub Power Project: A Review of Experience for Future Projects", which is
- 40 -



referenced in this docunent. ICR Guidelines for guarantee operations are currently being formulated, and
it is expected that a separate ICR will be prepared for the stand-alone Uch partial risk guarantee operation.
-41 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome / Impact Indicators:
I                             i                             I   E_  lI *_  
Output Indicators:
End of project
-42 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
- , .- - - . . _ ...... ... ..... __ ........... - ._ _ _ -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ....... .....
Subprojects                                                     1883.00             1555.00 ..               83
Technical Assistance                                                4.00                0.80                 20
Total Baseline Cost                                             1887.00             1555.80
Total Project Costs                   1887.00             1555.80
Total Financing Required                     1887.00             1555.80
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
1. Works                               0.00                0.00             0.00             0.00             0.00
(0.00)             (0.00)           (0.00)           (0.00)           (0.00)
2. Goods                               0.00                0.00             0.00             0.00             0.00
(0.00)             (0.00)           (0.00)           (0.00)           (0.00)
3. Services                            0.00                0.00             0.00             0.00             0.00
(0.00)             (0.00)           (0.00)           (0.00)           (0.00)
4. Miscellaneous                       0.00                0.00             0.00             0.00             0.00
(0.00)             (0.00)           (0.00)           (0.00)           (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                       0.00                0.00             0.00             0.00             0.00
(0.00)             (0.00)           (0.00)           (0.00)           (0.00)
6. Mlscellaneous                       0.00                0.00             0.00             0.00             0.00
(0.00)             (0.00)           (0.00)           (0.00)           (0.00)
Total                               0.00                0.00             0.00             0.00             0.00
(0.00)             (0.00)           (0.00)           (0.00)           (0.00)
-43 -



Project Costs by( Procurement Arran  ements (Actual/Latest E0timate  US$ million e uivale(
1. Works                        0.00           0.00          0.00           0.00          0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)         (0.75)        (0.00)        (0.75)
2. Goods                        0.00           0.00          0.00           0.00          0.00
(94.18)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (140)
3. Services                     0.00           0.00          0.00           0.00          0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)         (0.79)        (0.00)        (0179)
4. Miscellaneous                0.00           0.00          0.00           0.00          0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)         (1.40) _L (° °°)            (1.40)
5. Miscellaneous                0.00           0.00          0.00           0.00          0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)        (19.63)        (0.00)1.6
6. Miscellaneous                0.00           0.00          0.00     |     0.00     | 0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)          0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
Total                        0.00           0.00          0.00           0.00          0.00
_____________________         (94.18)         (0.00)        (22.57)        (0.00)       116.75
Figures based on data provided from ICS
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2' Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
(i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
- 44 -



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
- 45 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stguy of !roject Cyclelt               No.~ Of Pesoi Ana  d Specialty
Month/Year   Coun                   l         _
Identification/Preparation
Appraisal/Negotiation
12/87                       1   Economist
1   Power Engineer
03/88
Supervision
06/89                        1  Economist                           HS              HS
I   Power Engineer
07/90                        1   Consultant                         HS               S
I   Power Engineer
11/91                       2   Energy Specialists                   S               S
I   Power Engineer
1   Consultant
04/95                        1   Private Sector Dev, Specialist     HS               S
08/95                        1   Private Sector Dev. Specialist     HS              HS
I   Energy Specialist
04/96                        1   Private Sector Dev. Specialist      HS              HS
I   Energy Specialist
08/96                        1   Private Sector Dev. Specialist     HS              HS
I   Energy Specialist
04/97                        1   Private Sector Dev. Specialist      HS              HS
I   Energy Specialist
04/98                       2   Financial Analysts                   S               S
ICR
03/99                       1    Financial Analyst                   S               S
I    Power Engineer
I    Consultant
-46 -



(b) Staff.
Stag Of Pr*teaCY~IOC     _ _ _ _ _
No. S~WRE                   u (USS*O)
Identification/Preparation              28.9                        67.6
Appraisal/Negotiation                   56.5                       138.5
Supervision                            202.8                       543.2
ICR                                    22.37                        78.0
Total                                310.57*                      827.3*
*Totals are Bank Budget only
-47 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
El Macro policies                         O H  O SU OM  O N  * NA
O Sector Policies                         O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
El Physical                               O H  * SU O M  O N  O NA
O Financial                               O H  OSUOM  *N  O NA
O Institutional Development               0 H  O SU O M  * N  0 NA
EC Environmental                          O H  O SU O M  ON  * NA
Social
E Poverty Reduction                O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
El Gender                          O H  OSUOM  ON I  * NA
LI Other (Please specify)          O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Q Private sector development              O H  * SU O M  0 N  0 NA
E Public sector management                0 H  0 SU 0 M  0 N  0 NA
LI Other (Please specify)                 O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
- 48 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                Rating
O Lending                                           OHS OS *U OHU
a Supervision                                       OHSS OU *u   OHU
Ol Overall                                          OHS OS   * u  O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                             Rating
FO Preparation                                      OHS OS  * U  O HU
El Government implementation performance            O HS O S  * U  0 HU
El Implementation agency performance                OHS OS  * U  O HU
E] Overall                                          OHS OS  *  U  O HU
-49-



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
1. Supervision reports, including Form 590/Project Status Reports of PSEDP I and II (1990 - 2000)
2. Staff Appraisal Report for Pakistan Private Sector Energy Development Project, Report No.
7226-PAK (June 10, 1988)
3. Staff Appraisal Report for Pakistan Second Private Sector Energy Development Project, Report No.
13006-PAK (October 28,1994)
4. Staff Appraisal Report for Proposed Expanded Cofinacing Operation to Partially Guarantee up to
US$240 Million of a Syndicated Commercial Bank Loan of US$360 Million Equivalent to The Hub
Power Company, Report No. 9004-PAK (October 29, 1991)
5. Memorandum of the President for the ECO Partial Risk Guarantee for the Hub Power Company
(October 28, 1994)
6. Loan Agreement (Ln. 2982-PAK) for the Private Sector Energy Development Project (August 8, 1988
as amended)
7. Loan Agreement (Ln. 3812-PAK) for the Second Private Sector Energy Development Project
(December 20, 1994 as amended)
8. Policy Framework and Package of Incentives for Private Sector Power Generation Projects in
Pakistan, Government of Pakistan (March 1994)
9. Policy for New Private Development Projects, Government of Pakistan (July 1998)
10. Guidelines for the Operation of the Private Sector Energy Development Fund (modified date December
26, 1994)
11. Administration Agreement for the Private Sector Energy Development Fund between the President of
the Islamic Republic of Pakistan acting through the Ministry of Finance and Economic Affairs (the
Govermnent) and National Development Finance Corporation (January 14, 1989)
12. Financing Pakistan's Hub Power Project: A Review of Experience for Future Projects, by Michael
Gerrard, RMC Discussion Series Paper, Number 118, August 1997
13. Memo from Director, Quality Assurance Group to Vice President, South Asia on "Post-Approval
Quality at Entry Assessment: Final Report" dated August 8, 1997
- 50 -



Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results
- 51 -



Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Results
Private Sector Energy Development Project
Stakeholders Workshop
(February 16, 2000)
Participants (approximately 50):
Donors: IFC, JBIC, World Bank
Commercial banks: ANZ, Citibank
GOP and GOP Agencies: MOF, MWP, EAD, NDFC, OGDC, PPIB, WAPDA
Private Sector IPPs: AES, Fauji Power, Hubco, Japan Power Generation, Kohinoor, Rousch, Saba
Power, Sepcol, Tapal, Uch.
1.      The World Bank representatives opened the meeting by thanking the different parties for accepting
the invitation. Following which, a brief presentation was made on the objectives of the workshop, the
agenda, and possible topics for subsequent debate.
2.      The NDFC representative made a presentation in which he first discussed the history of LTCF over
1985-2000. He subsequently noted that project activities were handicapped by the high turnover of staff in
the different agencies of GOP involved with the Projects. He made a number of recommendations regarding
the power sector (NEPRA should have been made operational prior to embarking on the IPP program;
distribution could have been privatized prior to generation; resolution of tariff issues should have priority);
and LTCF (LTCF ought to expand its activities to other sectors; GOP exposure is too high in large projects;
balance sheet financing can be observed in one of the IPPs; procurement requirement can be cumbersome,
particularly when they apply to a contractor selected through a negotiated process, who has to observe
specific bid rules for the subcontracts). He concluded by advocating that LTCF reflows should be used to
finance relatively high risk infrastructure projects (not necessarily in energy), and that the existing
institutions be strengthened.
3.      The PPIB representative first presented the salient features of the 1994 Power Policy and
subrnitted inter alia that fixing the tariffs in advance reduced the scope of negotiations to a considerable
degree and enabled the conclusion of 19 transactions over a two-year period. However, this prevented GOP
to profit from the subsequent decline in the price of equipment. As a result of slow demand growth, the IPPs
are not dispatched as anticipated, with the result that average tariffs are higher than what they should be -
the higher tariff was also caused by higher fuel prices. While the developers were allowed to select the fuel,
technology and location of their plants, this should be considered against the background of load shedding
prevailing at the time. Furthermore, against an expectation of 1,500 MW worth of capacity which would
close under the 1994 policy, in excess of 3,000 MW were awarded (the Government extending deadlines in
some instances). Following a review of the 1995 Hydel and 1995 Transmission policies (which failed to
bring projects), the PPIB representative discussed the 1998 Power Policy, which provides for the processing
of solicited as well as unsolicited proposals. He concluded by stating inter alia that 1994 Power Policy's
successful results can also be attributed to PSEDP; TA (legal) provided under PSEDP helped conclude
transactions on a timely basis; PSEDP was essential in the creation of present institutional framework; salary
cuts, downsizing and non payment of 0.25 basis points impacted PPIB adversely; PSEDP should help
WAPDA resolve issues of WAPDA's high tariff and surplus capacity problems; World Bank did not display
due diligence in forecasting load growth, resulting in the financing of excess capacity.
- 52 -



4.      The WAPDA representative stated that the energy supply and demand gap remains, except that the
country has moved from an energy deficit to an energy surplus. That is because the tariff adjustments
necessitated by the commissioning of IPPs did not take into account the impact on consumers. Hence, unless
private generation results in a decline in generation cost, the whole exercise would be futile. The World
Bank ought therefore to focus on how to reduce costs to stimulate demand. This could be achieved through
tariffs reform, or privatization of distribution (provided that it results in lowering costs). In balance, the
1994 Policy was effective in eliminating load shedding, and created incentives to complete projects on a
timely basis and to operate power plants to high standards. Furthermore, WAPDA no longer has to bear the
costs of project delays. Lastly foreign capital has been attracted, and tariffs will decline once the senior debt
is retired. On the other hand, the WAPDA representative remarked inter alia that letters of intent were issued
without ascertaining first affordability and justification; a high bulk tariff was promised instead of
proceeding on the basis of price-based bids; developers could select the site, technology and fuel, while the
tariff remained the same in all cases; tariffs are all indexed, and adjustments are a pass through, for which
compensation is not covered in the retail tariffs; developers are charging for debt service provisions on a
monthly basis, while payments to lenders are due twice yearly; PPAs were issued without WAPDA being
consulted; and BOOT are preferable to BOO given that at the end of the PPA period, the country has paid
the debt, and the shareholders, compensated.
5.      The Hubco representative stated that WAPDA was afflicted with lacking revenue collection, theft
and high losses in its system. Under the circumstances, insufficient attention had been given to the
restructuring of WAPDA, the introduction of independent regulation, and the privatization of generation and
distribution assets. Furthermore, PPIB was emasculated at some point, so that its effectiveness as an agent
of reforms had been weakened. With respect to the World Bank, the Hubco representative noted the decisive
contribution made by the Bank to set up the institutional framework, and provide a financial instrument in
Rs, together with the Partial Risk Guarantee which allowed the containment of certain risks; on the other
hand, he regretted that, following closure, unlike conumercial banks, the World Bank has not established a
monitoring system - more generally, there has been a drastic reduction in World Bank involvement which
precluded it from taking a proactive role as facilitator (with the authorities); he also noted a lack of
continuity in World Bank staff concemed with the Project.
6.      The IFC representative noted that the excess supply was not unique to Pakistan, but was also
apparent in Central America. A solution that could help both Pakistan and the IPP industry would involve
the implementation of a bidding system for energy, on a weekly basis. This would lead to operational
savings (because at present too many plants are being dispatched at a low load factor), and does not require
modification of contracts. Hence, this represents a "Win Win" situation for the country.
7.      Subsequently a general discussion followed.
- 53 -



Additional Annex 10. Review of Subprojects
Pakistan
Implementation Completion Report - PSEDP I & II
The Subprojects
A. Hub Power Project
Background
1.    The Hub Power Plant consists of four generating units with a total installed capacity of 1,292 MW
and burns residual fuel oil, supplied by Pakistan State Oil (PSO). A project development company, the
Hub River Power Group (HRPG) Limited, was formed comprising five sponsor cornpanies: Xenel (Saudi
Arabia), National Power (UK), Mitsui (Japan), Ishikawajima-Harima Heavy Industries (1I1), and K&M
Engineering and Consulting. The operating contractor is National Power (now Intemational Power) of the
UK.
2.     At the time the Bank approved PSEDP I, the pipeline of subprojects available for LTCF financing
included a number of power generation projects. Of these, the Hub Power Project was the most advanced in
its negotiations. It became the first private sector build-own-operate (BOO) power project in Pakistan.
3.     Work on developing the project began in summer 1987 and a detailed feasibility study was begun
in April 1988. Construction of the station began on the basis of mobilization finance in December 1992,
which allowed construction to start prior to the financing package. The project's total finance package
became irrevocably committed in September 1994, by which time the project had suffered two events
causing significant slippage in its timetable: the Gulfwar (1990-91) and a Pakistan court ruling on the
applicability of Shariah Law to the payment of interest (1991-92). Financial close was achieved in January
1995 - almost eight years after the initiation of project development. See Table I below for key milestone
activities in project development.
Table 1: Key events and activities in project development
Year         Event
1987         Sponsors submit proposal
Initial site is selected
1988         Government issues letter of intent to project sponsors
Detailed feasibility study is completed
Bank approves the PSEDF
Ministry of Water and Power's Private Power Cell is established
1989         Implementation agreement between the government and Hubco and power purchase agreement
between WAPDA and Hubco are negotiated and initialed
National Development Finance Corporation's Private Energy Division is established
1990         Fuel supply agreement between Pakistan State Oil and Hubco is negotiated
Re-tender of turbine island is effected
- 54 -



1991         Construction contract is signed
Arranger banks are mandated
ECO progran is approved by the Bank
1992         Mobilization finance is arranged
Construction is started
1993         Commercial bank and ECO guarantee term sheets are signed
Commercial bank due diligence is completed
1994         Commercial bank debt is underwritten and syndicated
Equity is underwritten and placed
Bank and JEXIM approve guarantee facilities
1995         Financial close
Project Implementation
4.    The turnkey construction contract was signed in July 1991 following the reconstitution of the
construction consortium. The original construction consortium was led by Mitsui Co. of Japan and
included three other Japanese firms: (i) Ishikawajima-Harima Heavy Industries Co. Ltd (EHI) for the supply
of the boilers; (ii) Toshiba for the overall engineering and the supply of the turbo generators; and (iii)
Kumagai Gumi for civil works. The sponsors selected British Electricity International (BEI)' of the UK
and Canadian Utilities Power (CUP) of Canada for the operations and maintenance of the complex. Due to
delays and other various reasons, Toshiba, Kumagai Gumi and CUP could not renew the validity of their
prices beyond March 31, 1990 which required the sponsors to reconstitute its construction consortium.
BEI accepted full responsibility for the operations and maintenance, and Campenon Bernard of France was
selected to replace Kumagai Gumi for civil works. Following the Bank's International Competitive Bidding
procedures, Ansaldo GEE of Italy was awarded the contract for overall engineering and turbine generators
(replacing Toshiba).
5.    Subsequent to the signing of the turnkey contract in 1991, the sponsors and the Government
negotiated a revised tariff that reflected changes that had occurred in the construction contract, the ternns of
finance, and exchange rates since December 1989 (the date of the previous tariff agreement). The revised
tariff adhered to the reopeners and indexation provisions that were outlined in the previous tariff agreement.
6.    The contractor was mobilized in December 1992, two years prior to financial close. Mobilization
finance played a crucial role in maintaining the project's timetable for delivering power to the Pakistan grid
and in avoiding the potential cost increases that would have followed the expiration of a tumkey contract
price offer. It also created unstoppable momentum to the project development effort. Mobilization finance
in the amount of about US$423 million was advanced by (i) the Bank and the governments of France and
Italy in the form of term loans through the LTCF; (ii) local banks in the form of bridge loans; (iii) the
Commonwealth Development Corporation through a term loan; and (iv) the project sponsors through equity
contributions.
7.    The fourth and final unit of the Hub Power Project was completed three weeks ahead of schedule
on March 7, 1997. Commercial operations were officially declared, on schedule, on March 31, 1997. The
actual capital cost of completing the project was slightly below budget. The pipeline connecting the station
to the oil import terminal was comnmissioned in October 1996, with an installed capacity sufficient for a
- 55 -



2,000 megawatt power station. In terms of simple chronology, the time taken to develop Hub was eight
years (1987-1995), while construction was completed in two years (1995-1997).
Project Cost and Financing
8.     The total estimated cost of Hub was US$1.8 billion comprising: developmnent and start-up costs of
US$217 million, a tumkey construction contract of US$1 billion, financing costs of US$355 million, and
standby funds of US$221 million. The project was completed within budget. All base loan facilities were
drawn substantally as envisaged in the finance plan, but no standby loan facilities were drawn.
9.     The initial financing plan was based on equity provided by sponsors and investors of US$372
million and borrowing of US$1.4 billion. This comprised subordinated debt of US$601 million (US$375
million from PSEDP I and US$197 million from PSEDP II) and senior debt of US$738 million. The senior
debt included a Bank ECO guarantee facility for US$240 million (including US$40 million of standby
financing which was never utilized). See Table 2 below.
Table 2: Summary of Original Finance Plan
Source of Financing                                             Amount
(US$ million equivalent)
Base           Standby      Total
Equity                                                      372
Senior Debt
World Bank ECO Guaranteed Facility           200                      40
JEXIM Guaranteed Facility                    100                      20
COFACE Guaranteed Facility                    45
MITT Guaranteed Facility                      86
SACE Guaranteed Facility                     195
Commonwealth Development Corporation          37
Rupee facility                               75                      25
Subtotal                                                    738
Subordinated Debt
PSEDP I322                                                            53
PSEDP II                                        114                      83
Subtotal                       436
Total Base Financing                                        1,545    _
Revenue During Construction                                   63
Subtotal                                          1,608
Standby Financingd                                                          221
Total Base + Standby                                            1,830
Figures are in end-1993 dollar exchangc rates. In practice sources and applications of finance are in multiple currencies.
bofwhich IBRD, $146 million including standby financing.
'of which IBRD, $110 million including standby financing
Standby finance was not drawn
- 56 -



10.   The financing plan was designed to mobilize the longest maturity and cheapest finance terms
possible in order to achieve an acceptable tariff throughout the project life. The major constraint on the
ffnance plan was the limited and, in the case of the longer maturities, nonexistent availability of
foreign-currency, commercial bank term loans for private enterprises in Pakistan without co-financier
support. The availability of LTCF formed a fundamental part of the financing plan. The World Bank
participation was essential to the banks joining the project in syndication. PSEDP I and II, which included
funding from the World Bank and JEX[M, in addition to fimding from the governments of France and Italy,
provided 30 percent of project funding. Through the ECO partial risk guarantee, the Bank supported 29
percent of senior term finance.
11.   The actual completed cost of the project was about US$1.6 billion' compared to the original
estimate of US$1.8 million, as the standby financing was not required. The basic financial structure and
amounts raised for the project did not vary significantly from the estimate in the Bank's appraisal report.
The main deviation was in the amount of subordinated debt funding from LTCF since it fell from US$601
million to US$445 million, mainly due to the stand-by facilities not being required. Senior debt funding
rose slightly to US$742 million.
12.   The equity was raised from four sources: (i) the promoting sponsors, US$163 million; (ii)
Commonwealth Development Corporation (CDC), US$8 million; (iii) a local share issue on the Karachi
Stock Exchange for US$30 million; and (iv) Global and American Depositary Receipts for US$170
million.
13.   The senior debt used comprised seven facilities:
(i)  Under the ECO guarantee, a syndicate of 34 banks provided US $146 million;
(ii)  Under the JEXIM guarantee, a syndicate of 19 banks provided US$116 million;
(iii) Under the COFACE insurance, a syndicate of seven banks provided US$52 million;
(iv) Under the MMTI insurance, a syndicate of 17 banks provided US $99 million;
(v)  Under the SACE insurance, a syndicate of 18 banks provided US $224 million;
(vi) a loan from Commonwealth Development Corporation (CDC) provided US $39 million; and
(vii) A syndicate of nine Pakistani banks and other institutions provided rupee facility of US$66
million.
Tariff
14.   The initial Power Purchase Agreement (PPA), signed in August 1992, set out the tariff principles.
Subsequently, an indicative tariff was agreed with WAPDA on May 1, 1993 with the understanding that it
would be adjusted prior to financial close. The tariff set at financial close is referred to as the reference
tariff. This reference tariff was indexed and adjusted on the commercial operations date. In 1994, two
amendments to the PPA were signed; the first incorporated the indicative tariff and changed the tariff
schedule in the PPA. The second amendment provided agreement on the reference tariff, granted Hubco the
same concession as other IPPs on import duties, and made a change to timing of foreign exchange
adjustments to the tariff. The reference tariff established at financial close has increased in Rupee terms
due to increases in fuel prices, inflation and devaluation of the Rupee.
15.   The average tariff for the first 10 years is USO 6.54/kWh and US05.80/kWh on a levelized basis
over the life of the project. The tariff payable by WAPDA has a two-part structure and is separated into
capacity and energy payments. The capacity charge was designed to generate sufficient cash both to service
the debt and pay agreed fixed costs, together with the return on equity. It included the project development,
- 57 -



construction contract, and financial costs. The energy price was a variable payment depending on the net
amount of energy actually dispatched by WAPDA. It is composed of the actual cost of fuel (61%), fuel
surcharge and taxation (34%), and variable O&M (5%).
16.   The tariff is front-loaded. For the first two years, the front-loading reflects: (i) the creation of the
escrow, reserve, and collateral accounts required by the financiers; and (ii) the Foreign Exchange Risk
Insurance (FERI), the insurance premium paid to the State Bank of Pakistan. The tariff also reflects debt
service. As the loans are repaid, the tariff will progressively decrease from USg7.42 / kWh in 1999 to
US¢5.63/ kWh in 2005. The tariff will decrease further in 2015 to US05.47 when the subordinated debt
has been repaid.
17. LTCF contributed to a lower levelized tariff since it was instrumental in extending the overall
maturity of debt finance. For the Hub project, the commercial banks were willing to provide construction
finance with maturity up to only twelve years. The LTCF provided for loan maturities of 23 years, nearly
twice that of commercial banks.
The Hubco Dispute
18.   Following accusations of corruption, Hubco, the largest IPP operating in the country, has been
involved in several disputes with WAPDA and the Pakistani authorities since mid-1998 largely centering
on the validity of the amendments to the Power Purchase Agreernent and the level of the tariff. Government
officials have alleged that the agreements with Hubco were corruptly obtained or otherwise fraudulent, in
particular the amendment to the Power Purchase Agreement that substantially increased the price of
electricity produced during the first years of plant operation.
19.   Hubco denies that corruption has taken place and considers that these charges were being used to
coerce the company to lower its tariff. Hubco has sought assistance in resolving its disputes with GOP and
WAPDA through international arbitration but has been restrained from doing so through injunctions sought
by WAPDA in the local courts. (A summary of Hubco's legal disputes is summarized in the box below.)
At the request of both Hubco and GOP, the Bank facilitated meetings between the parties to resolve the
disputes in a neutral environment.
- 58 -



Summary of Hubco Legal Disputes
On May 8, 1998 a pro bono publico constitutional petition was filed in the Lahore High Court (LHC) against the
Company. The Petitioner challenged the decision of the Government and WAPDA to enter into the Power Purchase
Agreement (PPA) on the grounds that the tariff was discriminatory in favor of the Company. The Petition also
accuses the Government, WAPDA and the PPIB of having acted malafide and fixed a tatiff which was unjustifiable.
At the request of the Petitioner, the LHC issued interim orders, which were subsequently amended by the Supreme
Court (SC), that prohibited the Company from making distributions from reserves as of December 31, 1997 to
shareholders and restricted the fixed element of the tariff to a maximum of Rs. 845 million per month plus billing in
respect of Energy Purchase Price. Although directed by the SC to dispose of the matter by the end of 1998, the
petition has not been fixed for hearing so far. The petition is being contested by the Company which believes that it is
without merit.
In a related action on July 9, 1998, pursuant to the PPA, the Company filed a request for arbitration in the
International Court of Arbitration of the International Chamber of Commerce (ICC for hearing in London seeking a
declaration that Amendment No. 2 to the PPA is valid and that WAPDA is bound by its terms. The Tribunal was
fully constituted in mid-January 1999. The Tribunal first met on February 22, 1999 but could not proceed as the
Company was restrained by a Pakistani court order from participating in the proceedings. Subsequent attempts to
convene have also proved abortive for the same reason.
On October 11, 1998 WAPDA alleged that the Supplemental Deed dated November 16, 1993 and Amendments Nos. I
and 2 of the PPA dated February 24, 1994 and September 17, 1994, respectively are void ab initio because they were
said to have been procured by unlawful means. WAPDA is claiming in addition the repayment of Rs. 16 billion
allegedly overpaid. The Company has rejected the allegations made by WAPDA and has included these issues in the
ICC Arbitration. The Company had issued notices to WAPDA under the PPA which could result in the termination of
the PPA. Corresponding notices had also been issued in respect of the Implementation Agreement (IA) and the Fuel
Supply Agreement (FSA). These notices could lead to the termination of the PPA and, as a consequence, of the IA
which event would entitle the Company (and through the Company the shareholders of the Company) to
compensation as set out in the IA. However, the operation of these notices were subsequently suspended by the
Supreme Court of Pakistan by an order passed on an application moved by WAPDA. The operation of the notices
continues to be suspended to date.
In aid of its request for arbitration, the Company filed suit in the High Court of Sindh in November 1998, requesting
the Court to direct WAPDA to proceed to ICC arbitration and restrain WAPDA from taking any proceedings except
ICC arbitration. In March 22, 1999 WAPDA was directed to proceed to arbitration by the Court which was appealed
by WAPDA. The Appellate Court suspended the earlier order and also restrained the Company from proceeding to
arbitration. Challenges by the Company were filed and hearings on that issue concluded in June 1999 and judgment
was reserved.
By an order on August 11, 1999 the Court stated that it would hear the Company application with WAPDA's appeal
and also continued the restraint on the Company to proceed with the ICC arbitration. The Company petitioned the
Supreme Court against this order. The Company's petition was converted to an appeal on October 27, 1999 and heard
by a five member bench of the Supreme Court.
On June 14, 2000 the Company's appeal was dismissed by the Supreme Court by a majority of 3 to 2 and the Company
was restrained from invoking the arbitration clause of the PPA for the purpose of resolving its disputes with WAPDA
through the agreed forum of ICC arbitration. On July 10, 2000 the Company filed petition in the Supreme Court
seeking a review and reversal of the majority judgment of June 14, 2000.
(Source: summarizedfrom The Hub Power Company Limited, Annual Report 2000)
Settlement
20.    In parallel with the legal proceedings related to the dispute playing out in the local courts, Hubco,
the Govermment and WAPDA held various meeting during 1998-2000 in an attempt to resolve their
-59-



outstanding issues - often facilitated by the Bank at the request of both parties. Through bilateral
discussion, the parties finally concluded a negotiated settlement, and on December 17, 2000, a Settlement
Agreement was signed by the Government of Pakistan, WAPDA and Hubco which will result in a tariff
reduction. Under the Agreement, the parties agreed to reduce the levelized tariff charged by Hubco from
6.5 to 5.6 cents per kilowatt hour by bringing down the capacity purchase price (CPP) from 4.45 cents to
3.36 cents per kwh. The CPP is the fixed component of the tariff which is paid regardless of whether or
not electricity is produced by the plant. The tariff reduction involves one element of the CPP, "Project
Company Equity (PCE)" as defined in the Power Purchase Agreement. The initial assessment reveals that
the drop in the tariff will be largely accommodated through a reduction in the project equity rate of return
from 18 percent to around 12-14 percent. The Settlement Agreement affirms the Power Purchase
Agreement and the right to arbitration in accordance with the contract It was also agreed that all criminal
investigations will be completed, and the parties will meet and agree the mechanism for the disposal of all
civil and criminal cases. The Agreement is subject to approval by the Federal Cabinet, WAPDA
Authority, Lenders, the Companys Board of Directors and the Companys shareholders approval in a
general meeting. All actions and approvals are to be completed by March 31,2001. Under this
Agreement, WAPDA undertook to closely cooperate with Hubco to ensure that the "Lenders concerns
regarding current and future debt service payments are fully met." Lenders will have to analyse the
implications of the terms of the Settlement Agreement on future cashflows, before detemining whether a
restructuring of the debt is warranted.
Proiect Evaluation
21.   Hub was a landmark project in the world-wide development of the EPP industry and was a
prototype for Independent Power Producers in Pakistan. It was necessary to draft from scratch, then
negotiate about 200 separate original project agreements and documents. In addition, many documents had
to be drafted and negotiated twice as the circumstances changed, i.e. changes in government, sponsor
group, or construction group. The documents that proved most time-consuming were the Power Purchase
Agreement, the Inplementation Agreement, and the creation of LTCF.
22.   However, the project's history is not simply about its development. More importantly, it provided
the foundation to an entire policy initiative by both the Government of Pakistan and the Bank. In most
other countries that have attempted such a fundamental reform - inviting large-scale private investment in
what had hitherto been an exclusively public industry - the reform had been preceded by the enactment of
enabling legislation. In the case of the Hub project, the Implementation Agreement assumed the role of this
legislation, so the project sponsors and the Bank became inextricably involved in the complex discussions
that such a structural reform involves.
23.   The Hub Power Project occasioned many "firsts" for Pakistan, the Bank and the international
financial markets. For Pakistan, it was the first private infrastructure project and the first limited recourse
financing. For the Bank, it was the first private infrastructure project, Bank-financed infrastructure fund
(the LTCF) to support private projects, partial risk guarantee under the ECO program, ECO guarantee
with another institution (JEXIM), and the use of the ECO program to support a private project. For the
financial markets, it was the first major private infrastructure project in a sub-investment grade developing
country to be financed by international commercial banks on a limited recourse basis, the first international
equity offering (global depository receipt) and underwriting for a developing country infrastructure project
under construction, and the first stock market floatation of a single power station under construction.
24.   Any delays can be attributed to the project's novelty, size, and complexity as well as to several
force majeure events. If allowances were made for time lost through the following unforeseen events, then
the active period of project development in terms of real time was closer to five years:
*     the Gulf War (1990-91),
- 60 -



*      a Pakistan court ruling on the applicability of the Shariah Law to the payment of interest
(1991-92),
*      disruption caused by having to reconstitute the construction consortium following the departure of
two of its memnbers (1990), and
*      occasional losses of continuity attending several changes of governnent in Pakistan.
25.    At the time the plant was placed under WAPDA load dispatch, the output capacities and
efficiencies of all units perforned at or above guaranteed levels. Throughout the first winter of operation
(1996-97), the commissioned units operated at almost full output. The station's contribution to the
reduction of load shedding in Pakistan was then widely acknowledged.
26.    However, starting in 1998, as WAPDA's cash flow problems intenisified, WAPDA began to look to
IPPs for tariff relief As the largest IPP, Hubco became a focus for the Sharif government. Over the last
two years, there was a widening perception by WAPDA and some government officials, that the Hubco
project was one-sided, unaffordable to Pakistan and that corruption must have been involved.
27.    Hub, a truly pioneering project, was at one time seen as the flagship private sector project in
Pakistan, and laid the groundwork for future IPP development not only in Pakistan, but other developing
countries as well. Subsequently, however, the Government's tactics in pursuing allegations of corruption,
which were perceived by the company and its investors as being a fonn of organized harassment aimed at
reducing the tariff, undermined foreign investor confidence in Pakistan and damaged the country's
reputation. Almost two half years after the first allegation charges were made, Hubco, the Government and
WAPDA agreed to a settlement whereby, inter alia, the tariff level will be reduced and all criminal and
civil cases will be disposed.
Endnotes
"British Electricity Intemational became National Power Intemational (UK).
2/
Given the use of over six currencies in both the financing and procurement arrangements, the dollar equivalent is an
approximation.
3'
The financial difficulties of WAPDA were exacerbated by madny IPPs coming on stream simultaneously, at a time when
demand did not grow as anticipated.
- 61 -



B. The Asia Pipeline Ltd (APL) Project
Background
1.    Asia Petroleum Ltd (APL), created in 1994, is owned 49 percent by Pakistan State Oil (PSO), a
Government-owned company involved in the distribution of petroleum products; 26 percent by Asia
Infiastructure Ltd (AIL), a Singapore company involved in project development; 12.5 percent by Veco
Engineers and Construction (VECO), a USA engineering firm; and 12.5 percent by the Independent
Petroleum Group (IPG), a Kuwait company involved in petroleum trading. The company was set up to
build, own and operate the pipeline carrying residual fuel oil from the PSO-owned Pipri oil terminal to the
Hub power plant. The World Bank was instrumental in assembling the consortium, and ensuring that the
Hub power plant would be supplied with fuel on a timely basis.
2.    It was intended initially that: (i) Promet, a Singapore company whose main shareholders at the
time were also AlL's, would build the pipeline; (ii) VECO, one of the sponsors would be entrusted with the
operation and maintenance of the pipeline; and (iii) IPG would supply the crude oil. Eventually, Promet
built the pipeline, but other arrangements were introduced for the exploitation of the pipeline and the
procurement of crude.
3.    Given the need to provide comfort to the senior lenders of Hub, the Implementation Agreement (IA)
and the Fuel Transport Agreement (FTA) were initialed in Washington in September 1994; and the
Engineering, Procurement and Construction (EPC) contract with Promet was signed in January 1995, close
to the conclusion of the Security Package for Hub. Since then, negotiations have continued over the
Security Package for the APL pipeline, and a revised version of the IA was initialed in October 1999. The
issues which remain to be settled are the transfer of the right of way to APL and the force majeure
provisions in the IA (i.e. events outside the control of APL, such as the conversion of Hub to natural gas,
changes in the tax regime, route changes, results of political events etc.). As a result, the project has not
yet reached financial close from a project security interest point of view, although the funds have been fully
disbursed, and loans are being repaid.
Project implementation
4.    The project consists of an 82-kin, 14 inch insulated residual fuel oil pipeline and related pumping
station with a capacity of 3.5 million tons (MMT) per annum (of which 2.5 MMT were earmarked for
Hub, and 1.0 MMT for another power plant which was not built).
5.    The project was expected to be completed in 18 months, i.e. by June 1996. Due to delays in the
acquisition of rights of way, the project was completed five months late, so that it began operating in
November 1996 (the first unit at Hub started to operate in June 1996 and the fourth in March 1997). The
pipeline was certified by several consulting engineers and has been operating satisfactorily since its
commissioning.
Project Cost and Financing
6.    The cost of the project was initially estimated at US$95 million - the pipeline was eventually
completed at a cost of approximately US$85 million. The Project was financed through shareholder's
equity (approximately US$35 million); a long term loan of US$20 million under PSEDP I made available
in January 1996 (prior to financial closure); and short term borrowings (approximately US$30 million)
arranged through local commercial banks.
- 62 -



Tariff
7.     The initial tariff was set at US$70,000/day on a provisional basis. In July 1998, the tariff was
revised to US$12.13/ton for the first 1.5 MMT per annum, and US$8.49/ton for any excess. The initial
tariff was designed to allow the company to reach a return on equity of 25 percent, which was subsequently
reduced, by mutual agreement, to 16 percent
8.    The tariff is equivalent to the standard road hauling charges prevailing in 1996 for a similar
distance, expressed in Rupees. The relatively high charges are also explained by the characteristics of the
residual fuel oil, which is viscous, hence costly to trawsport over long distances.
9.     One should note that APL has been able to retire the short term debt (US$30 million) out of its
revenue. APL still owes approximately Rs447 million to PSO on account of excess tariff charged between
November 1996 and July 1998, as well as storage fees. APL expects to refinance those charges following
financial closure.
Evaluation
10.   The Bank made the transfer of the rights of way to APL, as well as the conclusion of the security
package, conditions of PSEDP II. The Staff Appraisal Report makes these a condition of effectiveness. In
the Loan Agreement (Section 3.05), they are subject to a dated covenant (initial target date was January 31,
1995). At the same time, it allowed the disbursement of US$16 million (subsequently increased to US$20
million) towards project execution, prior to the two conditions being fulfilled. This action was deemed
necessary to allow the pipeline to be built in time for the commissioning of the Hub power plant (otherwise
heavy penalties would have been claimed by the sponsors of Hub).
11.   As a result of not reaching financial closure, the shareholders of APL have not been able to draw
dividends; the shares of APL have not been listed on the Karachi Stock Exchange; and the company has not
been able to initiate new activities effectively (such as the distribution of CNG).
- 63 -



C. Uch Power Limited (UPL)
Background
1.        The Uch Power project, jointly supported by IBRD and IFC, is a 525 MW (586 MW ISO
rating) gas-fired, combined-cycle power plant, located in the Province of Balochistan, at an estimated base
cost of $630 million. The project uses low to medium-Btu gas from the nearby Uch gas field which,
because of its low energy content, has no other economic use except dedicated power generation. The
project sponsors are Midlands Electricity (UK, 40%), Tenaska (USA, 30%), General Electric Capital
Corporation (USA, 1 8%), Hawkins Oil and Gas (USA, 9%) and Hasan Associates (Pakistan, 3%/O). The
design, supply and construction of the plant was arranged under a fixed price turnkey contract with GE
Power Systems and Chinese equipment and engineering firms from Harbin, China for a EPC contract price
of US$347 million. The plant is operated by ESBI of Ireland.
2.    UPL was incorporated as a public company on July 7, 1994. A Letter of Support was issued by
NDFC in March 1995. WAPDA agreed to purchase the capacity and energy output of the project from
UPL under a 23-year power purchase agreement (PPA) signed on November 23, 1995; similarly, OGDC
agreed to supply the gas under a 23 year Gas Supply Agreement signed on November 2, 1995. In addition,
UPL entered into an Implementation Agreement (IA) on November 19, 1995 under which the Government
guarantees the payment obligations of WAPDA and OGDC, and assures the performance of the State Bank
of Pakistan for convertibility and availability of foreign exchange. (The contractual framework was similar
for all IPPs under the 1994 Private Power Policy.) Financial closure was achieved on May 17, 1996.
Under the terms of the agreement, commercial operations were expected to begin on March 1, 1998.
Project Implementation
3.    Project completion has been delayed by over two years due to technical difficulties by OGDC with
the gas facility, various disputes with WAPDA and GOP, and GE related equipment problems. Gas
supplies from OGDC, which were due to be provided by October 1997, were not provided until June 30,
1999. Connecting the plant to WAPDA transmission system was delayed from August 31, 1997 to
January 10, 1999. Delays were also caused by the issuance of a Notice of Intent to Terninate (NIT) by the
GOP in July 1998 on grounds of corruption. (This was one of seven NITs issued to IPPs by the GOP on
grounds of corruption in addition to two Termination Notices on technical grounds. All IPPs denied the
corruption allegation, and the NITs were subsequently withdrawn following a settlement to lower tariffs.)
All of these delays led to the demobilization of the contractors from May to December 1998 and again from
August to November 1999. In addition, the EPC contractor experienced some technical difficulties in
testing the plant in early to mid 2000 which also delayed the commercial operations date. On April 18,
2000, UPL and WAPDA signed a Memorandum of Understanding in which, among other things, (i)
WAPDA agreed to use all reasonable efforts to achieve the Commercial Operations Date (COD) on or
before June 1, 2000; (ii) UPL agreed to lower the levelized tariff; and (iii) the term of the PPA was
extended from 23 to 30 years. Commercial operation was declared on October 18, 2000. UPL signed a
Withdrawal Agreement and a Settlement Agreement on November 3, 2000 with WAPDA and PPIB which,
respectively, withdraws the Notices of Intent to Terminate issued by GOP and WAPDA and resolves
differences with respect to liquidated damages owed by each party. The sponsors are in the process of
negotiating with the EPC contractor and OGDC on liquidated damage claims and finalizing the financial
restructuring agreement with the lenders.
Project Cost and Financing
4.        The project cost was estimated to be US$630 million (excluding US$60 rnillion in stand by
fimding). The financing was based on a 80:20 debt:equity ratio amounting to total equity of US$130
- 64 -



million and total debt of US$500 million (see table below). The US$313 million of senior debt was
provided through a US$153 million loan guaranteed by US Eximbank, an IFC 'A' loan of US$40 million,
an IFC 'B' loan of US$60 million, and a US$60 million commercial loan supported by an IBRD partial
risk guarantee. LTCF provided a US$187 million subordinated loan, of which US$5 million was provided
by the Bank under Ln.3812-PAK.
5.    The cost of the project has now increased by US$86 million to about US $716 million due to
delays in commissioning the plant. The cost ovemrn is proposed to be funded principally by the equity
investors (US$61 million), LTCF (US$42 million in the form of capitalized interest), the Bank's ECO
facility (US$15 million), and IFC (US$15 million) - most of which was already provisioned for in the form
of standby financing.
Original vs. Revised Project Cost and Financing Plan
Cost: USD million       Orig.   Rev.    Funding: USD million         Orig.    Rev.
EPC Contract               347.0   355.2   IFC - A Loan                  40.0      40.0
Project Development         42.4    53.0    IFC - B Loan                 60.0      72.0
Land                         0.6      0.6    WB Guaranteed Facility      60.0      75.0
Spare Parts                 12.0    11.2    US Eximbank Facility         153.0   135.0
Insurance                   11.0    12.8    LTCF                         187.0    199.0
Start up, training & admin.    47.0    75.4     US Exim - $97.0
IDC & financial expenses    140.0   207.8       Bank of China - $80.0
World Bank - $5.0
JEXIM - $5.0
Equity                     130.0    185.0
Liquidated Damages Rec'd             10.0
630.0   716.0                                630.0   716.0
a/
Odginal financing plan does not include US$60 nillion of standby financing, $30 million in equity standby and S 15 nillion each
under the IFC B Loan Facility and the World Bank Guaraeed Facility. Revised figues are estimates as the financial restucrngw has
not yet been finalized.
"Increase in LTCF funding is through the capitalization of interest.
Tariff
6. The original tariff agreed in the PPA was an average of US¢ 6.05 per kWh for the first 10 years and
the levelized price was US¢5.58 per kWh. In a Memorandum of Understanding signed on April 18, 2000
between UPL and WAPDA, UPL agreed to a reduced average tariff of US¢ 5.77 over the first ten years
and levelized tariff of US¢ 5.13 over 30 years.
Proiect Evaluation
7.        The Uch project was completed over two years behind schedule and has experienced similar
problems with completion to other IPPs. As a result of the delays, the project economics have deteriorated
significantly, which together with the reduced tarff, has necessitated a financial restructuring of the
Project The IRR on equity has been reduced from 25 percent to about 10 percent. The project is currently
in default (interest and principal payments under the Financing Facilities have been missed) and is
operating under the terms of an Interim Agreement which provides for a standstill period during which
lenders have agreed not to take any action against UPL while the restruturing is being worked out.
8.        The Uch Project remains the cheapest of the four power plants supported by the LTCF with a
cost of US$1,169 per kW. From the country point of view, because of the use of low quality indigenous
- 65 -



gas, this project is perhaps the most economic among all of the IPPs. The World Bank and IFC played a
key role in financing this project. IFC provided US$115 million in A and B loans; World Bank's partial
risk guarantee, US$75 million; and the LTCF, US$188 million. The combination of these funds provided
over 70 percent of the total loans for the Project.
- 66 -



D. Rousch (Pakistan) Power Limited (RPPL)
Background
1.    Rousch (Pakistan) Power Limited was established pursuant to the Govermment of Pakistan's 1994
Private Power Policy to build, own and operate a 412-MW combined cycle residual fuel oil fired power
generating station at Sidhnai Barrage in Southern Punjab. The plant, comprising two gas turbines and one
steam turbine, has been designed to facilitate easy conversion to a gas-fired facility using indigenous
pipeline quality gas. The plant has been designed and constructed by Siemens AG and Siemens Pakistan
with ESB International undertaking the operation of the plant. The sponsors of the Project are the Rousch
Companies, Siemens Project Ventures BmbH (Germany) and ESBI (Ireland).
2.    An Implementation Agreenent (IA), Power Purchase Agreement (PPA), and Fuel Supply
Agreement were all signed during 1995 with the financing agreements signed on March 31, 1996. The
Bank approved Rousch as an eligible sub-project under Ln. 3812-PAK on May 31, 1996. The
Govermment of Pakistan acknowledged financial close at the end of July 1996, and construction
commenced in September 1996 with comnercial operations scheduled for March 1998.
Proiect Implementation
3.        The March 1998 commercial operations date (COD) was contingent on the Interconnection
and Transmission Facilities being made available by WAPDA by August 1997. As a result of WAPDA
delays to provide interconnection and subsequent refusal to permit synchronization, (i) the EPC contractor
slowed down the pace of work and in July 1998 began demobilization after initiating a plant preservation
program; and (ii) Rousch issued Notices of Intent to Terminate the IA and PPA on October 28, 1998.
Permission to synchronize the gas turbines was finally given in February 1999 with commercial operations
rescheduled to commence by the end of September 1999. However, technical difficulties with the heat
recovery steam generators delayed COD a further 72 days. The Project achieved COD on December 11,
1999 - 21 months behind schedule.
4.        Despite certification by the independent engineer, WAPDA did not acknowledge the
achievement of COD citing various technical difficulties and declined to pay the capacity charges. The
Project Company was of the opinion that this was a strategy on the part of WAPDA to gain tariff
reductions and was aware, that in other IPPs, WAPDA had successfully negotiated tariff reductions,
following which invoices submitted by those IPPs were paid in a timely manner. Therefore, Rousch
negotiated an acceptable tariff reduction which was documented in a Memorandum of Understanding
(MOU) with WAPDA dated January 14,2000. Under the terms of the MOU, (i) WAPDA acknowledged
that COD was achieved on December 11, 1999; (ii) the levelized tariff was reduced from 5.578 0/kWh to
5.188 0/kWh (iii) both WAPDA and Rousch agreed to withdraw their claims for liquidated damages for
delays in commissioning and testing; and (iv) Rousch agreed to withdraw the Notices of Intent to Terminate
the PPA and IA.
Project Cost and Financing
5.        The project was estimated to cost US$450 million (excluding a US$50 million stand by
facility). Financing was provided from the LTCF through a subordinated loan of US$140 million equally
provided by the Bank and JEXIM, in addition to a Rupee standby facility equivalent to US$40 million
arranged by NDFC on its own account. Export credit agencies from Germany (Hermes and DEG) and
ANZ Bank and Siemens-guaranteed commercial loans provided US$183 million in senior debt financing
for the project. Equity contributed by the sponsors amounted to US$137 million, including US$10 million
in standby funding.
- 67 -



6.           The delays in project completion led to additional financing costs and also unbudgeted
preservation expenses, operations costs and company costs. At the end of December 1999, the final project
cost was expected to be US$575 million, an increase of US$125 million over the estimated cost. (More
than 45% of the cost overruns was as a result of additional interest incurred during the extended
construction period of 21 months.) This increase was funded by additional equity from sponsors of US$51
million and an additional US$41 million from LTCF (US$12 million of which was in the form of
capitalized interest) as part of a financial restructuring agreernent. The remainder was provided by the
senior lenders. Agreement was also reached with lenders, including LTCF, to extend loan maturities under
the refinancing package. The conditions precedent under the refinancing documentation were met in
October 2000 which enabled Rousch to draw on the additional LTCF facility.
Original vs. Revised Project Cost and Financing Plan (December 1999)
Costs: USD million          Orig.      Rev.        Funding: USD million    Orig.           Rev.
Construction Costs                      369.00    Commercial                    137.00    148.28
369.00
Add'l Construction                       23.40    Hermes                         33.00      34.80
Costs
O&M  Costs                     9.00      16.43    DEG                            13.00       12.85
Overheads                      5.20      20.97    Working Capital                            10.50
Financing Costs               50.80      94.51
Inventory                                 8.45    Existing LTCF                 140.00    140.00
Other                          9.00      14.86    Additional LTCF                           40.83
Net Project Costs           443.00    547.63
Float                                    14.31    Equity                        127.00    187.88
Initial Operating Costs        7.00     12.94_
450.00    574.88                                   450.00    574.88
Of the total USS455 miDlion original base project cost, US$140 milion was approved under LTCF which was to be co-financed 50:50
between the Bank and JEXIM. Because the Second JEXIM PSEDP n loan was not in place at the time of the Rousch financial close, the
Bank agreed to disburse its portion of the subloan (i.e. $70 tnillion) ahead of JEXIM with JEXIM disbursing its half after the Bank. As a
result, the full $70 million fiom the Bank was drawn down by the time of financial restructuring, but only US$49.3 out of a total of US$70
uillion was drawn down from JEXIM. As the GOP was in arrears to 3EXTh4, JEXIM refused to aDlow the remaining US$20.7 million to
be drawn down. Therefore, the Bank agreed to finance the remaining balance of JEXIM's portion to cover original costs in addition to
US$29 million needed to meet the cost overruns to be financed under LTCF as part of the refinancingfrescue plan.
Float is a cash balance that has been committed by Sponsors to provide the Company in the form of equity, enabling it to meet the first
debt servicing.
Tariff
7.           The original tariff agreed was US¢5.98/kWh on a 10-year average basis and US¢5.57/kWh on
a levelized basis. The company finally resolved technical difficulties with WAPDA when it agreed to
reduce the tariff in a Memorandum of Understanding signed on January 14, 2000. This provided for a
revised tariff of US¢5.80/kWh on a 10-year average basis and US05.19/kWh on a levelized basis.
Project Evaluation
8.           The project was one of the larger IPPs approved under the 1994 policy guidelines - only Uch
was larger. It was the only plant to use combined-cycle technology buming fuel oil. After two years of
operation on fuel oil, it was expected to be able to switch to gas. The completion delays of about 21 months
have increased the cost of the project by US$125 million. The cost overruns together with the reduction in
tariff necessitated a financial restructuring of the project. Additional capital requirements have been met
- 68 -



mainly by the project sponsors and through supplementary funding from LTCF. In addition, senior lenders
have extended the final maturity of the commercial facilities by three to six years and amended the
amortization profiles to match the available cashflow. Cost per kW installed has increased from US$1,092
to US$1,395. The IRR on equity has been reduced from about 18 percent to about 6 percent after tax due
to the reduced tariffs and the increased costs arising from delays in completion.
9.        No GOP allegations of corruption were made against Rousch. Nevertheless, it does appear
that WAPDA created delays in providing interconnection, permitting testing and commissioning of the
plant, principally to compel the company to renegotiate the tariffs.
10.   Rousch managers acknowledged the key role played by NDFCILTCF in securing funding for the
Project.
- 69 -



E. Southern Electric Power Company Limited (SEPCOL)
Background
1.        Southern Electric Power Company Limited (SEPCOL) was approved by the Bank as an
eligible sub-project under Ln. 3812-PAK on November 4, 1996. SEPCOL received a letter of support from
the GOP on August 3, 1994 and undertook to construct an IPP comprising 5 x 23.4 MW diesel engines
with a gross capacity of 117 MW operating on residual fuel oil supplied by Pakistan State Oil company
(PSO). The plant (at Raiwind near Lahore) was supplied and installed under a fixed price turnkey contract
for US$92.2 million, by a consortium led by ABB Kraftwerke AG (Germany) with SEMT Pielstick
(France) and Zelin Pakistan (Pvt) Limited. The plant is operated by B.C. Hydro International Power
Development Corporation (Canada). The project is sponsored largely by overseas investors led by a
subsidiary of B.C. Hydro International Transpower Corporation (Canada) which subsequently was
partially acquired by SNC Lavalin Equity of Canada.
2.        SEPCOL signed a 22 year PPA with WAPDA on November 17, 1994 and an Implementation
Agreement with GOP on November 23, 1994. Financial closure was achieved on October 25, 1995. The
project was scheduled to begin commercial operations on December 28, 1997.
Project lmplementation
3.        The project started trial runs in December 1997 and Commercial Operation Testing (COT)
from January 9, 1998. However, the plant could not clear the Reliability Run Test (RRT) per PPA
requirements. There were altogether 11 successive RRT/COT failures between January to April 1998. On
July 9, 1998, GOP issued a Termination Notice to SEPCOL on technical grounds which led to the
demobilization of the EPC Contractor from the site. Following extensive negotiations, SEPCOL and GOP
signed a Withdrawal Agreement on January 8, 1999 through which GOP withdrew its termination notice
and the company withdrew its case from international arbitration. After the signing of the Withdrawal
Agreement, the project company remobilized the EPC contractor, increased its efforts to prepare the plant
for testing, and ultimately achieved commercial operations on March 10, 1999.
4.         However, WAPDA refused to accept the results of the test and disputed the commissioning of
the plant. In order to resolve the dispute, the Project Company entered into negotiations with WAPDA and
also submitted a revised reduced tariff proposal. On July 12, 1999 a Memorandum of Understanding
(MOU) was signed between WAPDA and SEPCOL resolving all issues regarding tariff and commissioning
of SEPCOL Power Station. The salient features of the MOU are as follows: (i) WAPDA accepted
commissioning of the plant as of March 10, 1999; (ii) the project offered a reduction in the tariff such that
the levelized tariff has been reduced to US¢ 5.19/kWh from the original US¢5.57/kWh; and (iii) the project
life was extended to 30 years from 22 years.
Project Cost
5.        The capital cost of the project at financial close was estimate at US$121 million. In addition,
the sponsors provided US$5.8 million as a standby provision to meet contingencies. The project was
financed by SEPCOL shareholders who have contributed US$27 million as equity. Sanwa Bank (Japan)
and ANZ-Coface (Paris) provided senior debt of US$57 million; subordinated loans for US$35 million
were provided by LTCF.
- 70 -



6.         As a result of the 14 month delay in project completion, costs increased to US$155 million.
Almost half of this increase relates to additional interest during construction and financing fees. The cost
ovenrun is being financed by the sponsors (US$6 million), senior lenders/guarantors (US$22 million), and
additional funding from the LTCF (US$7.8 million).'
Original vs. Revised Project Cost and Financing Plan
Costs: USD million       Orig.    Rev.       Funding: USD million   Orig.    Rev.
Construction Costs        91.3      94.1     ANZ-Coface Credit          35.0    35.0
Owners Costs               6.8       9.6     Sanwa Bank Japan           22.0    22.0
Insurance                  1.4       1.9     Nissho Iwai Corp.                    4.0
Contract Mgtnt Fee         2.2       2.5
LTCF                      35.0    42.8
Other                      4.5      10.6
Equity                    27.0    33.0
Financing Costs           13.8      29.9
Initial Working Capital    1.0       6.2     Working Capital                      7.8
Other                      2.0      10.3
121.0    154.8                               121.0    154.9
While the Bank had provided its no objecion to financing part of the cost ovetnns from LTCF under PSEDP U, the project company
could not meet all of the conditions precedent under the refinancing documents in time to allow funds to be drawn down under Ltd
3812-PAK Tfherefore, the Government agreed to allow NDFC to use the accumulated reflows to LTCF to meet the additional financing
needs of SEPCOL.
Includes interest income, liquidated damages payable by the contrctor and pre-operatng energy fees.
Tariff
7.     The original tariff agreed in the PPA was US¢6. 1/kWh on a 10-year average basis or USO
5.58/kWh on a levelized basis. This tariff was reduced on July 12, 1999 in return for WAPDA dropping
all disputes and agreement on the COD. The revised tariff is US05.8/kWh on a 10-year average basis and
US¢5.20/kWh on a levelized basis.
Project Evaluation
8.         This project was the smallest (117 MW) of the four IPPs supported under the Private Sector
Energy Development Projects. With a high unit cost (US$1,342 per kW), it is unlikely that this sub-project
would have been a least-cost project for WAPDA although it fit within the criteria of the 1994 Private
Power Policy and the PSEDP Loan Agreement. The plant cost per kW is almost as high as the Rousch
project, a combined-cycle plant, with higher cost technology. There were also serious difficulties
experienced in testing and commissioning the plant which led to payments by the contractor of US$5.5
million in liquidated damages. The project was completed 21 months late, and as a result, costs increased
by US$34 million or about 28 percent. The overall development experience was not substantial
considering the small size of the project, and the fact that diesel plants are normally simple to install and a
well proven technology compared to more complex, combined-cycle plants. The estimated IRR on equity
has been reduced to 14 percent based on the revised tariff.
- 71 -



Additional Annex 11. Borrower's Contribution
GOVERNMENT OF PAKISTAN
PRIVATE SECTOR ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT I
BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION
PREPARED BY
THE NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT FINANCE CORPORATION
- 72 -



GiEN-SU?VN   ,~ 39
NIO. 5 ()W/94*
(Jovcrnttlent o   RE C £ I V E C
MINISTRY OF FINANC
-EC)ONOMIC \FFATRS
(ECONO-MIC AFFAI`RS DIIINt
Telegs-zaui: EiCONOMIC
Tcele     E'CDIV No ()3-63-V                  iYalId he.1104,PK~A,-99Q1
SECTION OFFICER
TELE:9201437
Subject:   PRIVATE SECTOR ENEVRGY DEVLOPMENT PROJECTS I AND II
( Ln. 2982 and 3812-PAX) INTENSIVE LEARNING I1MPLEMENTATION
COMPLETION REPORT:
Dear Mr. Wall,
Kindly refer the World Bank's letter dated March 16, 2001
regarding the above subject.
2.          With regard to the Implementation Completion Report (ICR)
exercise  for the above mentioned two projects, I am encloaing the
Borrowers ( Government of Pakistan) contribution to the ICR which has
been prepared by the National Development Finance Corporation (NDPC) and
has been approved by the Finance Divislon.
Regards.
Yours sinc,tely.
ADIL AgBAR     )
Mr. John Wall,
Country Director
Pakistan & Afghanistan South Asia Region.
World Bank Resldent Mission,
ISLAMAEAD
- 73 -



BORROWER'S SECTION OF
PSEDP I&II Imnilementation Comniletion Renort - Borrower's Views
Introduction:
A World Bank mission visited Pakistan from February 7 - 17, 2000 to initiate the preparation of the
Private Sector Energy Development Project I&II ("PSEDP I&l" or the "Project') Implementation
Completion Report (ICR).
In this context the mission met with different parties and reviewed inter alia; i) the effectiveness of the
institutional arrangements for the Projects implementation ii) the national policies underlying the
introduction of private power, iii) the selection criteria for project eligibility, iv) the time frame for the
implementation of selected projects, v) the financial and operational impact of introduction of private
generation, and vi) the arrangements for Project operations.
GOP agreed to the mission's suggestion that NDFC take the lead role in drafting of the borrower's section
of the ICR and that EAD would coordinate the writing of the report which would include inputs received
from PPIB, Wapda, and other Project participants.
Methodoloav:
NDFC in consultation with EAD wrote to various Project participants falling in the following categories:
i) Main players such as MW&P Wapda, KESC, PPIB, LTCF, PSO, and OGDC and institutions
collaterally related to Project such as State Bank of Pakistan, National Insurance Corporation of
Pakistan.
ii) Sub-Projects, which had availed LTCF funding.
iii) All other IPPs which were reported by PPIB to have achieved Financial Close.
To foster a focused discussion, each stakeholder was requested to comment on specific aspects of the
Project as well as to express views on its own area of operation and/its role in carrying out the Project.
The list of institutions approached questions addressed to them, the status of replies received and the
questions addressed to them are summarized in Annex-I.
NDFC intended to complete the draft ICR within the time frame proposed by the WB, however, responses
from different institutions were rather slow. Even after reminders, all institutions did not response.
Prolect Back-round and Proiect Obiectives:
In November 1995, GOP first announced its policy of encouraging Private Sector (PS) participation in the
development of power generation in November 1985. Two years later the policy was further developed in
consultation with the Bank and GOP announced a plan to increase PS participation in energy production.
The plan's main premises included: (i) 5% projected annual growth rates for main sectors of the economy
during the 7th and 8th Plan periods (1989 -1998); (ii) increase in energy consumption at 7% and 6% during
the 7th Plan and 8th Plan periods respectively; and (iii) expected shortages of energy after allowing for
realistic levels of investment by the public sector.
- 74 -



The targets for incremental production capacities to be financed through PS investment in the energy sector
during the 7th and 8th Plan periods are sunnnarized below:
7th Plan (1989-93)        8th Plan (1994-98)
Power Generation                 2,300 MW                   2,400 MW
Coal Production                  2 m. tpa                   3 m. tpa
Natural Gas                      132 MMCFD                  200 MMCFD
A study undertaken by the WB, through consultants with a view to identify constraints that could hinder the
achievements of these targets recommended:
(a) Strengthening the institutions responsible for evaluation and approval of PS proposals;
(b) Creating a vehicle to provide long term financing for PS investments; and
(c) Designing a framework of incentives for PS development of energy.
Based on these recommendations the GOP:
(a) Created the Private Power Cell (PPC) in the Ministry of Water & Power (MW&P) and the Water
& Power Private Organization (WPPO) within the Water and Power Development Authority
(WAPDA);
(b) approved setting up of a Private Sector Energy Development Fund (PSEDF), to be administered by
the National Development Finance Corporation (NDFC);
(c) Formalized and strengthened the scheme of incentives for PS investment in the energy sector.
These efforts of GOP were supported and complemented through the WB's Private Sector Energy
Development Project I & II (collectively "the Project"). PSEDP I was launched in 1988 and to further build
on the base developed, PSEDP II was launched in 1994.
In 1988, the WB Board approved PSEDP-I (Loan 2982-PAK) to provide US$ 150 million for financing
the Fund (PSEDF). The loan was co-financed to the extent of US$ 314 million by USAID, Nordic
Investment Bank and the Govenmments of France, Italy, Japan and UK.
The specific objectives of PSEDP I were: (a) mobilizing resources for confinancing private sector
investments in energy development to contribute towards the achievement of objectives of the 7th and 8th
Plans; and (b) setting up an institutional frmework to sustain PS investment and operation in the energy
sector.
GOP and the WB signed the Loan 2982-PAK on August 1988 which had following key features:
Total Amount:             US$ 150 million
Project Components:       Part A: Investment Projects earmarked for sub-project meeting the
eligibility criteria for equipment, works and IDC.
Part B: Technical assistance component of US$ 4.0 million for training
and consultancy services.
Closing:                  December 31, 1994 (was extended to December 31, 1999)
- 75 -



Utilization:              The entire component for the sub-projects was utilized for Hubco. At
Financial Close of Hubco a total amount of US$ 146 million was
sanctioned from Loan 2982-PAK Hubco utilized an amount of US$
115.95 million and as the Project was completed under budget, Hubco
cancelled the balance of US$ 30.05 million from this loan.
The Technical Assistance Component was utilized to the extent of US$
0.83 million only.
PSEDF-I1 objectives were: (a) to continue to assist the GOP in mobilizing the additional resources required
to develop the energy sector through the PS participation; and (b) to build on the institutional and policy
framework established to facilitate the PS in the energy sector.
The US$ 250 million Loan Agreement 3812-PAK was signed in December 1994 between the GOP and the
WB. PSEDF-II was co-financed to the extent of US$ 436.58 million by Japan Eximbank, US Eximbank,
Govemment of France and Bank of China.
Amount:                   US 250 million
Project Component:         Part A: For sub-projects; sub-loans to meet the cost of goods, services
and interest and other charges accrued during construction.
Part B: For institution building; cost of consultants' services, training and
equipments.
a) to replenish the PSEDF (LTCF) to provide funds to Hubco, APL and other eligible projects related
to power generation and energy related infrastructure;
b) fund the continued operation of PPIB and LTCF; covering staff, consulting services, training,
equipment & services;
c) fund other consultancy services to:
i)    assist GOP to outline the mandate for PPIB its management and reporting structure;
ii)   to ensure formulation of LTCF as an autonomous commercially oriented LTCF.
Closing:               The loan was closed on October 31, 2000.
Utflizaffon:           Out of total available funds of US$ 250 million under Loan 3812-PAK, an
amount of US$ 233 million has been utilized, canceling the balance of US$
16.73 million.
Evaluation of Oblectives:
The Project objectives had defined specific production goals for incremental capacities through PS for
production of power, gas and coal. The Project also sought to build and strengthen institutional capabilities
and develop a policy framework to support the implementation of energy projects in the PS.
- 76 -



As the Project's physical targets were developed to complement the overall national energy plan for the 7th
and 8th Five Year Plans therefore, they could said to be pragmatic and well founded though they were
inherently constrained by the success in achieving the overall macro-economic objectives. With respect to
the institutional objectives and creation of a framework these were an essential corollary for achievement of
the physical objectives.
For facilitating PS investors in the power sector the Project envisaged strengthening the existing PPC in the
MW&P while in a similar arrangement, the Coal Mining Cell (CMC), was proposed in the Ministry of
Petroleum and Natural Resources (MP&NR) for the coal sector. No analogous arrangement was defined
for the gas sector, perhaps because MP&NR was already conversant with dealing with private investors.
Also, while the WPPO was established in Wapda no parallel body was envisaged for KESC.
The objectives developed for the Project were primarily based upon past rates of economic growth and
increase in the energy consumption, and may not have fully considered that as energy production and
distribution historically enjoyed direct and indirect individuals subsidies, consumption levels may not
support production delivered at prices considerably higher than the past
Achievement of Oblectives:
As the principal Project executing agencies involved in actual implementation on behalf of GOP were
PPIB, Wapda (WPPO) and NDFC, their assessment of the Project's outcome are given in this section. (The
letters of various participants conveying their views on the Project are available in NDFC's file. Due to limitations
of the size and the report's structure the replies have been abridge and edited.) Given the Project's structure, it is
not surpising that the views of various government controlled organizations are somewhat dissonant; they
should not be seen as representing GOP's comprehensive and unified position.
Private Power and Infastructure Board (PPIB):
PPIB has viewed the PSEDP program as an overall success. The GOP with support of the WB was able to
develop a policy framework which resulted in a large inflow of foreign investment in the energy sector as
well as establishing an enabling institutional framework. PPIB feels that it was able to successfully
implement the 1994 Power Policy, which resulted in 19 IPPs with a combined capacity of 3,000 MW
achieving Financial Close, by acting as an effective interface between the private developers and
GOP/Wapda/PSO/OGDCL.
Following the 1994 Policy PPIB also undertook implementation of the 1995 and 1998 hydel policies,
though neither of these could match the success of the 1994 Policy.
Based on the benefits of long tenors and Rupee repayment facility available under the PSEDF sub-loans,
PPIB believes that IPPs should have been able to offer lower tariffs to Wapda. Also in PPIB's opinion the
Lenders should have made a better assessment of Pakistan's power requirements thus avoiding the present
oversupply situation.
On the question of problems faced by IPPs in project implementation PPIB has observed that generally the
developers could have avoided these through better planning and execution. However, problems relating to
foreign exchange availability, withholding tax, exchange rate parity could have been mitigated to a great
extent if a single institution, like PPIB, was authorized to take decisions on behalf of GOP in coordination
with the concerned government agencies also keeping in view the contrtual obligations under the
- 77 -



concession agreements.
The major lesson of the Project in PPIB's view was that adoption of ICB process for specific identified
projects would have ensured greater transparency as well as competitive tariffs. Also, various factors
influencing the success of PSEDP, such as cost of generation, projected demand and supply, financial and
fiscal regimes provided to investors, should have been carefully evaluated.
The views expressed by PPIB have been endorsed by the Ministry of Water and Power.
Water and Power Development Authority (Wayda):
The views expressed by Wapda on the Project are focused on the tariff disputes that emerged about three
years back with Hubco, and other IPPs as the Projects approached completion.
Commenting on the objective of PSEDP, Wapda expressed the view that it was to bridge the energy supply
and demand gap through private sector participation at an affordable price. This objective was achieved to
the extent of 5000 MW additional IPP capacity being available to the National Grid, however, as the
country has ended up with surplus power the demand supply gap has not been really bridged suitably.
In Wapda's opinion while concentrating on "Supply of Energy", affordable tariff for the utility and the
ultimate consumers were ignored. Apart from the effects of a recession hit economy, the high cost of
electricity has resulted in the tapering of demand.
Summing up the lessons of the Project, Wapda has asserted: "Unless the involvement of private sector in
energy sector does not reduce cost of the product, the whole exercise would prove futile." Looking to the
future, Wapda feels that the main focus of World Bank's PSEDP should be on how to reduce costs of
energy to stimulate demand. Towards this end, Wapda has made the following suggestions on future
utilization of funds available in PSEDF:
a) promotion of tariff reforms, which could help in stimulating demand;
b) meaningful privatization of the distribution sector with the objective of lower costs finrly in mind;
and,
c) reduction of interest rate softening the terms of loans in the existing IPPs.
Karachi Electric SuPDlV Corporation (KESC):
KESC, the utility responsible for generation and distribution in Karachi and surrounding areas, had signed
nine PPAs totaling over 2000 MW under the 1994 Power Policy. Only three projects achieved Financial
Close and two, with a combined capacity of 250 MW, reached commercial operations.
In KESC's view due to lower economic growth than envisaged under the 1994 policy the present generation
capacity and conmmitted additions are likely to be sufficient upto 2003. Due to drying up of loan availability
for its own generation projects the IPPs helped in reducing the demand-supply gap in KESC's network
during the years 1998 and 1999 and created a maintenance reserve for its stations.
The 1994 Policy allowed free choice of site, fuel and technology to developers. This led to IPPs choosing
sites in proximity to KESC's own power stations, thus increasing the vulnerability of the transmission
system, and selection of diesel engine based plants, which allowed early project completion but from
KESC's perspective do not offer base load stability. Also, in KESC's view though the 1994 Policy was
- 78 -



simple, allowing an upfront bulk tariff, and therefore attracted investment, it suffered from some basic
flaws such as not requiring ICB and permitting tariff adjustment for both inflation as well as Rupee
depreciation. Other drawbacks of the private power program were that the large number of incentives
offered (government performance guarantees; tax and duty waivers) attracted private investors looking for
windfall gains rushed to set up projects and frequently adopted coercive tactics to -ensure early signing of
agreements.
KESC has acknowledged that as a consequence of the power sector being an exclusive public sector
domain many distortions and anomalies had resulted. One positive effect of induction of private generators
is that now public sector utilities are better aware of market realities and competition with the IPPs is
expected to lead to better management of public assets.
Oil and Gas Develonment Companv Limited (OGDCL):
OGDCL has limited its comments to its experience with the Uch Power Limited (UPL) project. The Uch
gas field has been developed by OGDCL with a financial outlay of US $ 270 million and is expected to
generate revenues in the range of US$ 54 to 83 million annually, depending on load factor achieved by
UPL. However the continued wrangling between WAPDA and UPL and UPL's problems with its
contractors and lenders delayed commissioning of their project for quite a while.
OGDCL has emphasized that despite fulfilling all its contractual obligations UPL has refused to accept gas
deliveries.
National Develo_ment Finance Cor_or    (NDFQ:
The formation of a separate division within NDFC for PS energy project and its staffing by professional
staff was one of the requirements under Loan No. 2982 PAY, The Private Energy Cell of NDFC provided
a nucleus for the new division, the Private Energy Division (PED), set up in 1988.
Under the Administration Agreement signed between the GOP and NDFC in January 1989, NDFC was
designated as the Administrator of the Private Sector Energy Development Fund established through the
proceeds made available by a nunber of international funding agencies. In 1994 PSEDF was renamed as
the Long Term Credit Fund ("LTCF" or the "Fund"). During its initial year PED benefited from the
training and technical assistance provided by outside consultants as well as two resident consultants
financed by USAID.
As administrator of the LTCF, NDFC is responsible for appraising, approving financing, supervising and
monitoring eligible PS Projects.
LTCF funding for power projects was only considered after the sponsors had obtained a Letter of Support
(LOS); and execution of concession documents between the Project company and relevant counter parties
and satisfactory contractual arrangements for equipment and construction were conditions precedent for
effectiveness. Therefore, basic premise was that all parties to these agreements has carried out their
respective due diligence and therefore it was believed that the Projects' operational risks had been
reasonably mitigated. As such, it was expected that the Fund's borrowers would be able to satisfactorily
meet their obligations to lenders, including LTCF.
It is noteworthy that as many as 20 proposals were received by LTCF for funding but only five were
financed. The high drop out is due to: (i) the procurement process; (ii) availability of alternative financing
- 79 -



due to high margins under the 1994 Policy; (iii) non-availability of fund for a period before effectiveness of
PSEDF-II; (iv) crowding out due to high allocations/standbys for Hubco.
LTCF has participated in the funding of IPP's which vary in terms of size (117-1200 MW), location, fuel
(RFO, natural gas, low BTU gas) and type (combined cycle, steam, diesel). The Fund also participated in
the 82 Km residual fuel oil pipeline project, which meets the entire fuel requirements of Hub Power
Company. Todate LTCF has invested about US$ 840 million in five 5 projects. The total amount of
investment mobilized for these projects (including equity and commercial debt) is approximately US$ 3
billion.
Each of the sub-projects are briefly discussed below:
Asia Petroleum Limited (APL):
The 82 Km Pipeline with an annual capacity of 3.63 million tones runs from the Pipri Oil Terminal to Hub,
Baluchistan and supplies residual fuel oil (RFO) to Hubco. The Pipeline has been operational since
November 02, 1996 and has cumulatively pumped 4,777,287 metric tones of RFO upto March 31, 2000.
LTCF provided $ 19.98 million for the Project and the company has been servicing its loans satisfactorily
through project revenues.
Hub Power ComDanv Limited (Hubco):
The 1292 MW stearn cycle project, based on residual fuel oil (RFO), has been in commnercial operation
since March 1997. The tariff payable to Hubco by Wapda has been under dispute since mid 1998.
Considering LTCF's large exposure to this project (approximately $ 450m) an early resolution of this
dispute is imperative for the Fund to maintain a positive cash flow.
Rousch (Pakistan) Power Limited (RPPL):
RPPL, a 412 MW (gross capacity) combined cycle plant located at Abdul Hakimn about 70 km. from
Multan, is in operation for almost a year now. The plant design, currently based on RFO, allows easy
conversion to gas, which would improve overall efficiency and profitability. LTCF has provided debt
facility of US$ 180 million to the Project. The initial targeted Commercial Operation Date (COD) was
March 1998, however, actual COD was achieved on December 11, 1999.
Southern Electric Power Company Limited (SEPCOL):
SEPCOL is a 117 MW diesel engines plant based on RFO to which LTCF has disbursed US$ 35 million.
The Project encountered serious problems during commercial operation testing and also faced the threat of
termination, however these issues were resolved and COD was achieved in March 1999.
Uch Power Limited (UPL): UPL is a 587 MW low BTU gas fired plant located at Dera Murad Jamali,
Baluchistan. LTCF financing comnitinents for the Project total US$187.00 million, out of which
approximately US$ 7.00 million rernains undisbursed. The Project has achieved COD in October 2000.
Project Contribution in Gas/Coal Sector; the Project succeeded in attracting a huge amount of private
capital, albeit concentration in power generation and enhancing institutional capacity for appraising and
finalizing project proposals.
- 80 -



During Project implementation the gas and coal sectors appear to received inadequate attention. This would
indicate that perhaps the relevant administrative agencies were either initia1ly not consulted in the evolving
the objectives and/or there was a lack of sufficient follow-up endeavor during the implementation phase.
More involvement of MP&NR which is the controlling ministry for the gas and coal sectors may have the
achievement of the objectives for these sectors.
The implications of this are quite significant as a more balanced development of the energy sector may have
avoided a situation of over capacity of power, based on imported fuel, while there exists unmet demand for
gas. Therefore the objectives should not have been treated as mutually exclusive but inter-related i.e.
development of one energy sector should have been linked to simultaneous growth in other sectors.
PED/NDFC Staffing:
Over the years the experience and exposure of operating in international environments have groomed PED'
s professional staff to effectively meet the operational requirements of LTCF. The experience gained by
PED in financing of energy / infrastructure projects is substantial which now encompasses both appraisal
and monitoring phases, PED officers have been exposed to working on these transactions with international
lenders, sponsors and developers on "project finance" basis. Acting as administrator of the Fund, PED
always remained effective in matching the varied requirements of various parties. PED staff has also gained
experience of working with technical and legal consultants of international repute and a number of major
international suppliers, contractors and operators. Furthermore, PED has gained valuable experience of
working with a number of co-financers, particularly the WB/JEXIM.
The experience gained in PED equips the division to advent into other sectors wherein private sector
investment is essentially required. With the existing skills today PED is fully geared to; i) undertake Project
Financing on a non-recourseAimited recourse basis; ii) provide financial advisory services; iii) develop
financial models for energy/infrastructure projects; iv) arrange funds through syndications as a lead bank;
v) act as an Inter-creditor Agent in international transactions; vi) review and evaluate the procurement
aspects in-line with the requirements of the WB and other international multi-lateral and bi-lateral agencies;
vii) undertake technical due -diligence; viii) effectively negotiate project's agreements with the Project
companies as well as other lenders to the Projects; ix) act as Fund Manager.
Although, PED has been able to retain most of its trained staff, however, the current scenario indicates that
it may not be the case for long. In case no attempts are made to up hold PED, which over the years has
transformed itself into a strong institution, the human resources developed will be lost, leaving a vacuum
for future developments in energy/infrastructure sector.
Views of other Stake Holders:
The substantive views and comments received from the other stake holders are summarnzed below.
Hub Power CompanV Limited (Hubco):
Hubco while appreciating the far reaching significance of the Project has suggested that there was a need
for the establishment of an effective monitoring program by the WB which would have enabled it to play a
more proactive role in resolving the problems being faced by the IPPs. It has also opined that despite good
initial intentions GOP could not implement key components for the program, particularly those related to
the introduction of market reforms in the areas of transmission and distribution of power, which has marred
the success of the entire project.
- 81 -



Commenting specifically on the design of the Project, Hubco expressed its reservations on three aspects,
viz (i) the requirement to comply with WB procurement guidelines for the WB and Jexim tranches (ii) the
tied nature of certain tranches of the PSEDF and (iii) the unavailability of PSEDF financing for payment of
soft costs.
With respect to disbursements some teething problems were encountered in the initial stages resulting in
agreed deadlines being missed. However one operational problem which persisted was that disbursements
were not pre-advised by any of the co-financiers except USAID. This meant that beneficiaries were not
able to receive value date credits.
On the question of effectiveness of PSEDF funding in facilitating Financial Close, Hubco has
unequivocally acknowledged that without the funding made available through the PSEDF their project
would not have been materialized. It has also appreciated the cooperation extended by the various GOP
agencies during implementation of the Project.
Rousch (Pakistan) Power Limited (RPPL):
RPPL believes the Project's contractual framework and the concessions were adequate to give reasonable
comfort to senior lenders as well as project promoters/sponsors. Commenting on their experience during
project's implementation with various GOP entities setup for PSEDF, RPPL feels that during initial years
the three institutions developed by GOP (i.e. PED, WPPO/PPC/PPIB3) had worked largely per the PSEDF
framework and facilitated IPP proposals. This is evident from the fact that the RPPL project was
appraised, negotiated, and documented in a professional way, achieved timely Financial Close and
committed funds were disbursed per agreed time frame and procedures. This was achieved despite
PPC/PPIB not being able to truly offer the 'one window' facility announced in the GOP's policy.
Subsequently, however, as the sub-project approached completion, the company started facing a lot of
hindrances. In RPPL's opinion, the govenmnent machinery at that time tried to make the implementation of
IPPs a politically oriented issue, which also influenced the approach of these three institutions.
Commenting on the appropriateness of opting for LTCF funding RPPL acknowledged that without a
subordinated loan, probably the Project have not materialized. PED/NDFC team played a vital role without
compromising on the basic principles of credit appraisal and objectives of PSEDP. PED/LTCF was
conceived to act as professional and independent organization, but with time it has increasingly been
influenced by disparate considerations and is seen as wearing two hats, which has shaken the confidence of
the offshore lenders and sponsors. LTCF being a lender having its own Board of Directors should play an
independent role on comnercial curn development basis.
On LTCF's financing role in facilitating raising of senior debt, RPPL confirm that availability of LTCF
loan helped in giving comfort to senior lenders in making a decision to finance the Project, at reasonable
cost and fees in a developing country. Particularly, LTCF's successful funding of Hubco provided
confidence to offshore lenders and sponsors.
RPPL suggests that a more constructive strategy for tariff reduction would have been to approach the
sponsors and lenders to work with the govemment to mitigate the impact of the power purchase agreements
(PPA) on Wapda's cash flows rather than impending implementation of projects. This would have avoided
damaging investors confidence, developed over a period time, and also the Projects would not have faced
cost overruns, thereby reducing the cost of generation.
- 82 -



Like Hubco, RPPL has also suggested that the WB should have played a more active role in the PSEDP
program. Another weakness pointed out was that the Project did not promote the local engineering
industries or consulting firms. RPPL faced problems in hedging interest rate risk and suggested that LTCF
rates should be linked to LIBOR instead of US Treasury or IBRD rates. The company has also suggested
that greater decision making autonomy should be provided to the three GOP institutions developed for the
Project and compensation designed to discourage staff turnover.
Asia Petroleum Limited (APL):
Giving a background of the venture APL writes that their project was established in the private sector to
construct a pipeline within a very limited but definite time frame to fulfill the HFO needs of Hubco,
therefore, the company was conceived in an unconventional manner. Following actions were initiated by the
WB, with the consent of GOP:
-      Selection of shareholders who had a vested interest in the running of the company;
-     EPC contract was awarded before signing of any agreements especially the IA, which has still not
been finalized;
Recounting its experiences, APL has listed the following problems, possible mitigants, and lessons learned;
-     As the company was unable to achieve Financial Close and the funds therefore, were not easily
available the contractor was always in a position to dictate terms. Healthy contractor-client
relationship was very often missing.
The MP&NR got into tangles as this was the first time they were handling a project of this nature
therefore their responses were always very slow and created hurdles for the Project. We feel that
the same GOP window should have been operative as in the case of IPP thus eliminating the need
of re-inventing the wheel, which was already substantially developed in the Ministry of Water and
Power.
The role of NDFC as an institution was no different to what is normally attributed to the Public
Sector entities. However, one redeeming factor has been the attitude of PED section whereby most
of the officials demonstrated a very commercial and skillful approach to the whole issue and inspite
of constraints that they must have been faced with, things did move and the Project got completed
on time.
Any project which required substantial investment, Financial Close should not be a pre-requisite.
PSEDF like fund definitely can serve a very meaningful and rewarding purpose.
NDFC should act as an independent entity to administer such funds and should not be dependant to
perform within the practiced bureaucratic norms.
Taual EnerLv (Private) Limited (Non-LTCF Funded IPP):
Tapal considers the Framework for the PSEDP well conceived and designed to encourage power generation
projects in the PS. However, adding; there could have been a parallel and equal focus on developing power
- 83 -



distribution also in the PS as reform in the power sector cannot be completed until the distribution sector is
also privatized and able to control its losses and revenue leakages.
On their experience with various GOP entities setup for PSEDP implementation the company states that
while they did not borrow from the PSEDF the general impression from those companies, which did
borrow, was that while the various GOP entities created under the Project were well established there
appeared an absence of common objectives between them. As an example, the PPIB was concerned with
investment promotion and facilitation of IPP projects. In WAPDA the WPPO was more concerned with the
cost of electricity under the PPA. WPPO was also rightly concerned, even in 1994 that the quantum of
generating capacity being contracted from the PS appeared far in excess of projected demand. It was
therefore trying to discourage a few projects. The PED in NDFC appeared more concerned with the
viability of its investments and was therefore interested in maximization of revenues of its sub-projects, an
objective directly in conflict with that of WPPO. PED was reporting through NDFC to the Ministry of
Finance, as opposed to the PPIB and WPPO, which came under the administrative control of the Ministry
of Water & Power. The fuel logistics and contracts were being coordinated by the Petroleum Ministry,
which had its own priorities. The ministries did not see eye to eye on many issues, resulting in confusion
and delays.
On the relative merits of a financial structure with LTCF funding vis-a-vis one without Tapal feels a blend
of the LTCF with commercial debt would definitely have been a better package as their current loan is of
seven-year maturity, which places a heavy debt servicing burden during the initial years of the PPA.
Based on their experiences with the PSEDP program the Tapal has suggested the following approach:
-     To test the framework and policy, the first private generator should have been of much smaller
capacity (approximately 200 MW) than Hubco.
After signing the first 1000 MW under the 1994 policy, the GOP should have switched to a
competitive bidding system for subsequent capacity acquisitions, based upon pre-determined
project parameters such as size, location, fuel and technology.
-     A parallel focus should have been given to the privatization of distribution entities and
strengthening of regulatory framework.
-     Problems that arose in the implementation of projects should have been dealt on a commercial
basis.
Assessment of World Bank Performance:
The WB played a major role in designing the framework and launching of the PSEDP. Subsequently
through contacts with the Project participants and regular follow up missions the WB monitored the
implementation progress. In addition to its own funding the Bank's participation encouraged other
co-financiers to fund the program.
The assessment of the WB by the various Project participants presents a somewhat divergent view. While
the GOP agencies have generally been reticent on the subject, Wapda's continued censure of the IPPs, with
tacit support of other government agencies, can be seen as an indirect criticism of the PSEDP program and
its protagonists. Though it should be recognized that this criticism has not been directed at the concept of
private powerper se, but rather the perception that the tariff payable by utilities under the program is
- 84 -



unaffordable.
On the other hand, some of the IPPs have called for a larger WB role in resolution of their differences with
GOP, evidently in the belief that this would be to their advantage. This attitude would appear to lend
credence to the perception that the programs prinal objectives were promatation of the foreign
investors/contractors interests.
Lessons Learnt:
Prior to inviting PS proposals there should have been defined parameters for; i) the legislative environment;
ii) what is required from the Project technically and commercially; and iii) what is finance-able in the
private sector. Wapda being the power purchaser should have identified the specification of available sites,
plant size, fuel type, mode of plant operation, provision of grid inter-connection facilities etc. Identification
of these desired parameters would have provided a meaningful competition between the private sector
investors.
Before embarking on enlarging the country's power generation pool it may have been appropriate to plug
the holes. The problems of high line losses and pilferages were well known and past attempts to address the
issue had not met with any notable success. In this scenario, accurate demand figures i.e. the need as well
as the capacity to pay, could not be estimated.
Focus on a single large project as a 'first' was a risky proposition when the country had not gained enough
negotiating experience. This may have resulted in: (i) the GOP agreeing to multiple risk coverages which
only added to the cost of the Project resulting in a burden beyond the country's economic capacity (ii)
offering a higher ROI than merited by technological and operating risk consideration and (iii) higher
developmental costs which could not be off-set against any tangible benefits for the country.
As events have show, in-depth economic and technical appraisal is required for a project of this magnitude
and far reaching implications. Specifically: (i) more detailed work on the Bulk Tariff Policy may have
helped in avoiding some of its shortcomings like offering a premium which encouraged relatively smaller
diesel engine projects not suited for base load requirements (ii) the impact of the Projects on the country's
balance of payment were not fully comprehended (ii) despite the current pressures for lowering trade
barriers, considerations of economic linkages and indigenisation should not be totally ignored in such
Projects as this adds to their political sustainability and ultimate success.
It has been noted that number of project's participants influenced the timely and successful completion of
the transaction. More the number of project participants, (may it be the contact counter-parties,
contractors, co-financiers, members of the sponsor group), longer it will take the Project to achieve
Financial Close. As such, for a smoother, timely and cost effective transaction, the ideal scenario is to have
a limited number of project participants.
Projects which entitled multi-currency funding have experienced not only delays but have also incurred
additional costs on account of hedging for the exchange rate movements. The preferred option could be that
all project funding should be denominated in a single currency preferably the same currency as that of the
TKC/EPC (Turnkey/Engineering Procurement Contractor) or at least into a currency which may be hedged
readily.
For the success of the PSEDP Project it was a pre-requisite that a suitable institutional framework is
in-place and sufficient administrative resources are mobilized to expedite the necessary project agreements
- 85 -



and approvals. Such a set-up should have been available prior to the commencement of first project
(Hubco) development work, however, this was not the case. Hubco paved a way for an institutional
development and by the time it was completed, a reasonably utilitarian institutional framework was
available. The continuity and availability of experts/specialists developed in these institutions was
essentially required for effective/smooth implementation of projects. Unfortunately, as this institutional
development was in the public sector, therefore, no attempts were made to retain the human resources
developed in these institutions. The lack of proper compensation and un-defined future career prospectus,
forced significant number of professionals to leave for better career prospects. As such, though an
institutional frame was available, it was never fully equipped and geared to effectively respond to the
inherent challenges of the transactions.
The PSEDP funding was from various co-financiers and was, therefore, in different currencies. The World
Bank commitment and disbursements were in US$, however, as the WB disburses equivalent US$ from the
pool of currencies, GOP is required to service the debt in respective currencies from which WB has made
disbursements. This has exposed the PSEDP to exchange risk. While structuring the PSEDF-I this aspect
was totally ignored, however, in PSEDF-II the exchange risk for US$ movement to Pak Rupee was
covered, as under PSEDF-II the Project Company liability is established in US$ with repayments in local
currency equivalent amount on the basis of exchange rate prevailing on the date of repayment. The change
in the structuring of PSEDF-II demonstrate the learning curve, however, the fund is still exposed to
exchange risk of currencies other than US $. In future, it would be essentially required that exchange risk
exposure should be assessed in detail and appropriate mitigates are in place.
The overall concentration remained focused on power generation and in the process the ancillary
requirements were ignored, which included development and privatization of power distribution systern,
affordable tariff and overall industrial growth. The imnplications are that, although, the electricity is
available, the distribution system is inadequate to cater the consumption requirements. The transmission
losses are being passed on to the consumers in the form of excessive power tariff. The availability of
power, which should have triggered the industrial development, did not help, as the power tariff is too high.
Power sector was declared an industry and various concessions were allowed, however, not enough
incentives were offered in other sectors of the economy to facilitate accelerated industrial development It is
an established fact that development is a mellifluous activity and is therefore, should not be restricted to
one sector of the economy. For a real success of PSEDP coordinated efforts were/are required in all sectors
of the economy. Optimal consumption of available power, efficient transmission and controlled distribution
losses will automatically reduce the tariff payable by Wapda to the IPPs, thus making the power affordable
for the end consumers (industrial/domestic).
The financial structuring engineered for the first PSEDP project burdened the Project with substantive soft
costs such as, development costs, legal costs and the lenders reserve requirements, in spite of the fact that
various guarantees were available to the lenders. These soft costs were/are a major contributing factor in an
inflated tariff agreed for Hubco. Being the first project, some of these costs could be justifiable, especially
the legal/development costs, however, the financial structuring was adopted as a model in other IPPs, which
should not have been the case. On the basis of watertight security arrangements the lenders could have
foregone their reserve requirements, thus allowing a relief on the tariff. Had Wapda and the GOP continued
to honor their commitments, the lenders may have agreed to provide such reliefs on future transactions.
For the first PSEDP project GOP had to allow several guarantees through the WB, JEXIM and other
Export Credit Agencies to the commercial lenders. All these guarantees were/are; i) back-stopped by the
GOP guarantees and are therefore contingent liabilities of GOP; and ii) for the political risk cover. From
1988 to 1996 all the governments were supportive of power policy and therefore, with the passage of time
- 86 -



the foreign lenders started to consider financing in Pakistan without guarantees for the political risk cover.
It was always the intention of the GOP to minimize guarantee exposure in such "Project Financing"
transactions. The consistency in GOP's policies encouraged the foreign lenders, during the period 1994 to
1997, to finance some of the IPPs in Paidstan without seeking political risk guarantees. This was an
encouraging sign and could have been en-cashed for future developmental transactions in the private sector,
at an affordable price. However, the change in GOP's attitude has once again cautioned the international
community not to enter a third world country without securing itself for the political risks.
- 87 -



Annex-I -A
List of Institutions Approached and
Stastus of Replles Received
S.No.        Institution Name                               Replv / Responded
1.    National Insurance Corporation                              No
2.    Oil & Gas Development Corporation                            Yes
3.    Pakistan Water and Power Development Authonty               Yes
4.    State Bank Of Pakistan                                       Yes
5.    Sui Southem Gas Company Limited                             No
6.    The Karachi Electric Supply Corporation                     Yes
7.    Private Power and Infrastructure Board                      Yes
8.    Asia Petroleum Limited(APL)                                 Yes
9.    Rousch (Pakistan) Power Company Limited (RPPL)              Yes
10.   Southern Electric Power Company Limited (SEPCOL)             No
II.   The Hub Power Company Limited (Hubco)                        Yes
12.   Uch Power Limited (UPL)                                      No
13.   AES Lal Pir Limited                                          Yes
14.   AES Pak Gen (pvt) Company                                    No
15.   Altem Energy Limited                                         No
16.   Davis Energen Lirrited                                       No
17.   Eeshatech (pvt) Limited                                      No
18.   Fauji Kabirwala Power Company Limited                        No
19.   Gul Ahimed Energy Limited                                    No
20.   Habibullah Coastal Power (pvt) Company                       No
21.   Japan Power Generation Limited                               No
22.   Kohinoor Energy Limited                                      No
23.   Liberty Power Limited                                        Yes
24.   Northem Electric Company Limited                             Yes
25.   Power Generation Systems Limited                             No
26.   Saba Power Company Liniited                                  No
27.   Sabah Shipyard (Pakistan) Limited                            No
28.   Tapal Energy Limnited                                        Yes
- 88 -



Annex-1 -B
Ouestionnaire Address to the above listed Institutions
1. Adequacy of contractual framework and the concessions/policy to give comfort to senior lenders as well
as to the project promoters/sponsors for project implementation and operation.
2. Your company's actual experiences with various GOP entities setup for PSEDP implementation. In your
opinion did these entities provide adequate assistance to the IPPs at various stages of approval,
implementation and operations? How do you think this assistance could have enhanced for facilitating
setting up of IPPs?
3. Appropriateness of your decision to avail LTCF subordinated loan from PED/NDFC for financing part
of the capital cost. Was your loan request handled properly at various stages of appraisal, documentation,
disbursement, etc,. If there were shortcomings observed, how these could have been avoided?
4. LTCF subordinated loan (together with equity) was expected to facilitate raising of senior debt, and at
relatively lower cost and fees. What has been the actual experience with the senior lenders and export credit
guarantees as well as other guarantees?
5. Some of the IPPs experienced a number of problems. How do you think these problems could have been
avoided? What do you consider would have been the impact on capital cost and generation cost if such
problems were resolved early?
6. What do you consider are the lessons learnt from implementation of PSEDP, in particular the
implementation of your project?
- 89 -



