4AO'1i'/'g _ /cZ  _-C!
D _cmet of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
Rqmt No. 9004-PAK
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PAKISTAN
PROPOSED EXPANDED COFINANCING OPERATION
TO PARTIALLY GUARANTEE UP TO US$:!40 MILLION OF A SYNDICATED COMMERCIAL
BANK LOAN
OF US$360 MILLION EQUIVALENT
TO
THE HUB POWER COMPANY
OCTOBER 29, 1991
Private Sector Financial Operations Group
Cofinancing and Financial Advisory Services
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CUIRRENCY EQUJIVALENT
Currency Unit            Pakistan Rupee (Rs)
US$1.00            -     Rs 24.04
MIPASURES AND FOIIIVAI-RNS
lometer                           -     0.6214 miles
)n                        -     1,000 kilograms
ilovolt                           -      1,000 volts
egawan                            -      1,000 kilowatts
ilowatt Hour                      -      1,000 watt hours
ABBREVIATIONS AND AC'RO)NYMf.C
-  Asian Development Bank
-     Briti.sh Electricity lntemationa! Limittd
Bankers Equity Limited
-  Board of Investment
r        -      Build-Operate-Transfer
Commonwealth Development Corporation
*  Core Investment Program
FACE     -      Compagnie Francaise d'Assurance pour le Commerce Exterieur (France)
P        -      Canadian Utilities Power of Canada
-  Development Finance lnstitution
-     Dhabi Trading
-     Escrow Agreement
s   -      Export Credit Agencies
3D              Export Credit Guarantee Department (United Kingiom)
)    -     Expanded Cofinancing Operation
.I       -     Energy Sector Loan I
,11      -      Energy Sector Loan 11
-     Fuel Supply Agreement
p        *      Govemment of Pakistan
-         Hub Power Group
BCO      -      Hub Power Company
-     Implementation Agreement
I -  Intemational Competitive Bidding
-     Interest During Construction
-.  -  International .Aonetary Fund
.IM  -     The Export-import Bank of Japan
SC       -      Karachi Electric Supply Corporation
h        -      Kilowatt Hour
-     Long Term Energy Sector Strategy
I    -      Letter of Intent
P        -      Medium-term Macroeconomic Adjustment Program
f   -      Thousand Cubic Feet
11       -      Ministry of Intemational Trade and Industry (Japan)
I -             Megawatt
i'P      -      Ministry of Water and Power
FC       -      National Development Finance Corporation
IN         Overseas Development Administration (United Kingdom)
DC       -      Oil and Gas Development Corporation
MA       -      Operations and Maintenance Agreement
)    -      Private Energy Division of National Development Finance Corporation
-         Policy Framework Paper
-     Pakistan Intemational Airlines
DC       -      Pakistan Mineral Development Corporation
-  Power rurchase Agreement
Private Power Cell in Ministr;y of ','Water and Power
R   -      Project Performance Audit Report
-     Private Sector
'DF      -      Private Sector Energy Development Fund
)        -      Pakistan State Oil Company
-     Shareholders Agreement for Hub Power Company
E   -     Sezione Speciale per PAssicurazione del Credito all'Esportazione (Italy,
P -  State Bank of Pakistan
R -  Special Drawing Rights
-     Sponsors/Investors in Hub Power Complex
5PL      -      Sui Northem Gas Pipeline Company, Ltd.
-     Security Package
;C   -     Sui Southem Gas Corporation
-     Trust Deed
! Tumkey Construction Contract
AJD      -      United States Agency for International Development
,PDA     -      Water and Power Development Authority
GOP's FISCAI YEAR
July I - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PAKISTAN
PROPOSED EXPANDED COFINANCING OPERATION TO PARTIALLY GUARANTEE
UP TO US$240 MILLION OF A
SYNDICATED COMMERCIAL BANK LOAN
OF US$360 MILLION EQUIVALENT
TO THE HUB POWER COMPANY
STAFF REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PROJECT SUMMARY                                                                      i
SUMMARY OF TERMS OF ECO                                                             ii
1.    THE ECONOMY AND ENERGY SECTOR                                                  1
A.   Economy                                                                  1
13.   Long-Term Energy Sector Strategy (LES)                                  1
C.    Progress in the Implementation of LES                                   3
D.   Seventh Plan for Energy (FY89-93)                                        4
E.    Bank's Group Role in the Energy Sector and Experience with Past Lending  6
II.   PROMOTION OF PRIVATE SECTOR IN ENERGY DEVELOPMENT                              7
A.   Framework for Promotion of Private Sector Participation                  7
B.    PSEDF's Potential Lending Operation                                    10
III.  THE HUB POWER COMPLEX                                                         10
A.    Historical Development                                                 10
B.   Preparation                                                             11
C.   Description                                                             13
D.    Costs                                                                  14
E.    Security Package for HPC                                               16
IV.   THE EXPANDED COFINANCING OPERATION FOR HPCO                                   22
A.   Setting                                                                 22
B .   Objectives and Rationale for the Proposed ECO                          23
C.   JEXIM Co-Guarantee                                                      25
D.   ECO Level Over Time                                                     26
E.    Proposed Financing Plan                                                27
This Report was prepared by Ibrahim Elwan, Suman Babbar, Abha Joshi-Ghani, David Baughman.
Jeffrey Humber (CFSPS), with contribution from Mahesh Sharma, Maria Elena Barrientos (EMIEG),
Sanjivi Rajasingham, and Kyoichi Shimazaki (CFSPC), Herbert Morais (LEGOP), Akhtar Hamid
(LEGEM), and Steve Lintner (EMTEN).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-ii -
V.   THE HUB POWER COMPANY                                             32
A.   Corporate Development                                        32
B.   Forecast of HUBCO's Financial Performance                    34
C.   Environment                                                  38
VI.  ADMINISTRATION                                                    39
VII. RISKS                                                             40
VIII. JUSTIFICATION                                                    43
IX.  RATIONALE FOR BANK INVOLVEMENT                                    46
X.   SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS                                             47
3.1   MEMBERS OF THE HUB POWER GROUP                              50
3.2  DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE HUB POWER COMPLEX                53
5.1  FORECAST SOURCES AND USES OF FUNDS                           59
FORECAST PROFIT AND LOSS STATEMENT                          60
FORECAST BALANCE SHEET                                      61
NOTES AND ASSUMPTIONS OF FINANCIAL FORECAST                 62
8.1  ASSUMPTIONS FOR THE INTERNAL ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN         64
8.2  PROJECTIONS OF ELECTRICITY CONSUMPTION IN PAKISTAN           66
MAP:       EBRD 22535



EXPANDED COFINANCING OPERATION (ECO) TO PARTIALLY GUARANTEE
UP TO US$240 MILLION OF A
SYNDICATED COMMERCIAL BANK LOAN
OF US$360 EQUIVALENT
TO THE HUB POWER COMPANY
IN THE ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
PROJECT SUMMARY
Project Des             The proposed Project, with an installed capacity of 1,292 MW,
comprises four conventional oil-fired power generating units of
323 MW each and associated facilities, including a 500 kV
switch yard, access road, and fuei oil storage tanks  The
proposed Project would be undertaken by the Hub Power
Company (HUBCO) on a Build-Own Operate basis. Fuel for
the proposed Projecet will be supplied by a pipeline to be
constructed and operated by Pakistan State Oil Company (PSO),
a public sector company. Two single circuit 500 kV lines of 200
kilometers each, proposed to be constructed by WAPDA under
the Transmission Extension and Reinforcement Project (Loan
3147-PAK) would connect the proposed Project to the 500 kV
transmission grid. The proposed Project would be located at the
mouth of the Hub River in Baluchistan Province, near Karachi.
Benefits:               HUBCO would add nearly 18% of existing capacity, thereby
addressing critical shortages of electricity currently being
experienced in the country. Since this capacity would be
established in the private sector, it would release public sector
resources for other critical investments. A comprehensive
system of penalties and bonuses, based on internationally
accepted performance standards, wnuld ensure that the plant
would be operated efficiently and would serve as a benchmark
for the evaluation of existing utilities in Pakistan.
Riaka:                  Since the oil-fired generating units proposed to be installed by
HUBCO are based on proven technology, there are no
unforeseen risks in design and construction of these units. Risk
of unforeseen geological conditions are mitigated by ensuring
that all investigation work is completed prior to the start of
construction and the release of any financing for the,. proposed
Project. Adequate contingency provisions have been made to
address any cost increases on account of changes in financing
cost or other variations. Risks of damage due to fire, explosion,
etc. would be covered by con- mercial insurance provisions
secured by HUBCO. Adequate special financing arrangements
to cover sovereign risks have been put in place under the
agreements proposed to be signed by GOP and HUBCO. The
major risk would be inability of the financiers to commit the
necessary financing for the implementation of the proposed
Project. However, construction activitv would be initiated only
after commitments have been received from all financiers.



- ii -
Estmlated Costs of Hub Power Comllex
Fstimated Cost of the Comolex and Summary of the Finanving Plan
Estematedl CUMs                                    Rs mnillion I   US4 minjDo
A. Project Development Costs                                    505           21
B. Turnkey Construction Contract Cost                        21.344          888
C. Engineering aid Coordination for HPG                       1,250           52
D. Pre-operational O&M Costs                                    457           19
E. Working Capital                                              336           14
Subtotal Project Costs2/                                     21S29           22A
F. Interest During Construction and other Finance Related Costs  8,366       348
G. Reserve Contingency Fund (Debt and new Equity)             3,605          150
H. Debt Service Escrow Reserve                                1,635           68
Total Financing Requirements                                 3L5012        J1i
Summary Financi*n  Plan                                                           ToS
Local                                                       2.404          100           7
Foreign                                                     5.61          223           14
Subtotal Equity                                       7,765         323           21
Q2et
Local                                                       3.606          150           8
Foreign                                                    26.131        1.087          21
Subtotal Debt                                        29,737       1,237           79
Total                                  37,502       1,560          100
I At exchange rate of Rs 24.04/lJS$.
2 Includes the following Taxes and Duties:                    1.226           51



-iii -
Proposed Financing Plan folr HtJBCO
Progosed Financeing Planl
(VS$ Mileion)
Equity                            Base            Debt Service  Contingency    Total
Finany*ng   a2  'Jcrow           jjg F       inancing F2
Foreign Investors
Sponsors/HPG Members                 78     6         -          38           116      7
Offshore Financ;al Institutions      82     6        17                        99      7
Commonwealth Dev. Corp.               8    _ I       -                          8-
Subtotal Foreign Equity              1i6    ii        17 .1                    223     15
Local Investors
H1UB Convertible Bonds              100    1                      _           100Q
Subtotal Equity                      268       20)    17                              .  21
Debt
Foreign
PSEDF                               355    26         -          52          407      26
Svndicated Commercial Bank Loan     249    19       51           60           360     23
Export Credit Agencies              300    24         -            -          300     21
Commonwealth Dev. Corp.              2Q     2                                          1 20
Subtotal Foreign Debt                924    21         i           I 112      1087     21
Local Banks                         150     9        _           _            150      8
Subtotal Debt                       1074    80       5l           1-12       i27       12
TOTAL                           1342  100%       68          150         1560    100
IFigures may undergo minor adjustments.
2Taken as a percentage of the total cost of the Complex, which includes interest during construction and
other finance related costs.
Map NElo:      IBRD 22535



SUMMARY OF TERMS OF
TO PARTIALLY GUARANTEE
TPT PROPOSED EXPANDED COFINANCING OPERATION (ECO)
UJP TO US$240 MILLION OF A SYNDICATED COMMERCIAL BANK LOAN
OF US$360 MILLION EQUIVALENT (THE LOAN)
TO THE HUB POWER COMPANY
TO FINANCE A POWER GENERATION COMPLEX ( THE COMPLEX)
IN THE ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
Blmrrger:                Hub Power Company (HUBCO).
Guarantor,U              Internetional Bank for Reconstrucdon and Development (World
Bank) and Export-Import Bank of Japan \JEXIM) in the ratio of
2:1 (see Guarantee Provisions below).
Lenders:                 The commercial bank members of the syndicate (the Lenders).
Amoi                     US$360 million equivalent, consisting of four facilEties:
(i) ECO guaranteed base facility of US$200 million equivalent;
(i.) ECO guaranteed secondary facility of US$40 million
equivalent;
(iii) a JEXIM guaranteed base facility of US$100 million
equivalent; and
(iv) a JEXIM guaranteed secondary facility of US$20 million
equivalent.
Curreneies:              U.S. Dollars and Japanese Yen.
Use of Proceeds:         To finance part of the cost of eligible goods and services required
for the construction of the Complex. The balance of the costs will
be financed by export credit agencies, subordinated debt and
foreign and local equity. Subordinated debt consists of a sub-loan
from the Private Sector Energy Development Fund (PSEDF)
which is partially financed by the Bank (Loan No. 2982-PAK).
Procurerne=              The equipment, materials and services for the Complex will be
included in the Turnkey Construction Contract which has been
awarded through a competitive process meeting the requirements
of economy and efficiency under the World Bank's Procurement
Guidelines.



- V --
Drawdov*.:                Disbursements under the Loan would be for eligible expenditures
for the Complex. HUBCO would maintain a special account in a
bank acceptable to the Guarantors, denominated in currencies of
the Loan into which the proceeds of the L.oan would be deposited
30 days prior to the start of the quarter, based on a quarterly
expenditure requirement. HUBCO would provide the World
Bank/JEXIM with periodic reports on the use of funds for
expenditures for the Complex, including a yearly audit report of
the special accounts by independent auditors acceptable to the
World Bank.
Term:                     12 to 14 years from date of agreement including 4.5 to 5 years of
availability/ grace period.
Aviaabilitv               4.5 to 5 years from date of agreement.
Period:
Interest Rate:1           U. Dollar Tranche
(a) For the base facility:
(i) Three or six months London Interbank Offered Rate
(LIBOR) plus 2% per annum prior to completion of the
Complex;
(ii) Three or six month LIBOR plus 1-7/8% after completion
until the earlier of the 4th anniversary of the date of
completion or the 8th anniversary of the date of the loan
agreement; and
(iii) Three or six month LIBOR plus 2-1/8% thereafter.
(b) For the secondary facility:
Three or six months LIBOR plus 2-1/4% prior to completion
of the Complex; after completion, the applicable interest rate
would be the same as the interest rate for the base financing
facility for the U.S. Dollar Tranche.
Japanese Yen Tranche
For the Japanese Yen Tranche, the applicable interest rate may be
one or a combination of the following:
I These terms are of an indicative and preliminary nauire and will be revised at the time of receiving a firm commitmnent from the
commercial banks.



- vi -
(a) For the base financing: if the Yen Traache is based on the
Lorg-Term Prime Lending Rate (LTPLR):
(i) LTPLR plus 1% per annum prior to completion of the
Complex,
(ii) LTPLR plus 7/8% after completion until the earlier of the
4th anniversary of the date of completion or the 8th
anniversary of the date of the loan agreement; and
(iii) LTPLR plus 1-1/8% thereafter.
The LTPLR would be revised every 4/5 years and/or every
6/12 months.
If the Yen Tranche is based on LIBOR, the applicable interest
rate would be LIBOR plus the same margin applicable to the
U.S. Dollar Tranche.
If the Yen Tranche is based on the Short Term Prime Lending
Rate (STPLR), the applicable interest rate would be STPLR
plus the same or slightly higher margins as those applicable to
the LIBOR-based portion, depending on market conditions.
(b) For the secondary facility:
The applicable interest rate for the base financing facility of the
Yen tranche, plus 1/4% prior to completion of the Complex;
after completion, the applicable interest rate would be the same
as the interest rate for the base financing facility of the Yen
Trar. he.
RepaInngnt;              The Loan would be repaid in 21 equal semi-annual installments
commencing on the 4.5th anniversary of the date of the syndicated
loan (the Agreement).
Qcumentation:.           The Agreement would be acceptable to the World Bank and
incorporate inter alia, the following provisions:
Escrow Account: A Lenders' Inte.-est Reserve Account will be
established off-shore. It will be required that an amount equivalent
to approximately one year's interest payments to the Lenders be
reserved in the account, from the time principal repayments start.



- vii -
Cross-Default Causes: As in the case of other cofinancing
agreements, the generally broad cross-default provisions of
commercial loan agreements would be limited, Cross-default
remedies based upon indebtedness to the World Bank may be
taken by a majority of the lenders only if the World Bank has
accelerated its loan for the Private Sector Energy Development
Project (Loan 2982-PAK) or if thcre is a payment default bv
Pakistan under its World Bank loans in a material amount (to be
specified) and which default persists for more than 45 days.
Information Sharing: Non-confidential information concerning the
Complex, normally exchanged in World Bank cofinancing
transacdons, would be shared by the World: Bank and JEXIM with
the designated Agent (see Agent below), for the benefit of the
Lenders. All information regarding the Complex and HUBCO
given to the Agent for the benefit of the Lenders would be shared
by the Agent with the World Bank and JEXIM.
Amendment: Any material amendment to the terms of the
Agreement which would affect the Guarantee would require the
prior consent of the World Bank and JEXIM.
Coudiflop                The Loan Agreement and the Guarantee will be effective only
Prgcedent                when:
to Effectiveness:
(i) an irrevocable letter of credit in favor of the sponsors covering
their total equity contribution has been opened and agreements for
all remaining equity and debt financing including Export Credit
Agencies as specified in the financing plan have been executed and
all conditions precedent for their effectiveness have been fulfilled;
(ii) all agreements required in comnection with the construction of
the Complex (including but not limited to the Implementation
Agreement, the Power Purchase Agreement, the Fuel Supply
Agreement, the Construction Contract, O&M Agreement, Escrow
Agreement, etc.), have been executed and are effective; and all
conditions precedent for their effectiveness have been fulfilled;
(iii) HUBCO has been capitalized and staffed in a manner
satisfactory to the Bank.
Guarantee               =Scoe:
Provesions; 2            (1) The partial guarantee of the Loan is expected to oe provided
by the World Bank and JEXIM in the ratio of 2:1. The World
Bank Guarantee and the JEXIM Guarantee will be callable on a
2 The gumantee provisions described (except under "Scope") reflect World Bank requirements.



- viii -
pari passu and pro rata basis. The portion of the loan to be
guarantee,d by JEXIM is limited to JRpanese Yen Tranche to be
provided by Japanese banks including Japanese branches of non-
Japanese banks. The Yen portion of the syndicated loan would be
at least one third of the total amount;
(2) The World Bank Guarantee and the JEMM Guarantee will
cover the panQipA payments due under the Loax. and remaining
unpaid.
(3) The Escrow Agent of the Lenders' Debt Service Escrow
Account will be designated with the authority to call the guarantee
upon the occurrence of the following specified 'events", which
will be properly "certified" by the Escrow Agent:
(i) HUBCO (through the Escrow Agent) has failed to make a
principal payment or a portion thereof due and payable to the
Lenders either on a scheduled payment date or on acceleraeon; ad
(ii) The failure of HUBCO (through the Escrow Agent) to make
the payment is the result of the failure of the Government through
the State Bank of Pakistan to make available the equivalent foreign
exchange at the agreed rate upon receipt of the local currency funds
from HUBCO (through the Escrow Agent);
and /or
(iii) The failure of HUBCO (through the Escrow Agent) to make a
principal payment or a portion thereof is tne result of a shortfall in
the receipt by HUBCO (through the Escrow Agent) of local and
foreign currency amounts payable by the Government under the
Implementation Agreement.
A^ccleralon: The Guarantee wWI not be callable/accelerable during
the grace period of the Loan, i.e., until the 4.4th/5th anniversaxy
of the date of the Agreement, except in the event of termination (as
defined in the Implementation Agreement). If the Loan is
accelerated during this period for reasons other than termination,
the Guarantee will lapse.
Subrogation: Upon any payment by the World Bank under the
Guarantee, the World Bank would immediately become entided to
recover from HUBCO and GOP the amount so paid and would
have the immediate right of sutrogation against HUBCO and GOP
in respect of such amounts regardless of whether the Lenders have
been fully repaid by HUBCO and GOP in respect of other
amounts due the Lenders under the Loan Agreement.
Requisite Authorizations: All authorizations and approvals
required to make the Guarantee effective would be obtained and
be in full force and effect.



- ix -
Option to Release: Provisions expressly enabling the Lenders to
release the Guarantee would be included.
Guarantee Fee:          A guarantee fee of 50 basis points per annum, less any applicable
waivers, will be payable by HUBCO on the outstanding
guaranteed amount in line with the Bank's current guarantee
pricing policies.
Fees:                   Management, Commitment, Arrangement and Agency Fees to be
specified.
Taxes and Other         All payments to be made under or in connection with the Loan to
Deductions-,            be free and clear of any taxes, withholdings or other deductions
whatsoever.
Indemnit. bv            The Islamic Republic of Pakistan (Pakistan) and HUBCO would
Pakhstan and            enter into an Indemnity Agreement with the World Bank in respect
Borrowers               of its Guarantee. Under such Indemnity Agreement, Pakistan
and/or HUBCO would undertake to reimburse and indemnify the
World Bank on demand, or as the World Bank may otherwise
determine, for any payment made by the World Bank under its
Guarantee.
GoverninogLaw           The Agreement would be governed by Japanese and English law
and Jurisdiction:       as appropriate and provide for the non-exclusive jurisdiction
against the World Bank of the Japanese and English courts. The
Indemnity Agreement would follow the legal regime, and include
dispute settlement provisions which are customary in agreements
between member countries and the World Bank.
Agwento                 The Agent for the Lenders is to be appointed.



1. THE ECONOMY AND ENERGY SECTOR
A. Economy
1.01  In spite of impressive growth performance for most of the 1980s, Pakistan, in recent years,
has developed a large fiscal deficit, and more recently, serious balance of payments problems.
Progress in the implementation of the Government's Medium-term Macroeconomic Adjustment
Program (MAP) covering FY88-91, which was aimed at correcting these imbalances, had been less
than satisfactory, particularly regarding efforts to reduce the fiscal deficit. The country's problems
have been aggravated by the Gulf-crisis, which has led to a critical foreign exchange reserves situation.
The Gulf Crisis has demonstrated once again the country's vulnerability to external shocks, which
have weakened Pakistan's external resource position. Most of this is due to higher oil prices and the
reduction in remittances from Pakistani workers in the Gulf area. The new Government, which took
office in November 1990, has moved swiftly in certain areas to reactivate the adjustment effort.
Investment and import licensing have been virtually eliminated; the financial sector reform program has
been reactivated; and major enterprises in energy, telecommunications and highways are being granted
increased autonomy. Important progress has also been made in two long-standing issues: provincial
disputes over allocation of the Indus waters have been resolved with the recent agreement of the four
riparian provinces to a water apportionment scheme; and the National Finance Commission has
recently announced new revenue sharing arrangements between the Federal Government and the
provinces.
1.02 The Government's policies place a particular emphasis on industrial deregulation and
privatization. The principal aim is to shift from the public to the private sector those functions and
operations which can be more efficiently and cost effectively carried out by the latter. A significant
part of this effort is the recently initiated public enterprise privatization process. The first phase of this
program aims at privatizing about 115 production units, of which bids have already been invited for
four. In the financial sector, two of the nationalized commercial banks have been privatized in 1991,
one of them to that bank's employees, while bids are expected to be invited for two of the remaining
such banks very soon. In addition, the Government has initiated the privatization of the
Telecommunication Corporation and the Sui Northern Gas Pipelines Limited (SNGPL). In May 1991,
the national electricity utility, the Water and Power Development Authority (WAPDA), has been asked
to prepare proposals to divest some or all of its thermal stations and the distribution system to the
private sector.
1.03  The Government has also confirmed its intention to address the country's fiscal constraints.
Initially, the actions taken on this front were insufficient, contributing to delays in agreeing on the
third-year Structural Adjustment Facility; and in the release of second tranches under the Bank's sector
loans in energy and finance. However, GOP recently implemented price adjustments for electricity
and natural gas in the energy sector and undertook other measures in support of the adjustment
program. As a part of its efforts to address the fiscal constraints in the medium-term, however, the
Government of Pakistan (GOP) will continue to place a major emphasis on increasing private sector
investment in the energy sector to increase the flow of private risk capital for a energy investments
identified as part of the least cost investment program for the sector. The proposed Hub Power
Complex (paras. 3.01-3.13) represents the first such private sector investment in the power sub-
sector.
B. Long-Term Energy Sector Strategy
1.04    Pakistan's commercially exploitable energy resources consist of hydropower, natural gas, oil
and ccal. The hydropower potential is estimated at about 30,000 MW. Probable and proven reserves
of natural gas are estimated at about 16 trillion cubic feet (TCF) and 6.3 TCF, respectively. Oil
reserves, both probable and proven, are estimated at about 58 million tons. Coal and lignite deposits
are estimated at about 900 million tons, of which 175 million tons are proven. In addition, fuelwood
and agricultural and animal waste provide a major share of rural consumers' energy needs. Despite
Pakistan's endowment of energy resources, its dependence on energy imports has been increasing
because of the under-utilization of domestic resources. Consequently, the Fifth and Sixth Plans



(FY79-88) emphasized the accelerated development of domestic energy resources. However, financial
and implementation constraints impeded the achievement of the targets of the two five-year plans.
These setbacks prompted GOP to formulate, with assistance from the Bank, a Long-Term Energy
Strategy (LES), covering the period 1986-2010. LES focuses on three key areas: (i) resource
development and energy investments; (ii) pricing, resource mobilization and demand management; and
(iii) institutional '-uelopment. A summary is presented below.
Resource Deveyi,pWzt c6nd Energv Investments
1.05    Primary Ener:   *dro: Of the country's 30,000 MW hydropower potential, only 2,897
MW have been developed, and another 1,928 MW are at an advanced stage of implementation. LES
calls for the development of another 8,700 MW by the year 2010. Coal: Despite the suitability of
Pakistan's coal for the production of electricity and industrial steam, its share in the supply of
commercial energy has remained stagnant. This resulted from GOP's energy pricing policy prior to
1985 when the prices of competing fuels, i.e., fuel oil and natural gas, were kept low. Since 1985,
prices of natural gas and petroleum products were increased and, as a result, the present price of
domestic coal in terms of thermal equivalency had become competitive wi-li the prices of substitute
fuels. The recent crises in the Gulf and the subsequent rise in the price of oil has altered the relative
prices of competing fuels in Pakistan. This has partially been addressed with GOP's increase of the
prices of petroleum products, and once the price of natural gas is also adjusted, domestic coal would
have a price advantage over natural gas and petroleum products. Despite the actions taken since 1985
to correct the distortion in the relative prices of fuels and the recent boost to the competitiveness of
domestic coal, its production still remains substantially below its potential because of: (a) the absence
of a stable market for its use other than for the manufacture of bricks; (b) inadequacy of the laws
governing coal exploration and development by PS; and (c) the inability of the Pakistan Mineral
Development Corporation (PMDC) to successfully implement a program for the development of
publicly-held concessions. LES calls for a program to assess the reserves held by PMDC to delineate
tracts suitable for exploration and development, and to introduce a framework for allowing PMDC to
enter into joint ventures with local and international private companies to overcome its technical,
managerial, and financial constraints. In order to provide a stable market for coal, the construction of
power plants based on fluidized bed technology of appropriate sizes would be pursued, and incentives
to stimulate investments by PS in the modernization of the coal mines would be introduced. Oil a
Gas: The rate at which oil and gas are being developed is slower than the resource base warrants.
LES calls for a program of exploration and development to identify areas where exploration,
particularly in geologically risky areas, would be undertaken through joint ventures with PS, which
would provide risk capital and know-how to supplement the financial and technical capabilities of the
Oil and Gas Development Corporation (OGDC), areas where OGDC would take the sole responsibility
for development, and areas which would be developed through work programs or subcontracts with
PS entities. LES also calls for the accelerated development ar.d utilization of dormant low quality gas
fields. HousehoQdEner-g: Tle share of traditional fuels in rural consumers' energy consumption is
declining because of deforestation, caused primarily by the unrestrained use of fuelwood and the
absence of a comprehensive national program for afforestation to replenish supply. LES proposes a
household energy survey to determine the pattem of energy consumption, the potential for substitution
between traditional and commercial fuels, and the means for meeting the energy needs of the rural
poor. The household survey is underway and, when completed, would provide the basis for
formulating an integrated program for meeting the rural population's energy needs at least cost. LES
also calls for an assessment of the potential for increased use of solar energy for meeting low-
temperature hot water needs and for the formulation of a national afforestation program to be
implemented as a part of thie five-year development plans.
1.06    Secondaa  Energ: Power: LES calls for increased reliance on coal and hydropower, and
the use of petroleum products and gas only when economic. Domestic coal production would be
increased for use in power generation. In order to supplement domestic coal, future increases in the
thermal generation capacity for base load plants would be based on imported coal. LES calls for the
implementation of a long-term plan for the reinforcement and extension of transmission and



distribution to deliver electricity efficiently. The transmission development program would involve the
extension and reinforcement of the 500-kV network to evacuate electricity efficiently from the major
hydropower stations in the north (Tarbela and Mangla) to the south during the rainy seasons, and
transport power from the major thermal stations in the south to the north during the dry seasons. In
addition, the efficient operation of the integrated power system requires a dispatch system that would
optimize the operations of the power stations to meet the demand at least cost. The secondary
transmission network would also be extended and reinforced to reduce technical losses. As for the
distribution system, substantial investment would be undertaken to ensure its extension at least cost, to
reduce losses and integrate the rural areas into a national low voltage network. Oil and Gas: As the
demand for petr('leum products and production of oil irom existing fields increases, refining capacity
would need to b.- expanded to meet the demand at least cost. LES calls for increasing refining capacity
betweeii 1989 and 2010 by 5 million tons, of which one million tons would be in the form of
secondary refining to crack fuel oil. As for natural gas, LES calls for the expansion of the gas
processing capacity to meet the increased demand and the reinforcement and extension of the
transmission and distribution networks in the urban areas.
Pricing. Resource Mobilizatio' and Demand Management
1.07    LES calls for rationalization of energy prices to promote efficiency and resource mobilization.
To achieve this objective, prices of tradeable energy sources, such as oil and petroleum products
would be set, at a minimum, at their equivalent border price plus the cost of inland handling. As for
electricity, lignite and gas, which in the case of Pakistan are considered non-tradeable, prices would be
set to cover their economic cost of supply, including a premium for depletion when applicable, and to
finance at least 40% of the investment program of each entity supplying these sources. Moreover, the
structure of prices for gas, coal and electricity would reflect the structure dictated by the economic cost
of supply.
Institutional Development
1.08    Power: LES calls for improving the efficiency of the entities in the sector by decentralizing
decision making and moving towards financial and administrative autonomy. The finances of the
Karachi Electric Supply Corporation (KESC) would be restructured to ensure that revenues cover all
costs and at least 40% of its investrnent program. As for the Water and Power Development Authority
(WAPDA), dependence on annual allocations under the budget would be phased out through greater
reliance on internally generated funds, and on the credit and capital markets for financing its
development program. CoaL: PMDC would be restructured to assume a more active role in the
development of its coal reserves through joint ven;ures with PS for the purpose of developing specific
proven reserves. Oil and Gas: LES calls for OGDC to be restructured to achieve financial autonomy.
Its exploration and development program would be financed through joint ventures, internal sources
and commercial borrowings. OGDC's technical and managerial capabilities would be strengthened to
support its evolution into a company whose operations are based on internationally accepted industry
standards. Government involvement in Sui Northern Gas Pipeline Company (SNGPL) and Sui
Southern Gas Company (SSGC) would be reduced to allow for a greater role for PS. Enhanced Rl
of Erivate Sector: The implementation of investment plans in the energy sector continues to be
constrained by a shortage of financial resources and, to some extent, lack of technical know-how. The
implementation capabilities of the public sector and semi-autonomous entities in the sector are also
taxed and, consequently, their ability to achieve the targets under the five-year development plans is
hindered. LES calls for GOP to create an institutional framework aimed at providing the security and
incentives for PS to increase its involvement in the development of energy to complement investments
by the public sector.
C. Progress in the Implementation of LES
1.09    A series of sector loans were envisaged by the Bank to assist GOP in its implementation of
LES. Each loan would support a monitorable program of policy actions and priority investments



which would form the umbrella for the Bank's expanded lending for specific energy investments and
for more effective coordination of external financing for the sector. The first phase of these reforms
was implemented successfully during the last three years (FY86-88) of the Sixth Plan under Energy
Sector Loan I (ESL I - Loan 2552-PAK). Support for implementing the second phase of LES is being
provided under Energy Sector Loan II (ESL II), which covers the first three years (FY89-91) of the
Seventh Plan (FY89-93). The reforms outlined under ESL II constitute the energy program of MAP
agreed with the IMF and the Bank (paras 1.1 1-1.12). The energy program calls for inter alia,
eliminating budgetary support for revenue earning public sector entities in favor of prudent direct
borrowing in the capital markets, rationalizing investments in the public sector to ensure that priority
projects are implemented within the resources available, and establishing an appropriate incentive
system and a framework for a more prominent role for PS in the development of energy. Agreements
under ESL II regarding energy prices require price adjustments in line with movements in world
market prices of petroleum products, to mobilize resources for the budget and to finance the investment
programs of the energy sector entities. All the conditions for release of the first tranche were met.
However, subsequent non-compliance with conditions related to pricing policies contributed to delays
in the second tranche release. Following price adjustments, however, these conditions have now been
substantially complied with. Electricity prices increased by an average of 29.3% from FY89 to the
present as a consequence of three tariff increases in September 1989, July 1990 and April 1991. With
these increases, the structure of tariffs has moved closer to that of the Long Run Marginal cost of
electricity supply, while enabling WAPDA to finance from internal sources 40% of its investments. In
the petroleum subsector, producer prices for domestically produced crude continue to be pegged to
international prices of crude while for natural gas, the producer price is pegged to two-thirds of the
border price of fuel oil less negotiated discount in order to attract risk capital for exploration; while
consumer prices of petroleum products, except for kerosene, are being maintained above the
corresponding import prices. To comply with ESL II agreements, consumer prices of natural gas were
increased in April 1991, as a result of which gas prices for industrial and power sectors are at parity
with the domestic price of fuel oil, those for commercial consumers are at 112% of fuel oil parity, and
those for raw gas supplied to WAPDA are at 40% of the domestic fuel oil price enroute to achieving
full parity by FY95. For residential consumers the price of gas is about 72% of the equivalent border
price of fuel oil enroute to achieving full parity by FY93. In accordance with agreements under ESL II
for the study to determine the impact of higher gas prices on the ex-factory prices of fertilizer after
initial delay, terms of reference have now been agreed and consultants are being recruited.
D. Seventh Plan for Energy (FY89-93)
Physical and Investment Targets
1.10    The Seventh Plan for energy, formulated with the assistance of the Bank, was set within the
constraints dictated by MAP (para 1.02) to ensure consistency between the overall targets for the
economy and those of the sector. The Plan is based on a long-term forecast of the demand for energy
for FY89-2003, which covers three five-year development plans. A more detailed forecast for the
Seventh and Eighth Plans (FY89-98) was also prepared which provides a more exact basis for the
investments needed in the current Plan and those required for the subsequent Plan to ensure smooth
transition from one to the next. According to the 10-year forecast, the demand for energy is expected
to increase between FY89-98 at an average annual rate of 7.0% and 6.0% for the Seventh and Eighth
Plans, respectively. Based on the projected demand, a Core Investment Program (CIP) for the
Seventh Plan was determined. Table 1 shows the physical targets for energy planned for the Seventh
Plan.



Table 1: Planned Phvsical TaeUts in Energy for the Seventh Plan (FY89.93)
PLANNED
ADDMONS DURING
END FY88            SEVENTH PLAN             END FY93
Public Private,   Toal Public Priv ate    Tota  Public  Private   Tlaw
Power (MW)
Hydro          2897     0    2897   1728   200   1928    4625    200    4825
TheTmal        38]9     Q    3l8   3502  210    562          3212.    2100    2421
Subtotal Power   6716   Q    6716  5UL   230Q   7530   11946   2300    14246
Oil ('000 BPD)   7.4  35.6       43    11    22       33      18.4   57.6       76
Gas(MMCFD)       100   1100    1200   768   132    900        868   1232      2100
Coal (Mill.tons)   0.3   3.9    4.2   0.7       2     2.7       1    5.9       6.9
MW  Megawatts; BPD = Barrels per day; MMCFD = Millions of cubic feet per day.
CIP is comprised of ongoing and new projects to be undertaken by the public and private sectors
between FY89 and FY93 to meet the forecast demand for energy at least cost. Given the forecast for
energy demand, investments to be undertaken by the public sector, including the semi-autonomous
entities, were estimated by: (i) increasing, relative to FY88, the level of expenditures on their
development program during the Seventh and Eighth Plans at an average annual rate of 1%, taken as a
proxy for the expected improvement in their implementation capabilities; and (ii) assuming increases in
the average annual rates of energy prices, in nominal terms, between 8% and 12%, depending on the
product; and (iii) maintaining the self-financing of the entities in the sector to between 20% and 40%,
depending on the entity. The difference between the total investments required to meet forecast energy
demand and the proposed public sector investme.its represents the investrnents to be carried out by PS
to reduce potential shortages in energy supply. However, given delays in both public and private
investments, it is expected that there will be slippages in the achievement of the targets planned for the
Seventh Plan period.
implementation of CIP for FY89-90
1.11    The overall implementation of CIP for FY89 and FY90 has been within the framework
agreed with the Bank under ESL II. Increases in investment in particular areas have been
accommodated through decreases in others to maintain the global level of investment at or below those
agreed under MAP. Implementation of the public sector CIP for FY89 and FY90 is presented in Table
2 below:
Table 2: Im2lementapion of Public Sector CIP forFyR_9-FYo
(1990 US$ Million)
1989                    1990
Actual                    Actual
LIe    Ac      vs. CIP ZP    Actual  vs. CIP
(i) 
Power          864     846       -2       955     954      -
Oil & Gas      268      195     -27       251     218    -13
Coal            _       _        _         18       2     -ff
Total          1132    1041      -8      1224    1174     -4



Investments by public sector energy entities in FYs 89 and 90 were slightly lower than the levels
agreed under CIP, i.e. 8% and 4%, respectively. p&wer: In FY89 power subsector investments were
about 2% lower than CIP while in FY90 they were in line with CIP. Increases in WAPDA's
investments in generation in FY89, were offset by a reduction in KESC's generation program through
the postponement of the units at Bin Qasirn (1 x 210 MW). As a result of delays in the implementation
schedule for Hub Power Complex (HPC) (paras 3.01-3.08), the development of WAPDA's 500-kV
transmission program covering the interconnection between the Complex and network at Jamshoro
was shifted to outlying years and generation investments advanced. Moreover, in order to balance the
investment program, WAPDA's investments in distribution were reduced and priority was given to
KESC's distribution development program where losses are significantly higher than those of
WAPDA's distribution system. PS investments in power have been pushed to FY92-93 with the delay
in the implementation of the HPC, the largest PS investment in power during the Seventh Plan. Qi1 &
Gas: Overall, investments in the oil and gas subsector in FY89 and FY90 were lower than levels
agreed under CIP by 27% and 13%, respectively. OGDC's program in exploration was significantly
reduced in both years to accommodate increased PS interest in exploration activities, while its
development program was increased slightly as a result of its participation in PS joint ventures to
develop already discovered fields. The expansion of SNGPL's transmission network was delayed
while reaching an agreement with the Bank on corporate restructuring and privatization of the
company. Consequently, as a result of delays in mobilizing the Bank's loan, the expansion of
SNGPL's transmission facilities was delayed. Construction of these facilities would be launched
shortly, as SNGPL's Corporate Restructuring Project was approved by the Board in August, 1990.
In the interim, as a result of the decreases in SNGPL's transmission development program,
investments to reinforce the gas distribution system were greater than those agreed under CIP.
1.12    PS investments in the petroleum subsector have been largely consistent with the projections
of the Seventh Plan. In contrast, the implementation of the PS investment program in the power and
coal subsectors have been slower than envisaged. The delays are largely due to: (a) chaages in
government which required the renegotiation of key agreements for investments that would provide
about 1,642 MW (Hub Power Complex-1,292 MW, and Fauji-350 MW); (b) the delays in the actions
needed to maintain the implementation of MAP on track; and (c) the realization that mobilization of
external financing for Pakistan under limited recourse has proven more difficult and time consuming
that was originally anticipated. As a result, it is expected that the implementation of PS investments
called for under the Seventh Plan would shift by about two years into the Eighth Plan. The effects of
this shift may be partly offset by softening of the demand for electricity as a result of a lower rate of
economic growth expected over the next two years.
E. Bank Group's Role in the Energy Sector and Experience with Past Lending
1.13    The Bank Group's involvement in the energy sector in Pakistan began in 1955 with a loan to
KESC for the construction of a thermal power plant. Since then, the Bank Group has participated in
the Indus Basin Development and has made 26 credits/loans to Pakistan in support of specific energy
investments which include: four to KESC for the expansion of power generating capacity; nine to
WAPDA for the extension and reinforcement of the secondary and the extra high voltage transmission
network, the rehabilitation and improvement of existing power plants, the conversion of combustion
turbines to combined cycle operation and the supply of electricity to rural areas; six to SNGPL for the
expansion of the infrastructure for gas transmission and distribution, with the most recent operation
focussing on restructuring the ownership of SNGPL to increase private sector involvement; three to
OGDC for increasing the output of oil and gas; two to refineries for restructuring product output and
streamlining existing systems; and two to GOP for increasing joint venture participation in the
exploration and development of oil and gas and for the establishment of the Private Sector Energy
Development Fund (PSEDF) and ESL I and II (para 2.03). All of these operations have been
completed satisfactorily, except for the ten that are currently under implementation.



l .14    The Bank Group's involvement in the power subsector has assisted in: the formulation of a
long-termn least cost generation expansion plan, reducing losses in the transmission and distribution
network from 35% to about 23%, adjusting the level and structure of tariffs to rationalize consumption
and mobilize resources to ensure that at least 40% of WAPDA's investment program is financed from
internal sources, and improving WAPDA's administrative, technical and financing capabilities. In the
oil and gas subsector, OGDC's investments have been rationalized and measures have been initiated to
restructure the corporation with a view to making it financially less dependent on the budget. A gas
utilization and demand management study has been completed and measures have also been
implemented to reduce the imbalance between the supply and demand for gas. On the supply side a
new producer price formula was introduced and the available acreages were promoted to the private
sector and so far exploration contracts have been signed for 21 new concessions. On the demand side,
the consumer price of gas has been increased and allocation procedures that would meet the gas
requirement of the priority sectors and maximize the benefits to the economy have been adopted.
1.15    The Project Performance Audit Report and the Project Completion Report for ESL I, which
was distributed to the Board on June 18, 1990, concluded that compliance under Loan 2552-PAK was
good when compared with that of other adjustment loans in general, and also when compared with
compliance with energy policy conditions. It further notes that ESL I generated a good deal of value
added through the CIP, which provided not only a new conceptual framework for the investment
program but also a new operational structure within which priorities could be more realistically
identified, resources channeled to them with greater assurance, and progress monitored more easily.
In addition to these substantive contributions, the CIP also generated value added as a prime forum for
much of ESL I dialogue which is unquestionably real, very productive and very much an integral part
of the planning and operations of both GOP and the Bank. In a similar vein, the Project Completion
Report attributes much of the progress made in mobilizing private resources for energy development,
including the establishment of PSEDF, to the dialogue initiated under ESL I and continued under
ESL II.
II. PROMOTION OF PRIVATE SECTOR IN ENERGY DEVELOPMENT
A. Framework for Promotion of Private Sector Participation
2.01    The rationale for increasing the role of PS in the development of energy is to: (a) supplement
public sector investments which were curtailed under MAP; (b) mobilize additional resources for the
development of the sector in the form of equity and debt financing secured under limited recourse; and
(c) improve the overall efficiency of the sector by tapping the technical and managerial capabilities of
PS in project design, finance, implementation, and operation. In 1988, GOP requested Bank
assistance in the formulation of a strategy to increase PS participation in the energy sector. The Bank's
strategy called for: (i) strengthening the institutions responsible for the evaluation, negotiation and
approval of PS proposals; (ii) introducing a regulatory framework for the operations of PS and a
package of incentives to attract PS venture capital; and (iii) creating a vehicle to provide long-term
financing to PS. These are the objectives of the Private Sector Energy Development Project (Loan
2982-PAK), which was approved by the Board in June 1988, which was made to support the
implementation of the program to enhance the role of PS in energy development. Under this loan,
GOP has introduced significant changes in the legal framework, the financial sector and the regulatory
arrangements to enhance the role of PS in energy development. These initiatives are summarized
below.
2.02   Institutional Framework: GOP has established an institutional framework to facilitate the
processing and approval of PS energy projects. A Private Power Cell (PPC) has been created under a
Directorate General in the Ministry of Water and Power (MWP) to promote, evaluate, and negotiate PS
investments in the power subsector. PPC has been partly staffed with technical and financial experts,
and is currently in the process of recruiting directors for mechanical, power and finance; a manager for
management information systems; two financial analysts; and a systems analyst. PPC is also being
assisted by consultants from the International Resources Group of the U.S., financed by United States



-8-
Agency for International Development (USAID). In addition, legal advisors to PPC have prepared
standardized agreements for future PS power projects. In 1988, GOP established a Private Energy
Division (PED) in the National Development Finance Corporation (NDFC) which was appointed to
administer the PSEDF. PPC reviews the feasibility studies, and negotiates the principal agreements,
tariffs, and implementation timetables, for all PS investments. For those requiring financing from
PSEDF, PED reviews the technical and financial viability of projects on the basis of guidelines
approved by NDFC's Board of Directors, the Bank, and GOP. PED has been staffed with a core
group of financial and technical professionals and is currently recruiting additional staff in consultation
wit:l the Bank. PED is supported by Price Waterhouse, in association with RCG/Hagler Bailly and
Brown & Root as economic and technical advisors. Price Waterhouse have been appointed long-term
advisers to PED under financing by USAID. In addition, vwbank Preece, Ltd., of U.K. in
association with Barclays of U.K. have been selected as short-term consultants to support PED iti the
appraisal of HPC. PED's operations are guided by an operations manual approved by NDFC, GOP
and the Bank. NDFC would operate PSEDF under the terms of an administration agreement with
GOP and would undertake independently the technical and financial appraisal of the PS projects to be
financed by the Fund to ensure that they are financially and commercially viable. In the event PSEDF
findings are to the contrary, projects would be rejected and financing would not be provided. NDFC
would also supervise the implementation of each PS project with the assistance of internationally
experienced engineering, financial and accounting firmns, whose services would be covered by USAID
and the Bank. Figure 1 shows the operations of PSEDF and terms of subloans to PS subprojects.
2.03    Mobilization of Resources: The Bank and cofinanciers have committed to PSEDF a total of
US$459 million. Of this, US$150 million was provided by the Bank, US$150 million by the Export-
Import Bank of Japan (JEXIM) in the form of untied funds, US$46 million by the USAID, and
US$13 million by the Nordic Investment Bank, while US$50 million by the Overseas Development
Agency (ODA) of the United Kingdom, and US$50 million by the Government of Italy has been
committed. Interest in cofinancing PSEDF has also been expressed by Germany (US$25 million), and
agreement reached with GOP to include it under its bilateral support for the sector. In addition, the
Government of France would provide US$20 million. It is envisaged that as funds are committed to
approved PS projects, PSEDF would be replenished. The onlending interest rate of PSEDF would be
set at parity with the prevailing market interest rate in Pakistan, which is currently 14%. The interest
rates on loans from the PSEDF are fixed, i.e., unchanged during the life of the loan. GOP has agreed
under Loan 2982-PAK to review annually the interest rates on loans from PSEDF to bring them in line
with the prevailing market rates. The interest rate would cover: (i) GOP's cost of borrowing, which is
equal to the weighted average interest rates of the various sources which contributed to PSEDF, as
well as the payment of an exchange rate insurance premium to cover changes in the exchange rate
between the Rupee and the foreign currencies supplied to PSEDF; (ii) the cost to NDFC of operating
and administering PSEDF, covering the costs of personnel, administration, auditing and reporting; and
(iii) a spread to accumulate reserves, to either forn equity capital for PSEDF when eventually
incorporated as a self-standing entity, and to provide financing in Rupees for future PS projects, to
minimize the reliance on the domestic fihtancial institutions. PSEDF would provide initial debt
financing of up to 30% of each PS energy in-v-stment. Repayment terms of up to 23 years, including a
grace period of up to eight years, are desigreA4 to reflect the long gestation periods associated with
energy projects. Loans obtained from PSEDF would be subordinated to those obtained from
commercial banks and/or export credit agencies (ECAs). In addition, PSEDF would include funds to
be made available to PS companies, which are required to be incorporated in Pakistan, by way of
additional financing to enable them to: (a) meet up to 25% of any additional financing needs of a
project arising from an increase in the costs thereof, provided the investment company finances at least
another 25% of such needs through equity investment; and (b) continue to meet its debt service
payments in the event of delay in the completion of construction or the suspension of operations of the
project resulting from causes beyond the control of PS companies. The combination of the financing
provisions provided by PSEDF is determined by the structure of the Security Package (SP) for each
investment. SP is comprised of a set of inter-related agreements and provisions aimed at providing the
safeguards needed for PS to invest in projects without the direct guarantees of GOP. SP for HPC is
outlined in Section E in Chapter III.



FIGURE 1                                                                                                          PROPOSED SUBPROJECTS
PRIVATE SECTOR ENERGY DEVELOPMENT FUND                                                          Hub Power
Complex
........ . .........                                   .  g  I...*. ..........                  1 2 ~ M
THE FUND IS                                                     Fauji Oil
C? ofinaniers                 PROVIDE LOANS                 ADMINISTERE:                                 ...........
TO THE                             E                                                 -    35M
US$ MLLION          GOVERNMENT                      NATIONAL                                                    Uch Low
WORLD BANK         50                                           DEVELOPMENT                         TermsUhLoQait
JEXrdh 11io                                OF                        FINANCE                                                   Gas Power Plant       1
USAID               46                 PAKISTAN                 CORPORATION                   Covers up to 30% of total       _     _PweF t__
ITALYf U            50                                                (NDFC)                  Up to 23 years rmaturity
FRANCES!            20                     FRUp to 8 years grace                                                                Handpor Gas
GERMANY 4           25                     FOR                       Under An            _   Prevailing market interest rate     Power Plant
NordiclnvestmnetBmnk   1            THE PRIVATE                   AGRENMT HT                 - covers cost of borrovwing plu       100 MW
TOTAL                             S HECTORIVENERG                 AGMNSREEMENT                spread to cover foreign
*DANKIS LEAD iNANCIER      DEELTOPMENERYAREMN                                        exchange rate risk Insurance,
THEK ACIVITIESD OFINTHER          DVLPETadministration, fees,________
OHE ACTIMERS RELATIVE TOPROJECT                                      Btenreserve accumulation.
HFUDARE R            DBY          (LOANT2982-PAK)                      GOP                   Confingencies.                     Lakhra Coal-
THE FUND ARE GOVERNED BY  (LOAN 2982-PAK)      GOP                   ~~~Subordination to commercial     Fired Fluidised
THE COFINANCiERS AGREEMEN                                                                     banan   t credit                Bed Plants 300MW
1/ Unted funds adminisbred by            UNDER                          andbanks and export credI_
fte Bank.                             SOVEREIGN
V Commrited.                          GUARANTEE                        NDFC
3Y Preilmirary amt for Hub Project                                                                                                 Karachi
4/ Support for specifi potential               _Hydrocracker
projects agreed wth GOP.                                                                                                         1.6 MT I YR
Spread between borrowing                                             Refinery
and lending rates for GOP                                           4.2 MiT YR
would be about 8%. Estim-
ated eamings of US$1.4
billion over a period of 30
yevArs on US$484 million
or.lent. Rupee reflows
would be available to cover
local costs for subprojects.
DEBT SERVICE TO NDrC
SkdIPSEDF3



- 10-
B. PSEDF's Potential Lending Operations
2.04    Currently, several proposals for investments are under review by GOP for possible debt
financing from PSEDF (Figure 1). In the power subsector, proposals for a total of 2,600 MW of new
capacity, which would be implemented during the Seventh and Eighth Plans, are under review or at an
advance stage of preparation. HPC, which is at an advanced stage of development, would provide
1,292 MW (paras 3.01-3.08). Four other proposals for oil-fired power plants are under review,
amounting to a total of about 750 MW. These include: a proposal by Fauji Foundation to construct a
350 MW power plant near HPC at Khalifa Point in Balochistan; two other proposals for power
projects based on domestic coal, which would provide a total of about 300 MW; and a proposal for a
100 MW combined cycle plant, based on low quality gas from the Nandpur field being sponsored by
INTRAG, Inc. of the U.S. In terms of the Fauji project, Fauji Foundation has selected a turnkey
contractor who would be responsible for construction of the plant and a construction contract has been
drafted and is being negotiated. A feasibility study for the plant is under preparation and drafts of the
agreements comprising the security package have been completed. It is expected that construction
would begin on the Fauji plant sometime in mid- 1992. In the petroleum sector, a proposal for a joint
venture, involving Crescent Refining and Marketing Co. Ltd., a subsidiary of Crescent Petroleum
Company International, Ltd. of Sharja, United Arab Emirates and the Pakistan State Petroleum
Refining and Petrochemical Corporation, to construct, own and operate a hydrocracker complex at
Karachi, has been approved by GOP and is under review for financing from PSEDF. This would
involve the installation of a petroleum refining complex with the capacity to upgrade 1.6 million tons
per year of fuel oil into higher value petroleum products, currently being imported. A feasibility study
for the hyirocracker has been undertaken by a petroleum processing engineering firm with
international experience and the sponsors have structured a security package for the project in order to
provide comfort to lenders and investors, who would provide financing on a limited recourse basis.
The critical agreements in the SP include product off-take agreements which are currently being
negotiated with two petroleum product marketing companies and fuel oil feedstock supply agreements
which are being negotiated with two refineries which will supply the fuel oil feedstock. In addition,
the sponsors have identified land for the project site and have initiated its purchasc The sponsors have
also shortlisted potential turnkey contractors to construct the complex, and ail the arrangements
necessary to begin construction are expected to be finalized by the first quarter of 1992. GOP is also
considering a proposal for the Bank to assi.t in privatizing the Pak-Arab Refinery Company through
the issuance of new equity to reduce GOP's share in the ownership and finance of a new refinery in
mid-country with a capacity of producing 4.2 million tons per year.
Ill. THE HUB POWER COMPLEX
A. Historical Development
3.01    In response to GOP's request in 1987 for PS proposals to design, finance, construct, own
and operate power plants to supply the national grid, 20 proposals were submitted, ranging in capacity
between 2 MW and 600 MW. Of these, Xenel Industries of Saudi Arabia, and Hawker Siddeley
Power Engineering of the United Kingdom proposed the construction of two power stations of 600
MW each (4 x 150 MW for Hawker Siddeley, and 2 x 300 MW for Xenel) to supply power to
WAPDA. Xenel Industries was to construct its plant at Zairat Hassan Shah Island off the port of
Karachi; however, after review of the Xenel proposal, GOP decided that the location for the plant was
not appropriate because of environmental considerations as the level of pollution at Karachi is already
high due to a heavy concentration of industry and power plants. In addition, the Xenel plant would
require 220-kV lines connecding the proposed station to WAPDA's network outside Karachi which
would pass through the city's densely populated urban area. As for the power plant proposed by
Hawker Siddeley, which was to be located at Nooriabad, 34 km north of Karachi, there were concerns
about the higher cost of the 150 MW units relative to the cost of the 300 MW units, and more
importantly, the proposed supply of fuel oil to the power plant by tanker trucks, which was deemed
uneconomical. These two factors would have resulted in a tariff for Hawker Siddeley's plant higher



- I I -
than WAPDA's avoidable cost. Consequently, GOP decided to select a new location for both plants
which would provide economies of scale in terms of the supply of fuel and the interconnection with
WAPDA's transmission system.
3.02    Several sites were examined in terns of efficiency c' fuel supply, ease of interconnection
with the national transmission network, and envi.vonmental consiuerations. The site at the mouth of the
Hub River in Balochistan on the Arabian Sea was selected as fuel can be easily delivered to the power
plant by barges or a pipeline, and linkage with WAPDA's transmission network was possible by
cutting eastwards across Balochistan's virtually uninhabited desert and connecting with WAPDA's
network near Jamshoro in Sindh Province (attached Map No. IBRD 22535). At this point, Xenel and
Hawker Siddeley saw the merits of combining forces as sponsors and investors (SI) to: capture the
economies in sharing infrastructural facilities such as fuel and water supply systems, and housing
colonies; and achieve better coordination in negotiating with GOP. In order to ensure that the site for
the Complex would meet environmental standards, an environmental screening study was undertaken
by KBN Engineering and Applied Sciences, Inc. of the U.S., under financing from USAID. The
study found environmental conditions at the site appropriate for the siting of an oil-fired power plant of
about 1,300 MW. In addition, the environmental screening study outlined a program for the
installation of monitoring equipment for compiling data on ground and air pollution to provide the
basis for the design of the Complex in compliance with the environmental guidelines of GOP, the
Bank and PSEDF (para 4.19). The agreement between SI and GOP on the tariff for sale of electricity
to WAPDA allows for openers to cover possible increases in capital cost attributable to changes in
plant design to comply with the recommendations of the ongoing environmental study. The costs of
these changes, if any, would be automatically reflected in the tariff.
B. Preparation
3.03    A pre-feasibility study by SI was submitted to GOP in May 1987. After review by the Bank,
WAPDA and GOP, assisted by internationally experienced consultants, the proposal by SI was
accepted and a Letter of Intent (LOI) was issued in April 1988. LOI sets the responsibilities of SI and
GOP. In compliance with the guidelines set by the Bank for the preparation of PS projects, the LOI
called for SI to undertake a feasibility study in accordance with terms of reference acceptable to GOP,
the Bank and cofinanciers. The LOI also set an agreed average tariff for the sale of power to WAPDA
of Rs 0.88/kWh (US05.0/kWh)l for the first 12 years of operatico4 of the Complex and Rs 0.68/kWh
(US03.9/kWh) for the remaining 18 years. The capital cost was to be adjusted for inflation, exchange
rate, and changes in design required by GOP and environmental considerations. These adjustments
would be allowed until financial closure, after which tariffs based on a lump sum fixed price contract
for the construction of the Complex would be agreed. Thereafter, the tariff agreed would not be
renegotiated and adjustments after the commissioning of the Complex would be on the basis of agreed
indices. The indices would allow for the adjustment of the tariff to reflect changes in the general
domestic price level, wages, O&M costs, interest rates, and exchange rates. Changes in the domestic
price of fuel would be reflected in the tariff autAmatically and passed on to WAPDA who would pass
them on to consumers through the fuel surcharge _.omponent of WAPDA's tariffs.
3.04   In accordance with nminimum functional specifications for the Complex, agreed by SI and
WAPDA, a consortium led by Mitsui Co., of Japan, was selected by SI for the implementation of the
Complex from among four major international companies who quoted for the construction of the
Complex. Mitsui & Co. was selecied for the implementation of the Complex on account of: (i) its
competitive price relative to the other three bidders; (ii) its willingness to offer a fixed price turnkey
contract with penalties for failure to meet the agreed date for commissioning the Complex and for the
failure of the equipment installed to meet the performance criteria agreed with SI and GOP; and (iii) its
past performance in the construction of Shajiao (B), a 600 MW coal-fired power station constructed in
China under a Build-Operate-Transfer (BOT) arrangement where the power station was commissioned
twelve months ahead of the agreed schedule. Mitsui & Co. put together a consortium of equipment
I At an exchange rate of Rs 17.5/US$.



- 12 -
suppliers and contractors, to participate in the construction of the power station within the parameters
agreed with SI and GOP. It selected Ishikawajima-Harima Heavy Industries Co. Ltd. (IHI) of Japan,
for the supply of the boilers and Toshiba, also of Japan, for the overall engineering and the supply of
the turbo-generators, in view of their past collaboration in the construction of Shajiao power plant in
China. Kumagai Gumi, of Japan, was selected for the civil works, in view of its proven track record
in the construction of major civil engineering projects under BOT arrangements, the most important of
which is the harbor tunnel in Hong Kong.
3.05    The construction consortium would enter into a lump sum fixed price contract for the design
and construction of the Complex which would provide for the commissioning of the plant in
accordance with a timetable and penalties for delays or failure of the equipment selected to perform as
agreed. All members of the construction consortium would take several and joint liabilities, contribute
towards project development, and provide equity. SI selected British Electricity International (BEI) of
the U.K., and Canadian Utilities Power (CUP) of Canada, for the operations and maintenance of the
Complex. BEI and CUP also contributed to the development costs and agreed to provide equity. BEI
was selected as the operator based on: (i) its international reputation and experience; (ii) its proven
ability in the operation, maintenance and management of large thermal power stations; (iii) its
willingness to provide guarantees of its performnance, and penalties for failure in its performance; (iv)
its readiness to participate in the project development and in HUBCO's equity; and (v) its experience
in operating the power station at Shajiao which has operated the Shajiao power station at over 90%
availability since it was commissioned in 1987, a level that compares with the best plants in Europe
and North America. BEI has also worked with WAPDA and has undertaken the training of personnel
in power plant operations in Pakistan. BEI's early involvement in the Complex would provide
additional comfort to the lenders, investors, WAPDA and GOP, because of its input in the design of
the plant, the selection of equipment, and supervision of implementation to ensure adherence to the
agreed standards. SI, Mitsui & Co., along with the rest of the Construction Consortium, BEI and CU
Power, formed the Hub Power Group (HPG) to develop the project and negotiaLe SP. As envisaged
at that time, all the obligations negoti."ed by HPG would be assumed by the Hub Power Company
(HUBCO) once it was incorporated and staffed in Pakistan. The expenditures of HPG would be
capitalized as part of the equity of HUBCO.
3.06    The feasibility study covering engineering, environmental, economic, finance and legal
aspects, was undertaken by SI and their consultants. It was submitted to GOP and the Bank in
November 1988. 'The review of the feasibility study and negotiations of the agreements were
undertaken by a specially appointed GOP committee, comprised of representatives of the Ministries of
Water and Power, Finance, Planning, Communications, Petroleum and Natural Reso'!rces, Law, and
WAPDA and NDFC. On December 17, 1989, the committee submitted its recommendations to GOP's
Board of Investments (BOI) for approval. BOI approved the negotiated package which included all the
key agreements and a revised average tariff of Rs 1.036/kWh (US4.9/kWh) for the first 12 years of
operation of the Complex and Rs 0.80/kWh (US3.8/kWh) for the remaining 18 years2 The BOI
approved package allows for adjustments in the tariff for inflation and changes in financing terms,
exchange rate, as well as adjustments due to environmental and geological considerations at the site for
the Complex.
3.07    At the time the agreements were initialled, site preparation was expected to start by March 31,
1990, two years after LOI was issued and about 20 months after the construction consortium was
formned. Toshiba, Kumagai Gumi and CUP, who had committed significant staff resources to the
development phase of the Complex, could not renew the validity of their prices beyond March 31,
1990. Toshiba's inability to continue the high level of staff commitments was due to a change in
corporate policy which shifted its emphasis for future operations away from engineering and project
management. Kumagai and CUP's withdrawal was due to other contractual obligations entered into
subsequently. This left HPG with the task of reconstituting its construction consortium. BEI has
2 Based on an exchange rate of Rs 21 .05/US$. HPG had offered a tariff of Rs 1.065/kWh (US$5. 1/kWh),
however, it accepted Rs 1.036/kWh pending finalization of contracts and securing the financing.



- 13 -
accepted full responsibility for the operations and maintenance of the Complex. In order to replace
Kumagai Gumi, Mitsui called for proposals for civil works and two offers were submitted and
reviewed with the bidders. Campenon BernarA of Frarce was selected. HPG then asked that the
contract for overall engineering and turbine generators, originally to be undertaken by Toshiba, be
awarded in accordance with the Bank's International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures (para
6.02). Prequalification of firms was completed in June 1990, and the bidding documents were issued
to the prequalified firms in July 1990. The bidding procedures provided for competition on the basis
of price, and required bidders to assume joint and several liabilities for the construction and
performance of the Complex, together with the other members of the construction consortium. These
liabilities are limited to a predetermined level based on a framework for sharing completion and
performance risks and bonuses. The bids were evaluated and the Bank approved in December, 1990
HPG's selection of Ansaldo GIE of Italy as the lowest evaluated bidder. The reconstitution of the
construction consortium, and of HPG to reflect the new construction consortium, and the finalization
of the construction contract were completed in July 1991 (para 3.10). Details of the members of HPG
are provided in Annex 3.1.
3.08    Following the signing of the TKC, HPG held negotiations with GOP in June 1991 to agree
on a revised tariff for HPC. HPG and GOP then renegotiated a tariff that reflected changes that had
occurred to the TKC, the terms of finance and exchange rates since December 1989, the date of the
previous tariff agreement. On July 2, 1991, HPG and GOP agreed on a tariff of Rs 1.3617 /kWh
(US5.7tkWh) for the first 12 years of operation of the Complex and Rs.0.94/kWh (US3.9) for the
remaining 18 years.3 The revised tariff adhered to the reopeners and indexation provisions that were
outlined in the previous Tariff Agreement.
C. Description
3.09    The Complex is designed as a conventional oil-fired steam power station of 1,292 MW  (4 X
323 MW) which will be located at the mouth of the Hub River in Balochistan on the Arabian sea coast
(para 3.02). The Complex would also include the construction of a 500-kV substation, a water
desalination plant, a housing colony, an access road of about 7 kilometers to the site from the main
route, and a fuel oil tank farm sufficient to store fuel for one month of operation. A detailed
description of the Complex is presented in Annex 3.2. Fuel for the Complex would be supplied by a
pipeline. Pakistan State Oil Company (PSO), a public sector company responsible for the supply of
oil and petroleum products in Pakistan, would construct and operate the pipeline. The fuel for the
Complex would be imported by GOP4 . PSO would take possession of the oil at the new terminal
currently under construction at Port Qasim, east of Karachi. The pipeline would use an existing right
of way around the perimezer of the city of Karachi and would traverse a barren area in Sindh and
Balochistan to the power station. All necessary provisions to ensure that the pipeline meets the
environmental safeguards required under the guidelines of GOP and the Bank would be put in place.
Two single circuit 500-kV transmission lines of about 200 kilometers each would connect the Complex
to the national 500-kV grid at Jamshoro (see map). The transmission line would be constructed and
operated by WAPDA under the Bank financed Transmission Extension and Reinforcement Project
(Loan 3147-PAK).
3 At an exchange rate of Rs 24.04/US$.
4 Pakistan would be a net importer of oil well into the future.



- 14 -
D. Costs
3.10    The total cost of the proposed Complex, including taxes and duties, development costs,
engineering and coordination, capitalized O&M costs, and initial working capital, is estimated at
US$994 million. These costs are based on a TKC signed in July 2, 1991, whose price is US$888
million. TKC is a lump-sum fixed price contract, whose validity would remain until December 31,
1991 by which time the mobilization payment is expected to be made (paras 4.22-4.23). Thereafter,
adjustments until financial closure would be for charqes in the financing terms, and any increases in
cost attributable to changes in design recommended by the environmental study (paras 5.19-5.21). In
addition, there might be changes in civil works required once the geological site investigation is
completed. TKC already includes allowance to cover costs normally associated with the environment
and subsoil conditions. The openers provide for an adjustment of tariff on account of extraordinary
costs. Under limited recourse project financing, lenders require the earmarking of a fund to meet
contingencies not anticipated at the time the fixed price turnkey contract is signed. The fund is
intended to ensure that delays, if any, due to unforeseen events are expeditiously addressed to
minimize the adverse impact on the forecast project revenues. The use of the contingency fund would
require the approval of GOP, the Bank, and the lenders, including PSEDF, prior to disbursement.
The contingency fund would cover the costs of equipment and services as well as increases in financial
costs including those required to remedy the effects of cost increases. These contingencies may arise
from factors such as ground conditions, environmental factors, possible delays in obtaining permits,
custom clearances and in cases of insurable events such as fire, tfood or earthquake, from possible
delays in insurance payments. A reserve contingency fund of US$150 million has been included in the
overall estimate of the cost to cover increases in costs during construction. This represents
approximately 15% of the investment cost net of IDC, and is in line with normal practice for projects
financed on a limited recourse basis.
3.11    A summary of the cost of the Complex is shown in Table 3 below. Total financing required
for the Complex, including interest during construction (IDC), the reserve contingency fund and other
finance related costs of US$498 million, would amount to US$1,560 million. Of the total financing
required, about US$1,310 million equivalent would be in foreign exchange and about US$250 million
equivalent in local costs. The proposed financing plan for the Complex is discussed in detail in
Chapter IV.



- 15 -
Tabl 3: Estimated Cost of the Complex and Summary of the Financing Plan
]i;atimateSc2                                     Rsos  rnflan  US$ miliion
A. Project Development Costs                                  505         21
B. Turnkey Construction Contract Cost                       21,344       888
C. Engineering and Coordination for HPG                      1,250        52
D. Pre-operational O&M Costs                                  457         19
E. Working Capital                                            336         14
Subtotal Project Costs2/                                    23.R91 2'
F. Interest During Construction and other Finance Related Costs  8,366   348
G. Reserve Contingency Fund (Debt and new Equity)            3,605       150
H. Debt Service Escrow Reserve                               1,635        68
Total Financing Require.nents                               37.502 A5
A
Summary Financing Plan                                                       Ta
Local                                                     2,404        100           7
Foreign                                                   522 m                     14
Subtotal Equity                                     7,765       323           21
Local                                                     3,606        150          8
Foreign                                                  26J.131     1.08           71
Subtotal Debt                                      29,737      1,237          79
Total                                37,502      1,560          100
I At exchange rate of Rs 24.04/US$.
2 Includes the following Taxes and Duties:                  1,226        51
3.12     Project development costs include the preparation of prefeasibility and feasibility studies, site
investigation, environmental impact assessment, financial and legal advisory costs, and the costs
associated with the establishment of HUBCO. The local financing would cover a portion of civil
works, some locally fabricated material for boiler island, IDC on local loans, and other financing costs
as well as taxes and duties, which amount to about US$51 million. The amount of taxes and duties
applicable to the Complex is low compared to other power projects in Pakistan because customs duties
are not applicable for investments undertaken in underdeveloped areas such as Balochistan where the
Complex is located. Pre-operational 0;M costs include expenditures that would be incurred during
testing and commissioning, while working capital would cover inventories and other consumables.



- 16 -
The financing costs would be determined by the international financial market and are beyond the
control of HUBCO or GOP. Provision for any variation in financing costs up until financial closure is
covered under the reserve contingency fund.
E. Security Package for HPC
3.13    Before proceeding to discuss the structure proposed ECO guarantee in Chapter IV, it is
essential to describe the Security Package (SP) framework within which the guarantee is being
proposed. This is because, unlike the previous guarantees which the Bank has provided in respect of
simple principal debt service payment defaults under commercial bank loan syndications, the proposed
guarantee is intimately linked to the performance by GOP and other public sector entities (WAPDA,
PSO, etc.) under various agreements comprising the Security Package. The Project is to be
undertaken under the build-own-operate (BOO) technique, and as the Project represents a major private
sector initiative, the financing for the Project is proposed to be raised substantially on the basis of
limited recourse financing, under which the commercial bank lenders (and other lenders and investors)
would assume full completion and operational risks and look primarily to the expected cash
flow/operating revenues of the Project, which would be placed in an Escrow Account, as the basis for
the borrower to service its debt to the commercial bank and other senior lenders. There would be no
direct sovereign guarantee from GOP. The distinguishing feature in this Project is that WAPDA, a
public sector entity, is the sole purchaser of the Project's offtake, power. The Project's capacity to
generate power, and to raise revenues from the sale of power, is also dependent on the supply of fuel
by PSO, another public sector entity. In addition, HUBCO's ability to service its foreign commercial
bank lenders is also dependent on at least two other important factors: first, the fulfillment by GOP of
its undertaking to provide contingency funding (Special Temporary Funding, Deficit Funding or
Termination Payments) in the event of non-performance by other public sector entities (WAPDA,
PSO, etc.) under the Security Package, and second, the fulfillment by the State Bank of Pakistan of its
obligation to make available the required foreign exchange to service debt upon the delivery of local
currency funds by HUBCO through the Escrow Agent. As a substitute for a direct sovereign
guarantee, GOP with the assistance of the Bank, and in consultation with the international financial
community, has structured SP, comprised of a set of agreements and provisions that safeguard the
interests of the lenders, GOP, WAPDA, PSO and investors. SP is presented in Figure 2 and consists
of the following main elements:
Status                        Security Package Agreement
Initialled. To be signed as    Implementation Agreement (IA), executed between
a condition of effectiveness of  GOP and HUBCO and remains in effect for 30
the proposed  ECO  (para       years, covering the relationship between GOP and
5.06).                         HUBCO. It includes inter alia: (a) concession to
design, build and operate the station; (b) consents
required from GOP and its agencies and the
timetable for their execution; (c) responsibilities of
HUBCO in terms of the design and construction
specifications; (d) timetable for initiation and
completion of construction, penalties for delays in
commissioning the plant, and for failure of the
equipment to perform, as well as rewards, for early
completion; (e) overall framework for HUBCO's
operation of the plant, and guarantee of the
performance of WAPDA who would purchase the
energy, and PSO who would supply the fuel; (f)
provisions for repatriation of equity and dividends
and the availability of foreign exchange for
servicing the foreign debt and other foreign costs;



Hub Power Complex Security Package: Sovereign And Commercial Risks               FIGURE 2
State Bank                                                  netr
Government of
S               r               PakistanPakista                         Loca'     
l    SOVEREIGN RISK
Insurers  / l       sIu                 c o mpa nyaIo
GovernmeLt
Trustee                             ConstructionT-us



- 18 -
(g) compensation in case of a takeover by GOP of
the Complex at which time all of HUBCO's
obligations would be assumed by GOP, including
the responsibility to service debt to the Bank and to
all other cofinanciers; (h) definition of force
majeure and the actions to be taken to address the
occurrence of each force majeure event; and (i)
framework for insurance, access to additional loans
to remedy the financial consequences in cases of
force majeure, treatment of the cost of negligence,
and condidons under which sustained failure by
HUBCO would result in the acquisition of the asset
by GOP;
In addition, IA defines: (a) GOP's guarantee of the
performance of certain critical public sector entities
(e.g., the obligations of PSO to supply the fuel to
HUBCO under the FSA, and of WAPDA to
purchase and pay for the power offtake from the
Complex); (b) GOP's guarantee of the State Bank
of Pakistan's obligation to make foreign exchange
available to HUBCO to enable it to meet inter alia
its foreign currency debt service obligations to
senior lenders (the commercial banks and the
export credit-guaranteed lenders); and (c) GOP's
obligations to make funding available to HUBCO
to meet shortfalls in respect of situations of
Pakistan political force majeure (Special Temporary
Funding), and in the event of shortfalls in
capacity/delivery of power to WAPDA or during
the period of disputes (Deficit Funding).
Adherence by GOP to its foreign exchange
availability and funding guarantees is critical to the
ability of HUBCO to service its debt to senior
lenders;



19 -
Initialled. To be signed as a  power Purchase Agreement (PPAM, The sale of
condition for effectiveness  power to WAPDA will be the principal source of
of the proposed ECO (para   revenues for HUBCO. The provisions of the
5.06).                      PPA, complemented by the contingency funding
obligations of GOP under the IA, are designed to
provide secure and adequate revenues to HUBCO
so as to meet the expectations of lenders and
investors. The PPA also defines the mechanism to
resolve disputes. WAPDA's perfornance under
the PPA would be guaranteed by GOP. PPA is
executed between WAPDA and HUBCO, is
designed as a take or pay contract constituting an
obligation by WAPDA to buy or pay for 6,791
Gwh per year. This represents a net capacity
utilization of 60% of the 1,292 MW of gross
capacity of the Hub Complex. HUBCO would be
required to pay penalties for each kWh not
delivered to WAPDA. PPA also provides: (a)
level and structure of the tariff for the sale of
electricity to WAPDA at 60% capacity utilization;
(b) penalties for failure to meet the agreed
production pattern, derating of the installed
capacity, and rewards for generation in excess of
the contracted quantities; (c) definition of forc
majeure and actions of each of the signatories to
remedy the consequences of these events; (d)
indices for the adjustment of the elements of the
tariff to compensate for inflation, changes in
exchange rates not covered by GOP's insurance
scheme, and changes in the price of fuel; (e)
schedule for plant maintenance to accommodate
WAPDA's system operation requirements; (f)
dispatch schedule for the power station which
would be revised on a yearly basis; and (g) billing
and payment procedures, treatment of arrears in
payment by WAPDA, and treatment of penalties
for HUBCO;
Initialled September 1990.  Fuel Supply Agreement (FSA), FSA provides for
To be signed as a condition  the long-term supply of fuel oil to HUBCO for the
for effectiveness of the    Power Complex under a take-or-pay arrangement.
proposed ECO (para 5.06).   The performance of PSO is guaranteed by GOP
under the IA. FSA is executed between PSO and
HUBCO, and includes: (a) the price to be paid by
the project company for fuel delivered to the power
station and modalities for price adjustment; (b)
quantities and specification of fuel to be delivered
and penalties for deviation from the specifications
agreed for the fuel; (c) definition of force maeure
and the actions of each of the signatories to remedy
the consequences of these events;  and (d)
modalities for billing and payments and penalties
for delays in remuneration;



- 20 -
Signed July 2, 1991.        Turnkey Construction Contract (TKC). to be
executed between HUBCO and Mitsui and Co. and
members of its consortium, provides:  (a)
specification and detailed description of the Hub
Power Complex; (b) timetable for implementation;
(c) structure of project management team,
contracting   arrangement,  procurement
arrangement, site management, and billing; (d)
TKC price and the conditions for its validity, and
the provisions for financing cost overruns
attributable to failure by contractor and those which
stem from changes in design dictated by technical
factors encountered during construction; (e)
penalties for delays in the completion of the project
and rewards for early completion; and (f)
guarantees, joint and several, for the performnance
by the contractors in respect of their
responsibilities;
In draft. To be signed as a  Operation & Maintenance Agreement (O&MA). to
condition for effectiveness  be executed between HUBCO and BEI provides
of the proposed ECO (para    for: (a) the operation and maintenance of the power
5.06).                       plant, including organization structure and staffing;
(b) timetable for training local staff; and (c)
compensation for services, penalties for failure to
perform as agreec', and rewards for generation
above the level agre'ed in the PPA; (d) provisions
for the performance guarantee of BEI;
In draft. To be revised      Shareholders' Agreement (SA), to be executed
following reconstitution of  between the shareholders of HUBCO: (a) outlines
the construction consortium  the purpose for the creation of HUBCO; (b)
and signed as a condition    defines the types and extent of liabilities; (c)
for effectiveness of the     defines the authorized capital of HUBCO and the
proposed ECO (para 5.06).    rights and privileges of these shares; and (d)
provides, inter alia. guidelines for the management
of the company, the constitution of its board, the
function of its chief executive officer and chairman
of the board, and the declaration and distribution of
dividends;
To be executed before        Escrow  Agreement (EA), executed between
financial closure (para      HUBCO,WAPDA, the Escrow Agent and the
5.06).                       lenders, provides for the receipt by the escrow
agent of payments by WAPDA for electricity
purchased from the project company and the
priority ianking of lenders and investors by which
payments would be disbursed (Figure 3). The
escrow agent would be selected by the
cofinanciers, e.g. commercial lenders, ECAs and
PSEDF. The funds deposited in the escrow
account would earn interest which would
contribute to the cost of maintaining the account;



Hub Power Complex: Cash Flow PriorIties under the Escrow Agreement               FIGURE 3
I  PA;YI'ENT PRIORITIES
I R S 8   S     2     9      S     P       H      F      3 ;    0;~~~~......... .....i3' 
[1M'UES                                                   (tKCL FUEL) { OPERATOR
. . . .   . . . . . . . . . . .. . . .:....   ..                _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
I SENIOR     1
j LENDERS    J
(BANKS & ECAS)
D~~OT      PSEDF         4
~~~~DEBET SERVICE_
RESERVE ESCROW
INVSTORSL



-22 -
Signed September 1990       Land Agreement (LA), executed between HUBCO
(para 5.10).                and the Government of Balochistan (GOB)
provides for, inter alia: (a) HUBCO to purchase
land for the site of the Complex under existing
rules and regulations; (b) issuance of shares to
GOB in compensation for publicly owned land on
which the power complex would be built; (c)
improvement of access roads to the site to be
undertaken by HUBCO; (d) extent of liabilities;
and (e) consents and approvals required from
GOB for the implementation of the Complex; and
To be executed before       Trust Deed (TD). executed between HUBCO, the
financial closure.         trustee, and the lenders, provides the framework
under which the trustee would hold SP on behalf
of the lenders.
These agreements comprising SP would be finalized following review, revision, and approval by all
parties involved, including GOP, the Bank, the cofinanciers, and HUBCO. Signature and
effectiveness of all agreements under SP would be required before financial closure.
IV. THE EXPANDED COFINANCING OPERATION FOR HUBCO
A. Setting
4.01    The Hub Power Complex is one of the major projects to be undertaken in Pakistan by either
the public or private sectors. It is critical to the successful implementation of MAP. Failure to
implement the Complex would imply that, by 1995, load-shedding would increase from the projected
600 MW to 2000 MW. This level of load-shedding would be economically and politically untenable.
Hence, in the absence of the Complex, GOP would have no altemative but to undertake the required
expansion of power generation in the public sector which would raise public sector investment by at
least Rs 25 billion spread over the Seventh and Eighth Plan periods. This would represent a
substantial increase in WAPDA's investment program which would not be firanciable within the
resources available to the public sector, without significantly undermining GOP's efforts at reducing
the fiscal deficit.
4.02    At the inception stage, it was envisaged that financing for HPC would be mobilized in the
form of equity from investors, long-term loans from PSEDF and multilateral institutions, and the
balance from ECAs. Debt financing by ECAs and multilateral institutions was to be secured under
limited recourse without sovereign guarantees. Although it was recognized at that time that financing
under limited recourse from ECAs for infrastructure projects in developing countries was
unprecedented, the participation of the BE .nk and cofinanciers in PSEDF was expected to provide the
security needed by ECAs. In order to mobilize the maximum amount of financing from ECAs and
other cofinanciers, the Bank concentrated its efforts on devising a security package for HPC which
would minimize the risks to be assumed by ECAs and the other cofinanciers. Based on the
composition of the construction consortium, the ECAs of France, Italy and Japan have undertaken to
provide cover for commercial bank financing for the project, following a review of SP and the
technical, financial and commercial aspects of HPC. SACE of Italy has provided a a commitment to
guarantee US$180 million equivalent for commercial bank financing to cover a portion of the contract
for the supply of the turbo-generators and overall engineering for the Complex, awarded to Ansaldo
GIE under the Bank's guidelines for procurement (para 3.07). The financing required for the balance
of this contract would be provided by the Bank, JEXIM and the Government of Italy through PSEDF.



- 23 -
MMTI of Japan has also provided a commitment to guarantee commercial bank financing for goods and
services originating from Japan for an amount of US$70 million equivalent. The Government of
France has provided a commitment to finance a total of US$70 million equivalent through a
combination of export credit financing from COFACE and funds made available through PSEDF. It is
currently expected that US$50 million would be provided through COFACE to finance goods and
services originating from France while the balance of US$20 million equivalent would be provided
through PSEDF. The commitments from ECAs, which total US$300 million equivalent, are based on
the strength of SP for HPC and the involvement of the Bank, which has provided a significant degree
of comfort to the ECAs. The commitments provided are far in excess of what would be provided by
ECAs for a project in Pakistan under normal circumstances, and have been provided notwithstanding
that many ECAs are currently off-cover for Pakistan.
4.03    Given the extent of financing for the Complex to be provided by ECAs, additional
commercial bank loans would be needed to fill the gap in the debt portion of the financing plan.
However, Pakistan has hitherto not been able to mobilize foreign commercial bank financing on a
limited recourse basis. Even direct sovereign borrowings have been limited and GOP has not been
able to secure commercial loans for over US$100 million with maturities that extend beyond six
months or one year. In 1988 and 1989, foreign commercial loans to Pakistan have been primarily
trade credits, characterized by both short maturities, usually six months to one year, and amounts of
less than US$100 million. Longer maturities were obtained in only two exceptional cases. The first
was an arrangement between a consortium of Japanese banks and the Asian Development Bank (ADB)
for US$50 million for 12 years in the context of ADB's complementary financing arrangement.
However, ADB, rather than the consortium of banks, is the lender of record on the transaction. The
second was a US$27.5 million loan from National Westminster Bank for seven years for the national
airline, Pakistan International Airlines (PIA) secured against aircraft.
4.04    Commercial banks are willing to assume completion and commercial risks, provided the
security arrangements are satisfactory, but they are unwilling to assume sovereign risks on long-term
loans to HUBCO. Through the IA, GOP has agreed to guarantee the performance of its agencie; and
provide special funding to lenders and investors against events of political Pakistan forc majeure (para
3.13). However, in view of the magnitude of resources which need to be mobilized for HUBCO and
the absence of a track record for GOP involving commercial transactions with PS companies in the
area of infrastructure, commercial banks require the comfort of a recourse in the event that GOP fails to
comply fully with the provisions under SP.
B. Objective and Structure for the Proposed ECO
4.05    The objective of the proposed ECO is to assist Pakistan in the implementation of its strategy
for enhancing the role of PS in energy development by mobilizing financing fi em the international
financial markets on favorable terms.
4.06    The proposed ECO would provide a guarantee in respect of 100% of pri.; ,ij' mn the event
of debt service default on the loan, if the default is due to the failure of the government to fulfill its
obligations under IA, for a total amount of $240 million equivalent of an international syndicated
loan of $360 million equivalent. JEXIM would guarantee debt service default due to sovereign risks
along the same lines as the Bank on the remaining US$120 million equivalent of the loan. The
guarantee would be accelerable at any time after the grace period (of 4.5 years). During the grace
period, acceleration of the loan could only occur in the event of termination of the project for reasons
of GOP default under IA; in that event, the ECO guarantee would cover any default on the
acceleration payments.
4.07    As outlined in Section E in Chapter III, HUBCO's ability to service debt to its lenders is
intimately linked to the timely performance by GOP, WAPDA, PSO, SBP, National Insurance
Company, the Turnkey Contractor, etc. of their financial and non-financial obligations under
agreements comprising SP. For a Project of this complexity, it is possible that there may be delays



- 24 -
arising from force majie events, disputes or contractual non-performance, which in turn, could
jeopardize the flow and level of anticipated revenues and other payments into the Escrow Accounts.
All of these contingencies are adequately covered by special funding arrangements (e.g. Special
Temporary Funding, Deficit Funding, Liquidated Damages), some of which are obligations of GOP.
However, with respect to obligations of GOP, the commercial bank lenders consider that SP does not
provide them with sufficient security, given their current perception of Pakistan country risk. The
banks have indicated their firm view that, in order to successfully complete this syndication for
Pakistan, with a maturity and grace period necessary to finance a power plant, it will be necessary to
obtain a partial guarantee from the Bank in respect of debt service due to the lender commercial banks.
Specifically, a guarantee covering defaults in respect of principal payments arising from failure of GOP
to fulfill its obligations under the IA, supplemented by adequate escrow arrangements to cover interest
payments for a 12-month period, would be essential.
4.08    The proposed ECO covers principal of debt service defaults arising from the failure of GOP
to perform the specific undertakings to the project it would underwrite in the Implementation
Agreement. These consist of: (a) Special Temporary Funding, (b) Deficit Funding in the event of the
occurrence of certain defined events; and (c) a guarantee for foreign exchange convertibility by the
State Bank of Pakistan. The ECO w11 not support other risks of the project such as completion and
operational risks which would be borne by the private sector--including the banks. Under this
arrangement, a considerable amount of risk for the project is borne by the private sector and thus is not
covered by the Bank or counter-guaranteed by GOP. As the Bank's past experience with public sector
projects has amply demonstrated, these risks which include cost overruns, construction delays, and
suboptimal performance, are significant.
4.09    The proposed structure is in line with the intent of and the guidelines for the ECO prograrn
that provide for support for limited recourse project finance. A particular guideline for the ECO
program requires that commercial banks assume at least 50% of country exposure on the financing.
This proposal, however, requires that ECO cover all sovereign risk on the project. When the ECO
guidelines were drafted (in 1988) to define risk sharing that would ensure a catalytic role for the Bank,
risk sharing by allocating specific risks to different parties was envisaged but not directly addressed.
Instead, the risk sharing was expressed in terrns of dividing the Iotal risk on the financing (using the
proxy of the present value of the guarantee) and the ceiling for the Bank's share was set at 50%. This
measure for risk sharing is appropriate to public sector projects--where all risks can be viewed as a
single (sovereign) risk. The ECO guarantee in project financing, as exemplified by this project, is
more akin to a partial casualty insurance rather than a comprehensive guarantee against all risks, in the
sense that the ECO covers only selective risks of the project leaving the remaining risks to the private
sector
4.10    Providing Bank support through a partial guarantee covering only the undertakings of GOP
to the project is more appropriate than a Bank loan since the indemnity from GOP to the Bank would
be limited to the risks covered by the Bank under the ECO guarantee. If the Bank were to make a
direct loan to the project, it would require a full indemnity from GOP, irrespective of the cause of debt-
service default. This would mean that GOP carried commercial risks on the project at least to the
extent of the Bank loan. It would also weaken the government's case for not providing the same
protection to other lenders/guarantors (many of whom have been pressing for a comprehensive
sovereign guarantee) for this and other private sector projects in Pakistan.
4.11   This structure for the guarantee is appropriate for project financing of this type. Accordingly,
it is proposed that the ECO guarantee be structured along the following lines:
(a) The partial guarantee of the Loan is expected to be provided by the World Bank and
JEXIM in the ratio of 2:1. The World Bank Guarantee and the JEXIM Guarantee will be
callable on a pari passu and pro rata basis. The portion of the loan to be guaranteed by
JEXIM is limited to Japanese Yen Tranche to be provided by Japanese banks including
Japanese branches of non-Japanese banks. The Yen portion of the syndicated loan would
be at least one third of the total amount;



- 25 -
(b) The World Bank Guarantee and the JEXIM Guarantee will cover the pdnnjicpt payrnents
due under the Loan and remaining unpaid.
(c) The Escrow Agent of the Lenders' Debt Service Escrow Account will be designated with
the authority to call the guarantee upon the occurrence of the following specified "events",
which will be properly "certified" by the Escrow Agent:
(i) HUBCO (through the Escrow Agent) has failed to make a principal payment or a
portion thereof due and payable to the Lenders either on a scheduled payment date
or on acceleration; S
(ii) The failure of HUBCO (through the Escrow Agent) to make the payment is the
result of the failure of the Government through the State Bank of Pakistan to make
available the equivalent foreign exchange at the agreed rate upon receipt of the local
currency funds from HUBCO (through the Escrow Agent);
and /or
(iii) The failure of HUBCO (through the Escrow Agent) to make a principal payment
or a portion thereof is the result of a shortfall in the receipt by HUBCO (through the
Escrow Agent) of local and foreign currency amounts payable by the Government
under the Implementation Agreement.
Accelraion: The Guarantee will not be callable/accelerable during the grace period of the
Loan, i.e., until the 4.4th/Sth anniversary of the date of the Agreement, except in the event
of termination (as defined in the Implementation Agreement). If the Loan is accelerated
during this period for reasons other than termination, the Guarantee will lapse.
SubrogatioLn Upon any payment by the World Bank under the Guarantee, the World Bank
would immediately become entitled to recover from HUBCO and GOP the amount so paid
and would have the immediate right of subrogation against HUBCO and GOP in respect of
such amounts regardless of whether the Lenders have been fully repaid by HUBCO and
GOP in respect of other amounts due the Lenders under the Loan Agreement.
Bequisite Authorizations: All authorizations and approvals required to make the Guarantee
effective would be obtained and be in full force and effect.
Qption IQ Release: Provisions expressly enabling the Lenders to release the Guarantee
would be included.
Guarantee Fee: A guarantee fee of 50 basis points per annum, less any applicable waivers,
will be payable by HUBCO on the outstanding guaranteed amount in line with the Bank's
current guarantee pricing policies.
C. JEXIM Co-Guarantee
4.18   JEXIM has provided a preliminary commitment to co-guarantee the principal under the
Japanese Yen portion of the syndicated loan to be extended by Japanese and foreign banks in Japan. It
is proposed that the amount of the guarantee be equivalent to about one third of the foreign commercial
bank syndicated loan of US$360 million amounting to about US$120 million. The Yen portion of the
syndicated loan is expected to be in excess of US$120 million equivalent, and thus would fully utilize
the proposed JEXIM cover. JEXIM's guarantee would be provided in conjunction with, and as a
supplement to, the Bank guarantee. The guarantees from JEXIM and the Bank would apply to
separate tranches of the loan and would be governed by each institution's respective policies, under



- 26 -
terms and conditions applicable to its guarantee operations. Each institution would negotiate and enter
into separate agreements with the commercial banks regarding their respective guarantees. In
addition, JEXIM and the Bank would enter into separate indemnity agreements with GOP.
Disbursement of the individual tranches of the syndicated loan would be according to the Bank and
JEXIM guarantee proportions at commitment. Repayment terms on the tranches would be identical.
The JEXIM guarantee would follow the structure of the Bank's guarantee.
D. ECO Level Over Time
4.19    The maximum  size of the proposed Bank ECO would be US$240 million. This would
include both base financing of US$200 million and reserve contingency funds of US$40 million from
commercial banks. The commercial bank's portion of the Reserve Contingency Fund would be in the
form of a standby facility. Based on the estimated repayment profile of the commercial bank loan,
ECO coverage would diminish over time as the loan is repaid out of HUBCO's revenues. The
coverage profile of the proposed ECO over time is given in Figure 4, which assumes maximum ECO
coverage of US$240 million.
Figure 4: Exposure Profile of ECO Coverage on Commercial Loan
.  i-rwdwi ........ . .    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  .
arm.                              Pr:(inciluding Repayment
..~~in     ld n   ID; 1 . : : . . . . . ... ....... . .. . . ..    . . . . . . . . .. . . ............ ......
:: '        :                                         Repay.....................m........... .....
N  .;  ;     \  wN.;   ....  >   .    .. . . .   .     .  . .     . .     . . . . . . . ...  I             . . . . . .. . .
.- .: :: . . .......                   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   .   _.^ uuaie.
:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .                     .   .   .   .   .   .   .   :- .   ...- rnia
i;~~~~ ~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~ - :  -                       - -     Cumulative
. - . - - > 2 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Pincipal
; - -         -  -  n                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~Repayment
.s ..  .....  ... .                                 :  : : : : : :                           
- e ,s s ' : ' :: ~~~~~~~~~~~~~............. .                      -  :   -|..  ....     ,j
~~~~~~~~~.                                 . . .   . -. : -.s. . . . . . . . .   . . . .   . . . ,,.-.                          
< 2; --            I II  I IE WE _
^   =   |   E     |     |    l   {^ l g~~~0           . ................
1111111....... . i 
.S Y. -       .    t  - "    .............      . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  |  |E    s
:~~~~~~~~~~~ .                   . : .     .; .     .     .     .   :.    .     . 1 .     .     .     . - .     .     .     .     . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
91   92  ~93  94  -95 --96- 97  -98  -99    - IO 1*O1- 2  .   O3*04-   5.
~~~~~~~~~~.               .   S Ye. . .   -   - Y . t. .   :   T '.'. . , , . . . .   . . . . .!. ! .!. ! .'
~~~~~~~~.               :.    .Y .        Y.                :. . . . . . . . . . . .X. . . .%979 9  i 203"0
.   .  .... - .....YEAR                        .        ............................
{ ~~~~~.                    . . . . .     . . . . . .     . . . . . . . . . .   :. .     . . . . . . . .
4.20           The Bank's exposure under the ECO would increase as the loans are drawn down over
the first 4 years of project implementation, and then decrease yearly in a stair-step manner over the
repayment period of 11 years. Principal repayments would be made in 22 equal semi-annual
installments. The principal repayments shown in Figure 4 reflect the annual repayment amounts and,
therefore, the principal shown outstanding represents the amount outstanding at the end of each year.



- 27 -
E. Proposed Financing Plan
4.21    As agreed under Loan 2982-PAK, PS projects in energy should be financed through long
term debt from PSEDF, commercial banks and ECAs, all secured under limited recourse, and equity.
The financing plan for the Complex is structured accordingly. Of the total financing required of
US$1,560 million, US$1,310 million would be in foreign exchange and US$250 million in local
costs. A summary of the proposed financing plan for the Complex is given in Table 4 below:
Table 4: Proped Financing Plan
(USS Million)
Equity                         Base           Debt Service Contingency   Total
Financin, .2   Escrow       EinanciOn   Eaing   2
Foreign Investors
Sponsors/HPG Members              78    6         -         38         116      7
Offshore Financial Institutions   82    6        17                     99      7
Commonwealth Dev. Corp.            I     I       -                       8      1
Subtotal Foreign Equity           168   11        12         la         22      15
Local Investorsl
HUB Convertible Bonds             100    7       --         _ 
Subtotal Equity                   2X   2Q        12                      2 D   21- |
Debt
~~Foreign
PSEDF                             355   26        -         52         407    26
Syndicated Commercial Bank Loan  249   19        51         60         360    23
Export Credit Agencies            300   24        -           -        300    21
Commonwealth Dev. Corp.           2Q    2                0Q                     .1
Subtotal Foreign Debt             224   71       51         112                21
Jocal Banks                      1is     9                  _JQ                -a
Subtotal Debt                    1Q74   BQ        a         1          1232    22
TOTAL                        1342  100%      68         150        1560   100
IFigures may undergo minor adjustments.
2Taken as a percentage of the total cost of the Complex, which includes interest during construction and
other fiance related costs.
The financing plan covers the TKC, the project's development cost, interest during construction and
other financial costs, the establishment of a US$54 million debt service escrow reserve on interest
payments for the commercial banks and ECAs. The total financing required for the escrow reserve
account would amount to US$68 million. The plan also includes provisions for US$150 million in
contingency financing to cover an increase in costs associated with project implementation, including
variations in the specifications of equipment, physical contingencies, and changes in taxes or the terms
of finance, debt service, etc. These contingency provisions, which amount to US$150 million would
be covered by PSEDF (US$52 million), the commercial banks (US$60 million), and the
sponsorsfinvestors (US$38 million). PSEDF is mandated to cover part of contingencies for expense.s



- 28 -
eligible under the donors' and cofinanciers' guidelines as required under the PSEDF loan agreement
(Loan 2982-PAK).
Mobilization Payment from PSEDF
4.22    Following the signing of the TKC, and the reconstitution of the construction consortium in
July 1991, HPG initiated all activities to commence construction. However, due to the complexity of
the financing package, financial closure could be delayed beyond the validity date of the contract of
December 31, 1991. Currently, financial closure is expected by March 31, 1992. If the
commencement of construction has to wait until financial closure, the contract's validity would expire,
the project would lose momentum, and the investors would find it difficult to sustain the level of
development effort which have so far cost HPG about US$21 million. Moreover, as stipulated in
TKC, extension beyond December 31, 1991 would result in a price adjustment to compensate for
inflation, exchange rate changes, etc., which would increase the cost of the project and financing
required. If, however, the initial payment for TKC is made on or before December 31, 1991, the TKC
price would be frozen. In addition, timely initiation of construction would maintain HPC's
commissioning schedule. It is proposed, therefore, that in order to enable HUBCO to start
construction, financing from PSEDF be made available for eligible contracts equivalent to the down
payment. According to the estimates of HUBCO, about US$125 million would be required to initiate
the construction of the Complex and meet HUBCO's financial obligations until financial closure. In
order to maintain the debt equity ratio of the financing plan, the Sponsors would be required to
contribute about US$10 million in new equity to meet the down payment, while the balance would be
met through a loan from PSEDF of about US$115 million. This contribution, together with the
US$21 million contributed so far by the Sponsors would maintain the equity portion of the financing at
21%. Untied funds from the Bank and JEXIM (amounting to US$35 million equivalent each) would
be used to finance part of the initial payments for t& E contract for the turbine-generators under PSEDF
awarded under Bank guidelines. The balance of the initial payment for this contract would be provided
from the Government of Italy's contribution to the PSEDF (US$24 million equivalent) since the
contract was awarded to an Italian contractor. Similarly tied French aid expected to be made available
to PSEDF (US$20 million equivalent) would be used to finance the French contract for civil works
and the USAID grant (US$1 million) would be used for construction supervision being carried out by
an American engineering firm.
4.23    At present, the mobilization of financing for the Complex has been firmed up and by
December 31, 1991 commitments are expected from all debt financiers and equity investors.
However, in view of the complexity of the financing arrangements for the project, which involves a
wide array of financing sources for both debt and equity, it is expected that following the receipt of
firm commitments from all the financiers, at least 3-4 months would elapse to allow for the necessary
coordination, cross-checking legal documentation and administrative requirements, to achieve financial
closure. In recognition of the need to freeze the price for TKC and maintain the implementation
schedule for the project, NDFC, as administrator of PSEDF, would enter into an agreement with
HUBCO to disburse the mobilization payment, provided firm commitments have been made by all the
debt and equity financiers and all agreements comprising SP have been signed. These would include
the Implementation, Power Purchase, Operation and Maintenance, Fuel Supply and Escrow
Agreements.
Eui Fianng
4.24    Foreign &uiW  The Sponsors, contractors, and institutional and private investors would
contribute about US$223 million equivalent towards the financing of the Complex. Of this, US$168
million would be base financing, US$38 million would be committed for contingency financing, and
US$17 million would be set aside to be utilized in parallel with the debt service reserve escrow
account. Members of HPG have confirmed their irrevocable commitment to provide an equity
contribution of US$78 million wherein Xenel Industries have committed US$27 million and would
underwrite US$33 million, Mitsui and IHI have committed US$12.5 million, BEI have committed



-29 -
US$5 million and K&M Engineering have committed US$0.5 million. HPG would also be expected
to provide US$38 million for the contingency reserve funds, which would be drawn down as equity in
the event that either are drawn down in order to maintain a constant debt/equity ratio. Guarantee
against political force mgjeum would be provided by MITI for the equity contribution of Mitsui and
Co. and IHI. COFACE would provide coverage for the equity contribution of Campenon Bernard,
and SACE would cover Ansaldo. Xenel Industries has applied to MIGA for coverage of up to US$22
million under the limit of US$50 million authorized under MIGA's mandate for a single project, as
coverage is not available in Saudi Arabia. The remaining US$28 million of the coverage available
under MIGA's ceiling would be available for equity investors provided they are not nationals of
Pakistan or citizens of countries which are not members of MIGA.. MIGA intends to coordinate its
coverage with the other national insurance schemes to ensure consistency in the coverage being
provided.
4.25   In addition to the sponsors, US$82 million would be raised by Chartered West LB, a U.K.-
based merchant bank with extensive project finance expertise and an understanding of the Pakistan
investment environment, through its parent Standard Chartered Plc. Chartered West LB have entered
into an agreement with HPG for the placement of offshore equity on a best effort basis. Moreover,
HPG has received letters of interest for the equity from various banks and institutions including the
Impact Group of the US (US$20 million), the Al Baraka Investment Company of Saudi Arabia
(US$15 million), and the Investment and Securities Group, Inc. in Luxembourg (US$60 million).
Citibank Pakistan has also identified off-shore investors (US$20 million). Chartered West LB would
coordinate and follow up these offers. An amount of US$17 million for funding the escrow account is
being sought from specific offshore institutions as a single placement. The Commonwealth
Development Corporation (CDC) of U.K. has confirmed its participation in providing equity of US$8
million. While discussions are underway, definite commitments would be forthcoming once project
costs and debt financing requirements are finalized, and HUBCO is in a position to release all relevant
information to the potential investors.  Any shortfall resulting from a failure to place the off-shore
equity would be taken by HPG as sponsors and developers of the Project. In order to ensure that the
foreign equity portion of the financing plan is secured. the following are proposed as conditions ot
effectiveness of the proposed ECO: (i) a letter of credit for an amount eauivalent to US$116 million.
comprsing US$78 million base financing. inclusive of development cost verified by an internationally
reputable auditing firm. and US$38 million in ccatingency financing, shall have been opened by HPG:
(ii) agreements satisfactory to the Bank to place off-shore equity for an amount ecquivalent to US$99
million, inJlusiie of US$17 million for the debt service escrow account shall have been signed by
HUBCO with off-shore investors, or in the absence of such agreements a guarantee shall have been
received from the parent copne  f the sp2onson ineToS to subscribe to the equily for the same
amount: and (iii) an equity contribution to HUBCO in an amount equivalent to about US$8 million
shall have been made by CDC.
4.26   Local E-aui: The implementation of the Complex would require US$100 million equivalent
as local equity to be raised in the Pakistan capital markets. Pakistan's equity market has expanded over
the last ten years, as reflected in the increase in the number of listed companies and market
capitalization. However, the market has capacity constraints illustrated by the fact that new equity
listings issued in FY87 and FY88 amounted to Rs. 744 million (US$35.4 million) and Rs. 435
million (US$20.7 million) respectively, compared to the local equity requirement for HUBCO of
about Rs 2,404 million (US$100 million). Although the resources are available in the hands of the
general public and non-financial institutions, investments in corporate shares have been modest with
the majority of the shares being those of the semi-government enterprises such as PSO, SNGPL, and
KESC. These shares are virtually guaranteed by GOP since they provide for a minimum return to
protect small investors. For example, in the case of KESC, the dividends are declared before the loans
from GOP are serviced. Recently, shares for PIA were floated and oversubscribed three times;
however, these were also supported by GOP. High investor interest has been evident in other public
issues such as Ghandara Nissan, Otsuka Pakistan, Crescent, Masaraf Investment, Mian Textile, A.A.
Textile, and Shezan International, among others. On average, shares in these companie,s were
oversubscribed by about 10-15 times due to the fact that these were either joint ventures with



- 30 -
multinationals, companies with proven track records, or were in sectors which have shown continued
profitability over the ast years. However, the amounts raised through these public issues have been
small mostly in the range of US$4-5 million. As far as HUBCO is concerned, the involvement of the
Bank and cofinanciers, together with the foreign investors, contractors, and operators, has provided
considerable confidence in the viability of the Compl . In fact, confidence has been stimulated by
SI's staying power which has continued with the project through lengthy negotiations and
preparations, as well as changes in government.
4.27    According to the agreement with GOP on raising local equity for HUBCO, local equity was
to be raised in the form of a new instrument, to be underwritten outside Pakistan to ensure additionality
and to address the existing constraints in the local market such as limited absorptive capacity and the
lack of experienced underwriters. The new instrument had to be designed bearing in mind that the
effectiveness of the instrument for raising local equity in Pakistan capital markets would be contingent
on it's liquidity in the market and it's treatment for tax purposes. Also, the attractiveness of the
instrument would be greatly enhanced if the instrument offered a return to the investor during the
construction period of the project. In view of this, the Bank undertook a study to assess the local
capital markets and to determine the issues that should be addressed to ensure that the financing for the
construction of the Hub Complex is not jeopardized because of a failure to design and place the
instrument. Consequently, a strategy has been developed involving the mobilization of local equity
by issuing HUBCO Convertible Bonds (HCB). The advantages of issuing HCBs for the local equity
component of the financing plan are: (i) they are similar to the prevalent Term Financing Certificates
which are known and popular instruments in the local capital markets and have been issued a number
of times in a convertible form; (ii) they would not have the restriction of 20% convertibility as
applicable on other convertible instruments in the market (iii) they can be traded by local commercial
banks, thus ensuring secondary liquidity; and (iv) they have been structured to provide a fixed return
during the construction phase of the Complex, thus enhancing their attractiveness to potential
investors.
4.28    HCBs have been structured in the following manner: (i) five tranches of about US$20 million
each would be issued, commencing in FY91 and maturing for mandatory conversion at intervals of
four years; (ii) except for the first two tranches,which would be issued in FY91, six months apart, the
remaining 3 tranches would be issued annually from FY92 to FY95 timed to match the disbursement
profile of the project while accommodating the absorptive capacity of the market; (iii) each HCB would
cany a coupon of 16.5% payable semi- annually to be treated as redeemable capital for the purpose of
eligibility under the prevailing Islamic law which does not allow fixed income instrui-nits; and (iv)
each tranche would be priced differendy to provide a yield to the investor which is commensurate with
the time of investment and, hence the risk assumed. This approach to compensatirng HCB holders for
risks would result in annual yields on the instrument between 18% for the first tranche and 15.5% for
the fifth and last tranche, when the project would be well under operation. GOP has reviewed the
proposed strategy for the mobilization of local equity and approved in general the structure of the Hub
Convertible bonds as an instrurient for raising local equity.
4.29    Since all financial instruments in Pakistan are not tradeable in the secondary market, the
liquidity and, therefore, the attractiveness of the instruments would be affected. The State Bank of
Pakistan has confirmed that in the case of HCBs, there is no legal barrier to local commercial banks
participating either as primary underwriters or as creators of secondary liquidity. The subscription to
the issue would be open to all investors, including all financial institutions. The bonds would be listed
on the Karachi stock exchange and would be offered in registered and bearer form and the coupons
would be treated as dividend payments for tax purposes.
4.30   In an effort to eneourage PS investment and avoid the crowding out effect, GOP has lowered
the return on its bonds and the bonds of public sector entities it guarantees. GOP has also barred
institutional investors from investing in local high yield National Saving Scheme (NSS) deposits thus
creating a climate for institutional investors to move from government backed deposits to private
instruments. It is estimated that the barring of institutional investors from the NSS would release



- 31 -
about Rs 40 billion (US$1.7 billion) for alternative investments over a period of three years. Also, as
the capital market reforms continue in light of GOP's extensive privatization program, there are
indications that small investors would also be limited in terms of the amount they can invest in the
NSS, thus making HCBs attractive to these investors. The coupons on HCBs would offer a higher
return than the prevailing local saving schemes which offer an average yield of 13%.
4.31    In accordance with GOP's request that the local equity be underwritten by an offshore
institution, Dhabi Trading (DT) of Abu Dhabi, UAE, have been appointed the lead underwriters for
the US$100 million equivalent HCB issue in Pakistan, and Grindlays ANZ of Pakistan have been
appointed the managers of the issue based on their experience and knowledge of the local capital
markets. A marketing strategy for the convertible issue is being prepared for the issue. DT has also
appointed two local banks as the co-managers for the issue namely, the newly privatized Muslim
Commercial Bank (MCB) and the House of Prudential. There has been an overwhelming response for
the subscription of HCBs and Dhabi Trading has been successful in placing the bonds, conditionally,
with the following institutions: US$25 million with ANZ Grindlays, US$25 million with MCB,
US$30 million with the House of Prudential and US$20 million with NDFC . If the off-shore
underwriting of HCBs is successful, it would set a precedent and provide momentum to the
development of local capital markets. Therefore. in order to ensure that the local equity potion of the
financing plan is secured. as a condition of effectiveness of the proposed ECO. an underwriting
agreement for the issuance of HCBs for equity in HUBCO in the Pakistan capital market for an amount
equivalent to about US$100 million shall have been signed with DT.
4.32    Foreign Debt: PSEDF would finance about US$407 million equivalent, comprised of
US$355 million in base financing and US$52 million for contingency financing. This represents 25%
of the total financing requirement of the Complex, including financial costs and contingencies. These
funds would be lent to HUBCO at a fixed interest rate of 14% with 23 years repayment, including 8
years grace (para 2.03). A preliminary commitment by NDFC, the administrator of PSEDF, in regard
to this financing has been issued to HUBCO. In addition, it is expected that ECAs of Japan, France,
and Italy would provide export credit guarantees for suppliers from their respective countries for a total
of US$300 million. SACE has provided commitment to guarantee US$180 million equivalent of
export credit financing. MM has provided a commitment to guarantee US$70 million of export credit
fnancing and COFACE has provided a commitment to guarantee US$50 million equivalent of export
credit financing (para 4.02). CDC has made a preliminary commitment to provide US$20 million
equivalent as debt. Financing from foreign commercial banks would amount to the balance of US$360
million equivalent, which includes a reserve for the debt service escrow account of US$51 million and
contingency financing for an amount equivalent to US$60 million as well as interest during
construction for the first four years. The Sponsors have issued a conditional mandate to a group of
commercial banks consisting of [Mitsui Taiyo Kobe Bank, The Bank of Tokyo, Ltd., Citicorp
Investment Bank, Credit Lyonnais, and Union Bank of Switzerland]. Letters of preliminary
commitment for the amount of US$360 million have been received from the group of banks.
Indicative terms and conditions of the syndicated commercial banks loan are set out in the attached term
sheet and would be negotiated following the Board's consideration of the proposed ECO (paras 4.05-
4.17). Preliminary discussions between the Bank and the group of commercial banks indicate that the
loan may be structured for a 14-year maturity with a 4-year grace period. HUBCO would purchase
exchange rate risk insurance for the commercial loans through SBP and the cost of such insurance is
included in the total costs of the project. In order to ensure the foreign debt portion of the financing
plan is secured. as a condition of effectiveness of the proposed ECO: (i) agreements for export
credits/export insurance to HUBCO in an agregate amount equivalent to about US$300 million shall
have been signed between HUBCO and MITT. COFACE. and SACE and all conditions precedent t
the effectiveness theref shall have been fulfilled: (ii) all conditions p2recedent to the effectiveness or
the loan agreement between PSEDF to HUBCO in an amount equivalent to US$407 million shall have
been fulfilled. other than those for the effectiveness of the proposed Bank Guarantee. (iii) a loan
agreement for a foreign syndicated commercial bank loan to HUBCO in an amount equivalent to about
US$360 million shall have been signed with the consortium of commercial banks. and all conditions
pcedent to the effectiveness thereof shall have been fulfilled. other than the effectiveness of the



- 32 -
proposed Bank Guarantee. and (iv) a loan agreement to HUBCO for an agyreeate amount equivalen
to US$20 million shall have been signed with CDC. and all conditions precedent to the effectiveness
thereof shall have been fulfilled. other than the effectiveness of the proposed Bank Guarantee.
4.33    Local Debt: The local debt requirement of US$150 million equivalent is of an
unprecedented amount for Pakistan's credit market, and would be available with significantly longer
maturities than has been available in the local credit market in the past. NDFC and Bankers Equity
Ltd. (BEL), have been appointed by HUBCO as syndication managers for the local debt portion of the
financing plan. This arrangement capitalizes on several positive aspects: (i) NDFC/BEL's experience
in raising financing for projects in the local markets; (ii) NDFC's already extensive familiarity with
HPC through its role as administrator of PSEDF; and (iii) the sharing of the risks and responsibilities
between NDFC and BEL, given the size of the syndication envisaged. With the consent of the State
Bank of Pakistan, the nationalized commercial banks have been authorized to extend the required
financing to the project under the leadership of NDFC/BEL without breaching the credit ceiling set
under MAP. The terrns and conditions remain to be finalized with the Sponsors but preliminary terns
for this financing have been indicated by NDFC/BEL as 14-year maturity with a 4-year grace period.
In order to ensure that the local debt portion of the financing plan is secured. as a condition of
effectiveness of the proposed ECO. a loan agreement for a local syndicated commercial bank loan to
HUBCO in an amount equivalent to about US$150 million shall have been signed with NDFC and
Bankers' Equity. Ltd.. and all conditions precedent to the effectiveness thereof shall have been
fulfilled. other than the effectiveness of the proposed Bank guarantee.
V. HUB POWER COMPANY
A. Corporate Development
5.01    When the Hub Power Complex is commissioned, HUBCO would be the first power
generation utility in Pakistan to be wholly owned and operated by PS. Its performance would provide
a benchmark for evaluating the perforrnances of WAPDA and KESC in terms of staff deployment and
development, corporate organization and management, operations and maintenance practices, financial
management and control, and development of new facilities.
5.02    The development of HUBCO into a utility would be undertaken in phases which correspond
with the progress in the implementation of the Complex. Since the financing for the Complex is
secured under limited recourse, the arrangements under SP dictate, to a large extent, the evolution of
the corporate development of HUBCO. After the issuance of LOI, SI undertook the preparation of the
feasibility study for the Complex, the selection of the turnkey contractor(s), and the negotiation of
subsequent agreements. Following the creation of HPG (paras 3.05 and 3.07), a managing director
was appointed to manage the relationship of the Group with GOP, the Bank, and the international
financial community. K&M Engineering was appointed to support HPG in the area of engineering,
and Morgan Grenfell continued its support in the area of finance.
5.03    The staffing of HPG evolved with the appointment of a Board comprised of the
shareholders, chief executive, and a chief financial officer. Staff from BEI and K&M have been
seconded to HPG, assisted by consultants with international experience whenever needed. The
structure being developed for HPG is intended to be a foundation for the development of HUBCO.
The initialling of agreements with GOP and the positive response of the international financial
community in expressing willingness to consider financing under limited recourse, was the signal for
HPG to start the development of HUBCO. As a first step, and in compliance with the guidelines for
PSEDF, HUBCO was incorporated in Pakistan in April 1989 under the Pakistan Companies
Ordinance of 1984. An interim Board of Directors has been appointed and a search for a permanent
CEO has been initiated. A corporate development plan for HUBCO has been prepared and submitted
to the Bank and GOP for review. The plan would also be reviewed by consultants with international
experience in power utilities to ensuring that HUBCO's corporate structure is based on internationally



- 33 -
accepted standards and, that the pace for implementing the corporate development program is
consistent with the proposed strategy for the construction and operation of the Hub Power Complex.
The completion of a corporate development plan for HUBCO. satisfactory to the Bank. would be set
as a condition for the effectiveness of the proposed ECO.
5.04    HUBCO would be wholly owned by PS. Foreign investors would hold 69% of the shares
and local investors 31%. The foreign equity would be held as follows: Xenel, Hawker Siddeley,
Mitsui and Co., IHI, Campenon Bernard, Ansaldo GIE, K&M Engineering, and Morgan Grenfell
Investment Corporation would invest US$78 million of base financing and make a commitment for
US$38 million in contingency financing, representing 52% of the foreign equity and 36% of total
equity; CDC would hold US$8 million, representing 4% of the foreign equity and 2% of total equity;
and the rest of the foreign -quity would be held by institutional and private investors. The local equity
would be mobilized throu,n HCBs (paras 4.26-4.31). It is expected that the HCBs would be mainly
acquired by private investors and by banking and financial institutions, i.e., commercial banks,
insurance companies, investment companies, pension funds and the general public.
5.05    The terms for the participation of investors as shareholders in HUBCO are governed by SA
(para 3.13). The SA has been signed only by the sponsoring investors, but will need to be modified
as additional shareholders are inducted and to reflect the lenders' comments. The terms of the SA
including any changes therein will be reflected, as appropriate, in the Memorandum and Articles of
Association of HUBCO, which have already been drafted. The Bank has reviewed the draft
Memorandum and Articles of Association to convert the existing company to a public limited company
and advised HPG that revisions are needed to appropriately reflect the functions of the Company.
Therefore. as a condition of effectiveness of the proposed ECO. the Shareholders' Ageement shall be
signed by all the shareholders of HUBCO. including members of the reconstituted construction
consortium, and the Memorandum and Articles of Association amended to the satisfaction of the Bank
and adopted by HUBCO's Board.
5.06    The agreements under SP, were initialled by HPG and GOP. Since HUBCO would
ultimately be accountable to GOP, as well as to the lenders and investors, HUBCO should be the
signatory to all agreements with GOP and the lenders. In order for HUBCO to undertake
commitments, provide guarantees and assume liabilities, a perrnanent Board of Directors should be
constituted and its responsibilities ratified by the shareholders. In addition, HUBCO should capitalize
the audited expenditures incurred by HPG and have a plan for financial management and control put in
place, administered by qualified permanent staff. Therefore. as a condition of effectiveness of the
proposed ECO: (i) a permanent Board of Directors of HUBCO shall be constituted in a manner
satisfactory to the Bank. and the Chairman of the Board and CEO shall be appointed: and (ii) the
Implementation. Power Purchase. Construction. Operation and Maintenance. Fuel Supply and Escrow
Agreements shall have been signed by authorized representatives of HUBCO and GOP. and all
conditions precedent to the effectiveness thereof shall have been fulfilled: and (iii) the first Annual
General Board meeting of all shareholders Qf HUBCO shall be held to ratify the Implementation.
Power Purchase, Construction. Operation and Maintenance. Fuel Supply. and Escrow Agreements.
5.07    HUBCO would have to provide the security and confidence normally required of utilities.
This is of special significance for at least the first 14 years, during which time the debt to the senior
lenders is being serviced. Consequently, HUBCO would enter into a tumkey contract for the
implementation of the Hub Complex which would be executed by a construction consortium. The
consortium, which is comprised of internationally reputable and experienced companies with strong
financial positions, would provide HUBCO joint and several guarantees against: (a) failure in the
construction of the Complex in accordance with the agreed timetable and cost; and (b) failure of
performance of the equipment to meet the criteria agreed with GOP. This guarantee would be assigned
to the lenders to provide the required comfort. During the implementation stage, HUBCO would
depend on its own project management staff comprised of an engineering executive, assisted by a
number of engineers, and supported by K&M Engineering in supervising the performance of TKC.



- 34 -
BEI would also assist by ensuring that the equipment installed meets the specifications and standard
required for operations as agreed under PPA and O&MA, and IA.
5.08    HUBCO would be expected to administer all financial aspects relating to its operations
including draw down of funds from PSEDF and other lenders. It would, therefore, require a fully
staffed finance department during the construction phase, capable of contract administration,
accounting, financial management and control, reporting and internal audit and disbursement. During
the operations phase, the capabilities in the area of operations and management of accounts receivable
and payable would need to be strengthened. In order to provide the comfort required by lenders and
investors, the responsibilities for operating the Complex would be entrusted to BEI governed by an
O&M Agreement (para 3.13). BEI would take the full responsibility for operating the plant, training
the local staff and maintaining the facilities. Guarantees for performance would be provided by BEI to
HUBCO which in turn would be assigned to the lenders and GOP under the security arrangements.
Gradually, as HUBCO develops the financial strength and as its liabilities to the lenders diminish, BEI
could then either relinquish its responsibilities to a fully staffed and trained operations and maintenance
department at HUBCO, or enter into a joint venture with HUBCO to operate the Complex, sharing
both the returns and the liabilities. Either scenario, however, is unlikely to materialize before the
senior debt is retired. In addition, a legal department would be required for contract administration,
reviews and negotiations when required.
5.09    The number and levels of HUBCO's staff would be increased to match the growing
responsibilities of the Company and the change in the nature of its operations from supervision of
construction of the Complex to its operation and ultimately the development of other power generation
facilities. The staffing plan and its implementation would be an integral part of the corporate
development plan. However, as a first step in the staffing of HUBCO, a permnanent chief executive
officer should be appointed who would report to the Board of Directors. In addition, directors
reporting to the chief executive officer should be in place and their critical staff appointed to provide for
smooth operations of the Company. Therefore. in order to ensure that HUBCO has a management
team and is adequately staffed to implenient the Complex. as a condition of effectiveness of the
proposed ECO. adequate staffing for HUBCO shall be in place and senior management posts in
financengineering. accounting. legal. administration, public relations. and project management shall
be f;lled and peisonnel appointed.
5.10    The Complex would be located on land in Balochistan province that is presently both
privately and publicly owned. HPG received authorization from GOB to negotiate with the provincial
Government of Balochistan (GOB) for the acquisition of the required land. Subsequently, HPG
signed a Land Acquisition Agreement in September 1990 with GOB which has issued a decree
identifying the privately held tracts of land to be acquired under existing procedures for the acquisition
of land for public interest. However, in view of the importance of having the title for the land before
site preparation and construction work are initiated, title deeds for the land required for the Complex
shall have been executed in favor of HUBCO as a condition of effectiveness of the proposed ECO.
B. Forecast of HUBCO's Financial Performance
Financial Objectives of HUBCO
5.11    HUBCO is expected to have the mandate to mobilize resources to expand its activities in the
area of power generation. Consequently, the strategy for its development has been outlined with a
view to transforming over time from a single plant to a multiplant utility, financed both from its own
internal sources, and by using local and international capital and credit markets. The mobilization of
these financial resources would be on the basis of limited recourse, supported by the utility's financial
strength. Despite the autonomy envisaged for HUBCO, it is expected to remain dependent on the
performance of GOP and its agencies; e.g. WAPDA, PSO, and SBP. The provisions under SP are
intended to buffer the financial viability of the utility from failures by GOP and any of its entities in
complying with the terms of the agreements of SP. As the utility grows, it is expected that it would set



- 35 -
aside portions of its net earnings into a reserve that would provide a cushion from unexpected
commercial events that could adversely affect its financial viability. For the purposes of the Hub
Power Complex, HUBCO would establish a one-year debt service reserve escrow account to provide
commercial banks and ECAs with a buffer against such events. This offshore escrow account of
approximately US$54 million would be funded with the same proportions of debt and equity as the
contingency fund, and it would be drawn down immediately prior to the end of the project's fourth
year. Accordingly, HUBCO's financial objective should be to ensure its development into a
financially viable utility by generating sufficient revenues from the sale of electricity to cover all
operations and maintenance costs, including depreciation; debt service; a competitive return on equity;
an adequate level of working capital; a reasonable part of its development program; and the build-up of
reserves over time to reduce its dependence on elaborate security arrangements to finance new
investments. HUBCO's net revenues including depreciation should be adequate to comfortably meet
its debt service obligations to ensure its creditworthiness.
Assnpdtions for Forecast
5.12    The capital and development costs for the Complex correspond to the tariff agreed on
between HUBCO and GOP in June 1991. In the tariff agreement, all prices and exchange rates are
expressed at constant March 31, 1991 terms. The presant projections have been updated to reflect
September 1, 1991 exchange rates and current terms of finance as reflected in the draft term sheets of
the banks and underwriters who have provided preliminary commitments to provide debt and equity
funds to the project. The tariff agreement stipulates that these adjustments apply from the date of the
agreement to financial closure. Fuel prices, O&M costs, and project company cost are expressed in
March 31, 1991 prices and wage levels.
5.13    The estimation of annual costs used in the financial projections do not include an annual
adjustment for inflation or exchange rate changes. This allows for the evaluation of the projected
performance of HUBCO without any distortions that could be introduced because of subjective
assumptions about future exchange rates, inflation rates, or other factors. However, in ord-er to
translate HUBCO's financial position to current prices, a set of indices has been used to adjust each
component of the costs, revenues and returns on equity to compensate for changes in local and foreign
inflation; exchange rate; wages and compensation packages for local and expatriate employees;
corporate and employee taxation; custom duties and import taxes on equipment and material used for
construction and subsequently operations; and prices of fuel and lubricants. These indices and their
applicability are specified in PPA. An important feature of the financial structure of HUBCO is that the
return on equity is not guaranteed. but instead it occurs only if the utility operates along ex ante
efficiency parameters which are used as a basis for the tariff agreed with GOP and the forecast of
financial performance. Failure by HUBCO to adhere to the ex ante parameters for performance would
imply lower returns on equity and, if this failure continues, it could lead to erosion in the equity since
penalties agreed to in the PPA tap the dividends furst and then the equity next.
Revenues
HUBCO's tariff for sale to WAPDA of 6,791 Gwh per year for 30 years, represents a
narneplate capacity utilization of 60% and a net capacity utilization of 64%. Under the Power
Purchase Agreement, WAPDA is obligated to take the 6,791 Gwh each year. If HUBCO is
able to supply the power and WAPDA fails to take it, the latter would be required to pay for
electricity as if the contracted power has been delivered. Conversely, should HUBCO fail to
deliver part or all of the contracted power, it would be required to compensate WAPDA for
the shortfall, amounting to its avoidable cost. Costs are determined on the basis of operating
parameters negotiated between HUBCO and GOP, covering fuel efficiency, capacity derating
schedule, if applicable, operations and maintenance costs, insurance, and financial cost.
These are all expressed in the prices of the base year, 1991. The agreed tariff is derived to be
sufficient to cover all operating costs, debt service, and the provision of an average 18%
return on equity to the Company's shareholders. Once financial closure is achieved, a set of



- 36 -
indices will have been agreed with GOP to annually adjust the tariff to cover changes in fuel
costs, labor wages, and exchange rate inflation. If the Complex operates at the contracted
level of efficiency, cost structure, and parameters agreed when the tariff was set, HUBCO
would achieve an average 18% return on equity for its shareholders. Otherwise, the return
on equity would decline. Moreover, the tariff has been structured to allow HUBCO and
WAPDA to share the benefits of the economies achieved from higher than contracted plant
utilization. At capacity utilization levels higher than 64% of net generation, the benefits are
split between WAPDA and HUBCO. This arrangement provides incentives for HUBCO to
maintain the complex at a state to supply more than contracted levels, while at the same time it
should reduce the average costs to WAPDA of purchasing power from HUBCO.
Operations and Maintenance: The Hub Power Complex is expected to have a fuel
efficiency of 2,210 Kcal./kWh which should be attainable with proper operations and
maintenance. In addition, a plant betterment allowance has been added to the operating costs
of the facility to cover the costs associated with the maintenance of the Complex and to retain
the installed capacity of the Complex at 1,292 MW throughout the forecast period of 30
years. This prevents HUBCO frem derating the instal!ed capacity of the Complex on a
theoretical basis and claiming bonuses for exceeding it in practice. Conversely, it prevents
HUBCO from disguising it's failure to perform under the deterioration in the efficiency of the
Complex because of wear and tear. These operations and maintenance costs are based on
performance of similar units in developed countries, and they are consistent with industry-
wide practices. The cost of fuel oil for the operations of the Complex is taken as Rs
2,350/ton (US$98/ton) which is the prevailing domestic price as of June 1991. This price
reflects the recent long-term increases in the price of oil following the Gulf crises. Changes
in the prices of fuel oil would be automatically reflected in the tariff once the power plant
starts its operation. Consequently, if the recent increases in the international price for oil are
sustained, the tariffs would be increased at the time of commissioning to reflect the prevailing
price of domestic oil. The same price would also be paid by WAPDA and KESC which
would maintain the relative tariffs of HUBCO, WAPDA and KESC unaltered.
Ltwurance: HUBCO would arrange for insurance to be in place for both the construction and
operating periods of the Complex. Insurance for the construction period would include:
marine cargo insurance, covering the import of plant and equipment to the construction site;
contractor's all risks, covering loss or damage to the works during the construction and
testing/commissioning periods; loss of advance profits (business interruption irnsurance),
covering loss of revenue and/or increased costs due to delays in the start-up of the Complex
as a result of damage to the works and materials during transit to the site or during
testing/commissioning; public liability, covering legal liabilities to third parties for injury or
damage arising from construction, testing/commissioning and maintenance; and other local
insurances, covering workmen's compensation and vehicle insurance for HUBCO's
vehicles. During the operating period, HUBCO would arrange the following types of
coverages: fire and perils - fixed assets insurance, covering loss or damage from fire and
other specified risks; machinery breakdown insurance, covering loss or damage to
mechanical and electrical equipment resulting from breakdowns; consequential loss; business
interruption insurance, covering loss of revenue and/or additional costs as a result of an
interruption in the operation of the plant following material damage or breakdown; public
liability, covering legal liabilities to third parties for injury or damage arising from the
operation of the Complex; and other local insurances, covering workmen's compensation,
blanket crime, director's liability, vehicles insurance and personal insurance for expatriate
employees. In addition, GOP provides a foreign exchange risk insurance scheme which is
available to cover debt financing by private or public enterprises. Under this scheme, SBP
freezes the exchange rate for the Pakistani Rupee relative to the currencies in which foreign
loans are denominated in exchange for a premium which is determined at the time the debt is



- 37 -
incurred. The foreign exchange insurance scheme would cover the loans secured by
HUBCO from the commercial banks, CDC, and ECAs. The loans which are secured by
HUBCO from PSEDF are also covered against changes in the exchange rates, and the
premium is incorporated in the interest rate of 14% on loans from the fund. This
compensates GOP for assuming the foreign exchange risk in repaying the loans mobilized
from the bilaterals and the Bank to finance PSEDF.
Projected Financial Reuls
5.14    The financial forecast for HUBCO is summarized in Table 6 below and is provided in more
detail in Annex 5.1.
Table 6: Projected Financial Results of HURCO
1994      i99        9200
Electricity Sold (GWh)l          2,971      6,791     6,791     6,791       6,791
Average Tariff (Rs/KWh)           1.745     1.657     1.616      1.475      1.048
Electricity Revenues(Rs million)  5,183    11,849     11,492    10,317      7,114
Operating Expenses 2(Rs million)  3,280     5,616     5,618      5,565      5,491
Operating Income (Rs million)     1,903     6,232     5,873      4,752      1,624
Net Income 3(Rs million)           80       2,318     2,255      2,443      1,154
Financial Ratios
Debt Service Coverage Ratio
Senior Debt                    N/A       2.1        2.1       2.2        N/A
Total Debt                    N/A        1.6        1.5       1.5        2.1
Retun on Equity (IRR) = 18%
1 At 64% utilization of net plant capacity
2 Includes depreciation
* Includes net non-operating income
At 64% capacity utilization, energy sales are expected to increase from 2,971 GWh after the initial
commissioning of the first unit in 1994 to 6,791 GWh in 1995 after the commissioning of the
remaining 3 units. The forecast net revenues and expenditures for the project show that net revenues
for each fiscal year would result in a debt service coverage ratio (DSCR) above 1.5 on total debt in all
the years of th.e project. A debt service escrow account providing one year US$54 million reserve on
interest payments on the loans from senior lenders would be established to provide the required
security for the commercial banks, CDC and ECAs. This escrow account would be funded at the
beginning of 1995 at the end of the interest grace period on the senior loans, in the the same manner as
the contingency fund, i.e., through an additional commitment of equity and additional drawdowns on
the commercial bank (ECO) loan facilities. In addition, HUBCO would also be required to aFree to me
establishment of an offshore debt service escrow account that would provide a one-year coverage on
interest payments for the commercial bank and ECA loan facilities. Furthermore. HUBCO would be
required to agree that declaration of dividends will be subject to payment of all debt and compliance
with the agreed DSCR and debt/equity ratio. The calculations of DSCR, however, would exclude the
one year's debt service requirement for senior lenders, which shall be maintained in a debt service
reserve escrow and would be available to service debt in case of a shortfall in revenues due to any
unforeseen circumstances.
5.15    The financial forecast indicates that HUBCO would also achieve a DSCR on senior debt of
2.1 in 1995 which would gradually improve to 2.2 by 2000, and improve steadily thereafter. The
DSCR for all debt would be 1.6 in 1995 and 1.5 in the years thereafter until 2010 when it would



- 38 -
improve to 2.1. By 2005, the senior debt would have been retired with debt service continuing or. the
subordinated PSEDF loan through 2013. Therefore. HUBCO should agree to maintain, for each year
bg,inning with 1996. a DSCR of at least 1.5 for its total debt. and at least 2.0 for the senior debt. In
addition, if HUBCO operates according to present expectations, it would easily meet debt service
obligations and generate a return on equity of at least 18.0% on an IRR basis. The resulting average
tariff to GOP for the first 12 years of the project would be Rs 1.430/kWh.
Sensitivity Analysis
5.16   If HUBCO were unable to maintain the full capacity utilization of 60%  (6,791 Gwh per
year), and instead operated the plant at 50% (5,659 Gwh per year), debt service would continue to be
covered at nearly the same levels as at full output since the reduction in revenue from reduced output
would be absorbed through a reduction in shareholders' returns. The project's DSCR for senior debt
would fall to 1.8, while DSCR for total debt would fall to 1.4. In addition, the average tarirf would
increase to the level of Rs 1.494/kwh for years 2-12 of the project, while the reduced output would
result in an erosion of average returns to HUBCO's shareholders from 18% to 9.2%.
System of Accounzts
5.17    HUBCO should have a commercial system of accounts well suited to its activities as a utility
during the various stages of construction, commissioning and operation of plant and equipment. The
installation of such a system is beyond the capabilities of HUBCO with its limited resources of staff
experienced in commercial utility accounts and, therefore, HUBCO would need the assistance of
consultants in this task. In view of the urgencv of the need to introduce the commercial system of
accounts. the appointment by HUBCO of consultants acceptable, to the Bank in accordance with terms
of r-eference also satisfactory to the Bank. for the purpose of introducing a commercial system of utility
accounts would be a condition for the effectiveness of the proposed ECO guarantee  The
reWcommendations of the consultants would be submitted to the Bank for review within three months of
the appointment of the consultant and the approved system implemented within three months following
the submission of the recommendations.
Audit of Annual Accounts and Svecial Accounts
5.18    As required under the Pakistan Companies Ordinance of 1984, HUBCO would have to have
its annual accounts for each year audited within six months of the close of the year. In addition, the
shareholders and lenders of HUBCO would need to be satisfied that their funds are utilized for the
purposes for which they were intended. Accordingly, HUBCO would be required to submit its annual
accounts for each year to the Bank and other cofinanciers duly audited by independent auditors,
satisfactory to the Bank, within six months from the beginning of the subsequent fiscal year.
Furthermore, the proceeds of the syndicated commercial bank loan covered under the proposed co-
guarantee will be deposited in a Special Account to be established by HUBCO in accordance with
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. Funds from the Special Account would only be utilized
for eligible expenditures, i.e., expenditures incurred for the turnkey construction contract and
financing related costs except direct taxes and duties. HUBCO would be required to document fully
the drawing of funds and expenditures financed from the syndicated commercial bank loan covered
under the proposed guarantee and have it certified by the Auditors that the funds have been used for the
purpose for which they were intended. HUBCO should agree to submit to the Bank an audit report of
annual receipt and expenditure of the Special Account for each year within six months of closing of the
year. providing details as may be reasonably requested by the Bank.
C. Environment
5.19    Environmental and social soundness assessment of the Complex was initiated in 1987 in
compliance with the environmental procedures of the GOP, the Bank and USAID. Following the



- 39 -
preparation of an environmental screening study of the proposed site and a series of alternative sites, a
two phase approach was adopted for preparation of the environmental assessment. Phase I evaluated
the environmental acceptability of the proposed project based on data about the site which was
available, and Phase H would provide supplemental information based on actual monitoring at the site
to support final design of the project. This approach was adopted to allow for phased expenditure on
feasibility studies in the context of the PS power program and the provision of adequate time for the
installation of a meteorological and air quality monitoring towei ' the project area by WAPDA.
5.20    The IA includes a provision that the environmental impact assessment would be undertaken
in accordance with the guidelines of the Bank, and that HUBCO will implement the final
environmental mitigation plan for the Complex, approved by GOP and the Bank. The approach used
in preparation of the environmental assessment conforms with the provisions of World Bank
Operational Directive 4.00, Annex A, "Environmental Assessment," which was issued in October
1989. It should be noted that a "scoping session" for the Complex was held in December 1988 under
the supervision of USAID. The first phase environmental and social soundness assessment for the
proposed project was submitted in May 1990. Review of the document indicated that the design of the
proposed project was in compliance with Bank environmental guidelines and would not result in
significant adverse environmental impacts. At this time a work program was established for more
detailed studies based on the latest site information which would be conducted to support finalization
of the design of the Complex These studies, currently in final stages of preparation, include: (a)
detailed modeling studies of thermal plume from the discharge of coo' -g water; (b) expanded air
quality modeling studies using site specific data; (c) collection of additional biological investigations
data at the site; and (d) socio-economic studies to provide more details concerning settlement pattems
and land tenure patterns in the vicinity of the plant. The Complex also requires a final archaeological
clearance from GOP.
5.21    The Phase II program of environmental studies is presently under implementation and the
restlts of all studies are expected to be received by the Bank by December 1991. The preparation of
thesu studies is behind schedule due to delays in project development and a delay in the installation of
the meteorological and air quality tower. The Phase II studies will be used for the finalization of the
project design. In addition, the oil pipeline to be built by PSO would be subject to a detailed
environmental assessment which would include a review of safety standards. In order to ensure that
the Hub Power Complex is constructed and operated according to the Bank's Environmental
Guidelines, it would be required as a condition of effectiveness of the proposed ECO. that: (i) the
Environmental and Social Soundness Assessment (Phase II) will be completed by HUBCO: and (H)
HURICO widll give an undertaking to provide assistance for the preparation of an environmental impact
assessment of the oil pipeline and associated terminal facilities which will be used to provide fuel to the
VI. ADMINISTRATION
Procurement and Disbursement
6.01    The procurement arrangements for the Complex reflect the financing available and include:
(i) financing available from PSEDF which can be used to finance equipment, materials, services and
other associated costs, for which expenditures have been incurred according to the guidelines of
respective multilateral and bilateral contributors to the PSEDF (JEXIM and World Bank funds are
untied and would be used according to Bank guidelines); (ii) commercial bank financing guaranteed by
the Bank and JEXIM can be used for expenditures incurred with due regard to economy and
efficiency; (iii) export credits for goods for which expenditures are incurred in the respective countries;
and (iv) equity and commercial bank loans for all other expenses including taxes and duties. Table 9
summarizes the procurement arrangements for the Complex.



- 40-
Tabk9: ProcurementArangeme
(USS Million)
Item                   ICB   LIB  Other Total
A. Project Development Costs before Construction     -    21    21
B. Turnkey Construction Contract            439      -   429   888
C. Engineering and Coordination for HPG       -      -    72    52
D. Pre-operational Capitalized O&M Costs      -      -    19    19
D. Working Capital                                        14    14
Total Project Costs                 439     0   S55    994
Of which PSEDF (Bank & JEXIM)l         (296)     -     -  (296)
Does not include IDC and financing costs.
6.02    The selection of the turnkey construction consortium was through a competitive process
(paras 3.04 and 3.07). In addition, the price for TKC agreed by HPG with the consortium compares
favorably with international prices for similar power plants. As the procedure for award of the TKC
meets the requirement of economy and efficiency, the proceeds of the loan, guaranteed under the ECO
operation, would be used to finance equipment, materials and services included in the TKC and the
associated financing cost. In order to ensure that the funds made available under the syndicated
commercial loans are disbursed for the purposes of the Hub Complex HUBCO. as a conditionf
effectiveness of the propsed ECO. shall open a Special Account in a bank, satisfactor to the Bank.
im2lementation and Monitoring
6.03    The implementation and monitoring of the Complex would involve several entities. The
responsibility for the design, construction and operation of the Complex would be with the HUBCO.
HUBCO would act on behalf of the shareholders, which would include the members of HPG, whose
rights and responsibilities would be spelled out in the Shareholders Agreement. The construction
consortium would be responsible for constructing the Complex and would offer performance bonds to
cover their liabilities as oudined in TKC. The operation and maintenance of the Complex would be the
responsibility of the O&M Contractor, BEI, which would also offer performance bonds to cover its
liabilities as outlined in the O&M Contract. Monitoring of HUBCO and the implementation of the
Complex would be undertaken by GOP through the Private Power Cell in the Ministry of Water and
Power, and the Bank through the Private Energy Division within NDFC (para 2.02). HUBCO would
submit to each monitoring entity quarterly progress reports covering physical progress of the
Complex, as well as annual audited financial statements. During the implementation stage, K&M
Engineering would supervise the progress on behalf of the Sponsors. Figure 5 shows the
implementation and monitoring arrangements of the Complex.
VII. RISKS
7.01    The risks associated with the Complex can be identified over three distinct stages: the
development stage, construction stage, and operational stage. These risks and the provisions put in
place to midgate them pertain to the lenders, the investors, GOP and its agencies. Consequently, the



- 41 -
eANK L ; i - .    P0 WE  COMPLEgX   |            FIGURE 5
IMPLEMENrATION 4 MONTORING ARRANEMENS 
ON 8EIHALF OF
COPIN.NCIEflS
NAr70NAL DEVELOPMENT                                    GOP      
t  FINANCE CORPORATION                           PRIVATE POWER CE'LL
F            ~~      ~~(NlFC                                   (fPPC)  
ND FC                                                                                   P 
CONSULTANrS                                                                            CONSULTANTS:
1J BROWN el ROOT                                                                       IJINTERNATIONAL
(ENGINEERING)                                                                           RESOURCES
2) PRICE                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~GROUP
WA rERHO'JSE                          MONITORING OF HUOCO a                            (ENGINEERING)
(FINANCE)                                IMPLEMENTAttION                              2) EBASCO
3) OLWINE J*                               OF TWE COAIPLEX                               (FINANCE)
CONNELY                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3) HUNTON&
(LEGAL)                                .  .    ..   .                                 3) (WILLIAMS
(LEGAL)
FINANCIAL ADVISOR               HUB POWER GROUP                EGNEIGAVSR
MORGAN GREN*ELL & CO             H     -      OW                  K
. .LDOMESTICWA CAM ENON SERNA
O & H OPERATOR  GOMITSUI& O.# LA?D     - ITTO.CO LD
CAMPENON BAMENN E AR
: i . : -ANS4LDO GIE                        . ..SAGiE. .
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t                                        "'    .0
'  '9  G  'n  s R > 4e > 9 i CWsu s t . 9X. . .rigAND
1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DVT



-42 -
analysis of the risks associated with the Complex is undertaken in accordance with the stages listed
above and each of the three principal agents affected by the proposed project are considered in turn.
7.02    Development Stage: During the development stage, SI assume the risks associated with
GOP's ultimate refusal to proceed with the initial proposal. The process of taking the Complex from a
proposal to a concrete project based on a detailed feasibility study and extensive set of negotiated
agreements constituting SP has taken close to 3 years, the cost of which has been underwritten by the
Sponsors, TKC contractors, and the O&M contractors. In addition, GOP has assumed risks by
foregoing public sector investments, and if the Complex does not proceed, this would imply severe
load shedding during at least the first half of the Eighth Plan (FY94-98). In order to safeguard the
interests of the sponsors, contractors and GOP, IA specified that failure by GOP to provide the
necessary consents and required provisions would entitle the sponsors and contractors to
compensation for expenditures verified by internationally reputable auditors. Conversely, should the
sponsors and contractors lose interest and decide, despite all efforts by GOP, to abandon the Complex,
GOP would have no obligation to compensate SI who would forfeit what has been spent. GOP would
also have the right to the detailed feasibility study and all documentation relating to the Complex.
7.03    Construction Stage,: This stage refers to the period between the financial closure and full
commercial operations. During this stage, the risks associated with the abandonment by SI,
contractor(s) and GOP and the recourse to compensate those affected have been elaborated above.
These would continue to hold until the Complex is commissioned. HUBCO is also required to
adequately ensure against events which do not fall under the force majeure category. Proceeds will be
available to cover the additional costs because of these events. The other risks during the
implementation stage are associated with delays in the execution of the Project which could either result
in cost overruns, and could require the need to service the debt before the power plant is
commissioned. In the case of cost overruns, IA has outlined the responsibilities. If the increase in
cost is due to failure by the contractors to perform, it would be absorbed by the contractors and SI
without reflecting the increase in the tariff resulting in lower return to investors. Contingency funding
of up to US$150 million has been provided under the financing plan to provide comfort to the lenders
so that in the event of failure by the contractor to perform, financing would be available to ensure the
project is completed. The use of this contingency fund would not be possible unless HUBCO injects
new equity in the project. Financing for contingencies would come from PSEDF and commercial
banks provided that at least 25% of the costs are met from additional equity. However, before the
available financing for contingencies are tapped or PSEDF is approached for additional funds, the
performance guarantee of the contractor would be used first. In the event that the increases in costs are
due to a decision by GOP to change the specifications of the complex or because of failure by one of
GOP's institutions to act as outlined in SP and hence result in higher costs, the cost of financing
required would be reflected in the tariff and the return to investors would not be affected. Also, any
loans by PSEDF would be extended to HUBCO but their costs would be reflected in the tariff for sale
of electricity to WAPDA. The guarantee provided under the proposed ECO is not callable for five
years which corresponds to the grace period of the commercial loans. During the grace period, no debt
service would be paid as interest payments would be capitalized. Only in the event of delays, the
contingency funding would be used to service the debt to cover a delay in commissioning of up to one
year.
7.04    Operations: During operations, the risks of failure to service the debt is extremely small.
Debt service to senior lenders and PSEDF amount to about 32% of the total revenues to be generated
for the first 12 years of operation. This ratio would drop to about 13% during the remaining 18 years.
Consequent!y, the risks associated with the operations stage pertain to the failure by the Complex to
generate the revenues required either because of non-performance of GOP entities such as non-
availability of transmission lines, f n majeure which would destroy the facilities partally or totally,
or because of inefficient operation. Proceeds from insurance and loans frnm GOP would ensure :he
power plant is returned to commercial operations. In the event this financing is required from GOP on
account of inefficient operation, the loans will be paid from return on equity. Alternatively, should



-43 -
HUBCO and GOP decide that this is not financially feasible, the insurance proceeds would cover the
outstanding debts to commercial banks.
VIII. JUSTIFICATION
8.01    The guideline agreed with GOP under Loan 2982-PAK calls for PSEDF to provide financing
for PS investments if they me,t a set of eligibility criteria, which are: (a) integrability; (b)
competitiveness; (c) viability; and (d) additionality.
a)    Integrabilitv - PS invest:nent should be dictated by the least cost development plan
which combines existing public facilities with new investrnents, public and private to meet the
forecast demand at least cost to the economy. The plan is based on economic prices, including
interest rates, to eliminate the distortions attributable to price and exchange rate controls, taxes,
duties, subsidies, which could lead to uneconomic decisions. The Hub Power Complex is an
integral part of Pakistan's least cost development plan for the period 1989-2010. Table 10
below shows the commissioning schedule for the Complex together with other PS investments
as well as public sector investments by WAPDA and KESC.
Table 10: Least Cost Development Plan for Power (FY89-VS)
Unit      Total
Capacity   Capacity
EPant name            Planl TI      Comm, late  Unit Number   (MW)         L
IKES
Ben Qasim             Steam         1989         3 through 5    210
Subtotal    630
WAPDA
Jamshoro              Steam         1990         1 through 3    210       630
Jamshoro              Steam         1991         4              250       250
Lakhra                FBC1          1993         1 through 3     50       150
Muzafdrh              Steam         1993-1994    1 through 3    210       630
Guddu                 Combined Cycle 1993        1 through 3    135       405
Taibla                Hydm          1993         11 through 14    432   1,728
Mangla                Hydro         1993        9and 10         100       200
KotAddu               Combined Cycle 1994        11 through 14    100     400
KotAddu               Combined Cycle 1995        15             100       100
Chashma               Hydro         1997         1 through 10    12.3     123
Subtotal  4.59
Eyate Secto
Nooriabad             Diesel        1993         1 through6      21       126
Pakiand               FBC1          1994         1 through 3     44       132
Intrag                FBCI          1994         1 and 2         45        90
Hub Power Complex    Steam          1994         1 thugh 4      323     1,292
Habibullah I          Steam         1993         1 through 2    16.5       33
Habibullah 2          Steam         1993         1 through 2    16.5       33
Fauji                 Steam         1995         1 through 2    300       3Q
Subtotal  2.06
Total    7252
IFluidized Bed Combustion (Coal).
Note: Based on current implementation sched-wes.



- 44 -
According to the least cost plan, the Hub Power Complex would be implemented during the
Seventh Plan, as it constitutes part of CIP, and commissioned in the first two years of the
Eighth Plan. The four units of 323 MW each would be energized in sequence six months
apart.
The Hub Power Complex is part of the least cost solution for power generation in Pakistan,
provided the forecast demand is robust and is to be met. Although the recent increase in the
price of petroleum products caused by the Gulf crisis and the expected reflection of these
increases in the tariff for electricity are expected to reduce the rate of growth in demand for
electricity, viability of the ongoing development program for generation by both the public and
private sector would not be altered. This is attributable to the fact that: (a) the demand for
electricity is more sensitive to changes in income than changes in the tariffs (income elasticity
of demand for electricity is about 1.2 compared to the price elasticity of -0.5); and (b) the
existence of shortfall in the supply of power in 1990 estimated at about 800 MW which has
been responsible for the prolonged power load shedding experienced during the dry season is
expected to reach at least 2,000 MW by 1996, even with the full implementation of CIP.
Annex 8.2 provides a summary of the forecast of demand for electricity between 1989-2009.
The least cost plan for the power subsector should include the development of at least 3,000
MW of hydropower capacity by the year 2010. However, the development of Kalabagh
(3,600 MW) which was prepared for implementation has been delayed because of
interprovincial disputes, and the preparation of the detailed engineering for Basha (3,000 MW)
has not yet been started. Consequently, the least cost development plan for 1989-1995 does
not include a major hydropower scheme. Once a decision is made on which scheme would be
developed first, the plan would be reformulated to determine their sequencing relative to other
power generation capacities. Consequently, the options for power generation available in
formulating least cost plans are hydropower stations, coal fired units, combined cycle and oil
fired stations similar to the Hub comprised of smaller and larger units. In Pakistan's case none
of its hydropower potential of 1,000 MW or more can be in operations before the end of the
century. Only two sites with potential of 200 MW and 250 MW respectively, can be
implemented and commissioned before the year 2000; however, these have also been beset
with interprovincial disputes on the allocation of water for irrigation. As for coal fired stations,
domestic coal can provide only limited capacity for power generation as reserves are largely not
proven. Moreover, the quality of coal, characterized by exceptionally high sulfur and ash
content, would limit the technology used for power generation to fluidized bed plants of less
than 100 MW, which although environmentally safe, involve higher capital costs that, together
with the relatively high market price of coal currently at parity or higher than the border price
for imported coal, results in its rejection as a viable option for meeting all of Pakistan's future
needs of thermal power. As for imported coal, the port and handling facilities currently in
Pakistan would preclude its widespread use for power generation. Consequently, the Bank
has financed a feasibility study to identify a site for the development of a port and coal handling
facilities that would allow for the construction and operation of 3,600 MW power plant. The
study identified the site of Khalifa point about 25 kilometers southwest of the site for the Hub
Power Complex on the Arabian Sea in Balochistan. The bidding documents for the coal fired
complex and the coal handling facilities are currently under preparation. However,
construction is unlikely to start before the middle of the Eighth Plan and commissioning at the
earliest in the Ninth Plan (FY99-03) as outlined by the least cost plan. Combined cycle plants
provide a viable substitute for Hub, but given the inadequacy of Pakistan's natural gas relative
to potential demand, these power plants would need to be operated on gas oil whose price is
almost twice that of the fuel oil designated for the Hub Complex. Moreover, gas oil would
continue to be imported until the currently planned hydrocracker and mid-country refinery are
completed by the middle of the Eighth Plan. Consequently, in the absence of adequate supply
of natural gas, the combined cycle technology is not viable as an alternative to the Hub
Complex. Finally, in the cases where steam oil fired power plants are compared, the larger



- 45 -
units are selected because of economies of scale in both fixed and operating costs. The Hub
Power Complex would be comprised of the largest units to be installed in Pakistan.
In the absence of other options which would utilize cheaper fuel, namely coal or natural gas,
the Hub Power Complex would still constitute part of the least cost, even when the recent
increases in the price of oil are taken into consideration. Moreover, the utilization of HUBCO
would not decrease with higher fuel costs, as the cost of its fuel represents a pass through
which is reflected in the tariff. Additionally, as long as WAPDA and KESC face the same
price for fuel, the cost structure of the two utilities relative to HUBCO's tariff would remain
unaltered. However, in order to ensure that the Complex constitutes a part of the least cost,
even after its commissioning, the power plant has been designed to allow for its conversion to
operate on natural gas, should domestic production increase or access to imports is made
available. The cost of converting the plant to operate on gas is relatively insignificant and
hence it could be accommodated in the tariff without significant increases. On the other hand,
should the price of oil continue to rise to the point where Pakistan finds its oil import bill
unsustainable, the design of the Complex has allowed for space that would make it possible to
install larger boilers needed for burning coal, once coal is available. In this event, HUBCO has
the option of either undertaking the additional investments needed to convert the plant to coal
and continue owning the Complex, or handing over the Complex to GOP and receive
compensation for its equity with GOP assuming the outstanding debts.
b)    Copetitivens  - According to the eligibility criteria of the guidelines for PSEDF, PS
investments for power generation could be mobilized through two options: (a) proposals
made in response to requests by GOP through general announcement or direct solicitation for
PS to design, finance, develop and operate power plants at sites of the investors' choice to
supply the national grid, provided the sites are cleared environmentally; or (b) a proposal
solicited through a bidding process for projects at specific sites for which detailed feasibility
and environmental impact studies have been prepared. In either case, PS investments should
emerge through a competitive process. In this respect, competitiveness would be ensured
under the two options if the average tariff over the expected life of the project is less or equal
to the avoidable costs of the integrated power system., e.g., the tariff for the supply of
electricity by PS should be equal to or less than the average long run incremental cost of supply
of the power system. A study to determine the economic cost of supply for the integrated
power system for Pakistan was undertaken by Coopers and Lybrand of the U.K. under
financing from the Asian Development Bank, and the involvement of the World Bank and GOP
in the supervision and the review of the study. According to the study, the levelized average
long-run incremental cost of supply over a 30-year period adjusted for the new price of oil,
following the Gulf crises, of about US$24/barrel is estimated at Rs 1.27/kwh (US5.5/kWh).
This cost is based on economic prices and a discount rate of 11% which is used as a proxy for
the opportunity cost of capital in Pakistan. The average tariff agreed between HUBCO and
GOP for the supply of electricity at the 60% capacity utilization over the 30-year period is Rs
1.24/kwh (US5.7/kWh). This compares favorably with the economic cost supply estimated
by the study. In fact, if the level of utilization of the Complex is increased to 70%, which is
expected to prevail over at least the first 12 years, the average tariff offered by HUBCO is Rs
1.16/kwh (US$5.32/kWh).
c)    Viabilitvy- PS investments should be viable on a technological, economic and financial
basis. The technological viability is assured by the fact that the Complex was selected as a part
of the least cost development plan. As for the financial viabilitv, the complex when completed
as projected and operated along the parameters underlying the tariff proposal agreed with GOP,
would generate a return on equity of 18%. An indicator of the adequacy of the projected return
is the fact that it was sufficient to secure the commitments of SI, the foreign investors, and the
underwriters for local equity. The economic merit of the project lies in the fact that it was
selected as part of the least cost development plan. The economic return on investment is
estimated at 15% based on measurable costs and benefits. The costs include capital cost, O&M



- 46 -
cost and fuel cost, all net of taxes and duties. The benefits are comprised of the revenues
associated with the project assuming a capacity utilization of 60% and valued at the tariff agreed
with GOP. All local costs were expressed in their equivalent border value by using a standard
conversion factor of 0.85 which is also used to convert the revenue of the project to their
equivalent border value. The economic rate of return compares favorably with the opportunity
cost of capital of 11%. Details of the calculation of the economic rate of return are provided in
Annex 8.1.
d)    Additionalitv - The pursuit of PS involvement in the development of energy in
Pakistan, in addition to improving the efficiency of the processes by which energy is generated
and delivered to the ultimate consumers, is designed as a means of mobilizing financial
resources over and above those that were available to the public sector. Consequently, all
funding provided by lenders and investors was to be secured under limited recourse in that the
government would not provide direct guarantees to the loans or equity mobilized by HUBCO.
This was the principal reason behind the introduction of SP and one of the justifications for the
proposed ECO. In terms of the additionality of resources, the Hub Complex would provide
US$536 million to Pakistan which otherwise would not be available for Pakistan. Of these
resources, the US$116 million foreign equity represents resources directly linked to the project
that would be transferred to Pakistan; the US$120 million of co-guarantee from JEXIM, as it
would not have been mobilized had it not been for the project, the loans provided under the
guarantee schemes of France, Japan, and Italy for US$300 million, particularly in view of the
fact that they would be provided under limited recourse. In addition, the support of GOP to PS
has been designed through an onlending arrangement which would allow for the interest rate
spread between the cost of borrowing and the onlending rate to be captured by GOP. The
Bank's mobilization of cofinancing for PSEDF from bilaterals have resulted in a cost of
resources made available to the fund of 4.5%. GOP would bear the foreign exchange risk in
repayment to the Bank, JEXIM, ODA, and the Nordic Investment Bank, for which an average
cost of 3.5% representing SBP's foreign exchange insurance premium should be added to
GOP's cost of borrowing. This brings the cost to GOP of financing PSEDF to about 8%,
leaving a spread of 6% to be captured by PSEDF for local currency debt financing for PS
investment. In the case of HUBCO, PSEDF would provide base financing of US$355 million
which would generate interest income associated with the 6% representing the difference
between GOP's average cost of borrowing of about 8% and the onlending rate of 14%. This
would mobilize over US$300 million over the 23-year period for loan repayment which in
essence represent additionality in terms of resource mobilization through the tariff from the
consumers of electricity.
IX. RATIONALE FOR BANK INVOLVEMENT
9.01    The Bank has played a critical role in assisting GOP in the development of PS involvement in
the energy sector in Pakistan. In the area of institution building, it has, with the assistance of the
USAID and ODA of the UK, structured the framework for the solicitation, evaluation, negotiation, and
ultimately financing of PS investment. In addition, the framework provides for the monitoring of
project implementation, the resolution of conflicts after operation, and the orderly interaction between
the private sector and the various public sector entities. The institutions created have been staffed, and
extensive training as well as support in the form of long-term and short-term internationally
experienced consultants was provided to ensure adherence to the highest internationallv accepted
standards in terns of evaluation, negotiations, and financing of private sector investments. As a
result, Pakistan has today one of the most capable local teams in the area of evaluation, negotiation and
financing of PS investments in energy in the developing countries. The USAID has earmarked the
equivalent of US$30 million to continue the institutional support in the form of staffing, consultants,
and training to the various agencies of GOP to enhance its efforts in mobilizing PS investment for
energy. ODA and JEXIM have each provided US$1 million to support the same objective and US$4



- 47 -
million of the Bank's loan to PSEDF has been earmarked for technical assistance. In addition, all the
bilaterals contributing to the PSEDF have agreed under the Memorandum of Understanding with the
Bank to provide consultancies to support PSEDF in the evaluation and negotiations of proposals
whenever the support is required. The involvement of the Bank has been critical in mobilizing the
technical assistance and the institutional support needed for strengthening the institutional framework.
9.02    The Bank has also played a major role in mobilizing concessionary financing for the PSEDF
which has resulted in a cost to the government substantially below the onlending rate and would
generate a surplus which would be reinvested back into the private sector by providing local financing
in the future and thereby avoiding the need to tap the local credit market and the likelihood of crowding
out other investments or exceeding the ceiling set to achieve fiscal and external balance. The initial
commitments to PSEDF of US$600 million would generate over the 30 year period a minimum of over
US$700 million, representing the difference between the average borrowing rate of 8% and the
onlending rate of 14%.
9.03    The Bank has been the principal financial institution in structuring SP and worked closely
with Morgan Grenfell, financial advisers to HUBCO, and the international financial community to
structure the Package in a manner that would enhance the likeiihood of HUBCO mobilizing financing
in both equity and debt under limited recourse. The willingness of foreign investors to allocate
US$116 million of equity at risk where all revenues are generated in Rupees and the unprecedented
achievement of mobilizing confidence in the financial community to underwrite local equity of US$100
million represent an achievement that the Bank has been instrumental in bringing to fruition. The
success of HUBCO in mobilizing US$300 million from ECA's under limited recourse uiderscores the
confidence of these institutions in the robustness of SP of which the Bank has been the lead architect.
The commitment of ECAs to HUBCO also represents a major breakthrough in infrastructure project
financing not only in Pakistan but the developing countries in general.
9.04    The role of the Bank in providing a guarantee on principal against sovereign risk has been
instrumental in mobilizing commercial bank lending for a project of this magnitude under the limited
recourse arrangements. The structure of the guarantee also sets out an innovative approach to sharing
risks with PS; it allows the sovereign risk to be assumed by the Bank (and counterguaranteed by the
Government) but, unlike in IBRD lending, permits the commercial risk to be directly taken by parties
other than the Government itself. Furthermore, the project represents the first time a co-guarantee has
been mobilized, thus further leveraging the Bank's resources. The flexibility in designing the structure
of the ECO to assume different roles in the various phases of project implementation and operation has
been the single most important contribution in terms of financial engineering to the mobilization of
commitment by commercial banks, ECAs, and investors, for the implementation of the Complex the
largest PS investment to be undertaken in Pakistan.
9.05    The above arrangements are highly complex, and would require maximum collaboration and
understanding among the niumerous agencies concerned during implementation for the successful
completion of the project. The Bank's role will remain critical during the entire implementation period
to remove obstacles, facilitate a dialogue, promote better understanding and assist GOP and its
agencies in a highly onerous and innovative operation.
X. SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS
10.01   The following actions are proposed as conditions of effectiveness of the proposed ECO:
(a) a letter of credit for an amount equivalent to US$116 million, comprising
US$78 million in base financing, inclusive of development cost verified by an
internationally reputable auditing firm, and US$38 million in contingency
financing shall have been made by HPG. (para 4.32)



- 48 -
(b) an equity contribution to HUBCO in an amount equivalent to about US$8
million shall have been made by CDC. (para 4.32)
(c) agreements satisfactory to the Bank to place off-shore equity for an amount
equivalent to US$99 million shall have been signed by HUBCO with off-shore
investors, or in the absence of such agreements a guarantee shall have been
received from the parent companies of the sponsoring investors to subscribe to
the equity for the same amount. (para 4.32)
(d) an underwriting agreement for the issuance of HCBs for equity in HUBCO in
the Pakistan capital market for an amount equivalent to about US$100 million
shall have been signed with DT. (para 4.27)
(e) agreements for export credits for HUBCO in an aggregate amount equivalent to
about US$300 million shall have been signed with MITI, COFACE, and SACE
and all conditions precedent to the effectiveness thereof shall have been
fulfilld. (para 4.28)
(f) all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the loan agreement between
PSEDF to HUBCO in an amount equivalent to US$407 million shall have been
fulfilled, other than those for the effectiveness of the proposed Bank
Guarantee. (para 4.38)
(g) a loan agreement for a foreign syndicated commercial bank loan to HUBCO in
an amount equivalent to about US$360 million shall have been signed with the
consortium of commercial banks, and all conditions precedent to the
effectiveness thereof shall have been fulfilled, other than the effectiveness of the
proposed Bank Guarantee. (para 4.38)
(h) a loan agreement to HUBCO for an aggregate amount equivalent to US$20
million shall have been signied with CDC, and all conditions precedent to the
effectiveness thereof shall have been fulfilled, other than the effectiveness of the
proposed Bank Guarantee. (para 4.38)
(i)  a loan agreement for a local syndicated commercial bank loan to HUBCO in an
amount equivalent to about US$150 million shall have been signed with
NDFC/BEL, and all conditions precedent to the effectiveness thereof shall have
been fulfilled, other than the effectiveness of the proposed Bank guarantee.
(para 4.29)
(j) the Shareholders' Agreement shall be signed by all the shareholders of
HUBCO, including members of the reconstituted construction consortium, and
the Memorandum and Articles of Association amended to the satisfaction of the
Bank and adopted by HUBCO's Board. (para 5.05)
(k) a permanent Board of Directors of HUBCO shall be constituted in a manner
satisfactory to the Bank, and the Chairman of the Board and CEO shall be
appointed. (para 5.06)
(1) the Implementation, Power Purchase, Construction, Operation and
Maintenance, Fuel Supply and Escrow Agreements shall have been signed by
authorized representatves of HUBCO and GOP, and all conditions precedent to
the effectiveness thereof shall have been fulfilled. (para 5.06)



- 49 -
(m) the first Annual General Board meeting of all shareholders of HUBCO shall be
held to ratify the Implementation, Power Purchase, Construction, Operation and
Maintenance, Fuel Supply, and Escrow Agreements. (para 5.06)
(n) the necessary staffing for HUBCO shall be in place and senior management
posts in finance, engineering, accounting, legal, administration, public
relations, and project management shall be filled and personnel appointed.
(para 5.09)
(o) title deeds for the land required for the Complex shall have been executed in
favor of HUBCO (para 5.10).
(p) the Environmental and Social Soundness Assessment (Phase II) will be
completed by HUBCO, and HUBCO will give an undertaking to provide
assistance for the preparation of an environmental impact assessment of the oil
pipeline and associated terminal facilities which will be used to provide fuel to
the plant. (para 5.20)
(q) the completion of a corporate development plan for HUBCO, satisfactory to the
Bank. (para 5.03)
(r) the appointment by HUBCO of consultants acceptable to the Bank, in
accordance with terms of reference also satisfactory to the Bank, for the
purpose of introducing a commercial system of utility accounts. (para 5.16)
(s) HUBCO, shall open a Special Account in a bank, satisfactory to the Bank.
(para 6.02)
10.02  In addidon, HUBCO would be required to agree to:
(a) declaration of dividends subject to payment of all debt and compliance with the
agreed DSCR and debt/equity ratio. (para 5.13)
(b) achieve for each year beginning with 1995, a DSCR of at least 1.5 for its total
debt, and at least 2.0 for the senior debt. (para 5.14)
(c) submit to the Bank an audit report of annual receipt and expenditure of the
Special Account for each year within six months of closing of the year,
providing details as may be reasonably requested by the Bank. (para 5.17)



- 50 -                                  Annex 3.1
(Page I of 3)
PAKISTAN
EXPANDED COFINANCING OPERATION
HUB POWER COMPANY
MEMBERS OF THE HUB POWER GROUP
SPONSORS
1.    Xenel Industries Ltd.
Xenel is a Saudi Arabian owned and registered company with corporate headquarters in Jeddah
and branch offices in Riyadh and Dhahran. Xenel comprises wholly owned subsidiaries as well as
joint ventures operating throughout the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia which are known collectively as the
Xenel Group. Xenel Industries independently executes and co-ordinates major projects both within
and outside the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, forming associations with leading international companies
as appropriate. The groups activities are covered by seven operating divisions as follows:
O  Construction
o  Systems
O  Operations and Maintenance
) Transport and Trading
0  Investment
o  Industrial
o  Health Care
Xenel Industries has shown a strong and continual development, and in 1988 the company
held over 30 joint ventures operating in various fields. The magnitude of the company's progress is
illustrated by the rise of its paid up capital from 1.5 million Saudi Riyals (US$400,000)at its
foundation to 50 million Saudi Riyals (US$13.3 million) in 1988. The group employs over 20,000
people and has an annual turnover in excess of 4 billion Saudi Riyals (US$1.1 billion).
2.    Hawker Siddeley Power Engineering Ltd.
Hawker Siddeley Group, plc is one of Britain's largest international engineering groups
employing over 40,000 people and with a turnover approaching US$2.0 billion. 130 Group
companies around the world offer the complete spectrum of engineering products and services to all
branches of industry. Hawker Siddeley Group plc, is recognized internationally in the field of
electrical engineering and supplies generation, transmission and distribution equipment to power
utilities and industrial users worldwide. The Hawker Siddeley Group has developed a high level of
expertise in its project engineering company, Hawker Siddeley Power Engineering Ltd. (HSPE) in the
areas of:.
C Electrical Power Generation
0 Transmission
O Distribution
CONSTRUCTION CONSORTIUM
1.    Mitsui & Co. Ltd.
Mitsui & Co. Ltd. is a leading international trading company with total trading transactions
exceeding US$70 billion in recent years. In addition to providing basic trading services, Mitsui is



- 51 -                                    Annex 3.1
(Page 2 of 3)
PAKISTAN
EXPANDED COFINANCING OPERATION
HUB POWER COMPANY
active in financing technology transfer, resource development and organization of business ventures.
Mitsui has a long standing record of achievements in the field of power projects and is currently acting
as the prime contractor in Pakistan for WAPDA'S 250 MW Jamshoro Thermal Power Station Unit
NO.1.
2.    Ishikawajima-Harima Heavy Industries Co. Ltd. (IHI)
IHI has grown to be one of the leading integrated heavy industrial furms, offering a great
variety of products, facilities and services, which have attained a reputation world wide for their
reliability based on the company's total capability. IHI is one of the leading suppliers in Japan of large
capacity IHI-FW boilers and plants to electric power utilities both at home and overseas including
Australia, Singapore, Philippines and Kuwait, together with full information and service back-up.
IHI's experience to date covers various kinds of boilers ranging from mini boilers to supercritical
pressure boilers for 1,000 MW units. The range of fuels for which IHI has designed boilers includes
coal, oil, gas and refuse.
3.    Campenon Bernard:
Campenon Bernard is a diversified civil engineering and construction French company. In the
early 1980's, it became a member of a major international holding company, Compagnie Generale des
Eaux which heads a strong group that is prominent internationally as well as in the European Common
Market. Campenon Bernard's international reputation stems from its pioneering development of the
concrete prestressing technique which is now largely applied worldwide. The company is very active
both in France and overseas in countries including China, Morocco, Kuwait, Saudi Arabia, Burkina
Faso, Singapore, Gabon and the U.S.. Campenon Bernard has diversified fields of specialization
which range from office buildings, schools, hotels, roads and airports, railways and subways and
military bases to waste-treatment plants, nuclear power plants, turnkey projects, tunnels, harbours,
and off-shore construction. Campenon Bernard employs about 8,900 staff and in 1989 had a turnover
of FRF 3.1 Billion (US$560 Million).
4.    Ansaldo GIE, S.p.A.:
Ansaldo GEE, S.p.A, located in Milan, Italy is one of the largest companies in the world
operating as a prime contractor for the Engineering, Construction, Installation, Start-up and Service of
Fossil-Fuel Power Plants as well as Hydropower and Geothermal Power Plants, both in Italy and
around the world. Over its century and a half history, Ansaldo has designed and built power plants in
more than 20 countries with a combined output of more than 96,000 MW of power. Ansaldo has
branch offices and subsidies in 27 countries and employs over 16,000 people in engineering,
manufacturing, and erection.
OPERATOR
1.    British Electricity International Ltd. (BEI)
BEI is the overseas consultancy arm of PowerGen, which, once privatized, would be the
second largest privately owned utility in the United Kingdom. BEI is currently involved in the
operation and maintenance of more than 10 power stations around the world. One of these is the
Shajiao (B) Power Station in the Guangdong province of the People's Republic of China, the first
major Build-own-transfer Project of its kind in the world, for which BEI is providing management,



- 52 -                                   Annex3.1
(Page 3 of 3)
PAKISTAN
EXPANDED COFINANCING OPERATION
HUB POWER COMPANY
operation, maintenance and training support. BEI has been responsible for the operation and
maintenance of this station has been successful in achieving high availability and load factors during
this time. BEI has undertaken extensive training of staff and introduced all the operations and
maintenance systems necessary for the efficient functioning of this station. BEI has been involved in
working in Pakistan for many years and has experience working with WAPDA. It is presently
involved in a major project for the rehabilitation of steam and gas turbine power plants and the
establishment of maintenance workshops and associate management systems there. BEI has also
undertaken the training of power sector personnel in Pakistan.



-53 -                                Annex 3.2
(Page I of 6)
PAKISTAN
EXPANDED COFINANCING OPERATION
HUB POWER COMPANY
DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE HUB POWER COMPLEX
PLANT DESCRIPTIION
The proposed plant is an oil-fired boiler and steam driven turbine generators composed of
four units with a gross output of 323MW each and a net output of 1,200MW for the station.
A.  Turbine-Generators and Steam Generators
The essential features of the plant consist of four steam turbii.e-generators rated at
323MW each (gross) and four oil-fired steam generators capable of producing 1020 T/hr.
of steam at 175 kg/cm2 and 5410C at superhearter outlet. The turbine generators will be
reheat, tandom compound and regenerative type, double flow, condensing turbine with
seven extractions, operating at 3000 rpm directly coupled to a hydrogen cooled stator. The
generators will be rated at 380 MVA. The steam generators will be of outdoor design,
drum type, pressurized furnace units consisting of economizers, primary, secondary and
final superheaters and reheaters.
B.  Mechanical and Electrical Equipment
To support the plant functions the following mechanical/electrical equipments will be
used:
*    Condensers with titanium allow tubing and tube cleaning system.
*    Boiler feed Pumps 3 x 50%
*   Condensate Pumps 2 x 100%
*   Cooling Water Pumps 2 x 50%
*    Feedwater Heaters - 6 stages
*   Deaerator Heater and Storage Tank
*    Closed Cooling Heat Exchangers
*    Main Transforrner
*    auxiliary Transforner
*   Forced Draft Fans 2 x 50%
*   Gas Recirculation Fan - one Per Unit
*    Air Preheaters - 2 horizontal Shaft Type
*    Steam-Air Heaters - 2 Per Unit
*    Burners for Fuel Oil and Lightoil
*    Fuel Pumps and Heaters
*    Sootblowers
Common Equipment for the Station:
*    Auxiliary Boiler
*    Reboilers
*   Air Compressors
*   Desalination Plant
*   Deminealizer Equipment
*   Waste Water Treatmnent System



- 54 -                              Annex 3.2
(Page 2 of 6)
PAKISTAN
EXPANDED COFINANCING OPERATION
HUB POWER COMPANY
*   Main Fuel Oil Pumps
*   Diesel Generators for Emergency Power
*   Hydrogen Plant
*   Chlorination Plant
*   Communication and Security Systems
*   500 kV Switchyard
*   Fuel Oil Storage Tanks
*   Demineralized Water and Condensate Storage Tanks
The key features of the plant are as follows:
*   Cooling water will be seawater circulated in a once through open cooling system.
*   A desalination plant will produce water for plant needs from the seawater. This will
be used for make-up water in the condensate cycle after demineralization.
*   A 500 kV switchyard will be constructed to send out electrical power through 500 kV
transmission lines to be built by WAPDA.
*   A 200 meter high chimney will exhaust the flue gases.
C.  Civil Works
The site is relatively flat with the intended area for construction of the plant being
about 1.5 meter higher than the surrounding areas. The site will befurther raised by about
0.7 meters for protection from flooding.
The proposed plant is an oil-fired steam electric generating plant composed of four
units with a capacity of 300 megawatts net each, making a total of 1200 megawatts for the
station.
The plant will be at elevation 3.1 meters with respect to MSL. All structures will
have ground floor elevation of at least 3.25 meters.
The turbine generator units are arranged along an axis perpendicular to the centerlines
of the units. Each one of the four boilers is located behind its respective turbine generator.
To the left, coming out of the turbine generator building, the Desalination Plant, two
Desalinated Water Tanks and the Cooling Water System Intake Pumphouse with the
Chlorination Plant nearby have been located. The cooling water intake will be located on a
lagoon to be built at the shoreline west of the plant. Most of the balance to the auxiliary
buildings and equipment has been located to the right of the turbine generator-boiler
complex. These are the administration building, the fire main pump house and the fire
water tank, the two make-up water tanks, the demineralizing plant and two demineralized
water tanks, the chemical storage building and the waste water treatment plant. Southeast
and close to the administration building there is a small mosque to be used by plant
personnel. Southeast of the plant there is the cooling water outfall with its seal pit and the
open channel to the mouth of the Hab River, but in the sea.



-55-                               Annex 3.2
(Page 3 of 6)
PAKISTAN
EXPANDED COFINANCING OPERATION
HUB POWER COMP-ANY
Centrally located and south of the turbine generator boiler complex a 4 flues stack is
located. From each boiler, steel plate ducts carry the flue gases to the stack.
South of the plant there are four fuel oil storage tanks, the fuel oil day tanksand two light
oil tanks. The oil tank storage are is protected against spills by dykes around them. A
membrane lining concrete lining will prevent the ground water contamination due to oil
spills.
At the site after passing the guard house, the road is coming in a westerly direction
and loops twice, the north loop around the plant and the south looparound the fuel oil tanks
farm. At the upper left corner of the north loop, the road branches out toward the cooling
water intake.
In front of the Turbine Generator building the main, auxiliary and start-up
transformers are located. The bus ducts from the main and start-up transformers are
connected to the 500 kV switchyard having its separate control room. The transmission
line takes off from back of the switchyard to join WAPDA's power network.
The plant site will be bounded by a 3-meter high fence for security purpose. The site
will be protected from floods by an embankment and a ditch system which will carry flood
water away from the site.
The shoreline sand dunes will be protected by Gabion arrangement to prevent waves
during storms from reaching the site.
H. PLANT BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES
In addition to the turbine, control, boiler buildings and stack, there will be the buildings
and structures listed below at the site as auxiliary components of the Plant.
*   Cooling Water Intake and Discharge Structures
*   Chlorination Plant
*   Demineralization Plant
*   Desalination Plant
*   Fuel Oil Pump Ho-se
*   Hydrogen Buildin-
*   Nitrogen (N2) Storage
*   Chemical Storage
*   Auxiliary Boiler House
*   Waste Water Treatment Plant
*   Fire Main Pump House
*   Sewage Treatment Plant
o   Workshop
*   Warehouse
*   Mosque
*   Administration Building
*   Gate House
*   Fuel Oil Storage Area
*   Site Fence



- 56  -                             Annex 3.2
(Page 4 of 6)
PAKISTAN
EXPANDED COFINANCING OPERATION
HUB POWER COMPANY
TURBINE, CONTROL AND BOILER BUILDING AND STACK
The turbine-generator building is a multi-storey steel structure building 259 meters long, 31
meters wide with ground floor or basement at elevation 3.25 meters and top of the roof at
elevation of 32.25 meters. The building will contain all four units of turbine-generators and their
auxiliary equipment, switchboards, controls, etc. In line, with each unit and behind them there
are the boiler buildings, four separate steel structures, 28.0 meters wide by 42.0 meters long
each. In addition to the boilers there will be the heat exchangers, forced draft fans and a flue duct
going from each one of the boilers to the single 4-flue stack, centered behind the turbine-
building-boiler complex.
The control room is part of the turbine-building complex.
COOLING WATER INTAKE AND DISCHARGE STRUCTURES
The cooling water system is a once-through system with the intake pump house at the
lagoon. Two pumps serve each unit's condenser through steel pipes. the discharge will leave
each condenser through steel pipes merging 2.1 meter in diameter into concrete conduits toward a
seal put at the head of an open channel outlet into the sea.
The intake structure will consist of eight concrete cells, two for each unit, containing the
trash racks, coarse screens and travelling screens and pump. A travelling double girder crance
will be provided to service the pumps, trash racks and travelling screens.
The discharge will be through concrete conduits from the condensers to a two cell seal pit
with a weir to maintain the proper water level at all times. The discharge will then be through an
open channel to the mouth of the Hab River.
CHLORINATION PLANT
The condenser cooling water will be chlorinated using dry calcium hypochlorite mixing it
with water in the proper proportion and injecting it into the circulating water system.
The chlorination plant, a 5.5 meters high, one story building, 30.0 meters long by 11.0
meters wide, will contain the mixing tanks, injection pumps and control equipment, as well as
storage space for the hypochlorite bags.
DEMINERALIZATION PLANT
The demineralization plant is located on the other side of the road, east of the turbine
generator building. A 35.0 meters by 21.0 meters steel structure building, with steel cladding
walls and galvanized metal sheet roofing contains all the trays, valves and equipment needed and
next to it there will be two tanks to store demineralized water.
DESALINATION PLANT
Close tc the shore line, west of the turbine-generator building there will be the desalinaticn
,.   oomposed of a 0.60 meters thick concrete slab, 25.0 meters long by 18.0 meters wide with
twu package units ar.d two storage tanks next to it.



- 57 -                             Annex 3.2
(Page S of 6)
PAKISTAN
EXPANDED COFINANCING OPERATION
HUB POWER COMPANY
FUEL OIL PUMP HOUSE
Between the fuel oil storage tanks farm and the boiler buildings there is the fuel oil pump
house. A 20.0 meters long by 4.5 meters wide, concrete block building with a concrete slab
roof. The building contains the fuel oil pumps, valves and instruments.
HYDROGEN BUILDING
At the center and front of the turbine-generator there will be the hydrogen buildings
consisting of a 15.0 meters by 10.0 meter concrete block buiilding with a structural steel and
corrugated asbestos cement sheet roof. The 3.00 meters by 9.0 meter gates will be open
wiremesh and the walls will have the blocks laid on a side so the holes will provide complete and
total ventilation.
NITROGEN (N2) STORAGE
Between the boilers for units 1 and 2 and also between boilers for units 3 and 4 there are
the nitrogen (N2) gas storage buildings, each a 7.5 meters by 4 meters concrete blocks and
concrete roof slab building capable of storing standard bottles of N2.
CHEMICAL STORAGE
Between the Demineralization Plant and the Waste Water Treatment Plant there is the
Chemical Storage Building, a 20.0 meters by 7.0 meters concrete block walls and concrete slab
roof building where all the chemicals to be used in the plant are stored.
AUXILIARY BOILER HOUSE
The Auxiliary Boiler House, a 16 x 18 meters building, is located near the fuel oil storage
tanks, west of the plant, as most of the steam it produces is used in heating the fuel oil .
The 16.0 m x 16.0 m building is composed of a steel structure with sandwich panel walls
and steel roof trusses with steel sheets on purlings as roof deck.
WASTE WATER TREATMENT
The Waste Water Treatment Plant is located next to the demineralization plant and the
chemical storage building across the road, east of the Turbine Generator Building. It consists of
a 30.0 meters by 40.0 meters concrete structure and block wall building with a concrete slab rood
and two adjacent 20.0 meters by 20.0 meters by 10 meters deep tanks.
FIRE MAIN PUMP HOUSE
South of the Administration Building and across the road from the Turbine Building there
is a 10.0 meters by 15.0 meters concrete block and concrete slab roof building which houses the
fire main pumps and equipment.



- 58 -                             Annex.2
(Page 6 of 6)
PAKISTAN
EXPANDED COFINANCING OPERATION
HUB POWER COMPANY
SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT
Southeast of the plant near the waste water treatment plant a small sewage treatment plant
will be located. The sewage treatment plant will consist of the main septic tank v ith its inlet and
outlet traps and an adjacent sludge removal chamber, the effluent goes to a leachmg field fonned
by open joint pipes.
WORKSHOP AND WAREHOUSE
Near the entrance and next to each other, the workshop and warehouse buildings are
located. They are two buildings 45.0 meters by 15.0 meters concrete clock wall and steel rood
truss with galvanized metal sheet roofing. The buildings will be equipped with overhead cranes
and the proper tools and equipment to handle the necessary repairs and move the stored materials
where needed.
MOSQUE
Next to the administration building a 10.0 meters by 10.0 meters concrete building with a
5.0 meters diameter timber dome will house the Mosque.
ADMINISTRATION BUILDING
A concrete block and concrete roof slab one story high building housing the administration
offices and conference rooms is lcated at the entrance of the plant site.
The building is 45.0 meters long, 10.0 meters wide with an 8.0 meters by 15.0 meters
addition in the rear.
GATE HOUSE
Just at the entrance to the site, next to the parking lot, there is a small 3.0 meters by 5.0
meters, concrete building with brick walls and a concrete roof slab.
FITEL OIL STORAGE AREA
There is a fuel oil storage area consisting of four 42.0 meters diameter by 24 meters high
tanks with a 2.3 meters high dike around them to contain the oil in case of a rupture.
Also, there are two light fuel tanks 15.0 meters diameter by 12 meters high, and next to
each boiler, a day tank, 9.0 meters diameter by 8,0 meters high.



Annex 5. 1
BASE CASE PROJECTIONS - 60% PLANT UTILIZATION                                                                                (Page  1 of 5)
PAKISTAN
EXPANDED COFINANCING OPERATION -- HN  POWER COMPANY
FORECAST SOURCES AND USES OF FUNDS
(RUPEES MILLION)
YEAR              1991     1992     1993     1994    1995      1996     1997    1998      1999     2000
SOURCES OF ruNS: .UN DS                                                 ....     ----    ----      ....      ---     ....    ----      ----
Net Operating Income                               0        0         0    1,903   6,232    5,873    5,549    5,175    5,016    4,752
Cash Brought Forward                               0        0        0        0    1,950       928      823      824      819      812
Depreciation                                       0         0        0    1,109    1,108    1,108    1,108    1,108    1,108    1,108
Withdrawl to Pay HKCO Bond Coupon                  0       156      230     330       397        0        0        0        0        0
Interest Received on Cash                          0        0        0        0      234      111       99       99       98       97
-- --    -----    ..  .....  - - -      .-    - - -   ..     ...  -- - - - - -   . .....
Subtotat - Internal Cash Generation                0      156      230   3.341    9,921    8,021    7,579    7,206    7,042   6,769
EQUITY DRAMS                                       1,074      951    1,192      313    1,344       451      601      406        0        0
BORROWINGS
Coonweatth Devel. Corporation                     39       26       33      384        0         0        0        0        0        0
PSEDF                                          2,253    2,781    2,536      961        0         0        0        0        0        0
ECO                                            1,349    1,631    2,055      976    1,196         0        0        0        0        0
V and US$ Export Credits                       1,855    2,460    2,183      711         1        0        0        0        0        0
Local Loans                                    1,130      985    1,153      336        0         0        0        0        0        0
Drawdown of HUBCO Bonds                          946      451      601      406        0         0        0        0        0        0
..--   .  ........   . ..........  ------  ......... ----  ----  ----  ----    -----
SUBTOTAL - BOROWINGS                           7,573    8,334    8,561    3,775    1,197        0         0        0        0        0
TOTAL SOURCES OF FUNDS                             8,647    9,440   9,984    7,429   12,462    8,471    8,180    7,612    7,042   6,769                          1
~ =             ==, .,==== _===  ====== ====== ====== ==_=== ====== ====== ======                        i,,
APPLICATION OF FUND0S:
CONSTRUCTION PROGRAM                               6,149    7,864    7,242    1,771        0         0        0        0        0        0
DEST SERVICE
Interest Payments                                432    1,091    2,076    2,766    2,985    2,827    2,640    2,454    2,261    2,047
Ccupon Payents On HUBCO Bonds                      0      156      230      330      397      241       166      67         0        0
Principal Repayments                               0        0        0        0    2,797    2,301    2,452    2,257    2,037   2,065
Interest Due On Cash Overdraft                     0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0
Allocation to UBCO Account                       340      101      238      270        0         0        0        0        0        0
..--   ------   ------   ...... . .. ------  ...... . .. ......  ...... . .. ------  ......... ........ ....   
SUBTOTAL - DEBT SERVICE                          772    1,347   2,545    3,366   6,179    5,369    5,259   4,778    4,298    4,112
FINANCING FEES
Debt and Equity Fees                             617      229      197       97       50        5         3        3        3        3
ExCredit and Exchange Risk Insurance Premium   1,108        0        0        0    3,166      746      661       575      490      405
.....- -- --  -- - -  - - -.--      -   - - -      - - -   - - -     - - -   - - -
SUBTOTAL   FINANCING FEES                      1,725      229      197       97    3,216      751      663      578       493      408
OTHER APPLICATIONS
Divldend Payments                                  0        0        0        0    1,008    1,751    1,647    1,643    1,631    1,621
Net Allocation To Escrow Account                   0        0        0        0    1,094      (225)    (215)    (205)    (195)    (184)
Redenption of Share Capital                        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0         0        0
Change In Uorking Capital                          0        0        0      245       38        2        2        (2)       2        2
SUBTOTAL - OTHER APPLICATIONS                   0        0        0      245    2,140    1,528    1,434    1,437    1,439    1,439
TOTAL APPLICATION OF FUNDS                         8,647   9,440    9,984    5,478   11,534    7,648    7,356   6,792    6,230   5,959
CHANGE IN CASH:                                        (0)       0         0    1,95 f0   928      823      824       819      812      810
09-Oct-91



Annex 5.1
BASE CASE PROJECTIONS -- 60X PLANT UTILIZATION                                                                                     (Page  2 of 5)
PAKISTAN
EXPANDED COFINANCING OPERATION -- HUB POWER COMPANY
FORECAST PROFIT AND LOSS STATEMENT
(RUPEES MILLION)
YEAR              1991      1992     1993     1994      1995     1996     1997      1998     1999     2000
REVENUES                                                 0        0         0    5,183   11,849   11,492   11,143   10,797   10,610   10,317
OPERATING EXPENSES
Fuel Costs                                          0         0        0    1,581    3,614    3,614    3,614    3,614    3,614    3,614
Fixed Costs                                         0         0        0      387       558      529      503       526      498      469
Variable Costs - Output                              0        0        0        18       43       50        50       55       55       55
Variable Costs - Conmited Hours                      0        0        0        54      132      154       156      156      156      156
IORA Costs                                          0         0        0        4        11       13        13       13       13       13
Insurance                                           0         0        0       39        84       84       84        84       84       84
Fixed Fuel Charge                                   0         0        0        0         0        0        0         0        0        0
Other Project Company Costs                          0        0        0        90       66       66       66        66       66       66
Provision for Depreciation                           0        0        0    1,109    1,108    1,108    1,108    1,108    1,108    1,108
~~......  -- --  ......  -- --   -- - -  - - -  .  -  - -   - - -     - - -   - -  -
TOTAL OPERATING EXPENSES                             0        0        0    3,280    5,616    5,618    5,594    5,622    5,594    5,565                          1
NET OPERATING INCOME                                     0        0        0    1,903    6,232    5,873    5,549    5,175    5,016    4,752                         O
INTEREST EXPENSE
Interest Paid                                       0         0        0    1,823    4,246    3,819    3,470    3,099    2,754    2,455
Interest Rec'd(Due) on Cash Balances                0         0        0        0       331      201      178       168      157      146
...... . ......   ------   ------   -- --     -- --    -----    -----     -- - -   - - -
NET INTEREST EXPENSE                                 0       (0)      (0)   1,823    3,914    3,618    3,292    2,931    2,597    2,309
NET PROFIT                                                0        0        0        80    2,318    2,255    2,257    2,244    2,419    2,443
--... .--.                                          ======   ======   ======   ======   ======   ======   ======   ======   ======   =_=====
Less:     Dividends DecLared                        0        (0)       0       (80)  (1,856)  (1,646)  (1,648)  (1,639)  (1,623)  (1,620)
RETAINED EARNINGS                                        0        0        0        (0)     462      609      609       605      796      823
.... ..... ... ... ======   ======   ======   ======   ======   ======   ======   ======   ======   ======
CUFULATIVE RETAINED EARNINGS                             0        0        0         0      462    1,071    1,680    2,285    3,081    3,905
ELECTRIC:TY SALES (GWh)                                   0        0        0    2,971    6,791    6,791    6,791    6,791    6,791    6,791
AVERAGE TARIFF (Rs/kWh)                              0.000    0.000    0.000    1.745    1.657    1.616    1.580    1.562    1.519    1.475
09-oct-91



Annex 5.1
AE CASE PIOJECTIONS -- 60S PLANT UTILIZATION                                                                          (Page 3 of 5)
PAKISTAN
EXPANDED COFINANCING OPERATION -- HWB POWER COIIANY
FORECAST BALANCE SHEET
ASSETS                    YEAR                                                ----------------------
max=                                                                             (RUPEES MILLION)
1991    1992    1Q93    1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    1999    2000
FIXED ASSETS
Gross Fixed Assets                          8,861   18,890  29,378  33,258  33,235  33,235  33,235  33,235  33,235  33,235
Les: Depreciation & Amortization                0        0       0   1,109   2,216   3,324   4,432   5,540   6,648   7,756
NET FIXED ASSETS                            8,861   18,890  29,378  32,149  31,019  29,911   28,803  27,695  26,587  25,480
WRRENT ASSETS
Cash - Escrow Accowit                           0        0       0        0   1,191    1,055      920     784      648     512
Batlnce of HLC  Bond AccoLnt                  299      339     389      374       (0)      0       0        0        0       0
Inventories                                     0        0       0      336     336      336     336      336     336      336
Accounts Receivable                             0        0       0      322      392     395      395     396      396     396
Ccsh - et Cash Flo                              0        0       0   1.950      928      823      824     819     812      810
TOTAL CWRRENT ASSETS                          299      339     389   2,983   2,847   2,610   2,475   2,336   2,192   2,055
TOTAL ASSETS                                    9.161  19;229  29;767  35.132  33;866  32,521   t1,278  30,031   28,779  27,534
=s = .== ==_ = 2== 2==== ===  =   =  ==,===  . ,===  ======  ======  ======  I
CAPITAL AND LIABILITIES
CURRENT LIABILITIES
Creditors                                       0        0       0      414     445      446     444      447     444      442
Advance Tariff Receipts                         0        0       0        0       0        0       0        0       0        0
Accrued Liability For Exchange Risk Premim      0      784   1,568   2,352        0        0       0        0       0        0
Declared Dividend Not Yet Distributed           0        0       0       80     928      823     824      819     812      810
..--   --- --  -- --    ...... . .. -- - - - - - . - - -  - - -    - - -   - - -
TOTAL CURRENT LIABILITIES                       0      784   1,568   2,846   1,373   1,269   1,268   1,266   1,256   1,252
LONG-TERM LIABILITIES
Long Term Borrowings                        6,627  14,510  22,470  25,W8  25,185  23,335  21,484  19,634  17,596   15,532
NtNICO Bonds                                  946   1,397   1,998   2,405    1,459   1,008       406        0       0        0
TOTAL LONG-TERN LIABILITIES                 7,573  15,907  24,468  28,243  26,644  24,343  21,891  19,634  17,596  15,532
EQUITY AND RETAINED EARNINGS
Share Capital                               1,588   2,538   3,731   4,043   5,387   5,838   6,439   6,846   6,846   6,846
Retained Profits                                0        0       0        0     462   1,071   1,680   2,285   3,081    3,905
... ...  ......  -  --   ----     ......  ----     ......  ......   ...... .. ------
TOTAL SHAREHOLDER CAPITAL                   1,588   2,538   3,731   4,043   5,849   6,909   8,119   9,131   9,927  10,750
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND SHAREHOLDEI CAPITAL       9,161   19,229  29,767  35,132  33,866  32,521   31.278  30,030  28,779  27.534
09-Oct-91



- 62 -
Annex 5.1
(Page 4 of 5)
PAKISTAN
Expanded Corinancing Operation
Hub Power Company
Notes and Assumptions for Financial Forecasts
Sales of Electricity
1.          The forecast sale of electricity to WAPDA is based on a phased in
generation schedule in which the first unit would begin generating electricity in the 38th
month after the beginning of construction and each of the subsequent 3 units would begin
generation of electricity at three month intervals thereafter. HUBCO would generate 2,971
GWH of electricity in FY94 and 6,791 GWH of electricity every year thereafter.
Interest Received on Cash
2.          Interest on cash is received on cash balances resulting from net cash flow,
the debt service escrow account, and balances on the HUBCO bond account. Interest rates
used to estimate interest revenues are set at 7.5%.
Electricity Tariff to WAPDA
3.          The annual tariff to WAPDA would reflect the project's annual operating
costs including fuel as well as an annual return to the project's equity shareholders
sufficient to provide them with an 18% internal rate of return on the project. The financial
projections yield a Rs 1.43 KWh annual average tariff for years 2-12 and Rs .969 KWh
annual average tariff for years 13-30.
:?uel Costs
4.          An April 1991 cost of fuel oil of Rs 2350/tonne has been assumed for the
financial projections, which is a component of HUBCO's tariff to WAPDA. A fuel burn
efficiency of .2265 tonnes per MWHR has been estimated for the facility by BEI, who will
be the operators of the plant.
Maintenance Exienses
5.          Projections of detailed maintenance expenses have been provided by BEI
for the life of the project. These estimates have been increased annually by 10% in years 4-
12, and 12% from year 13 onward to incorporate a plant betterment allowance that would
ensure that the facility would be operated at a 60%o gross capacity factor throughout the life
of the project.
Dgprecanti
6.          The financial projections assume a 30 year straight line depreciation of the
company's fixed assets.



- 63 -
Annex 5.1
(Page 5 of 5)
Debt Service Escrow
7.          A debit service escrow reserve account sufficient to cover one year's interest
payments on loans from CDC and senior foreign commercial banks would be, established
using offshore equity and drawdowns from commercial banks in the first month of FY95.
Shareholder Returns
9.          The project's equity shareholders would receive an average 18% internal
rate of return on their equity invested.
Exchange Rates
10.         The financial projections use September 1, 1991 exchange rates to translate
the project's multi-currency costs to US dollars and Pakistani rupees. The following
exchange rates have been used:
Currenz v           Curren,cy/US Dollar
Japanese Yen                   136.647
British Sterling                  .593
French Francs                    5.930
E.CUs                             .850
Italian Lira                  1301.480
Pakistani Rupees                24.036



- 64 -
Annex 8.1
(page 1 of 2)
PAKISTAN
EXPANDED COFINANCING OPERATION
HUB POWER COMPANY
ASSUMPTIONS FOR THE INTERNAL ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN
1.    Cpital Costs: Local and foreign investment expenditures incurred by HUBCO for the
construction of the Complex, the establishment and operation of the project company and plant
start-up, net of IQRA (surcharge on imports), import taxes, license fees, working capital,
interest during construction and other financial fees, amount to US$924 million in June 1991
prices, with the foreign component comprising 90% of the total cost.
2.    Local Costs: Local costs have been adjusted by a standard conversion factor for
Pakistan of .85.
3.    Operations and Maintenance Costs: Both the fixed and variable costs are based on
March 31, 1991 prices and exchange rates. The non-labor components of the local fixed and
variable costs, have been adjusted by a standard conversion factor for Pakistan of .85.
4.    Fuel Costs: Fuel costs are based on a border price of fuel oil of Rs. 2,350 per tonne
(US$97.75 per tonne) which prevailed as of March 31, 1991.
2m   e
5.    Generatign: Generation for the proposed Complex assumes a 64% plant factor on net
capacity, with the first unit being commissioned in month 38 and subsequent units coming on-
line every three months thereafter.
6.    Tariff: The electricity tariff is based on the tariff agreement signed between HPG and
GOP in July 1991. Based on September 1991 exchange rates, the tariff is Rs.1.43/kWh for
the first 12 years, and Rs. 0.969/kWh for the remaining 18 years.
CFsps
10.09.91



Anne I. (pege 2 of 2)
8ASF. CASE PROJECTIONS -- 60X PLANT UTILIZATION
PAKISTAN
ECONOMIC INTERNAL RATE OF RETURN =     18.32                                  HUB POWER COMPANY
INTERNAL ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN
1>
------------- Capital Costs ------ ------------------------------ Operating Costs --------------------------------
Total    Total            Total   Arvnual              Net
Fixed Costs      Variable Costs            Non-Fuel Non-Fuel    Fuel Operating Average    Total    Cash
Electric  Foreign    Local   Total   Total  Foreign  Local 2>  Foreign Local 2> Insurance  Costs   Costs   Costs   Costs  Tariff Revenues    Flow
Year Generation  (MMSS) (.JSS)2>  (MUSS)   (MRS) (Rs/kWh) (Rs/kWh) (Rs/kWh) (Rs/kWh) (Rs/kWh) (Rs/kWh)   (MRS)   (MRS)   (MRS) (Rs/kWh)    (MRs)   (MRs)
....    ..... ....  ......  ----  ..  ....  ....   ..............  ...   ..... ...  ......  -----    -------     ------  -------     --------  --------... --------  --------.. --------  --------.. -----     -----     -----
1988        0     10.4    0.00    10.40   250.02                                                                                                          (250)
1989        0      7.5    0.00      7.50   180.30                                                                                                         (180)
1990        0      3.5     0.00     3.50    84.14                                                                                                          (84)
1991        0   220.6   27.80   248.40  5971.42                                                                                                         (5,971)
1992        0   278.3   24.23   302.53  7272.70                                                                                                         (7,273)
1993        0      250   29.07   279.07 6708.84       0.000    0.000     0.000   0.000   0.000    0.000          0        0       0                     (6,709)
1994     2971    63.3    8.84    72.14  1734.25       0.057    0.033     0.014    0.012   0.012    0.129       383    1,581    1,964    1.711    5,083    1,385
1995     6791      0.0    0.00      0.00     0.00    0.054    0.032      0.016    0.015   0.012    0.130       881    3,615    4,496    1.623   11,022    6,526
1996     6791                       0.00     0.00    0.051    0.032      0.016   0.015    0.012    0.126       854    3,615    4,469    1.584   10,757   6,288
1997     6791                                         0.052    0.034     0.017   0.015   0.012    0.131        887   3,615    4,502    1.553   10,546   6,044
1996     6791                                         0.048    0.033     0.017    0.015    0.012    0.126      854   3,615    4,468    1.537   10,438   5,969
1999     6791                                         0.045    0.032     0.017    0.015    X.012    0.122      827   3,615    4,441    1.495   10,153    5,711
2000     6791                                         0.041    0.032     0.017   0.015    0.012    0.118       800   3,615   4,414    1.455    9,881    5,467    O
2001     6791                                         0.038    0.032    0.017   0.015    0.012    0.114        7M    3,615    4,387    1.413    9,596   5,208      U'
2002      6791                                        0.038    0.030    0.017   0.015    0.012    0.112        760   3,615    4,374    1.375    9,338   4,963
2003     6791                                         0.038    0.029     0.017    0.015    0.012   0.111       753   3,615    4,368    1.336   9,073   4,705
2004      6791                                        0.038    0.029     0.017    0.015    0.012    0.111      753   3,615    4,368    1.036    7,035    2,667
2005      6791                                        0.038    0.029     0.017    0.015    0.012    0.111      753   3,615   4,368    1.038    7,049    2,681
2006      6791                                        0.038    0.029     0.017    0.015   0.012    0.111       753   3,615   4,368    1.040    7,063   2,695
2007      6791                                        0.038    0.029     0.017    0.015   0.012    0.111       753   3,615    4,368    1.040    7,063    2,695
2008     6791                                         0.038    0.029     0.017   0.015   0.012    0.111        753   3,615    4,368    1.040    7,063    2,695
2009      6791                                        0.038    0.029     0.017    0.015    0.012    0.111      753   3,615    4,368    1.040    7,063    2,695
2010      6791                                        0.038    0.029     0.017   0.015    0.012    0.111       753   3,615    4,368    1.040    7,063    2,695
2011     6791                                         0.038    0.029     0.017    0.015    0.012    0.111      753   3,615    4,368    1.040    7,063    2,695
2012      6791                                        0.038    0.029     0.017    0.015    0.012   0.111       753   3,615    4,368    1.040    7,063    2,695
2013     6791                                         0.038    0.029     0.017   0.015   0.012    0.111        753   3,615    4,368    0.844    5,732    1,364
2014     6791                                         0.038    0.029     0.017    0.015    0.012    0.111      753   3,615    4,368    0.844    5,732    1,364
2015     6791                                         0.038    0.029     0.017   0.015   0.012    0.111        753   3,615    4,368    0.844    5,732    1,364
2016     6791                                         0.038    0.029     0.017   0.015    0.012    0.111       753   3,615    4,368    0.844    5,732    1,364
2017     6791                                         0.038    0.029     0.017   0.015    0.012    0.111       753   3,615    4,368    0.844    5,732    1,364
2018     6791                                         0.038    0.029     0.017    0.015    0.012    0.111      753   3,615    4,368    0.834    5,664    1,296
2019     6791                                         0.038    0.029     0.017    0.015    0.012    0.111      753   3,615    4,368    0.815    5,535    1,167
2020     6791                                         0.038    0.029     0.017    0.015    0.012    0.111      753   3,615    4,368    0.795    5,399    1,031
2021     6791                                         0.038    0.029     0.017   0.015    0.012    0.111       753   3,615   4,368    0.777   5,z77        909
2022     6791                                         0.038    0.029     0.017    0.015    0.012    0.111      753   3,615    4,368    0.757   5,141       773
2023     6791                                         0.038    0.029     0.017    0.015    0.012    0.111      753   3,615    4,368    0.738    5,012      644
2024     6791                                         0.038    0.029     0.017   0.015    0.012    0.111       753   3,615    4,368    0.738    5,012      644
Totals               834       90      924   22,202
1> Fixed, variable, and insurance costs are estimated at March 31, 1991 levels of inflation and exchange rates.
2, Incorporates a local currency shadow price of .85 on ion-labor component of cost.



- 66 -Annex 8.2
Projecdons of electricity consumption in Pakdstan to 2009
(Milions Kwh.)
Projected Demand (FY1981-2009)                   Actual Demand (FY1981-8S)
Base                                                     Load
Seenar-io  Fngrnlan  WAPDA  WAPI)A    KSFIC     Sheddin2   Total
1981      11059                             8830       2116        41          10987
1982      12939                             10088      2455        219         12762
1983     14745                              11368      2547        421         14336
1984     16325                              12511      2756        391         15658
1985     18297                              14348      3040        1681        19069
1986     20543
1987     23000
1988     24900
1989     26913       28400       29582
1990     29184       30700       32724
1991     31513       32800       35973
1992     34187       35300       39233
1993     36985       37800       42781
1994     39876       40600       46917
1995     41723       43300       51491
1996     45643       46200       56487
1997     48756       49400       61965
1998     52081       52800       67976
1999     55283       56400       73413
2000     58851       60300       79289
2001     62688       64400       n.a.
2002     66840       68800       n.a.
2003     71367       73500       n.a.
2004     76226       78500       n.a.
2005     81390       84000       na.
2006     86932       89700       n.a.
2007     92947       95900       n.a.
2008     99263       102500      n.L
2009      105994     109600      na
n.a.: not available
KC.: Kalabagh Consutancs
Load Shedding esdmaes wer provided by WAPDA.



MAP SECTION



PmW ManVe    LAHORE  RING                U s s R         /t        'INA 1              X           
;KLA   SHAH  KAKU                                            k.r y- I. I, f LSO
-C70-                    4                                                                 AM
ISALABAD RING sb  _ -i 4 TM,o  or   \           .~Ns   K         HMI
- z os d  ;                                                                         84,'  -  ,'
INDIA                                          I                    -
r7/  I- -                  *N**                                                            - -   -"  - . /A
/                              \   /' o' b    . 
LAHPAT \A >, ,                        ' o                                                            P A KISTANJAMMU
ISALABAD RING                                                                                                                                        KASHMIR
'o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A
o  o   ' u   v -  ,     >,.   8                v                                MAIN POW R STATIONS0AND   RANSLISAION0LI
NIS HATAAD                                           II
RAINALABAD  4                              C~~~~~~~D 
O 6             e  '                                                                                      'N l                      -- i j    s q-.eSO 4ItF
OADU  J - -  *1            t                                    _            ___       -UDOU    1V
X           3)                        A                )                                                               06 132 hV
w vt ~ ~                    x t-                                                                 05Gk
PA KO  S T A N
KAAY ISHCLEKP                                                                                   I      
6    4NHJLRA#  RHIRARPAR           I                                     >jEXPANDED COFINANCING OPERATIOt
POWER PL..TIp    <FOR  THE  HUB  POWER  COMPANY
/MAIN POWER STATIONS AND TRANSMISSION LIN
UNDER      EXTENSIQN AND
CO'LS7RUC OIO    RE    2 3OR EME4T
RAISINGc     GE PIANNED        PRO/ECT
ORO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~229 kV
*                                                                                               06132 kV
GRID STATIONS
o  E,IENoIONS OR EXISTING, 555 kV
I                                                     0              0                      211~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5 IV
LAHA4RI                             '              ----                    S0                                      22 ES
POWER STATIO)NS
C                              -YLARCLLLCTRI,C
A               ~~~~THERMAL
0ARACI NUCLEA 
POWER PLANT                                                                                                                NUA
7>  n                      5                                         - -- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
C       BC               200             300 KILOMETERS
At
BA'                               XC'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~18                                                     IE
6p'I. p                                                   P           l



