Page  1
                                                             July 9, 1992
The Secretary to the Government
of Pakistan
Economic Affairs Division
Islamabad, Pakistan
      Re:   Loan 2982-PAK (Private Sector energy Development Project)
            Amendment of the Loan Agreement
Dear Sir:
      We refer to the Loan agreement (Private Sector energy Development
Project) between the Islamic Republic of Pakistan (the Borrower)  and the
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) dated
August 8, 1988, as amended, and to our telex of May 14, 1992 and
discussions held between the Bank and your Ministry regarding certain
changes to be incorporated into the Loan agreement, including extension
of the outer limit for presentation to the Bank of applications and
requests concerning the approval of Sub-loans and authorization of
withdrawals from the Loan account in respect of such Sub-loans.
      The Bank is pleased to inform you that, after due consideration, it
has agreed to amend the Loan Agreement as follows:
1.    The following words are hereby added to Paragraph (b) of the
Whereas Clause after the words:  Export-Import Bank of Japan (EXIMBANK) -
$ 150,000,000":
      "Nordic Investment Bank (NIB)  - $13,000,000 Government of France
      (France) - F167,400,000"
2.    Paragraph 4 (c) of Schedule 5 is hereby amended to read as follows:
      "(c) applications and requests made pursuant to the provisions of
      subparagraphs (a) and (b) of this paragraph shall be presented to
      the Bank on or before December 31, 1993."
3.    Paragraph 5 (a) (ii) (bb) of Part B of Schedule 7 is hereby amended
to read as follows:
      "(bb) in the case of coal, equal to or less than the economic cost
      of supply (the long run marginal cost), expressed in terms of
      thermal equivalency; and"
4.    In line 5 at Paragraph 7 (c) of Part B of Schedule 7, the reference
to the figure "25%" is hereby amended to read a reference to "20%".
5.    Part B (iv) of the Annex to Schedule 7 is hereby amended to read as
follows:
      "(iv) to establish, at the time of the commissioning of the
      Investment Project, a debt service escrow account, which shall at
      all times hold sufficient funds to meet at least six months debt
      service payment in respect of the Investment Project."
      Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing amendments by
signing and dating the enclosed confirmation copy of this letter, and by
returning it to us for our records.
      As regards your request to extend the loan closing date, we are
writing to you separately.
                             Sincerely yours,
Page  2
                               Paul Isenman
                                 Director
                          Country Department III
                             South Asia Region
CONFIRMED:
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
By
      Authorized Representative
Date
