Page  1
                                                            July 12, 1993
The Secretary General
to the Government of Pakistan
Economic Affairs Division
Islamabad, Pakistan
      Re:   Loan 2982-PAK (Private Sector Energy
            Development Project)
            Amendment of the Loan Agreement
Dear Sir:
      We refer to the Loan Agreement (Private Sector Energy Development
Project) between the Islamic Republic of Pakistan (the Borrower) and the
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) dated
August 8, 1988, as amended, and to your telex of May 14, 1992 and
discussions held between the Bank and your Ministry regarding certain
changes to be incorporated into the Loan Agreement, including extension
of the Closing Date, amendment of the Project Completion date and
extension of the outer limit for presentation to the Bank of applications
and requests concerning the approval of Sub-loans and authorization of
withdrawals from the Loan Account in respect of such Sub-loans.
      The Bank is pleased to inform you that, after due consideration, it
has agreed to amend the Loan Agreement as follows:
1.    Section 2.03 is hereby amended to read as follows:
      "The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1998 or such later date as
      the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the
      Borrower of such later date."
2.    The last line of Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement is hereby amended
to read as follows:
      "The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1998."
3.    Paragraph 4 (c) of Schedule 5 is hereby amended to read as follows:
      "(c) Applications and requests made pursuant to the provisions of
      subparagraphs (a) and (b) of this paragraph shall be presented to
      the Bank on or before December 31, 1996."
4.    Paragraph 5 (a) (i) of Schedule 7 is hereby amended to read as
follows:
      "(i) that the Investment Project was, at the time of issuance of a
      letter of support or letter of intent therefor by the Borrower, a
      part of the national least cost investment plan."
5.    Paragraph 7(b) of Schedule 7 is hereby amended to read as follows:
      "(b) NDFC shall provide financing for each Investment Project,
      including the Sub-loan approved for such Investment Project, out of
      the proceeds of the Fund in amounts sufficient to cover up to 40%
      of the total cost, or 50% of the foreign exchange cost, whichever
      is less, of such Investment Project on terms and conditions
      including those set forth in Part A of Schedule 5 to this
      Agreement."
6.    Paragraph 8 (c) of Schedule 7 is hereby deleted.
      Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing amendments by
signing and dating the enclosed confirmation copy of this letter, and by
returning it to us for our records.
Page  2
                             Sincerely yours,
                               Paul Isenman
                                 Director
                          Country Department III
                             South Asia Region
CONFIRMED:
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
By    /s/ Tanwir Ali Agha
      Authorized Representative
Date  September 4, 1993
