Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                              LOAN NUMBER 2982 PAK
            (Private Sector Energy Development Project)
                              between
                   ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                       Dated August 8, 1988
                                              LOAN NUMBER 2982 PAK
                          LOAN AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated August 8,  1988, between ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF
PAKISTAN acting by its  President (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
     WHEREAS (A) the Borrower,  having  satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the  Bank to assist in the financing
of the Project; and
     (B)  the Borrower intends to  obtain funds from the following
financiers in the following amounts or equivalent (the Cofinancing
Funds) to  assist  in  financing  the  Project  on  the  terms and
conditions set forth in agreements  to be entered into between the
Borrower and such financiers (the Cofinancing Agreements):
     United States Agency for
        International Development (USAID)        - $160,000,000
     Overseas Development Administration (ODA)   - € 30,000,000
Page  2
     Government of Italy (Italy)                 - $ 50,000,000
     Export-Import Bank of Japan (EXIMBANK)      - $150,000,000;
and
     WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan  to  the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set  forth  in  Schedule  4  to  this Agreement (the
General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several  terms  defined  in  the  General  Conditions  and  in the
Preamble to this  Agreement  have  the respective meanings therein
set forth and the  following  additional  terms have the following
meanings:
     (a)  "MWP" means the Borrower's Ministry of Water and Power;
     (b)  "MPNR" means the  Borrower's  Ministry  of Petroleum and
Natural Resources;
     (c)  "MOF" means the Borrower's Ministry of Finance;
     (d)  "NDFC"   means   the    National   Development   Finance
Corporation, a body corporate  established  and existing under the
Borrower's National Development Finance Corporation Act (No. XIII)
of 1973, as amended from time to time;
     (e)  "WAPDA" means the Water  and Power Development Authority
of Pakistan, a body  corporate  established and existing under the
Borrower's Water and Power Development Authority Act (No. XXXI) of
of 1958, as amended from time to time;
     (f)  "PPC" means  MWP's  Private  Power  Cell  referred to in
paragraph 1 (b) (i) of Schedule 7 to this Agreement;
     (g)  "CMC" means  MPNR's  Coal  Mining  Cell  referred  to in
paragraph 1 (b) (ii) of Schedule 7 to this Agreement;
     (h)  "PED" means NDFC's  Private  Energy Division referred to
in paragraph 2 (b) of Schedule 7 to this Agreement;
     (i)  "WPPC" means WAPDA's Private  Power  Cell referred to in
paragraph 3 (b) of Schedule 7 to this Agreement;
     (j)  "Fund" means the Private  Sector Energy Development Fund
referred to in paragraph 7 (a) of Schedule 7 to this Agreement;
     (k)  "Administration Agreement"  means  the agreement between
the Borrower and NDFC referred to in paragraph 7 (a) of Schedule 7
to this Agreement, as the same  may  be amended from time to time,
and such term includes  all  schedules and agreements supplemental
to the Administration Agreement;
     (l)  "Statement of Policy" means  the  statement of policy on
private sector participation in  the  energy sector as adopted and
approved by the Borrower on September  22, 1985, as amended to the
date of this Agreement;
     (m)  "Brochure" means the  brochure describing the Borrower's
policies and procedures for evaluating and approving proposals for
private sector participation in  the  energy sector referred to in
Page  3
paragraph 5 (b) of Schedule 7 to this Agreement;
     (n)  "Fund Guidelines" mean the Borrower's guidelines for the
operation of the Fund referred to in paragraph 6 (a) of Schedule 7
to this Agreement;
     (o)  "Sub-loan" means a loan made  or  proposed to be made by
the Borrower out of  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan to an Investment
Enterprise for an Investment Project;
     (p)  "free-limit Sub-loan" means  a  Sub-loan, as so defined,
which  qualifies  as  a   free-limit   Sub-loan  pursuant  to  the
provisions of paragraph 3 (b) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
     (q)  "Investment    Enterprise"    means    an    enterprise,
incorporated under the Borrower's  Companies Ordinance (No. XLVII)
of 1984 with at  least  51%  private sector shareholding, to which
the Borrower proposes to make or has made a Sub-loan;
     (r)  "Investment  Project"   means   a  specific  development
project in the energy sector  to  be  carried out by an Investment
Enterprise utilizing the proceeds of a Sub-loan;
     (s)  "Special  Account"  means  the  account  referred  to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and
     (t)  "Rs" and "rupees" mean the currency of the Borrower.
                            ARTICLE II
                             The Loan
     Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms  and  conditions  set  forth  or  referred  to  in  the Loan
Agreement, an  amount  in  various  currencies  equivalent  to one
hundred fifty million dollars ($150,000,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The  amount  of  the  Loan may be withdrawn
from  the  Loan  Account  in  accordance  with  the  provisions of
Schedule 1 to this  Agreement  for:  (i)  amounts paid (or, if the
Bank shall so agree, to  be  paid)  by  the Borrower on account of
withdrawals made by an  Investment  Enterprise under a Sub-loan to
meet the reasonable cost  of  goods  and services required for the
Investment Project in  respect  of  which  the withdrawal from the
Loan Account is requested; and  (ii) for expenditures made (or, if
the Bank shall so agree, to  be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required  for Part B of the Project and
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
     (b)  The Borrower shall,  for  the  purposes  of the Project,
open and maintain in  dollars  a  special  account in the National
Bank of Pakistan on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
Deposits into, and payments out  of,  the Special Account shall be
made in accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Schedule  8 to this
Agreement.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date  shall be December 31, 1994 or
such later  date  as  the  Bank  shall  establish.  The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of  the Loan not withdrawn from time
to time.
     Section 2.05. (a)  The  Borrower  shall  pay  interest on the
principal amount of the  Loan  withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time at a rate per annum for each Interest Period equal to one-
half  of  one  percent  per  annum  above  the  Cost  of Qualified
Borrowings for the last Semester  ending prior to the commencement
of such Interest Period.
Page  4
     (b)  As soon as practicable  after  the end of each Semester,
the Bank  shall  notify  the  Borrower  of  the  Cost of Qualified
Borrowings for such Semester.
     (c)  For purposes of this Section:
          (i)  "Interest  Period"   means   the  six-month  period
               commencing on each  date  specified in Section 2.06
               of this Agreement, including the Interest Period in
               which this Agreement is signed.
         (ii)  "Cost of Qualified  Borrowings"  means  the cost of
               the outstanding borrowings  of  the Bank drawn down
               after June 30, 1982,  expressed as a percentage per
               annum, as reasonably determined by the Bank.
        (iii)  "Semester" means the first six months or the second
               six months of a calendar year.
     Section 2.06. Interest  and  other  charges  shall be payable
semiannually on February 1 and August 1 in each year.
     Section 2.07. The Borrower  shall  repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.08.  The  Secretary,  MWP, the Secretary, MPNR, the
Secretary, MOF, the  Chairman  NDFC  and  the  Chairman, WAPDA are
designated as representatives of the  Borrower for the purposes of
taking any action  required  or  permitted  to  be taken under the
provisions of Section 2.02 of this  Agreement and Article V of the
General Conditions in  respect  of  the  parts  of the Project for
which they are responsible.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end,  shall  carry out the Project through
MWP, MPNR, NDFC, MOF and  WAPDA  with due diligence and efficiency
and  in  conformity  with  appropriate  administrative, financial,
commercial and public utility  standards  and practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed,  the  funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the Project.
     (b)  Without limitation upon the  provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and  except  as  the  Borrower  and the Bank shall
otherwise agree,  the  Borrower  shall  carry  out  the Project in
accordance  with   the   Implementation   Program   set  forth  in
Schedule 7 to this Agreement.
     Section 3.02. (a)  The  Borrower  undertakes that, unless the
Bank shall otherwise agree,  Sub-loans  will be made in accordance
with the procedures and on  the  terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
     (b)  The Borrower shall  exercise  its  rights in relation to
each Investment Project  in  such  manner  as  to: (i) protect the
interests of the  Borrower  and  the  Bank;  (ii)  comply with its
obligations under this Agreement;  and  (iii) achieve the purposes
of the Project.
     Section 3.03.  Except  as  the  Bank  shall  otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall  be  governed  by  the  provisions  of  Schedule  6  to this
Agreement.
                            ARTICLE IV
Page  5
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower  shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts  adequate  to monitor the progress
of the Project and of  each Investment Project (including its cost
and the  benefits  to  be  derived  from  it)  and  to  reflect in
accordance  with  sound   accounting   practices  the  operations,
resources and  expenditures  in  respect  of  the  Project  of the
departments or agencies of  the  Borrower responsible for carrying
out  the  Project  or  any  part  thereof  and  the  operation and
financial condition of the Fund and of each Investment Enterprise.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have  the  records  and  accounts  referred  to  in
               paragraph (a) of  this  Section including those for
               the Special  Account  and  the financial statements
               (balance sheets, statements  of income and expenses
               and   related   statements)   of   each  Investment
               Enterprise  for  each   fiscal   year  audited,  in
               accordance  with  appropriate  auditing  principles
               consistently  applied,   by   independent  auditors
               acceptable to the Bank;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank  as  soon  as available, but in
               any case not later than six months after the end of
               each  such  year,  (A)  certified  copies  of  said
               financial statements for  such  year  as so audited
               and (B) the report of  such audit by said auditors,
               of such scope and in  such detail as the Bank shall
               have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to  the  Bank  such  other information con-
               cerning  said   records,   accounts  and  financial
               statements and the audit  thereof as the Bank shall
               from time to time reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account  were  made  on  the  basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause  to  be maintained, in accordance
               with paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section, records and
               accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, until at least one  year after the Bank has
               received the audit  report  for  the fiscal year in
               which the last withdrawal from the Loan Account was
               made,  all  records  (contracts,  orders, invoices,
               bills,  receipts  and  other  documents) evidencing
               such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Bank's  representatives  to examine such
               records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records  and accounts are included
               in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
               this Section  and  that  the  report  of such audit
               contains a separate opinion  by said auditors as to
               whether  the  statements  of  expenditure submitted
               during  such   fiscal   year,   together  with  the
               procedures and internal  controls involved in their
               preparation, can  be  relied  upon  to  support the
               related withdrawals.
                             ARTICLE V
                       Remedies of the Bank
     Section 5.01. Pursuant  to  Section  6.02  (k) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
Page  6
     (a)  NDFC shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under the Administration Agreement.
     (b)  As a result of events which have occurred after the date
of the  Loan  Agreement,  an  extraordinary  situation  shall have
arisen which shall make it  improbable  that  NDFC will be able to
perform its obligations under the Administration Agreement.
     (c)  The NDFC Act referred  to  in  Section  1.02 (c) of this
Agreement shall have been  amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed
or waived so as to affect  materially and adversely the ability of
NDFC to perform any  of  its  obligations under the Administration
Agreement.
     (d)  The Borrower or any  other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any  action  for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of NDFC or for the suspension of its operations.
     (e)  The  Statement  of  Policy   shall  have  been  amended,
suspended,  abrogated,  repealed  or   waived   so  as  to  affect
materially and adversely the ability  of the Borrower to carry out
the Project  or  to  perform  any  of  its  obligations under this
Agreement.
    (f)   (i)  Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
               (A)  the right  of  the  Borrower  to  withdraw the
                    proceeds of any of the Cofinancing Funds shall
                    have been  suspended,  cancelled or terminated
                    in whole or in part,  pursuant to the terms of
                    the agreement providing therefor, or
               (B)  any loan  included  in  the  Cofinancing Funds
                    shall have become due and payable prior to the
                    agreed maturity thereof.
         (ii)  Subparagraph (i) of this  paragraph shall not apply
               if the Borrower establishes  to the satisfaction of
               the Bank that:  (A)  such suspension, cancellation,
               termination or  prematuring  is  not  caused by the
               failure of  the  Borrower  to  perform  any  of its
               obligations under such  agreement; and (B) adequate
               funds for the Project are available to the Borrower
               from  other   sources   on   terms  and  conditions
               consistent with  the  obligations  of  the Borrower
               under this Agreement.
     Section 5.02. Pursuant  to  Section  7.01  (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  the event specified in paragraph  (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall  occur  and  shall  continue  for a period of
sixty days after notice thereof shall  have been given by the Bank
to the Borrower;
     (b)  the events specified in  paragraphs  (c), (d) and (e) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur; and
     (c)  the event specified in paragraph  (f) (i) (B) of Section
5.01 of this  Agreement  shall  occur,  subject  to the proviso of
paragraph (f) (ii) of that Section.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
     Section  6.01.  The   following   events   are  specified  as
additional conditions to the  effectiveness  of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
Page  7
     (a)  the Fund has been established to the satisfaction of the
Bank;
     (b)  the Administration Agreement  has  been  entered into by
the Borrower and NDFC to the satisfaction of the Bank;
     (c)  PPC, CMC, PED and WPPC  have all been established to the
satisfaction of the Bank;
     (d) the Brochure has been issued;
     (e) the Fund Guidelines have  been  submitted to the Bank for
approval;
     (f)  the  consultants  referred  to  in  paragraph  2  (b) of
Schedule 7  to  this  Agreement  have  been  appointed pursuant to
Section II of Schedule 6 to this Agreement; and
     (g)  all conditions  precedent  to  the  effectiveness of the
Cofinancing  Agreements  providing  for  Cofinancing  Funds  in an
aggregate amount equivalent to about  $150 million, other than the
effectiveness of this Agreement, have been fulfilled.
     Section 6.02. The  following  is  specified  as an additional
matter, within the meaning  of  Section  12.02  (c) of the General
Conditions, to  be  included  in  the  opinion  or  opinions to be
furnished to the Bank,  namely,  that the Administration Agreement
has  been  duly  authorized  or  ratified  by,  and  executed  and
delivered on behalf  of,  the  Borrower  and  NDFC  and is legally
binding upon the Borrower and NDFC in accordance with its terms.
     Section 6.03. The date  ninety  (90)  days  after the date of
this Agreement is  hereby  specified  for  the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VII
            Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 7.01. The  Secretary  to  the Government of Pakistan,
Economic Affairs  Division,  or  any  Additional  Secretary, Joint
Secretary, Deputy Secretary or Section Officer in that Division of
the Borrower is designated  as  representative of the Borrower for
the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section  7.02.  The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Economic Affairs Division
          Government of Pakistan
          Islamabad
          Pakistan
          Cable address:                     Telex:
               ECONOMIC                         ECD IV -05-634
               Islamabad
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                     Telex:
Page  8
               INTBAFRAD                        440098 (ITT),
               Washington, D.C.                 248423 (RCA) or
                                                 64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                   ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
                   By /s/ M. Afzal
                                         Authorized Representative
                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                     RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                   By /s/ P. Hasan
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                              Europe, Middle East and North Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of the proceeds  of  the  Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of  the  Loan  to  each  Category  and  the  percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                           Loan Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category            Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)  Sub-loans
     (a)  Equipment            120,000,000      100% of foreign
          and materials                         expenditures and
                                                100% of local
                                                expenditures
                                                (ex-factory
                                                cost)
     (b)  Installation          15,000,000      100% of foreign
                                                expenditures
(2)  Consultants'                4,000,000      100%
     services and
     training
(3)  Unallocated                11,000,000
                               ___________
          TOTAL                150,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term  "foreign  expenditures"  means expenditures in
the currency of any country  other  than  that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
Page  9
than that of the Borrower; and
     (b)  the term "local expenditures"  means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower  or  for  goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  paragraph  1  above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
     (a)  a  Sub-loan  unless  the   Sub-loan  has  been  made  in
accordance with the procedures and on the terms and conditions set
forth or referred to in Schedule 5 to this Agreement; and
     (b)  payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
     The objectives of the Project are: (i) to assist the Borrower
in mobilizing  the  additional  resources  required  to bridge the
energy supply and  demand  gap  through  the  participation of the
private  sector  in  the  energy  sector;  (ii)  to  establish  an
incentive framework to encourage  such participation; and (iii) to
establish an institutional framework  to facilitate the Borrower's
dealings with the private sector for these purposes.
     The Project consists of the  following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower  and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Investment Projects
     Financing  of  specific  development  projects  through loans
including Sub-loans to private enterprises in the energy sector.
Part B:   Technical Assistance and Training
     Provision of technical assistance:
          (i)  to  MWP  and  MPNR,  for  evaluating  and approving
               proposals,  and   negotiating   implementation  and
               energy purchase agreements, for Investment Projects
               and  recruiting  and   training   staff  for  these
               purposes.
         (ii)  to NDFC, for  carrying  out the appraisal, approval
               and   supervision   of   Investment   Projects  and
               recruiting and training staff for  these purposes.
        (iii)  to MOF, for undertaking  a study on the feasibility
               of reconstituting the Fund as an autonomous finance
               institution.
         (iv)  to WAPDA,  for  negotiating  the  purchase of power
               produced by Investment Projects, and training staff
               for this purpose.
                      *               *               *
      The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1994.
                            SCHEDULE 3
                       Amortization Schedule
                                          Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*
Page  10
February 1, 1994                                 2,740,000
August 1, 1994                                   2,845,000
February 1, 1995                                 2,955,000
August 1, 1995                                   3,065,000
February 1, 1996                                 3,185,000
August 1, 1996                                   3,310,000
February 1, 1997                                 3,435,000
August 1, 1997                                   3,570,000
February 1, 1998                                 3,705,000
August 1, 1998                                   3,850,000
February 1, 1999                                 4,000,000
August 1, 1999                                   4,155,000
February 1, 2000                                 4,315,000
August 1, 2000                                   4,480,000
February 1, 2001                                 4,650,000
August 1, 2001                                   4,830,000
February 1, 20002                                5,020,000
August 1, 2002                                   5,210,000
February 1, 2003                                 5,415,000
August 1, 2003                                   5,620,000
February 1, 2004                                 5,840,000
August 1, 2004                                   6,065,000
February 1, 2005                                 6,300,000
August 1, 2005                                   6,540,000
February 1, 2006                                 6,795,000
August 1, 2006                                   7,055,000
February 1, 2007                                 7,330,000
August 1, 2007                                   7,610,000
February 1, 2008                                 7,905,000
August 1, 2008                                   8,205,000
________________________
*    The  figures  in  this  column  represent  dollar equivalents
     determined as  of  the  respective  dates  of withdrawal. See
     General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
                      Premiums on Prepayment
     The following  premiums  are  specified  for  the purposes of
Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions:
    Time of Prepayment                             Premium
                                         The  interest  rate  (ex-
                                         pressed  as  a percentage
                                         per annum)  applicable to
                                         the  balance  outstanding
                                         on the Loan on the day of
                                         prepayment multiplied by:
Not more than three years                          0.15
     before maturity
More than three years but                          0.30
     not more than six years
     before maturity
More than six years but                            0.55
     not more than eleven years
     before maturity
More than eleven years but not                     0.80
     more than sixteen years
     before maturity
More than sixteen years but not                    0.90
     more than eighteen years
     before maturity
Page  11
More than eighteen years before                    1.00
     maturity
                            SCHEDULE 4
              Modifications of the General Conditions
     For the purposes  of  this  Agreement,  the provisions of the
General Conditions are modified as follows:
     (1)  The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
     (2)  The words "the Bank may,  by  notice to the Borrower and
the  Guarantor,  terminate  the  right  of  the  Borrower  to make
withdrawals with respect to such  amount.  Upon the giving of such
notice, such amount of the  Loan  shall be cancelled" set forth at
the  end  of  Section  6.03  are  deleted  and  the  following  is
substituted therefor:
               "or  (f)  by   the   date  specified  in  sub-para-
          graph 4 (b) of  Schedule  5  to  the Loan Agreement, the
          Bank shall, in respect of  any  portion of the Loan; (i)
          have received  no  applications  or  requests under sub-
          paragraphs (a) or (b)  of  said  paragraph; or (ii) have
          denied any such applications  or requests. The Bank may,
          by notice to the  Borrower  and the Guarantor, terminate
          the right of the Borrower to submit such applications or
          requests or to make  withdrawals  from the Loan Account,
          as the case  may  be,  with  respect  to  such amount or
          portion of the  Loan.  Upon  the  giving of such notice,
          such amount or portion of the Loan shall be cancelled."
                            SCHEDULE 5
              Procedures for and Terms and Conditions
                           of Sub-loans
A.   Terms and conditions
     1.   The terms and conditions for a Sub-loan shall be:
             (a)   Interest rate:           14% per annum or such other
                                            rate as may be established
                                            pursuant to paragraph 2 of
                                            this Schedule
             (b)   Amortization period:     up to 23 years, including up
                                            to 8 years grace
             (c)   Principal amount         the aggregate equivalent
                   to be repaid:            of the amounts in various
                                            currencies withdrawn from
                                            the Loan Account expressed
                                            in rupees determined as of
                                            the respective dates of
                                            withdrawal
2.   The Borrower shall, not  later  than  April  30 in each year,
beginning with  1989,  review  with  the  Bank  the  interest rate
charged for Sub-loans and shall, in order to ensure that such rate
remains positive in real terms, adjust such rate for new Sub-loans
made on or after July 1 in such year.
B.   Procedures
3.   No  expenditures  for  goods  or  services  required  for  an
Investment Project shall  be  eligible  for  financing  out of the
proceeds of the Loan unless:
     (a) the Sub-loan for such  Investment Project shall have been
Page  12
approved by the Bank  and  such  expenditures shall have been made
not earlier than ninety days prior  to  the date on which the Bank
shall have received the application and information required under
paragraph 4 (a) of this Schedule in respect of such Sub-loan; or
     (b)  the Sub-loan for such Investment Project shall have been
a  free-limit  Sub-loan   for   which   the  Bank  has  authorized
withdrawals form the Loan Account and such expenditures shall have
been made not earlier than ninety  days prior to the date on which
the Bank shall have received  the request and information required
under paragraph 4 (b) of  this  Schedule  in respect of such free-
limit Sub-loan.  For the  purposes of this Agreement, a free-limit
Sub-loan shall be a  Sub-loan  for  an Investment Project which is
estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $30 million.
4.   (a)  When presenting a Sub-loan (other than a free-limit Sub-
loan) to the Bank for approval,  the Borrower shall furnish to the
Bank an application, in  form  satisfactory  to the Bank, together
with  (i)  a  description  of  the  Investment  Enterprise  and an
appraisal of the  Investment  Project,  including a description of
the expenditures proposed to  be  financed  out of the proceeds of
the Loan; (ii) the proposed  terms and conditions of the Sub-loan,
including the schedule of amortization  of the Sub-loan; and (iii)
such other information as the Bank shall reasonably request.
     (b)  Each request by the  Borrower  for authorization to make
withdrawals from the Loan Account  in respect of a free-limit Sub-
loan shall contain  (i)  a  summary  description of the Investment
Enterprise and the Investment  Project, including a description of
the expenditures proposed to  be  financed  out of the proceeds of
the Loan, and  (ii)  the  terms  and  conditions  of the Sub-loan,
including the schedule of amortization therefor.
     (c)  Applications  and   requests   made   pursuant   to  the
provisions of sub-paragraphs (a)  and  (b) of this paragraph shall
be presented to the Bank on or before October 31, 1991.
5.   Sub-loans shall be made  on  terms whereby the Borrower shall
obtain, by written contract  with  the Investment Enterprise or by
other appropriate  legal  means,  rights  adequate  to protect the
interests of the Bank and the Borrower, including the right to:
     (a)  require  the  Investment  Enterprise  to  carry  out and
operate the Investment Project  with  due diligence and efficiency
and in accordance with  sound  technical, financial and managerial
standards and to maintain adequate records;
     (b)  require that: (i) the goods  and services to be financed
out of the proceeds of  the  Loan  shall be procured in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 6  to this Agreement and (ii) such
goods and services shall be  used  exclusively in the carrying out
of the Investment Project;
     (c)  inspect, by itself  or  jointly  with representatives of
the Bank if the Bank shall  so  request, such goods and the sites,
works, plants and construction included in the Investment Project,
the operation thereof, and any relevant records and documents;
     (d)  require that: (i)  the  Investment Enterprise shall take
out and maintain with responsible insurers such insurance, against
such risks and in such amounts,  as shall be consistent with sound
business  practice;  and  (ii)  without  any  limitation  upon the
foregoing, such  insurance  shall  cover  hazards  incident to the
acquisition, transportation and delivery  of goods financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan to  the place of use or installation, any
indemnity thereunder  to  be  made  payable  in  a currency freely
usable by the  Investment  Enterprise  to  replace  or repair such
goods;
     (e)  obtain all such information as  the Bank or the Borrower
shall reasonably request  relating  to  the  foregoing  and to the
Page  13
administration, operations and financial  condition of the Invest-
ment Enterprise  and  to  the  benefits  to  be  derived  from the
Investment Project; and
     (f)  suspend  or  terminate  the   right  of  the  Investment
Enterprise to the use of the  proceeds of the Loan upon failure by
such Investment Enterprise  to  perform  its obligations under its
contract with the Borrower.
                            SCHEDULE 6
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods
Part A:  International Competitive Bidding
     Except as provided in Part  B hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded  in  accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections  I  and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD  Loans  and  IDA  Credits" published by the
Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:  Other Procurement Procedures
     Equipment available from a  limited  number of sources may be
procured under  contracts  awarded  through  limited international
bidding procedures on the  basis  of  evaluation and comparison of
bids invited from a  list  of  at  least three qualified suppliers
eligible  under  the  Guidelines   and   in  accordance  with  the
procedures set  forth  in  Sections  I  and  II  of the Guidelines
(excluding paragraphs 2.8, 2.9, 2.55 and 2.56 thereof).
Part C:  Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
     (a)  With respect  to  each  contract  estimated  to cost the
equivalent of $2,500,000  or  more,  the  procedures  set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of  Appendix  1  to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be  modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract  required  to be furnished to the
Bank pursuant to said paragraph  2  (d)  shall be furnished to the
Bank prior to the making of  the  first payment out of the Special
Account in respect of such contract.
     (b)  With  respect  to  each  contract  not  governed  by the
preceding paragraph,  the  procedures  set  forth  in paragraphs 3
and 4 of Appendix 1 to  the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments
for such contract are to be  made out of the Special Account, said
procedures shall be  modified  to  ensure  that  the two conformed
copies  of  the  contract  together  with  the  other  information
required to be furnished to the  Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3
shall be furnished to  the  Bank  as  part  of  the evidence to be
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 8 to this Agreement.
     (c)  The provisions of  the  preceding  subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts  on account of which the Bank has
authorized withdrawals  from  the  Loan  Account  on  the basis of
statements of expenditure.  Such  contracts  shall  be retained in
accordance with Section 4.01 (c)(ii) of this Agreement.
2.   The  figure  of  15%  is  hereby  specified  for  purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
     In order to assist MWP, MPNR, NDFC, WAPDA and MOF in carrying
out Part B of the  Project,  the Borrower shall employ or cause to
Page  14
be employed consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms
and conditions of employment  shall  be  satisfactory to the Bank.
Such consultants shall be  selected  in accordance with principles
and procedures  satisfactory  to  the  Bank  on  the  basis of the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and
by the World Bank as  Executing  Agency"  published by the Bank in
August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 7
                      Implementation Program
A.   Project Implementation Arrangements
1.   Ministry of Water and  Power  (MWP) and Ministry of Petroleum
     and Natural Resources (MPNR)
     (a)  MWP and MPNR  shall  be  responsible  for evaluating and
approving proposals for Investment Projects submitted under Part A
of the Project  and  for  the  technical assistance provided under
Part B (i) of the Project.
     (b)  For the purpose of carrying out these responsibilities:
          (i)  MWP shall establish a Private Power Cell (PPC). PPC
               shall be headed by a Director General, who shall be
               a qualified engineer  experienced  in management of
               power utilities, with emphasis on system operation,
               power supply  contracts,  and  project supervision.
               PPC  shall  initially   include  a  power  engineer
               experienced in system  operation, project appraisal
               and contract management,  and  a finance specialist
               experienced   in    project    finance,   financial
               management of  power  utilities  and development of
               computer-based  financial  models.    PPC  shall be
               assisted by  the  consultants  employed pursuant to
               Section II of Schedule 6  to this Agreement for the
               purposes  of  Part  B  (i)  of  the  Project,  with
               expertise in preparation  and  evaluation of energy
               projects.  Such  consultants  shall be appointed by
               MWP not later than December 31, 1988.
         (ii)  MPNR shall establish a Coal Mining Cell (CMC).  CMC
               shall  be  headed  by   a  Director  who  shall  be
               experienced  in  managing  mining  operations.  CMC
               shall include a  coal mining specialist experienced
               in the  construction,  operation  and management of
               mines  or  a  geologist  experienced  in geological
               investigation  of   mining   reserves,   review  of
               geological data and preparation  of mine plans, and
               a  finance  specialist   experienced  in  financial
               management of coal mining  companies.  CMC shall be
               assisted by  the  consultants  employed pursuant to
               Section II of Schedule 6  to this Agreement for the
               purposes  of  Part  B  (i)  of  the  Project,  with
               expertise in preparation  and  evaluation of energy
               projects.  Such  consultants  shall be appointed by
               MPNR not later than December 31, 1988.
2.   National Development Finance Corporation (NDFC)
     (a)  NDFC shall be responsible  for administering the Private
Sector  Energy  Development  Fund   (the  Fund),  for  appraising,
approving  and  supervising   the   implementation  of  Investment
Projects, and for the  technical  assistance provided under Part B
(ii) of the Project.
     (b)  For the purpose of  carrying out these responsibilities,
NDFC shall establish a  Private  Energy Division (PED), consisting
of a manager of the  level  of  senior executive vice president or
deputy managing director,  who  shall  be  supported by two senior
Page  15
vice presidents, one each for engineering and finance.  The senior
vice president for  engineering  shall  be  supported, in turn, by
three engineers experienced in  power  generation and coal mining,
and by a specialist in  contract  management and procurement.  The
senior vice  president  for  finance  shall  be  supported  by two
finance specialists.   PED  shall  be  assisted by the consultants
employed pursuant to Section  II  of  Schedule 6 to this Agreement
for the purposes of Part B  (ii) of the Project, with expertise in
project appraisal, engineering and  supervision, and in investment
banking.
3.   Water and Power Development Authority (WAPDA)
     (a)  WAPDA shall be responsible  for negotiating the purchase
of energy produced by  Investment  Projects  and for the technical
assistance provided under Part B (iv) of the Project.
     (b)  For the purpose of  carrying out these responsibilities,
WAPDA shall establish a Private Power  Cell (WPPC).  WPPC shall beheaded by an 
engineer/finance specialist experienced in commercial
aspects  of  bulk  power  transfers,  and  shall  include  a power
engineer experienced in power  system operation and load dispatch,
and a financial analyst  experienced  in financial management of a
power utility with  multiple  sources  of  supply.   WPPC shall be
assisted by the  consultants  employed  pursuant  to Section II of
Schedule 6 to this Agreement  for  the  purposes of Part B (iv) of
the Project, with expertise  in  preparation and implementation of
power purchase contracts.  Such  consultants shall be appointed by
WAPDA not later than December 31, 1988.
4.   Ministry of Finance (MOF)
     (a)  MOF shall be responsible for undertaking the feasibility
study on the reconstitution  of  the  Fund  referred  to in Part B
(iii) of the Project.
     (b)  For the purpose of carrying out this responsibility, MOF
shall be assisted by the  consultants employed pursuant to Section
II of Schedule 6  to  this  Agreement  for  the purposes of Part B
(iii) of  the  Project,  with  expertise  in financial management,
accounting and investment banking.
B.   Investments Projects
5.   Evaluation and Approval of Proposals for Investment Projects
     (a) The  Borrower  shall  not  approve  any  proposal  for an
Investment Project unless the Borrower and the Bank are satisfied:
       (i)   that  the  Investment  Project  is  included  in  the
             national least cost investment plan;
      (ii)   that the price per unit of the energy produced by the
             Investment Project shall be:
             (aa) in the case of power, less than the unit cost of
                  generation that WAPDA would have incurred had it
                  undertaken  the  Investment  Project,  such cost
                  having been adjusted for the differential in the
                  financing terms that  WAPDA  would have obtained
                  and  the  financing  terms  that  the Investment
                  Enterprise  sponsoring  the  Investment  Project
                  would obtain for the Investment Project;
             (bb) in the case of power,  equal to or less than the
                  economic cost of  supply  (the long run marginal
                  cost),   expressed    in    terms   of   thermal
                  equivalency; and
             (cc) in the case of  gas,  less than the c.i.f. price
                  of  fuel  oil,  expressed  in  terms  of thermal
                  equivalency; and
Page  16
     (iii)   that   the   Investment   Project   is   technically,
             economically and financially viable.
     (b)  The Borrower shall  prepare  and  issue,  for the use of
Investment  Enterprises,  a   brochure,   in  form  and  substance
satisfactory to the Bank,  inter  alia,  describing the policy and
incentive framework for private sector participation in the energy
sector (including the measures  set  forth  or  referred to in the
Annex to  this  Schedule),  setting  out  the  guidelines  for the
preparation, evaluation and  approval  of proposals for Investment
Projects and including  models  of  the  Implementation and Energy
Purchase Agreements referred to in Parts C (ii) (a) and (b) of the
Annex to this Schedule.
6.   Appraisal, Approval and Supervision of Investment Projects
     (a)  NDFC shall prepare  and  furnish  to  the  Bank, for its
approval, guidelines for the operation  of the Fund, including the
guidelines  for  the   appraisal,   approval  and  supervision  of
Investment Projects (the Fund Guidelines).
     (b)  With respect  to  each  Investment  Project, NDFC shall,
subject to the Fund Guidelines:
          (i)  require the  Investment  Enterprise  sponsoring the
               Investment   Project   to    prepare   a   detailed
               feasibility study  covering  the matters including:
               (aa)  suitability  of  site;  (bb)  availability of
               inputs;  (cc)   appropriateness   of,   and  proven
               experience  with,  the   technology  offered;  (dd)
               project  design;  (ee)  arrangements  for  detailed
               engineering; (ff) cost estimates; (gg) construction
               and procurement arrangements; (hh) arrangements for
               operation and  maintenance;  (ii)  arrangements for
               compliance  with   environmental  and  resettlement
               standards;   (jj)   financial   viability   of  the
               Investment Project; (kk)  adequacy  of the proposed
               financing  and  the  incentives  to  be  offered to
               attract such  financing,  including the contractual
               arrangements to  be  made  therefor;  and  (ll) the
               corporate structure  of  the Investment Enterprise;
               and
         (ii)  review such  feasibility  study  and,  on the basis
               thereof, prepare and  furnish  to  the Bank for its
               review and approval,  pursuant  to  paragraph 3 (a)
               (i)   of   Schedule   5   to   this   Agreement,  a
               comprehensive appraisal report.
7.   Financing of Investment Projects
     (a) For the  purpose  of  financing  Investment Projects, the
Borrower shall establish a  Private Sector Energy Development Fund
(the Fund), into which the  proceeds  of  the  Loan and of the Co-
financing Funds shall be placed.    The Fund shall be administered
by NDFC on the terms and  conditions, including the fee to be paid
to NDFC for this purpose, set forth in an Administration Agreement
to  be  entered   into   between   the   Borrower  and  NDFC  (the
Administration Agreement).
     (b) NDFC shall provide financing for each Investment Project,
including the Sub-loan approved  for  such Investment Project, out
of the proceeds of the Fund  in  amounts sufficient to cover up to
30% of the  total  cost,  or  50%  of  the  foreign exchange cost,
whichever  is  less,  of  such  Investment  Project  on  terms and
conditions including those set forth  in  Part  A of Schedule 5 to
this Agreement.
     (c) Financing  required  for   each  Investment  Project,  in
addition to the  financing  provided  out  of  the proceeds of the
Page  17
Fund, shall be  provided  by  the Investment Enterprise sponsoring
such Investment Project  through  equity  investment sufficient to
cover at least 25% (including the  1 1/4% referred to in paragraph
8 (c) of this Schedule) of  the cost of the Investment Project and
through commercial loans and/or  export credits raised without the
Borrower's guarantee.   To  attract  such  financing, the Borrower
shall take or cause to  be  taken, with respect to each Investment
Project, the measures described in the Annex to this Schedule.
8.   Implementation of Investment Projects
     With respect to each  Investment  Project, NDFC shall require
the Investment Enterprise  sponsoring  such  Investment Project to
employ:
     (a) engineering   consultants,    with   qualifications   and
experience satisfactory to the  Bank,  to prepare detailed designs
and bidding documents and to supervise project implementation;
     (b) financial advisors,  with  qualifications  and experience
satisfactory to the Bank, to  prepare  proposals for and assist in
mobilizing project financing; and
     (c) a main contractor,  as  approved  by  the Bank, to assume
full responsibility for project implementation, such contractor to
make an equity investment sufficient  to  cover at least 1 1/4% of
the cost of the Investment Project.
9.   Environmental Standards for Investment Projects
     Each Investment Project shall  comply  with the standards set
forth in the Bank's "Environmental Guidelines" dated July 1984 and
the Bank's "Occupational Health  and Safety Guidelines" dated June
1984.  To that end, the Borrower shall:
     (a) specify such standards in the Brochure;
     (b) require each Investment  Enterprise  applying  for a Sub-
loan to furnish  evidence  satisfactory  to  the  Borrower and the
Bank, showing that the Investment  Project in respect of which the
application has been made  would  comply with such standards, such
evidence to include an  environmental impact assessment and, where
applicable, a  resettlement  plan  for  displaced populations, for
such Investment Project; and
     (c) in respect of  each  Investment  Project, include both in
the Letter of Intent referred  to  in  Part  C (i) of the Annex to
this Schedule and the Implementation Agreement referred to in Part
C (ii) (a) of  the  Annex  to  this  Schedule a suitable provision
obligating the  Investment  Enterprise  sponsoring such Investment
Project to ensure compliance with such standards.
C.   Other Matters
10.  Study on Reconstitution of the Fund
     The Borrower shall:
     (a) not later than October  31, 1989, appoint the consultants
required for the  purposes  of  the  study  on  the feasibility of
reconstituting the  Fund  referred  to  in  Part  B  (iii)  of the
Project; and
     (b) not later than March 31,  1990,  review with the Bank the
recommendations  of  such   study   and   agree  on  a  timetable,
satisfactory to the Bank,  for  the  implementation of such of the
recommendations as shall be acceptable to the Bank.
11.  Progress Reports
     Pursuant to Section 9.07 (a) (iii) of the General Conditions,
the Borrower shall furnish to the  Bank, within thirty days of the
Page  18
end of each quarter, a  report, in form and substance satisfactory
to the Bank, on the progress of the Project during such quarter.
                                               Annex to Schedule 7
       Measures Referred to in Paragraph 7 (c) of Schedule 7
            to this Agreement to Attract Financing for
                        Investment Projects
A.   Incentives for Investment Enterprises
     With respect to each  Investment  Project, the Borrower shall
permit  the  Investment   Enterprise  sponsoring  such  Investment
Project:
          (i)  to determine the  price  of  energy produced by the
               Investment Project taking into account a reasonable
               return, net of income tax, on the equity investment
               of the Investment Enterprise;
         (ii)  to repatriate its profits and debt service payments
               under arrangements with the State Bank of Pakistan;
        (iii)  to adjust  the  price  of  energy  produced  by the
               Investment  Project   in   accordance  with  agreed
               adjustment indices to reflect  changes in prices of
               inputs  and  exchange   rate   movements,  but  not
               necessarily so as to  reflect  changes in any other
               costs of the Investment Project;
         (iv)  to have the Investment  Project  treated like a new
               industrial   undertaking   for   the   purposes  of
               receiving exemption from  payment  of import duties
               and  enjoying  a  five-year   tax  holiday  if  the
               Investment Project is  located in certain specified
               territories of the Borrower;
          (v)  to take appropriate measures to off-set the effects
               of  any  changes  in  duties  and  taxes  and other
               actions  taken  by  the  Borrower  or  its agencies
               affecting the cost and  price of energy produced by
               the Investment  Project  as  previously agreed with
               the Borrower;
         (vi)  to receive  additional  finance  from  the Fund, on
               terms and conditions  satisfactory  to the Bank, so
               as to enable the Investment Enterprise: (a) to meet
               up to 25% of any  additional financing needs of the
               Investment Project arising from  an increase in the
               costs thereof,  provided  the Investment Enterprise
               finances at least 25%  of such needs through equity
               investment; and (b)  to  continue  to meet its debt
               service  payments  in  respect  of  the  Investment
               Project in the event of  delay in the completion of
               construction or the suspension of operations of the
               Investment Project resulting from causes beyond the
               control of the Investment Enterprise; and
        (vii)  to  enter   into   arrangements   under  which  the
               commercial loans and/or export credits obtained for
               the purposes of  the  Investment Project shall have
               priority over the financing  obtained from the Fund
               for   such   purposes   in   the   allocation   and
               distribution of funds available with the Investment
               Enterprise for repayment.
B.   Incentives for Lenders/Creditors
     With respect to each  Investment  Project, the Borrower shall
require  the  Investment  Enterprise  sponsoring  such  Investment
Project:
Page  19
          (i)  to assign, as  necessary,  to its lenders/creditors
               the   performance   guarantee   furnished   to  the
               Investment  Enterprise   by   the  main  contractor
               responsible   for   implementing   the   Investment
               Project, to which such lenders/creditors shall have
               recourse   in   the   event   of   delay   in   the
               implementation of the Investment Project;
         (ii)  to  provide  for   its  lenders/creditors  to  have
               recourse  also  to  the  assets  of  the Investment
               Project;
        (iii)  to assign to  its lenders/creditors the performance
               guarantee furnished to the Investment Enterprise by
               the  operator   (if   other   than  the  Investment
               Enterprise itself)  of  the  Investment Project, to
               which such lenders/creditors shall have recourse in
               the event of a shortfall  in the performance of the
               Investment Project; and
         (iv)  to establish, at the  time  of the commissioning of
               the  Investment  Project,  a  debt  service  escrow
               account, which shall  at  all times hold sufficient
               funds to meet six  months  debt service payments in
               respect of the Investment Project.
C.   Contractual Framework for Incentives
     In  order  to  clearly   lay   down  the  mutual  rights  and
obligations of the  Borrower,  the  Investment  Enterprise and the
latter's lenders/creditors,  the  Borrower  shall  with respect to
each Investment Project:
          (i)  before the  Investment  Enterprise  is  required to
               prepare and submit a detailed feasibility study for
               the Investment  Project,  issue  to  the Investment
               Enterprise  a  Letter   of   Intent,  in  form  and
               substance satisfactory to  the  Bank, conveying the
               Borrower's  approval  of   the   proposal  for  the
               Investment Project  and  indicating  the Borrower's
               willingness to  offer  the  incentives described in
               Part A of this Annex; and
         (ii)  at appropriate  stages  following  approval  by the
               Borrower of the detailed  feasibility study for the
               Investment   Project,    require   the   Investment
               Enterprise to enter  into the following agreements,
               each in  form  and  substance  satisfactory  to the
               Bank:
          (a)   an  Implementation  Agreement  with  the Borrower,
                superseding the Letter  of  Intent  referred to in
                (i) above and setting forth the obligations of the
                Investment Enterprise,  particularly  with respect
                to  the   financing,   design,  construction,  and
                operation  and   maintenance   of  the  Investment
                Project within mutually  agreed  parameters and to
                mutually acceptable  standards  and  including the
                obligation to  offer  the  incentives described in
                Part B of this  Annex,  and the obligations of the
                Borrower,  particularly   with   respect   to  the
                incentives described in Part A of this Annex;
          (b)   an Energy  Purchase  Agreement  with  WAPDA or any
                other purchaser  of  the  energy  produced  by the
                Investment Project, guaranteed by the Borrower and
                setting forth  the  obligations  of the Investment
                Enterprise,  particularly  with   respect  to  the
                operation of  the  Investment  Project to mutually
                acceptable standards, and  the  obligations of the
                purchaser,  particularly   with   respect  to  the
Page  20
                purchase of  a  guaranteed  minimum  of the energy
                produced by the  Investment  Project, the purchase
                price of such energy,  and  the adjustment of such
                price as provided for pursuant  to Part A (iii) of
                this Annex;
          (c)   a Construction Agreement  with the main contractor
                responsible for the construction and commissioning
                of the Investment Project, as approved by the Bank
                pursuant  to  Part  D.2  of  Schedule  6  to  this
                Agreement and  including  a  performance guarantee
                furnished by the contractor;
          (d)   an Operation  and  Maintenance  Agreement with the
                operator (if other  than the Investment Enterprise
                itself) of the Investment Project, approved by the
                Borrower and setting forth  the obligations of the
                operator,  particularly   with   respect   to  the
                operation  of  the   Investment   Project  to  the
                standards   specified    in   the   Implementation
                Agreement referred  to  in  (a)  above  and in the
                Energy  Purchase  Agreement  referred  to  in  (b)
                above,  and  including   a  performance  guarantee
                furnished by the operator;
          (e)   a Fuel Supply Agreement  with the supplier of fuel
                required by the  Investment Project, guaranteed by
                the Borrower and setting  forth the obligations of
                the supplier,  particularly  with  respect  to the
                quality, quantity and  frequency  of supplies, and
                the penalties for  inadequate  performance of such
                obligations; and
          (f)   other   agreements,   including   a  Shareholders'
                Agreement   (setting   forth    the   rights   and
                obligations of the  shareholders of the Investment
                Enterprise),  a   Loan   Agreement  or  Agreements
                (setting forth the  obligations  of the Investment
                Enterprise    towards    its    lenders/creditors,
                particularly with respect to the assignment to the
                latter of the  performance guarantees furnished by
                the  main  contractor  and  the  operator  of  the
                Investment Project  pursuant  to  Parts  B (i) and
                (iii) of  this  Annex),  and  an  Escrow Agreement
                (establishing and  providing  for  a  Debt Service
                Escrow Account pursuant  to  Part  B  (iv) of this
                Annex).
                            SCHEDULE 8
                          Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "eligible Categories"  means Categories (1) and
(2) set forth in the table  in  paragraph  1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible  expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
the Investment Projects and for  Part  B  of the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds  of  the  Loan allocated from time to
time to the eligible Categories  in accordance with the provisions
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
     (c)  the  term  "Authorized   Allocation"   means  an  amount
equivalent to $5,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited in the Special  Account  pursuant  to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, payments out of the
Page  21
Special  Account   shall   be   made   exclusively   for  eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Bank has received  evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special  Account  has  been  duly  opened,  withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent  withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account may be made as follows:
     (a)  On the basis of  a  request  or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which  add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized  Allocation,  the  Bank  shall,  on  behalf  of the
Borrower, withdraw  from  the  Loan  Account  and  deposit  in the
Special Account such amount or  amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
     (b)  The Borrower  shall  furnish  to  the  Bank requests for
replenishment of the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank
shall specify. On  the  basis  of  such  requests,  the Bank shall
withdraw from  the  Loan  Account  and  deposit  into  the Special
Account such amounts as shall be required to replenish the Special
Account with amounts not exceeding the amount of payments made out
of  the  Special  Account  for  eligible  expenditures.  All  such
deposits shall be  withdrawn  by  the  Bank  from the Loan Account
under the respective  eligible  Categories,  and in the respective
equivalent amounts, as shall  have  been justified by the evidence
supporting the  request  for  such  deposit  furnished pursuant to
paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   For each payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out of the Special
Account for which the  Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of  this  Schedule,  the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, prior to or at  the time of such request, such documents
and other evidence as  the  Bank shall reasonably request, showing
that such payment was made for eligible expenditures.
5.   (a)   Notwithstanding  the  provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, no further  deposit  into  the  Special Account shall be
made by the Bank  when  either  of  the following situations first
arises:
          (i)  the Bank  shall  have  determined  that all further
               withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
               from  the  Loan  Account  in  accordance  with  the
               provisions of Article  V  of the General Conditions
               and  paragraph  (a)   of   Section   2.02  of  this
               Agreement; or
         (ii)  the total unwithdrawn amount  of the Loan allocated
               to the eligible Categories, minus the amount of any
               outstanding special commitment  entered into by the
               Bank  pursuant  to  Section  5.02  of  the  General
               Conditions with respect  to  the  Project, shall be
               equal to the equivalent of  twice the amount of the
               Authorized Allocation.
     (b)  Thereafter, withdrawal  from  the  Loan  Account  of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures  as the Bank shall specify
by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made
only after  and  to  the  extent  that  the  Bank  shall have been
satisfied that  all  such  amounts  remaining  on  deposit  in the
Special Account as of the date  of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Bank shall have  determined  at any time that any
payment  out  of  the  Special   Account  (i)  was  made  for  any
expenditure or in any amount  not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this  Schedule,  or  (ii)  was  not  justified  by the evidence
furnished to the Bank,  the  Borrower  shall, promptly upon notice
from the Bank, deposit into  the  Special Account (or, if the Bank
shall so request,  refund  to  the  Bank)  an  amount equal to the
amount of such payment or  the  portion thereof not so eligible or
Page  22
justified. No further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account
shall be made until the Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
     (b)  If the Bank shall have  determined  at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special  Account will not be required to
cover further  payments  for  eligible  expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount for crediting to the Loan Account.
