Report No. 530a-RO                                                             FILE  COPY
Appraisal of
Giurgiu-Razmiresti Irrigation Project-
Romania
January 8, 1975
EMENA Region
Not for Public Use
H
Document of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
International Development Association
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not
be published, quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does
not accept responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT                                    WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Except where otherwise indicated all figures           All weights and measures are in metric units
are quoted in Romanian Lei. For all calcula-
tions, the following conversion rate has               1 Metric Ton (t)    = 1,000 Kilograms (kg)
been used:                                             1 Metric Ton (t)    = 2,204.6 Pounds
1 Kilometer (km)    = 0.62 Miles
US$ 1      = Lei 20                                    1 Hectare (ha)       = 2.47 Acres
Lei 1      = US$ 0.05                                  1 Cubic Meter (m3)  = 35.3 Cubic Feet
Lei X,000  = us$5o.oo
ABREVIATIONS
BAFI        Bank for Agriculture and Food Industry
DIFCA       Department of Land Reclamation and Agricultural Construction
DTIC        Technical Direction for Investment and Coordination
GSI         Groups for Coodination and Supervision of Investment
ISPIF       Institute for Land Reclamation and Designing
DCAL        Direction for Construction and Local Development
TCIF        Construction Trusts and Enterprises for Land Reclamation Works
SUT         Site Construction Units
CELIF       Central for Exploitation of Land Reclamation
IELIF        District Units for Operation and Maintenance
IAS         State Farms
CAP         Cooperative Farms
DAS         Department of State Agriculture
CVPC        Central for the Sale of Cereals and Foodstuffs
CPLF        Central for Vegetables and Fruits
CIZ         Central for Sugar
CVV         Central for Grapes and Wine
ROMANIAN FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



ROMANIA
GIURGIU-RAZMIRESTI IRRIGATION PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS  *    ***.....            ***...................   .     i-ii
I.    INTRODUCTION  ...................................*.*.*..*... *  ..............      1
II.     BACKGROUND                   1....................           ...........            1
A.    General                             ..........                               1
B.    The Agricultural Sector  ........ ........ ...                               2
C.     Irrigation  .. ........   * * * * ......*..... ...* .*..*                   3
III.    THE PROJECT AREA                            ................                         3
A.    Location  ............... 0 ....................0..........                  3
B.    Climate  ........ ......................................                     4
C.    Water  Resources  and Hydrology                               4.....         4
D.    Topography  and Soils                ..................   ........           4
E.    Transport  and Communication                  . ...................          4
F.    Population,  Land  Tenure and Farm  Size  .........                          5
G.    Land Use,  Yields  and Production                      ...............       5
1l.    Farma Inputs  ..........................................                    5
I.    Agricultural  Research  and Extension    ...........                         6
J.    Credit  ........          ........... *.*..........................          7
K.    Marketing  .............               .................. ... ......         7
IV.    THE PROJECT  .............. ...............................                         8
A.    Objectives  ...... .......................................                   8
B.    Description  ................................................                8
C.    Detailed  Features  ..... . . . . . . . . .   ........... .*.... .           9
D.    Water  Demand,  Supply and Quality  ....                   ..........       11
E.    Water  Rights  .... ...........................                             11
F.     Status of Engineering  .............                   .........           11
G.    Flood Control ........                                 ...........         .....................  12
H.    Construction  Schedule                        ..... ..... ,.....            12
I.    Cost Estimates  .....                       ...... ...........              12
J.    Financing  ...           .................... .. ............               13
K.    Procurement  ...................................                            13
L.    Disbursements  and Expenditures  ...... .. ........                         14
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal rmission in May 1974 con-
P   tffna of Messrs M.  Altaf  Hussain,  J.W.  Robins  and T. Hlaile-i4ariam  (Bank),
R. Stevenin (FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program), V.F. Gioia and J. Marinet (Con-
sultants).



Table of Contents (Continued)
Page No.
V.   THE BORROWER AND PROJECT ORGANIZATION ................  14
A.   The Borrower ...         ..................................   14
B.   Project Organization ................. .............  15
C.   Supporting Agricultural Services .......0.........  16
D.   Consultants .......... ....... o... ........................   16
E.   Recovery of Project Costs  ......................   16
F.  Accounts and Audit         ..............................   17
G.   Monitoring and Key Project Indicators .... .......  1t
VI.   ECONOMIC EVALUATION ....... ....o... ..... .. .. ...... o....o .  17
A.   Production    .... ...o..... ..oo.............-...........   17
Bo  Market Prospects ...... ...... .. .. . .. ......... .. .   20
C.   Prices ...o....o..o.oo... ..........-........o  21
D.   Producers' Income ..     .     ....        ...**.o..  21
E.   Economic Benefits and Rates of Return . ..........    21
F.   Social Benefits .........    ... .   .... .o..o......  22
VII.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION .2....  23
ANNEXES
1. Agriculture
2. Finance and Marketing
3. Project Description
4. Water Demand, Supply and Quality
5. Schedule of Construction and Expenditures (Chart IBRD 8908)
6. Cost Estimates
7. List of Equipment and Materials
8. Loan Disbursement Schedule
9. Organization and Consultants (Chart IBRD 8952)
10.  Operation and Maintenance
11.  Recovery of Project Costs
12.  Accounts and Audit
13.  Output Prices
14.  Project Charges and Farmerst Incomes
15.  Economic Rate of Return and Sensitivity Analysis
16.  Employment
MAP
IBRD 11167 - General Project



ROMANIA
GIURGIU-RAZMIRESTI IRRIGATION PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        Romania has requested a Bank loan of US$70 million to the Bank for
Agriculture and Food Industry to partly finance a 100,800 ha irrigation proj-
ect in Giurgiu-Razmiresti located about 60 km southwest of Bucharest. Pre-
vious loans, totaling US$190 million, have all been made in 1974.
ii.       Romania's agricultural sector is an important contributor to the
national economy, second only to the industrial sector. It accounted, in 1973,
for about 16% of the gross domestic product, 30% of total foreign exchange
earnings, and 42% of the labor force. It is also a primary source of raw
materials, investment resource, convertible foreign exchange and residual
labor to the industrial sector. Agricultural development is constrained,
however, by low capital investment, dependence on erratic rainfall and in-
stability in output, and underemployment. Accelerated and sustained agri-
cultural development is possible through exploitation of available water,
labor and land resources.
iii.      The project is part of government program to expand irrigation to
increase and stabilize agricultural production for local consumption and
export. Twelve crops are currently grown in the project area under rainfed
cultivation. In the absence of the project, the Government has planned to
modify the present crop mix and improve yields by means of intensified appli-
cation of rain-farm technology. However, yields would stabilize below optimal
levels due to irrigation and drainage constraints. The project would reduce
these constraints but would follow, with slight changes, the modified crop mix
including cereals, pulses, oilseeds, fruits and vegetables, sugar beets, and
fodders.
iv.       About 80% of the project area would be irrigated by sprinklers and
the remainder by gravity furrows. The project works would include a floating
pumping station of 80.6 m3/sec capacity on a side channel of the Danube River
at Giurgiu to raise water for an average of 10 m; a 77 m3/sec capacity pumping
station at Ghizdaru to lift the water a further 67 m; two repumping stations;
240 km of open concrete-lined canals; 2,170 km of buried distribution pipe-
lines; 65 pressure-pumping stations for sprinkler irrigation; 13 pressure-
pumping stations for furrow irrigation; 12 lift pumping stations for drainage;
362 km of drains; and a power transmission network. The project would also
provide operation and maintenance equipment and supplemental agricultural
machinery. Consultant and suppliers post-sale services would be used for
assistance in procurement, installations, initial operations of machinery,
and for training of Romanian technicians. Project construction would be
completed in 1978.



- ii -
v.        The total ptoject cost, including physical contingencies and ex-
pected price increases, as well as initerest during construction is esti-
mated at US$141 million with a foreign exchange component (direct and indirect)
of about US$43 million. The proposed IBRD loan of US$70 million would cover
US$40.5 million of the estimated foreign exchange cost of the project (exclud-
ing US$2.4 million already incurred), US$19.5 million in local cost and US$10
million of interest during Construction and commitment charges. The Government
of Romania would contribute the balance of the project cost.
vi.       The Ministry of Agriculture, Food Industry and Water through its
subordinate and sister government agencies, would be responsible for the de-
tailed planning, supervision, construction, operation and coordination of
project works. The Ministry's Department of Land Reclamation and Agricultural
Construction (DIFCA), assisted by its subordinate specialized agencies, would
be in charge of all project design and construction except those relating to
electricity. Electrical work would be installed and maintained by the Min-
istry of Electric Energy through its subordinate enterprises and their sub-
units. The operation and maintenance of all other works would be performed
by the Ministry of Agriculture's Central for Exploitation of Land Reclamation
Works (CELIF) through its field enterprises (IELIF) and their sub-units. The
proposed project organization is satisfactory. Each Ministry, department,
central and enterprise involved has the ability to perform the proposed func-
tions satisfactorily; each has had experience in works of a similar nature
and size.
vii.      Finances for investment and production credit in cooperative and
State farms would be mobilized and disbursed, in accordance with existing
satisfactory procedures by the Bank for Agriculture and Food Industry (BAFI).
viii.     At full project development in 1985, the incremental annual produc-
tion of principal crops would be as follows: cereals 147,000 tons; oilseeds
29,000 tons; sugar beets 147,000 tons; peaches and grapes 25,000 tons; vege-
tables 70,000 tons; and fodders 1.2 million tons. Gross value of production
would increase from US$33.0 million without the project to US$90.2 million
with the project. The project's economic rate of return is estimated at 13.5%.
With the project, additional gross annual foreign exchange earnings (savings)
would be about US$43.9 million equivalent. Also, employment would increase
from 1.1 million man-days without the prolect to nearly 3 million man-days
with the project, and annual income of each active cooperative member would
more than triple, assuming no increase in membership.
ix.       Based on the agreements with the borrower, the project is suitable
for a Bank loan of US$70 million to the Bank for Agriculture and Food Industry,
with the guarantee of the Government of Romania, for 25 years including 5 years
of grace.



I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Romania has requested an IBRD loan of US$70 mil-
lion to the Romanian Bank for Agriculture and Food Industry. The loan would
help finance a US$141 million irrigation project to increase agricultural
production for local consumption and export. The project would be located
about 60 km southwest of Bucharest in the counties (judets) of Ilfov and
Teleorman, and it encompasses the towns of Giurgiu and Razmiresti. The
project would be implemented by the Ministry of Agriculture, Food Industry
and Water through its subordinate and sister government agencies.
1.02      Romania joined IBRD on December 15, 1972.  By July 1974, loan agree-
ments for three projects involving total Bank lending of US$190 million had
been signed. Those included Tecuci Fertilizer (US$60 million), Otelinox Spe-
cial Steel (US$70 million) and Turceni Thermal Power (US$60 million). The
Giurgiu-Razmiresti Project is the first irrigation project, and one of two
proposed for the agriculture sector. The other is Sadova-Corabia Agricul-
tural Credit Project.
1.03      In keeping with Government policy to expand irrigation, this proj-
ect was identified by the Romanian Government and proposed to the April 1973
IBRD Economic Mission for Bank financing. The proposal was reviewed by two
Bank missions in June and December 1973. A feasibility study based on sev-
eral years' work was prepared by specialized Government institutions and
submitted to the Bank about September 1973. Supplemaentary data were pro-
vided to the December 1973 Bank mission. The project was appraised in May
1974 on the basis of the feasibility study and additional supporting govern-
ment studies. The appraisal mission consisted of Messrs. M. Altaf Hussain
(Mission Chief), J.W. Robins and T. Haile-Mariam (Bank), R. Stevenin (FAO/
IBRD Cooperative Program), V.F. Gioia and J. Marinet (Consultants). Based
partly on contributions from consultants, the report was prepared by Bank
staff members of the mission.
II.  BACKGROUND
A.   General
2.01      Romania has a land area of 23.7 million ha.  Total population in
1974 is estimated at 21 million, about 12 million of whom live in rural areas.
It is increasing at about 1% per annum.
2.02      Gross domestic product in constant 1963 prices rose by 7.7% per
year during 1966-70 and by 10.8% during 1973. Annual investment in the eco-
nomy averaged 58 billion lei (in constant 1963 prices) during 1966-70; it
would average 94 billion lei during 1971-75.



-2-
B.   The Agricultural Sector
2.03      Sector Organization:  The Ministry of Agriculture, Food Industry
and Water is responsible for elaboration and implementation of the State's
socio-economic plan for the agricultural sector. The Ministry is represented
by a General Agricultural Directorate in each of the 39 administrative counties
of the country; each directorate monitors agricultural activities in both State
and cooperative farms as described in the following paragraph. The Ministry
also maintains ten marketing centrals with branch offices throughout the
country which are responsible for procurement and distribution of products
according to the national plan.
2.04      Agricultural production is organized primarily into State and co-
operative farms. About 360 State farms employing 300,000 workers and 4,500
cooperative farms with membership of 3.5 million families account for the bulk
of the agricultural output. Each State farm is headed by an appointed director
and each cooperative farm by an elected president. Private farms account for
insignificant portion of total agricultural output, but produce about 19% of
milk, 18% of eggs, 14% of meat and 15% of potatoes.
2.05      Sector Resources.  Agricultural land resources are estimated at about
15 million ha, of which about 9.6 million ha are arable, 3.0 million ha are
under pastures and 0.8 million ha under vineyards and orchards. The bulk of
the remaining land area is occupied by forests and meadows. There is agricul-
tural labor with a potential for efficient utilization. Romania has large
sources of exploitable irrigation water; the Danube River is largest among them.
2.06      State farms use 30% of the agricultural and 21% of the arable lands,
while cooperative farms use 60% and 75%, respectively. About 10% of marginal
quality agricultural land is used by private farms. Two-thirds of the total
arable land is used for grain production (mainly maize and wheat) while in-
dustrial crops (mainly sunflower) are next most important crops. Vegetables
are also produced, often in large-scale commercial green houses, primarily
for export.
2.07      Sector in the National Economy.  The agricultural sector measured
by United Nations methodology accounts for nearly one fifth of the gross
domestic product, 30% of total foreign exchange, 40% of convertible foreign
exchange earnings, and employs 42% of the labor force. It is also a primary
source of raw materials, investment resources, foreign exchange, and residual
labor to the leading industrial sector which employs 35% of the labor force
and contributes 48% of the gross domestic product. Livestock subsector accounts
for nearly 40% of agricultural production with national livestock population
of about 5.8 million cattle, 8.8 million pigs, 14.4 million sheep and 64.5
million poultry.
2.08      Primiarily because of adverse weather, the agricultural sector, in-
cluding forestry, grew slowly by an average of 2% annually during 1966-70
compared to its planned growth rate of 12%, and by 9.5% per year during the
first three years of the current plan compared to the annual target of 8 to



- 3 -
10%. Agriculture grew rapidly in the first three years of the current Five-
Year Plan, due primarily to rapid expansion in the livestock subsector and the
area under irrigated crops.
2.09      Productivity per person in the agricultural sector is low; about one
third of that in industry. Inadequate capital investment compared to its size
and scope for development, dependence on unreliable weather, and underemployment
are the primary causes of low productivity. Annual investment in agriculture
during 1966-70 averaged 7.4 billion lei or 12.7% of total investment in the
economy. According to the current Five Year Plan, allocations for annual in-
vestment in agriculture average 13.3 billion lei or 14.2% of annual investment
in the economy. However, while investment during 1971-73 reached its planned
target for the economy, agriculture's share amounted to only 12.4%, trending
a decline of agriculture's relative share of actual investment.
C.   Irrigation
2.10      Irrigation is important for agricultural growth in Romania because
it enables crop diversification, stability in production and yield improvement.
The Government recognizes this and has been giving priority to irrigation,
land reclamation and drainage in its investment plans. Policy emphasis on ir-
rigation is reflected through 45% allocation of the total investment in agri-
culture for land reclamation programs. The area under irrigation increased
from a small acreage in 1960 to about 250,000 ha in 1965, and to 700,000 ha
at the end of the 1966-70 Plan. Continuation of this policy during the cur-
rent Plan brought 500,000 ha more under irrigation during 1971-73, so that
total irrigated area to date is more than 1.25 million ha. The Government
aims to irrigate all the irrigable area of 5 million ha before the turn of
the century. Currently about 150,000 ha are being added annually to irrigated
areas with satisfactory levels of management.
2.11      The project aims at reducing the main growth constraints through
ensuring investment in agriculture, expansion of area under irrigation,
thereby reducing dependence on weather and fluctuation in output, diver-
sification, and greater use of technology leading to increased productivity
and employment.
III. TIE PROJECT AREA
A.   Location
3.01      The project area is located about 60 km southwest of Bucharest
and encompasses the towns of Giurgiu and Razmiresti (Map IBRD 11167). It
lies in the counties of Ilfov and Teleorman and borders the Danube River.
Bucharest-Giurgiu highway runs along its eastern boundary and the Danube
River forms its southern boundary. Giurgiu is the main town and port in
the area.



-4-
B.   Climate
3.02      The climate is temperate with hot summers and cold winters.  The
highest monthly temperature (as recorded in August 1952) was 27°C and the
lowest (January 1962) was -10.7°C; normally the temperature range is -10°C
to 23°C. Frost, averaging 140 days a year, occurs from November through
April. Annual precipitation in Giurgiu averaged 550 mm for the last 75
years, of which 308 mm occurred during the crop season of April through
September. In years of average behavior, this is about one half of the
optimal crop requirements. However, lengthy droughts are common. Wind
velocities vary during seasons of the year and hours of the day, but aver-
age below 2 m/sec. Barring occasional and minor exceptions between 3 and
5 p.m., the prevailing wind velocities would not interfere with srpinkler
irrigation. Climatic data for about the last 75 years at Giurgiu and nearby
station at Alexandria are in Annex 1, Table 1.
C.   Water Resources and Hydrology
3.03      Government studies on water resources and hydrology indicate that
the Danube River has adequate water of excellent quality to irrigate the
proposed project area. These studies also conclude that average annual
precipitation in the area, which is frequently interrupted by droughts,
meets only one-half of the irrigation water requirement for optimum yields
and that groundwater as an alternative to river water is either unavailable
or undependable. Potable water, however, is obtained from open wells with
buckets.
D.   Topography and Soils
3.04      The topography and soils are suitable for the proposed crops and
irrigation systems. Detailed topographic and soil studies made by specialized
government institutions show that Class I soils constitute the bulk of the
project area. These are fertile and well drained at present but would need
additional drainage after irrigation. Their topography varies from gentle
undulation to slight slopes. Less than 15% of the soils in the project area
are Class II and III; these are also good soils but have remediable drawbacks,
requiring drainage and land leveling.
E.   Transport and Communication
3.05      The primary transport facilities are trucks, trains and tractor
trailors. The main road and railway systems (Map IBRD 11167) are adequate
to transport the production generated by the project to ports and domestic
consumption centers. The farm road network is satisfactory at present, but
would need to be improved for hauling the increased tonnage resulting from
the project. This is already being done in certain parts of the project
area as a part of an overall road improvement program of the local govern-
ment due to be completed by the end of 1976.



-5-
F.   Population, Land Tenure and Farm Size
3.06      The project area has a population of 133,000.  About 60,000 people
of working age are registered members of 46 cooperatives. About 32,600 coop-
erative members are engaged in crop production and 7,400 in other cooperative
farming activities. The remaining 20,000 members work on State agricultural
farms, and in industrial and other enterprises within and outside the project
area.
3.07      All project land is State-owned or State-controlled.  About 78% of
it is farmed by 46 cooperative farms, nearly 19% by 4 State farms and the
balance is given for use by cooperative farm families as garden plots. Aver-
age size of a cooperative farm is about 1,740 ha. One of the State farms is
13,800 ha and the remaining are about 2,000 ha each. The average size of a
garden plot is 300 m2.
3.08      Members of cooperative farms are given the use of small plots of
land. These have not been provided with irrigation in existing State schemes.
In the project area there are about 5,200 ha of which about 2,000 ha, scatter-
ed in the residential communities, are watered in various ways. The remaining
3,200 ha, are in contiguous blocks outside the communities. In order to make
cptimum use of the project installations, and to obtain the maximum possible
production, it was agreed that these plots would be included in the project.
G.   Land Use, Yields and Production
3.09      The project area is currently under rainfed cultivation.  A dozen
different crops are grown on 98,900 ha (excluding garden plots) with 100%
intensity. Cereals (maize, wheat, and barley) occupy about 70% of the area;
crops grown on the remaining area include forages, sunflower, soybeans, sugar
beets, beans, grapes, peaches and peas. In the absence of the proposed project,
the Government has planned to change the present cropping pattern to increase
production. Under this proposal, the area under maize, barley, soybeans and
sugar beets would be increased while under wheat and sunflower, it would be
reduced. Yields would substantially improve due to greater use of technology.
3.10      Land use after the project would be slightly different from that
proposed for the future without the project. It would involve the deletion
of peas; substitution of tomatoes for potatoes; increase in area under peaches,
and grapes; and introduction of maize fodder. Cropping intensity due to irri-
gation would increase from the present 100% to 115%. The project would allow
higher yields and enable their accelerated realization by reducing irrigation
and drainage constraints, which currently subdue the efficiency of fertilizer
use. The impact of the project on land use, yields and production is shown
in Annex 1, Table 2.
H.   Farm Inputs
3.11      Agricultural machinery is adequate for the currently mechanized
farming operations which include land preparation, the bulk of sowing and
fertilizer spreading, and part of the spraying, weeding and harvesting.



-6-
Further mechanization would not be possible for want of suitable machinery
for other operations. With the project, supplementary machinery would be
needed by mechanization enterprises to deal with the increased intensity of
cropping and volume of inputs and outputs. At present there is one machinery
service station serving 5 to 6 cooperative farms with tractors and ancillary
attachments for every 15,000 ha cultivated; one for every 10,000 ha would be
provided after irrigation is introduced.
3.12      Seed production and distribution program is adequate.  Part of the
seed requirement is produced by State and cooperative farms and part by Gov-
ernment research stations (para. 3.15); the latter source is important for
the supply of newly evolved varieties and improved seeds. The distribution
of off-farm and imported seeds is handled by State enterprise Agrosem.
3.13      Fertilizer for use in Romania has been insufficient because much of
production is exported to earn much needed foreign exchange. State farms re-
ceive the bulk of the quantities available for local consumption, and coopera-
tive farms, which dominate the project area, get the residual. To ensure
project fertilizer requirements an understanding has been obtained that the
Government will meet full project requirements for fertilizers.
3.14      Supply of pesticides and insecticides is satisfactory.  Some are
imported while the rest are produced locally.
I.  Agricultural Research and Extension
3.15      Agricultural research program in Romania, including university
research, is elaborate with right accent on applied aspects. It is coord-
inated by the Academy for Agriculture and Forestry Sciences and financed
mainly by the State. The Academy has 17 institutes and 35 experimental sta-
tions which occupy a total of 85,000 ha. At present, the Academy's State-
appropriated annual budget is 250 million lei (US$12.5 million); this is
supplemented by an additional 100 million lei (US$5.0 million) through sales
of seeds produced on experimental stations. Two experimental stations at
Baneasa and Vaceni are located adjacent to the project area and research on
numerous subjects including crop varieties and their multiplication, cultural
and irrigation practices, pest and disease control, and plant ecology.
3.16      State sponsored, multitier-technical and advisory (extension)
service is effective in Romania. Its primary role is less to advise than to
monitor the application of technology and to follow up established cultural
practices as evolved at research stations. These cultural practices are
documented by specialized agencies in a production manual specifying frequency
and timing of tillage, quantity and quality of inputs, methods of plant protec-
tion, planting time, spacing, etc. The manual is prepared and updated for
each crop, and modified to suit conditions of production in different regions.
Farmers receive training through demonstration farms, visits to farms, short
winter courses and literature on agricultural production. The project area
is adequately supplied with these services.



-7-
J.   Credit
3.17      Financial arrangements, like elsewhere in the country, are satis-
factory. The major source of investment and production financing in State
farms is the State budget; credit financing is of minor importance. On
Cooperative farms, credit financing accounts for about half of the total.
3.18      Financing in both State and cooperative farms is administered
through the Bank for Agriculture and Food Industry (BAFI). BAFI serves the
project area through two branches and their sub-branches. Sources of domestic
funds to BAFI include the State budget, deposits by agricultural enterprises,
withholdings (as development funds) of part of cooperative farms' incomes,
borrowings from the Romanian National Bank, and its own capital of 800 million
lei (US$40 million). Foreign funds are borrowed under State approval and
sponsorship.
3.19      All investments in State farms which are recouped through State
budget and up to 70% of investments in cooperative farms which are recovered
as loans are financed by BAFI; up to 30% of investments in cooperative farms
are financed from the cooperatives' own funds. BAFI ensures that the proposed
projects are economically sound, and conceived and analyzed in accordance with
the national plan. These loans are recoverable within 25 years with an inter-
est rate of 3% per annum. In addition to long-term investment, BAFI finances
short-term credit for production, marketing and processing of agricultural
products. Production and consumption loans bear between 1% and 4% interest
rates, and are normally recovered within a year. Delayed payments are im-
posed interest up to 12% per annum. Details are in Annex 2.
K.   Marketing
3.20      Like elsewhere in the agricultural sector, specialized government
Centrals (marketing boards) are the primary channels of product distribution
in the project area. Four different centrals are responsible for the market-
ing of cereals, vegetables and fruits, sugar beets and grapes. Central for
the Sale of Cereals and Foodstuffs (CVPC) markets wheat, maize, barley, soy-
beans, peas and sunflower. The marketing of fruits, vegetables, and potatoes
is the responsibility of Central for Vegetables and Fruits (CPLF). Central
for Sugar (CIZ) markets sugar beets and their products, and Central for Grapes
and Wine (CVV) grapes. These Centrals have their headquarters in Bucharest.
3.21      Except for CIZ, the Centrals procure products through their county
branches and collecting centers. The collecting centers are the primary
market intermediaries which are responsible for the collection and distribu-
tion of products. CVPC has four collecting centers in the project area,
while CPLF and CVV each has two centers; CIZ procures sugar beets through
its refineries, one is located adjacent to the project area. Project output
would be purchased from State and cooperative farms on contractual basis and
distributed according to national plan.



-8-
3.22      Storage facilities in the project area are adequate.  At present,
facilities are available to store upto 200,000 tons of cereals, oilseeds and
pulses; these facilities are planned to be expanded to 350,000 tons by 1980.
Vegetables, fruits and grapes are disposed without storage by the collecting
centers. It is necessary to store sugar beets for a time before processing;
this is done in the open with minimal loss without any special storage facil-
ities. Details are in Annex 2.
IV. THE PROJECT
A.   Objectives
4.01      The project would provide irrigation and drainage to stabilize
and increase agricultural production for local consumption and export. It
would also reduce underemployment and improve rural incomes. The irrigation
water would be pumped from the Danube River and distributed by lined canals
and buried pipes (Annex 3 and Map IBRD 11167).
4.02      Giurgiu-Razmiresti project has a gross area of 118,500 ha of which
108,500 ha are productive. About 4,400 ha are already irrigated from ponds
and 2,000 ha are in small plots scattered in residential areas. The project
would provide irrigation to a net area of 100,800 ha including the 3,200 ha
of plots given in use to members of the cooperative farms (para 3.08). About
80% of this area would be irrigated by sprinklers and 20% from furrows. Proj-
ect works would occupy about 1,270 ha of the productive land.
B.   Description
4.03      The project would include:
(a)  two main supply pumping stations and two repumping stations;
(b)  240 km of lined main, branch and secondary canals;
(c)  2,170 km of buried distribution pipelines;
(d)  65 pressure pumps for sprinkler irrigation on 65 sectors
averaging about 1,200 ha each;
(e)  13 pressure pumps for furrow irrigation on 13 sectors
averaging about 1,620 ha each;
(f)  12 lift pumps for drainage facilities, 75 km of main drains
and 287 km of collector drains tor about 33,600 ha;
(g)  power transmission system for pumping stations; consisting of
464 km of 20 kv lines;



-9-
(h) minor land leveling on about 21,000 ha, and erosion control
works for 6,000 ha;
(i) equipment and materials for construction, operation and
maintenance, and farm machinery;
(j) consultant services and/or suppliers post-sale services to
assist in ICB procurement and in installation and initial
operation of imported equipment; and
(k) training of Romanian project technical personnel.
4.04      The Ministry of Agriculture, Food Industry and Water, with the
assistance of other government agencies, its own departments, centrals and
enterprises, would be responsible for the detailed planning, supervision,
construction and operation and coordination of project works. The Ministry's
Department of Land Reclamation and Agricultural Construction (DIFCA) would
supervise the design and construction of irrigation and drainage works. The
Central for Exploitation of Land Reclamation Works (CELIF), through its enter-
prises and their sub-units, would be responsible for operation and maintenance
of project facilities. The Ministry of Electric Energy, with the assistance
of its centrals and enterprises, would install, operate and maintain electrical
works.
C.   Detailed Features
4.05      Main Supply and Repumping Stations.  Irrigation water would be
pumped from the Danube River by a floating pumping station at Giurgiu located
on an improved side channel (Cama Canal) of the Danube River which would also
be used for fish farming. It would lift a maximum of 80.6 m3/sec by an average
of 10 m (a maximum of 13 m) to the first reach of the main distribution canal.
Based on considerations of experience and standardization, the station would
consist of 26 pumping units mounted on 5 floating barges with flexible joint
penstocks to allow for more than 10 m fluctuation in the river level and lead
into the main (CA) canal. About 7.5 km along the canal, the Ghizdaru Pumping
Station would again lift the water 67.3 m to the top of the terrace and second
reach of the main canal. It would consist of 14 pumping units and a maximum
capacity of about 77 m3/sec. The second reach of the main canal would run 3.1
km before dividing into two branches, one of which would feed two repump sta-
tions (SRP2 and SRP3) which would lift 10.3 m3/sec and 4.2 m3/sec, respectively,
by an additional 4 m to irrigate 16,300 ha on the upper terrace in the northwest
part of the project.
4.06      Supply and Distribution Canals.  The main supply canal (CA) running
from the Giurgiu Pumping Station, would have an initial flow capacity of 80.6
m3/sec and a terminal capacity of 77 m3/sec. It would also have storage capa-
city, with automatic flow control and overflow structures to balance pump flow
and irrigation demand. It would be trapezoidal in cross section. The canal,
as stated above, would divide into east (CAJ) and west (CA2) branch canals.
The CAJ canal would have a flow capacity of 32 m3/sec and a length of 26 km and
CA2 a capacity of 44.4 m3/sec and a length of 44 km.  Both branch canals would



- 10 -
have additional storage capacities and automatic controls and would distribute
project irrigation water to 16 secondary canals. The secondary canals would
total about 160 km in length. The canal system would convey project water to
the pipe distribution systems and to irrigation sectors. The canals would be
concrete-lined to reduce percolation losses. This is the least cost alterna-
tive using discount rates of up to 12%.
4.07      Pipe Distribution System.  A buried pipe distribution network,
consisting of about 2,170 km of asbestos cement and reinforced concrete pipe,
would distribute the water within irrigation sectors. The water would be
pumped from the canals into the pipeline by pressure pumping stations. Turn-
out hydrants would be installed at regular intervals along the branch pipe-
lines to supply water to farm sprinkler and furrow distribution systems.
4.08      Sprinkler Irrigation System.  Sprinkler irrigation is the least cost
alternative over furrow irrigation for areas with non-uniform slopes of greater
than 3% and which require excessive land leveling. The cost of furrow irriga-
tion then exceeds that of sprinkler at any discount rate. On this basis, about
80% of the project land would be served by sprinkler irrigation in 65 separate
sectors, each divided into about 38 ha blocks containing 2 irrigation units
each, one on each side of the distribution pipeline. A pressure pumping sta-
tion and buried pipe distribution system would be provided for each block.
The distribution pipe laterals would be about 612 meters apart with hydrants
at 72 m intervals.  An on-farm sprinkler system including 300 m of 100 mm
diameter aluminum pipe with couplings, sprinklers, risers, and couplings for
the hydrant would be provided for each unit.
4.09      Furrow Irrigation System.  The rest of the project area would be
divided for furrow irrigation into 13 sectors, which would be further divided
into about 47 ha blocks.  Each block would contain eight 192 m x 300 m units.
The sectors would be served by pressure pumping stations and underground dis-
tribution pipes 612 m apart with turnout hydrants placed at 192 m intervals.
The hydrants would discharge water into on-farm butyl pipe lateral systems,
which would distribute the water to furrow at the head of each unit. Each
block would be provided with one 300 m butyl lateral system including pipes,
couplings and accessories.
4.10      Drainage Facilities.  Drainage would be provided on about 33,600
ha in the low areas for protection against surface and groundwater during
rainy season. The facilities would consist of about 75 km of main drains,
287 km of small surface collector drains, and 12 pumping stations.
4.11      Power Transmission System.  A power transmission network consisting
of 464 km of 20 kv lines and transformers would be constructed to distribute
electricity to the project's 94 pumping stations.
4.12      Land Leveling and Erosion Control.  Since the project area lies on
the relatively flat plains and terraces, and the bulk is to be served by sprin-
kler irrigation, no heavy land leveling or major erosion control structures
would be required. Only light leveling, mainly in furrow irrigation areas,
would be provided to prevent ponding during the rainy season and to correct
minor topographic irregularities. Erosion control would be needed in some



- 11 -
natural channels below canal waste-ways and overflow structures where exces-
sive drainage water is routed, and for protection of about 6,000 ha of steeper
sloping lands that are subject to erosion by rain and runoff.
D.   Water Demand, Supply and Quality
4.13      Water Demand.  Allowing for effective precipitation, soil conditions,
and types of crops to be grown in the project area, average net irrigation
water crop requirement is estimated at 3,032 m3/ha, or 305.7 Mm3 with gross
project water requirement of 375.6 Mm3 or about 3,725 m3/ha. Based on exper-
ience in other similar projects in Romania and proposed types of distribution
facilities and operation methods, an overall efficiency of 72% for gravity
and 82% for sprinkler irrigation has been estimated.
4.14      Water Supply and Quality.  The Danube River is a reliable source
of quality water for the project. The Danube reaches its peak flow between
March and June (normal year 12,000 m3/sec) and tapers off to an average low
of about 2,000 m3/sec in October and November. The peak demand for the proj-
ect occurs in July while the river is high. The project demand in the last
month of the irrigation season (September) would be 20 m3/sec, or only about
3% of minimum river flow. Details are given in Annex 4.
E.   Water Rights
4.15      There is currently no effective international agreement among the
Danube River riparian states on the use of the Danube river for irrigation
but a convention exists for development of the river for mutual benefits, and
for protection of navigation and water quality. The International Water Com-
mission for the Danube River, at Budapest, of which Romania is a member, is
concerned mainly with dams and large structures on the river which may inter-
fere with navigation and water quality. An analysis of the information
furnished by the Commission to the Bank shows that the effect of the proposed
project on navigation and quality would be negligible.
F.   Status of Engineering
4.16      Designs and specifications for all project works have been completed
by the Institute for Land Reclamation Studies and Designing (ISPIF). Pre-
requisite investigations, surveys and studies have been done in great detail
using Romanian manualized procedures. The designs have been well prepared
and are suitable for proceeding with construction.  Tender documents for civil
works have not been prepared in the conventional manner as it is Romanian prac-
tice for ISPIF to submit the design and specifications directly to the Con-
struction Trusts and Enterprises for Land Reclamation Works (TCIF) which are
responsible for construction of projects. Tender documents would need to be
prepared to meet Bank requirement for procurement of material and equipment
through international competitive bidding. Pumping units for the Ghizdaru



- 12 -
Pumping Station have been purchased (total cost US$2.4 million) from the USSR,
and as confirmed by the negotiating team will be delivered by end of June 1975.
G.   Flood Control
4.17      The Danube River is subject to flooding; however, project features
are protected from it by existing protective d kes. The river level of the
Danube with a 1,000 year flood (about 20,000 m/sec) would be at elevation
20.27 m in the project area and the top of the dykes are at elevation 24.50 m.
H.   Construction Schedule
4.18      All project works would be completed within 5 construction seasons
during 1974 and 1978. Construction and expenditure schedule is shown in
Annex 5.
1.   Cost Estimates
4.19      The total project cost is estimated at US$141 million, including
physical contingencies and expected price increases but net of taxes, with a
foreign exchange component of about US$43 million (31%). The foreign exchange
component includes an estimated cost of direct payments made in foreign cur-
rencies for equipment and materials, consulting and suppliers post-sale serv-
ices, training and estimated costs of imported capital assets and materials.
used in local manufacturing of project equipment. The cost estimates are sum-
marized below and shown in detail in Annex 6.
COST ESTIMATES
Million Lei-            US$ Million t        Foreign
Category                  Local Foreign  Total   Local Foreign  Total  Exchange
(%)
Civil Works               975.7  256.4  1,232.1   48.7   12.9    61.6         21
Plant Equipment            418.7  146.8    565.5   21.0    7.4    28.4        26
Construction Equipment    70.2  223.6    293.8    3.5   11.2    14.7          76
O&M Facilities              19.9    6.6      26.5    1.0    0.3       1.3     25
Farm Machinery             156.0   52.0    208.0    7.8    2.6    10.4        25
Land Acquisition            19.5     -       19.5    1.0      -       1.0      -
Administration, Consult-
ants and Training       130.1   26.0    136.1    6.5    0.3        6.8       4
Sub-total          1,790.1  691.4  2,481.5   89.6   34.7   124.2         28
Physical Contingencies   140.2   58.3    198.5    6.9    2.9          9.8     29
Price Increase              34.8  104.2    139.0    1.7    5.3        7.0     75
Total Cost/b       1,965.1  853.9  2,819.0   98.1   42.9   141.0         31
/a   Discrepancies due to rounding.
/b   Excludes US$10.9 million interest during construction estimated at the
rate of 8% per year.



- 13 -
4.20      Initial cost estimates were prepared in detail by ISPIF based on
State controlled prices and wages. These estimates were revised upward to
reflect: (i) the impact of external prices from anticipated purchase of
foreign equipment and material, (ii) adequate allowances for administrative,
technical and consulting services, (iii) physical contingencies and anticipat-
ed price increases as price as (iv) additional cost items such as farm machin-
ery. The revised cost amounted to US$141 million compared with US$103 million.
This revision did not increase the cost of labor, local goods and non-trade-
ables. Since final designs and specifications have been prepared in detail,
physical contingencies of 7-1/2% were considered appropriate. For price in-
creases, local costs were increased by 1% per year to account for possible
increases in wages and probable domestic upward price revisions. Price con-
tingencies were calculated at 11% in 1975 and 7.5% per year thereafter for
all imported equipment and materials.
J.   Financing
4.21      A Bank loan of US$70 million is recommended.  This would cover
US$40.5 million of the estimated foreign exchange cost of the project (exclud-
ing US$2.4 million already incurred to purchase pumps) US$19.5 million in
local cost, and US$10 million of interest during construction. The Government
nf Romania would contribute the balance of the project cost (US$81 million).
The loan would be for 25 years including 5 years of grace. This corresponds
to the latest practice of recovering government investments in development
projects.
K.   Procurement
4.22      Contracts for the supply of major equipment and materials listed in
Annex 7, Table 1 and totalling US$54.0 million (excluding contingencies) would
be tendered on the basis of international competitive bidding in accordance with
Bank Guidelines for procurement. Equipment and material costing US$0.7 million
would be procured locally as provided under para 1.2 of the Guidelines. All
ICB equipment contracts would allow local manufacturers a 15% preference margin
or the applicable customs duty, whichever is lower. Romanian regulations have
recently been revised to allow bidding between local and foreign suppliers and
it is expected that about 20% of the contracts would be won by foreign suppliers.
Specifications for these contracts would provide sufficient flexibility to per-
mit choice between equally suitable alternatives proposed by different manufac-
turers. Cost estimates are based on the exchange rate of US$1 = 20 lei. Since
Romanian currency is not freely convertible, international tender documents
would state the current exchange rate to be used in bid evaluation. Details
of the procedures that Romanian suppliers would follow while participating in
international competitive bidding were clarified and an assurance was obtained
that all contracts for major equipment and materials eligible for Bank financ-
ing would be procured through international competitive bidding in accordance
with Bank Guidelines.



- 14 -
4.23      Civil works construction in Romania in all sectors is traditionally
carried out by specialized State construction trusts and enterprises. The
quality of construction is adequate. Contracts are negotiated on the basis
of unit prices and wages controlled by the Government. These civil works
contracts, pumps already purchased from the USSR (US$2.4 million) and goods
purcnased without following Bank procurement procedures would not be eligible
for bank financing.
L.   Disbursements and Expenditures
4.24      IBRD loan would be disbursed against (i) 100% of the foreign ex-
change cost of consultants and training, (ii) 100% of the C.I.F. cost of im-
ported equipment and materials and 100% ex-factory costs of locally purchased
goods if procured through international competitive bidding including the cost
of suppliers post-sale service; (iii) 100% of the cost of equipment and material
procured locally in accordance with para. 1.2 of the Bank Guidelines and (iv)
up to US$10 million for the cost of interest during construction and commitment
charges. Savings, if any, after project completion would be cancelled. The
proposed schedule of capital expenditures is given in Annex 5, and the current
estimate of quarterly disbursements from the proposed loan is shown in Annex 8.
V. THE BORROWER AND PROJECT ORGANIZATION
A.   The Borrower
5.01      The Bank for Agriculture and Food Industry (BAFI), which was funded
in 1968 under Decree No. 141/1968, would be the borrower of IBRD loan because
it is the only State institution responsible for channelling funds to the
agriculture sector in accordance with State plan. It would channel all proj-
ect funds to various enterprises involved in various phases of the project.
BAFI is also involved in appraisal, execution and supervision of agricultural
projects, in collecting benefit quotas from State farms, and in maintaining
settlement accounts for cooperative and State enterprises.
5.02      BAFI's policy making body is composed of a Board of Directors headed
by a president, all of whom are appointed by the Government. It has six spe-
cialized departments, three of which administer the financing of production,
marketing and processing of agricultural products. The other departments are
responsible primarily for planning, financial control and general administra-
tion. BAFI operates through 39 county branches and 100 sub-branches. The
project area has two county branches. Its management policy is satisfactory.
5.03      BAFI's prime source of funds is the State budget because its own
funds are relatively small. Its statutory capital of US$40 million (Para.
3.18) is designed to guarantee its commitments. Under Decree No. 55/1970,
retained net income of BAFI cannot exceed US$80 million statutory capital;
income exceeding the statutory capital accrues to the State budget.



- 15 -
5.04      Project costs which would be financed by the Government would be
transferred by the Ministry of Finance annually, according to disbursement
requirements, to a special project account to be maintained by BAFI. Simi-
larly, the IBRD loan would also be disbursed through the same special project
account kept by BAFI. BAFI would reimburse authorized project expenditures
incurred by the various enterprises involved in project construction, mainte-
nance and operation.
5.05      With the exception of on-farm investments which specifically serve
cooperative farms accounting for about 6% of total project costs (such as
movable sprinklers, surface pipes, hydraulic equipment, tertiary transmission
lines and on-farm drainage), all investment costs would be charged to the
State enterprises. The State would provide BAFI, through the annual budget,
all the funds required to meet BAFI's debt obligations to IBRD. In order to
ensure project execution, operation and maintenance, and the repayment of
IBRD debt obligations, the Government of Romania, has agreed to execute a
guarantee agreement with the Bank.
B.   Project Organization
5.06      In the Socialist Republic of Romania, the Government delegates
executive authority to ministries and subordinate departments, and organiza-
tions to plan and carry out development activities in their various sectors
of responsibility. Major government agencies which would be directly in-
volved in project implementation, coordination, operation, and maintenance
would include the Ministry of Agriculture, Food Industry and Water; the Minis-
try of Electrical Energy; and the Bank for Agriculture and Food Industry (see
Organization Chart, Annex 9).
5.07      The Ministry of Agriculture, Food Industry and Water, through its
subordinate and sister government agencies, would be responsible for planning,
constructing, operating and coordinating of project works. The Ministry's
Department of Land Reclamation and Agricultural Construction (DIFCA) would be
responsible for the planning, designing and constructing project works, except
those relating to electricity. DIFCA would operate through its Technical
Direction for Investments and Coordination (DTIC) and its subordinates, the
Institute of Studies and Designs (ISPIF), and the Direction for Construction
and Local Development (DCAL), and supporting administrative and supply staffs.
Except those located within cooperative farms, project facilities would be
owned by the Government.
5.08      The Ministry of Agriculture's Central for Exploitation of Land
Reclamation Works (CELIF), through its enterprises (IELIF) and their sub-
units would be responsible for operation and maintenance of the project irri-
gation and drainage works. The enterprises would operate and maintain proj-
ect works, while their sub-units would be responsible for minor facilities
within the separate cooperative and State farms. Two enterprises and five
sub-units would operate in Giurgiu-Razmiresti project; each sub-unit would
be responsible for 20-25,000 ha. Administrative and financial responsibilities,



- 16 -
including collection of water charges, would be retained at CELIF's head-
quarters at Bucharest. Details are in Annex 10.
5.09      The Ministry of Electrical Energy, through its subordinate enterprises
and their units, is responsible for construction, operation and maintenance of
power transmission facilities, and for supplying energy to the project area.
Preliminary work is already in progress.
C.   Supporting Agricultural Services
5.10      Input supply, agricultural research, and extension programs are
adequate to meet project needs. They receive due priority in government
plans, and have staff and supporting facilities of acceptable quality (paras
3.11 to 3.16 and Annex 1).
5.11      Credit and marketing arrangements are satisfactory (paras 3.17-3.22
and Annex 2).  BAFI would continue to be the primary source of long and short
term finance. Project output would be purchased from State and cooperative
farms by the marketing Centrals on a contractual basis and distributed accord-
ing to national plan. Marketing facilities are adequate to meet present and
anticipated project needs.
D.   Consultants
5.12      Consultants would be needed to assist DIFCA in the preparation of
procurement specifications and tender documents for international competitive
bidding in accordance with Bank Guidelines, reviewing and evaluating bids and
preparation of periodic progress reports. Suppliers post-sale services would
be also needed for assistance in erection, installation and initial operations
of equipment and machinery. Both consulting services and post-sale services
would be required to train Romanian counterpart staff in their respective
fields of activity. The borrowers has agreed that these services would be
retained for periods and on terms and conditions to be agreed with the Bank.
Specialized and on-the-job training in foreign countries is planned for
Romanian technical personnel in irrigation, engineering and agricultural
skills. Proposed terms of reference are in Annex 9.
E.   Recovery of Project Costs
5.13      About 81% of Project benefits would accrue to members of cooperative
farms, 19% to State farms. This estimate is based on the proportion of land
used by each type of farm.
5.14      Although a precise breakdown of aggregate accounts is difficult,
all project costs for investments, and operations and maintenance would be
recovered, mainly indirectly.
5.15      Only on-farm investments which specifically serve cooperative farms
would be recovered directly. These account for about 6% of total project
costs and would be recovered in not more than 25 years with an interest rate
of 3% through withholdings by BAFI of up to 25% of the cooperative farms'
incomes.



- 17 -
5.16      All other investment costs would be charged to State enterprises
and recovered indirectly through: (i) project benefits from State farms which
would accrue to the State budget, (ii) taxes on incomes of members of coopera-
tives, (iii) price mechanism of tradeable commodities, and (iv) payments to
mechanization enterprises by cooperatives for services rendered.
5.17      As regards operation and maintenance costs, up to 30%, as is now
practiced, would be recovered directly from all farms through a water charge
at present averaging about 215 lei per hectare. The balance is recovered
indirectly.
5.18      Estimated direct and indirect collections from all farms would
recover full operation and maintenance costs and all investments at about 8%
over 40 years (Annex 11). Part of the recoveries would flow through BAFI and
the rest through other government agencies.
F.   Accounts and Audit
5.19      BAFI would keep separate accounts for all project expenditures.
Such accounts would be audited according to existing government procedures,
which are quite stringent. A report on accounts audited by the Ministry of
Finance would be submitted to IBRD annually within five months after the
close of the Romanian fiscal year. Assurances were obtained to this effect.
Details of audit and reporting system are shown in Annex 12.
G.   Monitoring and Key Project Indicators
5.20      The production activity of the project would be disbursed over
four State farms, 46 cooperative farms and numerous garden plots located in
two different administrative counties. In order to measure project perform-
ance against targets of project construction as well as production, the bor-
rower has undertaken to furnish necessary information through periodical re-
ports.
VI. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A.   Production
6.01      Without the project, gross value of annual production would increase
from the present US$26.5 million to US$33.0 million by 1983. The expected in-
crease would result from planned change in the crop mix and from greater appli-
cation of technology, especially fertilizers and better seeds. Any further
improvement in production would be constrained by lack of irrigation.



- 18 -
6.02      With the project, gross value of annual production would be US$90.2
million.  Cultivated land, exclusive of garden plots, would decrease from
98,900 ha to about 97,600 ha due to about 1% loss in land to project structures.
However, cropped area would increase to 112,725 ha due to about 15% increase
in cropping intensity. Incremental production would result from a change in
cropping pattern, intensive cultivation, adequate and timely irrigation,
greater and efficient use of fertilizers, high yielding varieties, improved
drainage and erosion control, effective pest and disease control, augmenting
of existing machinery for timely agricultural operations, and the continuation
of the present credit and marketing facilities which are adequate.
6.03      At full development in 1985, the project cropping pattern and in-
cremental production would be as follows:



-19-
CROPPING PATTERN AND OUTPUT
(Area in '000 hectares, Output in '000 tons)
Crop                           Present                        Future                 Incremental
Without Project         With Project Output lb
Cropped              Cropped              Cropped
Area       Output   Area        Output   Area       Output
Cereals
Wheat                      29.9      63.3       11.3      27.1        11.0     44.1      -19.2
Barley                      3.9       9.7        5.5      13.2         5.4    21.5        11.8
Maize                      32.8      85.6       38,0    313.9         37.0    240.6      154.8
Pulses
Beans                       1.9       1.6        2.1       2.0         2.4      4.4        2.8
Peas                        1.0       1.3        0.4       0.7          -        -        -1.3
Oil Seeds
Soybeans                    2.0       1.4       12.1      10.9        11.8     29.4       28.0
Sunflower                   8.7      12.0        6.1        9.3        5.9     13.0        1.0
Sugar beets                 3.9      75.0        5.7.    125.4         5.6    222.2      147.2
Vegetables and Fruits
Toaatoes                   -           -        -            - _3.5/a  87.1               87.1
Potatoes                    1.9      17.3        3.6       42.9         -        -       -17.3
Peaches                     0.2       0.4        0.2        0.6        0-5      6.6        6.4
Grapes                      0.6       2.2        0.6        2.4        1.5     21.2       19.0
Fodders
Alfalfa                    12.1     108.8       13.3      149.9       13.0    758.5      649.7
Maize (silage and          _     -               -           -        15.1    603.8      603.8
forage)
1T)TLL                     98998911.
La  These areas do not include 3,200 ha of private plots which are accounted for
when estimating the projects economic rate of return.
/1)  For economic analysis increnental output was derived fro:n difference between future
'with' and 'without' project.



- 20 -
B.   Market Prospects
6.04       Cereals.  Romania has been importing wheat, barley, and maize in
recent years primarily because of a drought in 1970 and excessive rains in
1973 which resulted in unusually low production; the country is potentially
a net exporter of grains. Annual exports in average production years amount
to half a million tons. With the project, full development incremental pro-
duction by 1983, after allowing for a planned decrease in wheat output, would
be 147,000 tons. This is small in relation to national production exceeding
16 million tons, and domestic demand. Importers of cereals from Romania in-
clude Western European countries, the USSR, and the countries of Eastern
Europe. The latter are faced with an estimated annual grain deficit of 2
billion tons by 1980. Besides a modest increase in demand for foodgrains, a
substantial feed grain demand is anticipated. Feedgrain consumption in Romania
is estimated to grow from 5.5 million tons in 1970 to 7.8 million tons in
1980. This would be in response to a rising domestic demand for livestock
products as shown by studies which indicate high income elasticity of demand
for foods of animal origin. There is also a large foreign demand for Romanian
livestock and livestock products which even currently are sizeable sources of
foreign exchange. Current plan emphasizes the development of the livestock
sector.
6.05       Pulses.  With the project, the production of peas would be elim-
inated because of their low response to irrigation, while that of beans would
increase slightly. Beyond offsetting loss in the production of peas, the
incremental output of beans would be negligible.
6.06       Oilseeds.  The additional annual project output of soybeans would
reach 28,000, and of sunflower 1,000 tons by 1983. At present, Romania ex-
ports oilseeds, but is a net importer of more than 30,000 tons of cake and
meal annually. Local crushing has been increasing in recent years and the
trend is to be continued according to official plans. Although the world
market outlook for soybean oil and meal is bright, part of the oil and all
of the cake and meal would be needed for domestic consumption. The domestic
demand for oilmeal is expected to increase from nearly half a million tons
in 1970 to one million tons in 1980.
6.07       Sugar beets.  The additional production of sugar beets would be
equivalent to roughly 21,000 tons of sugar annually by 1983. This can be
consumed locally or exported. The domestic annual per capita consumption is
less than 25 kg, among the lowest in Europe. Assuming a 2% per year increase
in consumption between 1975-83, the additional consumption of sugar would ex-
ceed 100,000 tons, of which project incremental production would account for
about 20%. Romania was a net exporter of sugar in the 1960's, but was a net
importer in 1970-71; production in 1970-71 was low because of poor weather.
The country was a net exporter of 81,000 tons of sugar in 1972. Importers of
Romanian sugar include UK, France, Germany and Yugoslavia. World export mar-
ket for sugar is favorable. Outlook for the future suggests shortage of sup-
ply relative to demand, punctuated by occasional balance between supply and
demand.



- 21 -
6.08      Vegetables and Fruits.  Incremental production of tomatoes (87,000
tons), grapes (19,000 tons), and peaches (6,400 tons) are intended both for
export and local consumption. Full production would be attained in 1983.
Romania is an exporter of vegetables and fruits. its annual exports average
250,000 tons of vegetables, 150,000 tons of fruits including peaches, and
45,000 tons of grapes. USSR and Eastern European countries are the main
markets for exports of Rornanian fruits and vegetables. Other important mar-
kets include Italy, West Germany and Austria. The outlook for expansion of
exports to these markets is favorable. Canning of tomatoes and peaches and
an increased production of exportable wine, which Romania exports already in
quantity to European countries and USSR, are planned. Population growth and
improved incomes would generate additional domestic demand for vegetables and
fruits.
6.09      Fodder.  The additional production of fodders would amount to 1.25
million tons of green alfalfa and maize. Part of the fodders would be fed
fresh and part would be made into silage. The Romanian livestock subsector is
large and growing. Emphasis is being placed on irrigated fodder production to
improve feeding and to release concentrates, which Romania expects to export
eventually.
C.   Prices
6.10      For financial analysis all outputs are valued at official domestic
farmgate prices. For economic analysis farmgate prices of tradeable commod-
ities are derived from international prices while non-tradeables are valued
at domestic prices. International price equivalents are derived from IBRD
forecasts for the period 1974-1985, expressed in constant 1974 US dollars or
US dollar equivalent. Details are in Annex 13.
D.   Producers' Income
6.11      Agricultural laborers on State farms are paid fixed daily wages of
about US$1.80 and skilled workers a monthly salary of around US$45; project
output would have little or no influence on their incomes. It would, however,
influence incomes of members of cooperative farms. A farm budget, showing the
project's direct impact on income of cooperative farmers, is shown in Annex
14. A crop producing cooperative farm in the project area averages about
1,740 ha and has 710 active members. Annual income of each active cooperative
member from the farm, after deductions of water charges, development fund and
other obligations except personal income tax, would increase from 3,300 lei in
future without the project to 13,000 lei with the project (from US$165 to
UlS$650) or an incremental income due to the project of about 9,700 lei (US$485),
assuming continuation of present government policy.
E.   Economic Benefits and Rates of Return
6.12      The Project would increase production of foodgrains, oilseed, feed-
grains, fodder, sugar, fruits and vegetables which would result in net foreign
exchange earnings and import substitution up to UJS$40 million per year. It



- 22 -
would also help meet the growing domestic demand, and improve incomes of about
17,000 families working on cooperative farms besides yielding direct revenues
to the State from State farms production and general taxes. The estimated gross
value of production would be US$90.2 million per year (Annex 15, Table 1).
6.13      The net value of annual production would rise from the present
US$17.8 million to US$20.9 million without the project by 1983. With the
project, it would increase to US$64.5 million in 1985, an incremental annual
value of production with the project of about US$43.6 million.
6.14      The project's economic rate of return, costing all labor at domestic
rate of 36 lei (US$1.80) per day, is estimated at 13.5%. This is in line with
rates of return of power and industrial projects being financed by the Bank.
Sensitivity tests show that a 20% increase in costs would reduce the rate of
return to 11.6% and a 20% decrease in benefits would reduce it to 10.3%. If
the project development period were delayed by two years, the rate of return
would be 11.2%. Even under the combined unfavorable conditions of reduced
project benefits and delayed development period, the rate of return would be
8.5%. Details of assumptions and results are in Annex 15.
F.   Social Benefits
6.15      Employment.  Direct annual farm employment would increase from 1.1
million man-days in future without the project to 2.9 million man-days with
the project; a high degree of mechanization not withstanding. Project employ-
ment benefits would start in the mid-1970's with the initial employment in
project-related construction, which would be gradually replaced by production
activities. In addition, indirect employment would result from input supplies,
and output handling and processing. Details of direct employment are shown in
Annex 16.
6.16      Income Distribution.  Although the Romanian political system guards
against wide disparity in income levels, income spread is far from uniform
in all sectors of the economy. The agriculture sector is behind others, and
the Government has been working on reducing, if not on removing, such dispar-
ities as exist by encouraging the cooperative sector through provision of in-
puts. Even if no further policy measures were applied, the project would help
improve the income of the cooperative farmers as shown in para 6.11.
6.17      Environment and Health.  The project would have no adverse effect
on the environment. The project area is already populated and cultivated.
There are no project related epidemic or endemic health problems. The irri-
gation would be piped and drainage would be provided for marshy areas. Ex-
cavation and backfill for the side canal at Giurgiu would be controlled to
create a lake for recreation and commercial pisciculture. Roads would be
improved. All this would improve the scenery and sanitation.



- 23 -
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
7.01      The legal documents will record the following agreements:
(a) that equipment and material totalling about US$54.0 million
will be procured through international competitive bidding
in accordance with the Bank Guidelines (para 4.22);
(b) that Government will provide adequate local and foreign
exchange funds to BAFI to meet its project related obliga-
tions (para 5.05);
(c) that consultants and suppliers post-sale services will be
retained on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank for
assistance in procurement of equipment and machinery and for
assistance in Installation and initial operations of equip-
ment (para 5.12);
(d) that project accounts for the period January 1 - December 31,
audited by the Ministry of Finance will be submitted to IBRD
annually within 5 months after the close of the Romanian
fiscal year (para 5.19).
It was agreed also that project facilities would be extended to approximately
3,200 ha of plots used individually by members of cooperative farms (para
3.08). Understandings were reached on meeting the full fertilizer requirements
of the project (para 3.13), details of procurement (para 4.22) and reporting
procedures (para 5.20).
7.02      In view of the above agreements and understandings, the project
constitutes a suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$70 million for 25 years
including 5 years grace. The borrower will be the Bank for Agriculture and
Food Industry with the guarantee of Romania.






ANNEX 1
Page 1
ROMANIA
GIURGIU RAZMIRESTI IRRIGATION PROJECT
Agriculture
A.   General
1.        Romania has a total area of 23.7 million ha. of which 14.9 million
ha are suitable for agriculture. More than 60% of the agricultural lands are
arable, and a large portion of these arable lands is located along the Danube
River. The country is gifted with fertile soils, good climate, and exploit-
able irrigation potential. Average annual rainfall varies from 400 mm in the
southeast to more than 1,400 mm in mountainous areas; but its distribution in
relation to different regions and cropping seasons is inadequate for obtain-
ing optimum yields. Such a constraint can be remedied through supplemental
irrigation from the Danube and other smaller rivers; this is already under
progress.
2.        The soils and climate in Romania are favorable for growing wide
varieties of crops. Cereals are grown on about two-thirds of the arable
lands. Maize and wheat are the most important field crops; about 3.4 million
ha of maize and 2.1 million ha of wheat are planted each year. Other cereals
grown are barley, oats, rice and rye. The country also grows oilseeds (sun-
flower, soybeans), pulses (beans and peas), sugarbeets, fodder (alfalfa and
maize), and a wide assortment of vegetables. Fruits and grapes are generally
grown on steep terrains which are considered unsuitable for intensive cultiva-
tion.
3.        Agricultural production is organized primarily into State (IAS) and
cooperative (CAP) farms. At present about 30% of the agricultural land is
used by State farms and 60% by cooperative farms. The remaining 10% is cul-
tivated by private farmers, and it is located mostly in remote mountains. A
small area (about 300 m2 per family) in cooperative farms is assigned and
managed as a private family garden plot.
4.        State farms have been receiving preference in investments, inputs
and trained personnel. During 1950-70, they received about 40% of total
investment in agriculture. In 1971, State farms accounting for about one
fifth of the total arable land operated 33% of the total irrigated area and
used about one-third of all fertilizer consumed in Romania. Consequently,
yield levels on State farms are a third higher than those on cooperative
farms. However, as State farms approach peak yield levels, cooperative farms
are receiving more investments and inputs.
B.   Climate
5.        The climate in the project area is temperate with hot summers and
cold winters. Annual temperature in Giurgiu averaged 11.3°C during 1896-
1973. The highest monthly temperature (as recorded in August 1952) was 27°C



ANNEX 1
Page 2
and the lowest (January 1962) was -10.7°C. Normally, the temperature range
is -10°C to 23°C. There is an average of 140 freezing days in the winter.
Frosts may occur as late as April and as early as September. Prevailing
winds are from the east and southwest along the Danube Valley; they average
about 2 m per second during the irrigation season, with the highest winds
occurring between 3 and 5 p.m. which may necessitate occasional stoppage
of sprinklers for brief periods.
6.        Precipitation occurs in the form of snow in the winter and rain in
the spring, summer, and fall. The average annual precipitation is about 550
mm of which 308 mm falls during the growing season (April to September). In
years of average behavior, this is approximately half of the optimal plant
requirements. However, lengthy droughts are common. Climatological data
are summarized in Table 1.
C.   Topography and Soils
7.        Giurgiu-Razmiresti, with a gross area of 118,500 ha, includes the
Danube flood plain (20%) and the Burnas plain (80%); the Burnas plain terrace
is about 90 m above the average water level of the Danube River. Four-fifths
of the project area has slightly undulating topography, and this can be irri-
gated by sprinkler irrigation without expensive land leveling. The remaining
area is relatively flat and is suitable for furrow irrigation.
8.        Soils of the project area have been studied in detail by Government
specialized institutions at scale of 1/10,000. Administrative maps have been
prepared at 1/25,000 scale. On the basis of these studies, four classes of
soils have been identified in Giurgiu-Razmiresti. The extent and charac-
teristics of these soils are shown below:
Class I   -    These are found over 92,000 ha in Giurgiu-Razmiresti;
they are well drained, fertile, either flat or slightly
sloping, free from ground water influence and are suit-
able for irrigation without serious constraints. About
20,000 ha needs drainage to avoid rain flooding.
Class II  -    Found over 10,600 ha, these soils are very fertile but
not equally drained. Without efficient drainage, they
are likely to be influenced by brackish ground water.
Class III -    About 2,900 ha in Giurgiu-Razmiresti project comprise
of such soils. These soils have medium fertility and
poor drainage; both drawbacks are remediable.
Class IV (and below) - Found over 3,900 ha, they have low fertility,
and suffer from erosion and salinity. Some of them
are prone to flooding. The net irrigable project area
of 100,830 ha includes only classes I to III soils.
Class IV soils are excluded from the project because
they are either very eroded and/or are under heavy



ANNEX 1
Page 3
influences of ground water table and surface water;
the cost of remedying these drawbacks is likely to
outweigh the benefits. Provisions have been made
for remedying drawbacks of Classes II and III soils.
9.        Two systems of irrigation have been proposed for the project area.
Gravity system would be used on soils with hard texture, groundwater depth
of at least 5 m, and requiring not more than 400 M3/ha land leveling for
furrow irrigation. This system would embrace about 20% of the project area.
Sprinkler system would be used on the remaining 80% of the area which includes
soils with more than 3% slope and shallow water table.
D.   Drainage
10.       At present, drainage in the project area is satisfactory.  It would,
however, be provided for about one third of the project area, including all
of classes II and III soils, and parts of Class I soils. Class II soils
are located on terraces or low plains and are slightly influenced by saline
water; class III soils are located on depressions and have low permeability.
Class I soils would need to be drained to avoid rain flooding.
E.   Population, Land Tenure and Farm Size
11.       The project area has a population of 133,000, about 60,000 of whom
are working-age registered members of 46 cooperatives.
12.       All project land is State-owned or State-controlled.  Forty-six co-
operative farms use 78% of it and four State farms use 19%; the balance is
cultivated as private garden plots by cooperative farm families.
13.       Average size of a cooperative farm in the project area is about
1,740 ha. One of the State farms is 13,800 ha and the remaining are about
2,000 ha each. Average size of a private garden plot is 300 m2.
F.   Land Uses, Yields and Production
14.       Estimates of present and future (with and without the project)
areas, yields and production are shown in Table 2. The project area is
currently under rainfed cultivation where 12 crops are grown on 98,900 ha
with 100% intensity. Cereals (maize, wheat and barley) are grown on about
70% of the area; crops grown on the rest of the area (in descending order)
include forages, sunflower, sugarbeets, beans, soybeans, potatoes, peas,
grapes and peaches.
15.       In the absence of the project, the Government has planned to modify
the present cropping pattern to improve yields by growing crops in their best
ecological environment and by intensified application of rain-farm technology.
Under this proposal, area under maize, barley, soybeans and sugarbeets would



ANNEX 1
Page 4
be substantially increased while that of wheat and sunflower would be reduced.
Yields would increase substantially in response to intensified application of
technology. The expected increase would occur during a five-year period in
a linear 20% per annum, and stabilize thereafter due to irrigation and drain-
age constraints.
16.       Land use with the project would be similar to that proposed for the
future without the project except for slight modifications. Additional changes
with the project would be deletion of peas, substitution of tomatoes for pota-
toes, increase in area under peaches, grapes and maize fodder (to be cultivated
as a second crop following wheat and barley). Cropping intensity would increase
from 100% without the project to 115% with the project. The project would also
allow higher yields, at an accelerated pace, by removing irrigation and drain-
age constraints and by increasing the efficient use of fertilizers.
17.       With the project, a four-year rotation would be followed.  Such a
system was developed at Giurgiu-Baneasa FAO pilot farm located on the Burnas
Plateau. Different varieties of crops with different maturity periods would
be grown in order to avoid pressure at harvest time. As an example, 50% of
projected area under maize would be sown with type 400 which is harvested in
160 days, 30% with type 300 due for harvest in 130 days, and the rest with
type 200 which matures in 120 days.
G.   Mechanization
18.       Agricultural mechanization in Romania has been increasing as a re-
sult of stated policy of the Government; this is also true of the project area.
All land preparation, the bulk of sowing and fertilizer spreading, and part of
the weeding, spraying and harvesting operations would be mechanized. Sowing
and pruning of orchards, weeding of tender crops (sunflower and tomatoes) would
be done manually. About half of the proposed area under maize would be harvest-
ed by machine; the rest would be done manually. With the project, demand for
machinery and labor would increase.
19.       State farms have their own farm machinery while cooperative farms
use the services of farm machinery units of mechanization enterprises on cus-
tom basis; each machinery unit serves 5 or 6 cooperative farms. The project
would provide for additional farm machinery to handle the increase in cropped
area and to minimize seasonal shortage of tractor-time. A seasonal shortage of
equipment may be felt at peak barley and wheat harvest in July when equipment
would be needed for preparation of 15,000 ha of forage crops. One machinery
service station with tractors and ancillary attachments would be provided for
each 10,000 ha of irrigated land compared to the present 15,000 ha.
H.   Seeds
20.       Seed production and distribution program is adequate.  Part of the
seed requirements is produced by State and cooperative farms and part by Gov-
ernment research stations. The latter source is important for the supply of
newly evolved varieties and improved seeds. The distribution of off-farm and
imported seeds is handled by State enterprise called Agrosem.



ANNEX 1
Page 5
I.   Fertilizers
21.       The domestic supply of fertilizers is low relative to export and
domestic demand. First priority in the distribution of available supply is
given to all State farms. Irrigated portions of cooperative farms have sec-
ond priority while unirrigated portions hiave third priority. This, however,
does not promote efficient allocation of fertilizer inputs. Projected con-
sumption of ammonium nitrate is expected to increase from 13,500 tons with-
out the project to about 25,000 tons with the project. Similarly, project
demand for superphosphates would increase from 21,100 to 29,800 tons, while
the demand for potassium sulphate would increase from 900 to 1,600 tons. A
summary of project fertilizer demand by crops in the project area is presented
below.
Projected Fertilizer Consumption
(kg/ha/year)
With Project                      Without Project
Crop         Ammonium Nitrate Superphosphate  Ammonium Nitrate Superphosphate
Maize (grain)        240             300               160              200
Maize (fodder)       300             300               180              200
Wheat                270             200               150              130
Alfalfa               -              370                                200
Sunflower            220             400               130              400
Barley               150             150                80              100
Sugar beet           300             300               300              300
Beans                120             250                -               200
Soybeans             125             300                70              100
Vegetables           400             400               300              300
J.   Plant Protection
22.       Lffective plant protection measures are taken against weeds and di-
seases. A pre-emergence herbicide ATRASAN is appliedI on rows of maize and two
hoeings are performed later. Herbicide 2-4i) is applied on wheat in April.
Sunflower and sugar beets are treated witli a variety of chemicals. Pest con-
trol is compulsory for fruit and vegetable farms; this is performed by State
enterprises agaitist payments by cooperatives but not so by State farms.  The
use of chemicals would be about the saTne 2,300 tonIs per year, but their mix
would chiange. Three weedings are given to soybeans and 2 weedings to beans.
Sunflower is treated writh three Tmanual weedings on rows andl one machine
weeding between rows.
il.  Agricultural lesearchl
23.       Agricultural research in Romania hlas high prioritv.  Research,
especiallv that dealing witn crops, includes studies on cron varieties,
cultural anc; irrigation practices, pest and disease control, farm machin-
crv and plant ecology.  TT10 rcsearch netT'ork is under thie direction of



ANNEX 1
Page 6
the Academy for Agricultture and Forestry Sciences.  The Acadery has 17
institutes and 35 well dispersed experimental stations in addition to a
cenitralized documentation center at Bucharest.  It also coordinates works
done bv universities.  The Academy's experimental stations occupy a total
area of 85,0(0 ha.  Two experimental stations (Baneasa and Vaceni) are lo-
cated adjacent to the project area. These stations have done excellent
work of practical significance to the project area. Research results are
dissemiinated through visits to experimental stations and through seminars
between farmers and research scientists. Most of the research is financed
by the State, although the Academy supplements its income through sales of
seeds produced at its stations.
L.   Agricultural Extension
24.       Extension service in Romania is essentially administrative rather
than advisory. The primary role of extension service is to monitor applica-
tion of technology and follow-up established cultural practices.   These
cultural practices are documented by specialized agencies in a production
manual specifying quantity and quality of inputs, planting time, spacing,
etc. The mianual is prepared and updated for each crop, and modified to suit
conditions of production in different regions. In addition, training facil-
ities for farmers exist through demonstration farms, visits to selected farms,
short winter courses and popular literature on agriculture. Competition among
agricuiltural districts is encouraged through annual fairs to express recogni-
tion of best results. State-sponsored agricultural houses accommodate parti-
cipants, and provide conference rooms, libraries and recreation during the
fairs.



ROMANIA
GIURGIU-RAZMIRESTI IRRIGATION PROJECT
Climatic Data, 1896 - 1973
Total or
Item               Jan.  Feb.   Mar.   Apr.   May   June  July  Aug.   Sept.   Oct.   Nov.   Dec.   Average
Average Temp. C - Giurgiu      -2.9  -0.6    4.5  12.1   17.0  20.9  23.0  22.5  18.1    11.8    6.0    6.0    11.1
Average Temp. C - Alexandria  -2.6  -9.4    4.5  12.0  17.0  20.8  23.1   22.6  18.2   11.5   6.1    6.4    11.1
Average Precip. mm - Giurgiu    42.0  27.6  36.6  46.3  59.0  70.5  55.7  44.6  33.0   38.8  44.2  49.3   553.6
Average Precip. mm-Alexandria   39.9  34.0  32.0  38.7  59.2  69.3  59.1  46.4  41.3   39.5  41.9  48.1    549.4
Average Wind Vel m/s -Giurgiu    2.4   2.6    2.9   2.7   2.6  2.1    1.8   1.8    1.6         1.9    2.3    2.2       2.2
Average Re. Humidity % Giurgiu  81.2  77.0  69.7  60.6  61.2  60.8  58.3  58.1   62.1    71.1   80.4  83.2            68.8
Average Hrs. Sunshine- Giurgiu  76    97   146   ?01    255  287    340   229    243         196     64      58   2,255
(DXZ



ROMANIA
GIUR3GIURAZMIRESTI IRRIGATION PROJECT
Land Use, Yield and Production                      /a
(Area in '000 hectares, Yield in tons/ha and Production in '000 tons)
Future at Full Development
Crop                  P  r  e  s  e  n                        Without Project                         With Project
Cropped Area   Yield   Production    Cropped Area   Yield   Production   Cropped Area   Yield   Productiorr
Maize                 32.8        2.6         85.6           38.0        3.0        113.9           37.0       6.5        240.6
Wheat                 29.9       2.1         63.3            11.3        2.4         27.1           11.0       4.0         44-1
Alfalfa               12.1        9.0       108.8            11.9       12.0        142.6           11.6      60.0        695.0
Sunflower              8.7       1.4         12.0             6.1       1.6           9-7            5*9       2.2         13.0
Barley                 3 9       2.5           9.7             5-5       2.4         13.1            5.4       4.0         21.5
Sugar beets            3        19.4         75.0             5 7      22.0         125.4            5 6      400         222.'2
Beans                  1.9       0.8          1.6              2.1      0.9           1.9            2.4       1.84
Soybeans               2.0       0.7          1.4            12.1       0.9         10.9           11.8       2.5          29.4
Grapes                 0.6       3.8          2.h             O 6       3.8          2.4            1.5      14.0          21.2
Peaches                 0.2      2.1           0.4            0.2        3.0          0.6            0.5     14.0           6.6
Potatoes               1.9       9.0         17.3             3.6       12.0         02.9             -        -             -
Peas                   1.0       1.3          1.3             0.4        1.8          0.7             --                     -
Tomatoes                                                                                            c6.7/    25.0         167.1
Fodder (Maize)                                                1.4        3.8          5.6            1.4     45.0          63.5
Fodder-(Maize)  -  -                   -         -            -            15.1     40.0         603.8
Total             98.9                                                                        115.9
/a   Discrepancies due to rounding.
A/  Agricultural by-products such as wheat straw, soyastalks sugar beet leaves not included in the table
were valued for project analysis.                                                                                       z M
/c  This includes private plots of 3,200 hectares.
M )H



ANNEX 2
Page 1
ROMANIA
GIURGIU-RAZMIRFSTI IRRIGATION PROJECT
Finance and Marketing
A.   Sources of Finance
1.        The primary source of investment and production financing in State
farms is the State budget; credit financing is of minor importance. In coope-
rative farms, credit financing accounts for about half of the total production
and investment financing. Financing in both State and cooperative farms is
administered through the Bank for Agriculture and Food Industry (BAFI), which
was founded in 1968 under Decree No. 141/1968 for channeling funds to the agri-
cultural sector. The National Bank was responsible for financing agriculture
before 1968. BAFI operates through 39 county branches and their 100 sub-
branches. The project area has two county branches.
2.        BAFI gets funds from the State budget, deposits by agricultural
enterprises, withholdings (as development funds) of up to 25% of cooperatives
farms' income, borrowings from the Romanian National Bank, foreign loans, and
its own capital. In addition to long-term investments, BAFI finances short-
term credits for production, marketing and nrocessing of agricultural products.
For government financed large-scale investments, BAFI obtains funds from the
State budget at no interest. Funds which it gets from deposits of State enter-
prices bear interest rate of 1-1/2%, while those which it gets from the Romanian
National Bank for making short-term loans bear an interest rate of one percent
per annum.
3.        For investment funds, the Ministry of Finance transfers money an-
nually to project specific accounts of BAFI, from where disbursements are made.
The procedure used in establishing the volume of flow of funds from the Minis-
try of Finance is flexible enough to compensate for shortages in disbursement
requirements.
4.        All investment in State farms are financed from the State budget and
are not recovered directly; but are more than recovered through incomes from
the farms which accrue to the State. Normally, up to 30% of investments in
cooperative farms are financed from the cooperatives' own funds; BAFI finances
the rest as recoverable credit. BAFI also extends short-term interest bearing
"1production credits" to State and cooperative farms, and short-term consumption
loans to members of cooperative farms whose incomes fall below established
levels.



ANNEX 2
Page 2
B.   Financing Terms
5.        To qualify for investment credits and/or State Budget financing,
projects should be economically sound, and conceived and analyzed in accordance
with the national plan of the State. The Bank for Agriculture and Food Indus-
try is involved directly in appraisal of investment projects with respect to
their economic soundness. Among other factors, the primary determinant of
economic soundness is the payback period. This refers to the time required
for incremental "profits" from a project to pay for investment costs. Proj-
ects with shorter payback period are preferred.
6.        Long-term direct credits to cooperative farms bear an interest rate
of 3% per annum and are recovered within 20 years. The apparent low interest
rate has limited significance because the State has other ways of obtaining
funds from farmers such as through paying low farm prices and selling them at
higher prices in the world market and because the annual rate of domestic in-
flation is near zero. Consumption loans bear slightly higher interest rates
and are normally recovered within one year. Production credits to State and
cooperative farms bear annual interest rate of 4% and are normally recovered
within a year. Amounts overdue are subjected to a penalty interest rate of
up to 12% per annum. Interest charges to the State farms are only a transfer
of money from one pocket of the government to another and are designed to be
penalties of the concerned State farms for not adequately planning for capital
needs, Working capital is increased by the amount of loans in the succeeding
year to avoid perpetual dependency on bank loans.
C.   Marketing
7.        Specialized government Centrals are the primary channels of product
distribution in Romania. There are "peasant free markets" where private citi-
zens exchange goods but they are insignificant. Four different Centrals are
responsible for the marketing of cereals, vegetables and fruits, sugarbeets,
and grapes. Centrala De Valorificare A Cerealelur Si Producere A Nutretutilor.
Combinate (CVPC) markets wheat, maize, barley, soya, peas, and sunflowers.
The marketing of fruits, vegetables, and potatoes in the responsibility of
Centrala Pentru Legume Si Fructe (CPLF). Centrala Industrea de Zahar (CIZ)
markets sugar beets and their products and Centrala Vii Vinuliu (CVV) grapes
and their products. These centrals have their headquarters in Bucharest, and
all are under administrative responsibilities of the Ministry of Agriculture
and Food Industry.
3.        Except for CIZ, the marketing Centrals procure the project output
through county branches and their collecting centers. The collecting centers
are the primary market intermediaries which are responsible for the collection
and distribution of products. CVCP has four collecting centers in the project
area, while CPLF and CVV each has two centers. Project outputs would be pur-
chased from State and cooperative farms on contractual basis and distributed
according to State plan. The cost of transportation of output beyond farm-
gates would, as at present, be borne entirely by the centrals.



ANNEX 2
Page 3
9.        The Central for sugar operates 13 sugar beet processing plants and
six candy factories. Sugar beets from the project area would be refined in
a Giurgiu refinery which would be responsible for the procurement of sugar
beets from the project area. At present, the Giurgiu refinery has a capacity
of 2,000 tons of sugar beets per day. This would increase to 3,000 tons by
1975 and current plans provide for its expansion through late 1970's and early
1980's.
10.       Storage facilities in the project area are adequate.  At present,
facilities are available to store up to 200,000 tons of cereal, oilseeds, and
pulses. These facilities would be expanded to 350,000 tons by 1980. Vegeta-
bles, fruits and grapes are dispersed without storage by the collecting cen-
ters.
11.       Sugar beets would be harvested in September and October; the Guirgiu
refinery would operate through January. Refining capacity would be low rela-
tive to potential daily harvest. It would, therefore, be necessary to store
the sugar beets meanwhile. Storage loss would reduce sugar recovery due to
transformation of surcrose into glucose. Such inversion is excessive under
high temperatures and slows with low temperatures. As storage period in
Giurgiu would coincide with cold months, storage losses would be minimal.
12.       The primary transport facilities are trucks, trains and tractor
trailors. The Transport facilities in the project area are satisfactory.
There is a railway line which crosses the project area; all-weather roads are
also available (Map IBRD 1167). An improvement and expansion of the facili-
ties may be beneficial in improving the efficiency of product distribution,
and probably in lowering marketing costs. Such expansion and improvement,
although not provided in project investments, are part of the regional road
plans. Besides, there is a close coordination between investment in a given
area and expansion and improvement of related service facilities. Accordingly,
the road system would be expanded and improved. Road asphalting and widening
are already underway in some parts within the project area. The road and
railway connections between Giurgiu-Razmiresti and the rest of Romania are
adequate.



ANNEX 3
Page 1
ROMANIA
GIURGIU-RAZMIRESTI IRRIGATION PROJECT
Project Description
A.   Selection and Formulation of the Project
1.        One of the principle means of agricultural development in Romania
is land reclamation and water management through irrigation. Because of in-
adequate precipitation during the growing season, and of droughts, irrigation
is necessary for increased and sustained crop production and for diversifica-
tion. Total irrigated area to date is 1.25 million ha and the Government
aims to irrigate all irrigable area of 5 million hectares before the turn of
the century. Currently about 150,000 ha are being added annually to irrigated
areas.
2.        The Giurgiu-Razmiresti Project was selected for initiation in 1974
because of its location, climate and productive soils. The proposed project
plan was derived from lengthy studies on various alternative use of resources.
It fits well within the country's development plan for agriculture.
3.        Selection of Irrigation methods, such as sprinklers and furrows,
took into consideration the natural topographic condition and economic crite-
rion. Furrow irrigation was selected for areas with uniform slopes between
0.8% and 3.0%. Sprinkler irrigation is the least cost alternative over furrow
irrigation for areas with non-uniform slopes of greater than 3% and which re-
quire excessive land leveling. The cost of furrow irrigation then exceeds
that of sprinkler at any discount rate.
4.        Low head pressure pumps were selected for delivery of water from the
low lying canals to the furrow irrigation sectors as well as sprinkler sectors,
to eliminate the need for elevated canals for gravity head in the naturally
flat land, to facilitate efficient irrigation practices and to conserve water.
In the future, as water availability becomes critical and if the groundwater
and drainage conditions deteriorate in the gravity areas, these could be con-
verted to sprinkler service without rebuilding the turnout and farm distribu-
tion systems.
5.        Underground pipes with hydrant turnouts were selected to distribute
the water from the canals and pump stations to on-farm irrigation equipment.
The pipes will maintain pressure head needed for the selected irrigation
systems, conserve land, which would otherwise be required by open canal
laterals and their maintenance roads, facilitate more efficient irrigation
practices and conserve water. Techno-economic considerations determined the
optimum pipe and pump sizes.



ANNEX 3
Page 2
B.   General Features
6.        The project area is located about 60 km Southwest of Bucharest.
It is part of the Danube and Burnas Plains and lies in the counties of Ilfov
and Teleorman. Bucharest-Giusgiu highway runs along its eastern boundary
and the Danube River forms its Southern boundary. Giurgiu is the main town
and port of the area (Map IBRD 11167).
7.        There are about 118,500 ha in the project area, of which about
108,500 ha are classified as productive. Of the productive lands, about 4,400
ha are adequately served by scattered irrigation works, and another 2,000 ha
are in small scattered private garden plots within the communities which are
too expensive to irrigate.
8.        The project facilities would embrace an area of about 102,100
ha, excluding farms already under irrigation and scattered private garden
plots. About 1,270 ha would be occupied by project structures such as canals,
buildings and drains leaving a net project area of about 100,830 ha. Long-
range plans provide for irrigating some additional land currently served by
other irrigation services. Project structures have therefore been sized
accordingly.
9.        About 79,780 ha (78.1%) of the project land is used by 46 coopera-
tive farms and 19,120 ha (18.7%) by four State farms; 3,200 ha (3.2%) are
used by about 17,000 cooperative farm families as garden plots and are located
in contiguous blocks outside the communities.
10.       Sprinkler irrigation would be provided for 77,848 ha, and 21,052 ha
would be served by gravity flow in furrows. In addition, 3,200 ha of private
garden plots located in contiguous blocks would be irrigated depending on
their location in relation to the irrigation system.
11.       The project would draw water from the Danube River near Giurgiu
through a series of pump stations, open lined canals, and buried pipes. No
reservoir storage is required or planned for the project (Map IBRD 11167).
12.       Project water would be pumped from an excavated side channel of the
Danube River (Cama Canal) by the Giurgiu floating pumping station (SPA), with
an average lift of about 10 m and a designed capacity of 80.6 m3sec. The
main supply canal (CA canal) would carri the water to the Ghizdaru pumping
station (SRP1), where a maximum of 77 m fsec would be lifted about 67.3 m to
the second reach of the CA canal on the main terrace. The CA canal would
divide into east (CA1) and west (CA2) primary branches, each dividing into
several secondary branches.  Two repumping stations (SRP2 and SRP3) on branches
of the CA2 canal would lift 10.3 m3/sec and 4.2 m3/sec, respectively, an
additional 4 m to irrigate about 16,300 ha in the upper terrace.
13.       Water would be pumped from the canals into distribution pipelines
by 78 separate pumping stations. Hydrants would provide turnouts from the
pipelines to on-farm irrigation distribution facilities.



ANNEX 3
Page 3
14.       An electric power transmission network would be constructed to power
the pump stations throughout the project area. Drainage facilities would be
provided for 33,600 ha of the project lands.  Minor land leveling would be
provided for small areas.
C.   Detailed Features
15.       Giurgiu Floating Pumping Station.  This station would consist of 24
main pump units plus 2 auxiliarv pumps mounted on floating barges or "boats"
on a side channel of the Danube River (Cama canal). Floating pumps were clhosen
because these were economical under widely fluctuating water level.  The number
and type of pumps were based on consideration of present experience with them
and to ensure standardization. There would be 4 large barges each supporting
6 pumps and one barge supporting 2 auxiliary pumps. Each pump would have a
designed capacity of 3.1 m3/sec against a head varying from 13 m when the
Danube River is at its lowest level, to 3.5 m at its highest level, the aver-
age being about 10 m. A 240 m penstock from each pump unit would be connected
to flex joints at each end near the pump and at the top of the channel bank to
allow 15° bend as the pump barges float with the level of the Danube River
which would fluctuate between elevation 10.5 m and 20 m. The peak pumping
demand for 100,830 ha on a 24 hour basis would be 68.1 m3/sec.  The designed
capacity of 80.6 m3/sec would provide flexibility for pumping the full demand
in 20 to 22 hours per day or a standby capability of 12.5 m3/sec. The pumping
station would have an installed capacity of 13,000 kw and a global efficiency
of about 80% for pumps and motors.
16.       Ghizdaru Puraping Station.  After irrigation of 8,184 ha of project
land in the Danube Plain from the first reaclh of CA canal, the Ghizdaru Pump-
ing Station at a distance of 7.5 km from Giurgiu station, would lift the re-
mainirng water by an average of 67.3 m to the second reach of the CA canal on
the first terrace.  The pump lift would vary from 63.5 m to 68.7 m with the
water levels in the forebay and afterbay. The station would consist of 14
pump units with a designed capacity of 5.5 n3/sec each, or a total capacity
of 77 m3/sec. For the remaining 92,647 ha, the peak demand on the pumping
plant on a 24 hour delivery basis wotuld be about 62.5 m3/sec.  This would
result in a 23% standby capacity for a 20 to 22 hour daily delivery. The
plant would hiave an installed capacitv of 70,000 kw and a global efficiency
of about 80%. The pump units have been purchased from the USSR and some of
them have been delivered.
17.       Cana Diversion Canal.  A side channel itn the old flood plain of the
Danube River behind the existing protective dikes wotuld be dre(dged and chan-
nelized for intake from the D)anube River to the Giurgiu Floating Pumping Sta-
tion.  It would be 3,200 n long with a bottol4 width of 20 m and side slopes
of 3.5 to 1.  The water level in the channel would fluctuate with the level
of the Danube River between 10.5 n (Baltic Sea Level) to 20 m.  The channel
is protected against floods at tlhe pumping site by existing dikes.
12.       Distribution Canals.  The first reach of the main stupply canal (CA
canal) from Giurgiu to Ghizdaru would be 7.5 luk.  The canal would have an
initial flow capacity of 80.6 rm3/sec and a terminal capacity of 77 m3/sec,



ANNEX 3
Page 4
and a built-in storage capacity with automatic flow control and overflow struc-
tures to balance pump flow and irrigation demand. It would be trapezoidal in
cross section. The second reach of the main canal would extend 3.1 km from
Ghizdaru to its bifurcation into east iCA1) and west (CA2) canals. The CA1
canal with an initial capacity of 32 m /sec, would flow to the northeast 26
km from the CA bifurcation to its terminus near the town of Uzana and branch
into seven distribution canals. The CA2 canal would flow to the left from
the bifurcation for 44 km with an initial capacity of 44.4 m3/sec. Nine
distribution canals would branch from it. The 16 secondary distribution
canals would total 160 km and would convey project water from the main canals
to the irrigation sectors and pipe distribution systems. Automatic level
controls would be installed throughout the total canal system at reduction
points to regulate the flow and pump discharge to meet the irrigation demand.
The canals would be concrete-lined throughout to reduce percolation losses.
This is the least cost alternative using discount rates of up to 12%.
19.       Pipe Distribution System.  Buried pipe networks, consisting of 139 km
of reinforced concrete and 2,033 km of asbestos cement pipes would be installed
for delivery of water under pressure to both the sprinkler and furrow irriga-
tion areas. The typical layout would consist of a main line, from the canal
and pump station, feeding distribution pipes spaced at regular intervals.
Most of the irrigation sectors would be rectangular in shape with the open
canal bordering the longer side. The pumping station would be located in the
central part of the sector supplying the buried pipe system in two opposite
directions. Hydrants would be spaced along the distribution pipes at 72 m
intervals in the sprinkler sectors and 192 m intervals in the furrow sectors.
The diameter of the pipes, as determined from standard hydraulic and economic
computations, would vary from 150 mm to 1,000 mm. Asbestos cement pipes would
be used for sizes up to 500 mm and reinforced concrete for sizes from 600 mm
to 1,000 mm.
20.       Sprinkler Irrigation System.  The sprinkler service area would be
divided into 65 sectors, each served by a pressure pump station (SPP1-SPP65)
and the buried pipe distribution lines described above. The sectors would be
divided into smaller rectangular blocks, averaging about 38 ha, crossed at
the median line by one of the distribution pipelines with hydrants at 72 m
intervals. The sides of each block would be 612 m corresponding to the spac-
ing of the distribution pipes. The block would contain two units, one on each
side of the turnout hydrant. A typical surface sprinkler lateral of movable
aluminum pipe would deliver 13.5 1/sec to each unit through 17 sprinklers at
a nominal working pressure of 3 to 3.5 atms. The sprinklers would be spaced
at 18 m intervals along the laterals and there would be a 24 m interval be-
tween two consecutive settings (3 settings per hydrant). Each setting would
cover 0.735 ha, or 1.46 ha/day with two 11 hour settings per day. It would
therefore take 13 days to cover the two about 19 ha units in the irrigation
block during the peak demand period.  Each unit would be provided with ade-
quate on-farm equipment for one complete lateral, including 300 m of 100 mm
diameter aluminum pipe, sprinklers with risers and nozzles, and necessary
couplings, accessories, and spare parts.



ANNEX 3
Page 5
21.       Furrow Irrigation System.  The furrow irrigation service area would
be divided into 13 sectors, each served by a pumping station (SRP4-16) to pump
water from the distribution canals into the pipelines and provide a working
discharge at the hydrants. The hydrants would be spaced at 192 m intervals
along the pipelines and would discharge into butyl rubber furrow distribution
pipes at a residual pressure not exceeding 0.35 atms. The typical irrigation
block would be 612 m (interval of buried pipes) by 768 m (4 hydrants intervals),
or about 47 ha. The block would be subdivided into 8 units of about 192 x 300 m
so that furrow length can be limited to 150-200 m. Water would be conveyed
from the hydrant turnout along the upper side of each unit by a butyl delivery
pipe with a beginning diameter of 300 mm and terminal diameter of 200 mm with
adjustable gated openings at 0.81 m intervals for each furrow. With 16 furrows
irrigated at one time, the delivery rate would average about 37.3 1/sec for a
20 hour day. At this rate it would take about 15 days to irrigate a typical
47 ha block at peak demand. Each block would be provided with one 300 m long
butyl lateral system including pipe, couplings, and other accessories.
22.       Drainage Facilities.  Drainage facilities would be required for about
a third of the project area mainly for the protection of crops from surface and
groundwater during the rainy season. These would include 12 lift pumps on 75
km of main drains and 287 km of collector surface drains spaced about 400-500
m apart. Subsurface drainage would not be needed.
23.       Power Transmission System.  The State's primary network of 220 kv
transmission lines is currently available at Ghizdaru. A 87 km long network
of 110 kv lines, with six 110/20 kv substations, would be constructed through-
out the project area by the Mfinistry of Energy during the next two years as
part of the Statewide power distribution system. Since this primary system
would service power demands in the area besides those of the project, it would
not be identified as a project facility. A secondary project power distribu-
tion networl, consisting of 463.5 kms of 20 kv lines and transformers at each
pumping station (20/6 kv, 20/0.4 kv, or 20/6/0.4 kv, depending upon the station
requirement), would be constructed by the Ministry of Energy as a project fea-
ture and thie investment costs of this secondary network are identified as proj-
ect costs.
24.       Land Leveling.  The project land lying on flat plains and terraces
would not require heavy land leveling. Only land planing is necessary to
prevent ponding during the rainy season arid to correct minor topographic irre-
gularities in the furrow irrigation sectors.  It is estimated that a maximum
of 400 m3/ha of surface material may need moving in the furrow sectors and
about 40 to 50 m3/ha in the sprinkler sectors. As project soils are deep,
the proposed leveling would not destroy productivity Or soil.
25.       Erosion Control.  Erosion control measures, such-1 as terracing, grass
bands, pasture resowing, stepped roads, outlet consolidation, and riprap pro-
tection, are proposed on about 6,000 ha of the steeper sloping lands, in na-
tural drainage ways and channels where excess storm runoff would accumulate,
anu below canal wasteways and overflow areas. Other internal measures such
as contour ploughing, cropping in bands, etc., would be provided through
farm operations.



ANNEX 3
Page 6
26.       Foundation Conditions.  Extensive investigations have been conducted
along the canal lines and pump station locations and no major problem condi-
tions were encountered. Pockets of loess soils exist, but they contain clay
binder and are not considered a major risk. The Institute of Land Reclamation
and Designing (ISPIF), based on its experience with such soils in Romania, has
scheduled its construction activities to allow these small areas to settle
from water and compaction treatments for one to two years before the canals
are lined with concrete.                                   1
27.       Flood Control.  The only stream subject to flooding in the vicinity
of project features is the Danube River. Over 100 years of discharge records
of the Danube near the project area indicate a flood of 17,300 mi/sec would
occur 1% of the time, and a flood of 19,900 mJ/sec 0.1% of the time. With a
20,000 m3/sec flow, the river level would be at 20.27 m elevation (BSL). The
tops of the protective dikes between the River and the Giurgiu floating pump-
ing statiOn are at elevation 24.50 m and would adequately protect the station.
28.       Land Acquisition.  An estimated 1,269 ha would be required for con-
struction and operation of the project works. As all land is State-owned or
State-controlled, there would be no difficulty in acquiring the areas needed
for the project works.



ANNEX 4
Page 1
ROMANIA
GIURGIU-RAZMIRESTI IRRIGATION PROJECT
Water Demand, Supply and Quality
A.   Water Demand
1.        Since rainfall is inadequate during the growing season, supplemen-
tary irrigation is required. Irrigation requirement would vary with crops,
amount of effective rainfall, temperature and wind velocities. The net irri-
gation demand, computed by using the Thornthwaite Formula (adopted in Romania
in 1951), and averaged by weights of all crops, would be about 3,032 m3/ha,
totaling 305.7 Mm3 for the project (Table 1). The average annual gross irri-
gation water requirement for the project totals about 375.6 Mm3 or 3,725 m3/ha
(Table 2).
2.        With the proposed water conveyance system, consisting of closed pipe-
conduit and concrete-lined canals, the conveyance losses would not exceed 8%
of the gross water supply. Field losses from the sprinkler system due to
evaporation, wind action, minor leakage, etc. are estimated at 10%, while
those from gravity furrow system due to deep percolation, field runoff, etc.,
are estimated at 20%. This results in a global efficiency of about 80% for
the overall irrigation system.
B.   Water Supply
3.        Various sources of irrigation water for the project have been in-
vestigated in detail by ISPIF. These sources include local streams, ground-
water, and the Danube River. The small local streams were eliminated from
consideration due to their undependable flow without expensive storage, and
their use in small local projects. Groundwater source was also discarded
because of its unreliable quantity and drastic fluctuations depending on pre-
cipitation. It is shallow during the rainy season when irrigation is not
needed and deep when needed. Moreover, Government desires to preserve the
groundwater for existing village wells used for-potable water.
4.       3The Danube River is a reliable source of water for the project
(375.6 Mm per year). The river flows eastward, along the southern boarder
of the project area, to the Black Sea. It reaches its peak between mid-March
and mid-June corresponding to the snow melt period. Minimum flows occur be-
tween the end of August and November. The flow pattern of the Danube at Iron
Gates upstream from Giurgiu is illustrated on Chart I. The Romanian Institute
for Hydrogeological Research and Studies (ISCH) made a special study of the
River discharges and probabilities at Ciurgiu for 30 years (1939-68) and found
the following:



ANNEX 4
Page 2
Maximum discharge:
Discharge (m 3/sec)        21,200    17,750    15,150   14,000   12,050
Assurance (% of time)          0.1       1          5        10       25
Minimum discharge:
Discharge (m 3/sec)         6,010      2,110      1,750    1,650    1,530
Assurance (% of time)         50        80         95       97        99
5.        The peak designed capacity of 80.6 m3/sec will be used only occa-
sionally during the peak months of June and July when the river is at its
highest level. This represents only about 3% of the lowest possible river
discharge during those months.  The peak project demand in September when
the river is approachin its lowest level (average low about 2,000 m3/sec),
would be less than 20 m /sec, or about 1% of the Danube River flow.
C.   International Water Agreements
6.        The Water Commission for the Danube River, an international commis-
sion of which Romania is a member, has been established for the protection of
navigation on the river. The main concern of the Commission lies with dams
and large schemes which would interfere with navigation, and water quality.
There is currently no international agreement among the Danube River riparian
water users (Romania, Bulgaria, Yugoslavia, Hungary, Austria, USSR, etc.);
only a convention exists for development of the river for their mutual bene-
fit, protection of navigation and water quality. The Commission was informed
by the Bank, by letter, of Romania's intent to divert water from the Danube
River for the Giurgiu-Razmiresti Irrigation Project. The Commission expressed
no objection to the project plan but commented that if the peak demand of
80 m3/sec were diverted when the river is at its lowest level on record
(1,730 m3/sec in January 1954), it would lower the river level by about 0.10
meters. They also commented that when the river flow drops below 2,650 m3/sec
shipping is restricted by shelving of the river bed upstream from Giurgiu. A
detailed analysis of river flow and project water demand showed that the peak
demand may occur occasionally only during the months of June and July when
the river flow would be high. Therefore, the amount of water diverted by the
Giurgiu-Razmiresti Project will not effect navigation on the Danube River.
According to Romanian officials, the riparian water users have expressed no
concern or objection to relatively small diversions such as that planned for
the project.
7.        Romanian law on water management policy established a National Water
Council, within the Ministry of Agriculture, for coordination and control of
water uses from all sources, including the Danube River and its tributaries.
The Council has approved diversions from the Danube River for the project.
This approval was necessary under Romanian law before financing of the project
from foreign or local sources.



ANNEX 4
Page 3
D.  Water Quality
8.        Water quality is satisfactory.  During the past two years, quality
tests have been made on samples collected from the Danube River at stations
above (km 494) and below (km 481) Giurgiu. The results of these tests showed
the following results:
Total                Total
suspended solids      dissolved oxygen
Location    pH                mg/l                  mg/l
km 494     8.10              167.4                  8
km 481     8.05              140.0                  8
Chemical analyses was also conducted and the water quality determined suitable
for the crops and soil conditions in the project area.
9.        Tests on the groundwater in the project area showed a variation in
quality depending on location, elevation, season, and soil conditions. The
worst area, in the low plane bordering the Danube River near the town of Giurgiu,
showed total dissolved solids of 1,000 mg/l to 2,000 mg/I. Other areas were
considerably better. The application of water and return flow from the proj-
ect would have little or no effect on the quality of water in the Danube River.



ROMANIA
GIURGIU-RAZMIRESTI IRRIGATION PROJECT
Estimated Crop Water Requirement W
Estimated Net Water Requirements    Jan   Feb   Mar   Apr    May    Jun    July   .l.ig    Sept   Oct   Nov   Dec   Total
Crop          C10go hA ea0 ---------_--__________________00 m3
Wheat               11.0                               5930   5088                           5509                      16,527
Barley               5.4                               2895   2473                                                      5,368
Maize               37.0                                      6980  24409  36254  35993                               103,636
Beans                2.4                                      1040   1225   1409                                        3,674
Soybeans               4                                      4200   5794   7997                                       17,991
Sunflower           ll.9                                      1675   5631   5153                                       12,459
Sugar beets            9                                      4391   4990   5589   4980                                19,950
Vegetables           5.6                                      4266   4770   6278   6078                                21,392
Alfalfa               .7                                      4980   6166  17072  16838    7074                        52,130
Silo Maize          11.6                                              5283   8566   7283                               21,132
Green Maize          7.5                                              5283   8566   7283                                21,132
Pastures             1.4                                              1172   2344   1172    1172                        5,860
Orchards              *4                                               281    281    281                                   843
Grapes               0.5                                              910    910    910       910                       3,640
Totals        100l8LO.                            8825  35093  65914 100410  80818   14665                       305,734
Net Requirement  m3/ha                                 87.6  348.4  654.3  996.8  801.5   145.6                          3,032
/a Discrepancies due to rounding.
-l Double cropping following harvest of cereals.
/c Excludes 1269 ha which would be occupied by projeqt structures.
Gross area equals 102,100 ha.



ROMANIA
GIUJRGIUJ-RAZMIRESTI IRRIGATION PROJECT
Gross Water Reouirement from Danube River
(Thousands of cubic meters)
Total
Year           April        May         June        July       Aug.         Sept.         Annual
1946          10,088       10,187      151,416    165,756    93,757        23,340         454,544
1947           30,362     185,833      112,746    132,032    93,856        18,494         573,323
1908          10,088       10,187         -        156,954    79,615       23,340         280,184
1949           20,275     113,933       91,581      69,032       -         17,406         312,227
1950          10,088       94,449       99,889    165,658   138,163        23,439         531,686
1951          10,088       21,264       33,626      55,186    87,823       10,582          218,569
1952          20,275       35,209       81,988    151,910   138,163        23,439         450,984
1953           10,088      25,417      14Q,636    165,460    93,856        23,340          458,797
1954             _           -           8,802      82,681    79,812       23,340         194,635
1955             -         15,330       91,384      69,032    69,032        5,835         250,613
1956          10,088         -           8,703    156,757    93,757        23,340         292,645
1957          10,088         -           8,604      82,878   123,922       12,659         238,151
1958             -        108,197       43,219    151,812   138,163        23,340         464,731
1959           20,275      87,131      106,713      74,768    73,977       18,593          381,457
1960          10,187         -           8,802      80,010   132,229       10,681          241,909
1961          10,187         -         115,120    124,218    69,032        12,659         331,216
1962             -        103,252       19,483    160,614   117,988        23,340         424,677
1963          10,088       21,264      173,668    142,515   138,163        23,340         509,038
1964          10,088       10,187      107,405        -       63,296          -            190,976
1965          10,08        22,055      140,141    165,756   118,087        17,406         473,533
Total        212,441      863,895   1,543,926  2,353,029 1,942,688        357,913       7,273,892
Ave.     a    10,622       43,195       77,196    117,851    97,134        17,896          363,695
Allowance-       -          2,000        2,600       3,800      3,500         -             11,900
Total Ave.    10,622       45,195       79,796    121,651   100,634        17,896          375,595 
/a Additional allowance for service of 3200 ha in small garden plots in the project.
/b Discrepancies due to rounding.



ROJMANIA
GIURGTIJ-RAZMI,7EST-. T IGrA'.ON PROJECT
Qrm/s                                          Danube River Flow Pattern
1 4000-                                            T9431G44;Qm-551Orm3/s NORMAL
3000-__________________\___  ____                                                        YEAR
13000                                                                             1940-1941; Qmrn7930Om/sRAINY  YEAR
1200    V                         -____     ____              --    I 
1200 \   \                                    v\         } t1942-1943;Qm=372DrA/s DRY  YEAR
110 0             -  -                                   _                       _  _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _  _ _  _   _  _ _
10000 --    ____                    _         -                                  _ _  _ t t  _ _-
9000 __                                                                                                    717
8000
5000-
4000
0 7 x    1      xi                               III      IV        V l                Vi                -I 



ANNEX 5
ROMANIA
GIURGIU - RAZMIRESTI IRRIGATION PROJECT
Schedule of Construction and Expenditures
- costs in million lei -
TOTAL               1975        |       1976               1977                1978               1979   1/ |
ITEM                         COST            1974          1975                1976               1977                1978               1979
IRRIGATION SUPPLY SYSTEM
Supply Pump Sta. & Equip.                 223.8           3.7           81 1               90.9               48.1
Main Canals & Equipment                   144.0           70            64.9               44.4               27.7
Distribution Canals & Bridges             178.1                         55,5               71.6               51,0
SPRINKLER IRRIGATION SYSTEM
Pressure Pump Ste. & Equip.               211.3                         66.0              114.0               28.3             3.0
Buried Pip. Oistr.Sstero                  442.2                         99.0              162.0              165.0            16.2
Movable Spri-ikler Equip.                 142.1                         27O                41.0               74 1
FURROVV IRRIGATION SYSTEM
Pressure Pump St.. & Equip.                49.5
Buried Pipe D.str. System                 108 2                         56.4               338                18 0
Movable on.Iarm Equipment                  34 9                         18.2               11,0                5.7
ELECTRIC TRANSMISSION SYSTEM
Transmission Lives                         64 0           2.0           18 0               22.0               22.0
Tra-sformers & Electric. Equip             52.5           1.9           19.5               17.0                14.1
OTHER CIVIL WORKS
Drainage Fwcil & Equip.                    59 9           9.            48.8                1.2
Land Levelng                               69.2                         20 0               300                19.2
lEroson Covtrol                            17 9                                             7.9               10.0
j 8 & M Hossi,g & Shops                     4.5                          2.5                2.0
OTHER EQUIPMENT
Constr-ction Equipment                    2938                         235.0               58.8
O & M Equipme,t                            22 0                                                                30              90
Ferm Machviery                            208.0                                           130.0               78.0          _
LAND ACOUISITION                              19 5           0.5            5.5                7.0                6.5
ENGINEERING & ADMINISTRATION
Project Orqgerization                     128.1          50.2           47.0               16.4               14.2                 0.3
Consultants & Training                      8.0                          3.0                2.5                1.5                 1.0
SUBTOTAL                              2481 5          75.2         887.0               887.3              602.5                29.5
CONTINGENCIES
Physic-l                                  198.5           6.8           71.0               71 7               46.5                 2.5
Price                                     139.0            -            21.1               55.3                58.6                4.0
TOTAL COSTS                           2819.0          82.0         979.1              1014.3              707.6                36.0
PROGRESS ON LAND DEVELOPMENT
20,375             71,492             102,100
Hectares-Cumulative tGross)
1/ IBRD Fiscal Year         2/ Romanian Fiscal Year & Calendar Year                                    World Bank-890812R)



ROMANIA
GIURGIU-RAZMIRESTI IRUGATION PROJECT
/a
Cost Estimates
Item                                       Lei Millions                 USt Millions              % Foreign
Exchange
Local    Foreign    Total    Local    Foreign   Total
Civil Works                                        975.7      256.4   1.232.1       48.7     12.9      61.6         21
Main Pumping Stations                            116.2        6.1      122.3       5.8      0.3       6.1          5
Pressure Pumping Stations                        105.5        5.5      11.0        5.2      0.3       5.5          5
Primary  Irrigation Canals                       138.5        7.3      145.8       6.9      0.4       7.3          5
Distribution Canals                              162.6        8.6      171.2       8.2      0.4       8.6          5
Distribution Pipelines                           281.8      218.7      500.5      14.0     U.0       25.0         44
Drainage Channels                                 43.3         -        43.3       2.2       _        2.2          -
Erosion Control Work                              17.9         _        17.9       0.9       -        0.9          -
Land Leveling                                     69.2         -        69.2       3.5       -        3.5          -
Power Transmission Lines                          40.7       10.2       50.9       2.0      0.5       2.5         20
Equipment                                          664.8      429.0   1.093.8       33.3     21.5      54.8         39
Irrigation Pumps and Equipment                   165.6       93.6      259.2       B.3    .4.7       13.0         36
Drainage Pumps and Equipment                       7.0        1.7        8.7       0.3      0.1       0.4         20
Irrigation Regulators and HPydrants               46.7        8.3       55.0       2.4      0.4       2.8         15
Portable Sprinkler Equipment                     113.7       28.4      142.1       5.7      1.4       7.1         20
Portable Gravity Irrigation Equipment             27.9        7.0       34.9       1.4      0.4       1.8         20
Transforners and Electrical Equipment             57.8        7.8       65.6       2.9      0.4       3.3         12
Construction Equipment                            70.2      223.6      293.8       3.5     11.2     14.7          76
Operation & Maintenance Facility                  19.9        6.6       26.5       1.0      0.3       1.3         25
Farm Machinery                                   156.0       52.0      208.0       7.8      2.6      10.4         25
Land Acquisition                                    19.5         -        19.5       1.0       -        1.0         --
Eneineerine & Administration                       130.1        6.0      136.1       LI        0.3      6.8           4
Project Organization                             128.1         -       128.1       6.4       -       6.4           -
Consultants & Training                              4.2       6.0         8.0     0.1       0.3      0.4          75
Subtotal                                          1,790.1     691.4    2,481.5       89.5     34.7    124.2          28
Phsical  Contin0encies                              14o.2       58.3      198.5       6.9      2.9       9.8         29
PricelTncreases                                      314.8    1014.2      139.0       1.7      5.3       7.0         75
GEAND TOTAL                                 1,965.1      853.9    2.819.0     98.1      42.9    141.0          31
/ Discrepancies due to rounding.



ROMANIA
GIURGIU-RAZMIRESTI IRRIGATION PROJECT
COST OF EQUIPMENT AND MATERIALS a/
A. Procured Through International Competitive Bidding
(Million Lei)
Est. Award to                  Est. Award to                                   Ex-factory
Local Suppliers              Foreign Suppliers              Grand Total          and C.I.F.
1        2      3-Total         4       5       6         7        8       9          10
Item                              Local  Foreign  Ex-factory    Local  C.I.F.  Total    Local  Foreign  Total   (3) + (5)
b/
Pumping Equipment                 161.9    42.6       204.5        0.5    4.7       5.2    162.4       47.3  209.7       209.2
Transformers & Electrical Equip.  57.7       6.6       64.3        0.1    1.2       1.3      57.8       7.8   65.6        65.6
On-farm Sprinklers                 113.7    28.4      142.1        -       -        -       113.7      28.4  142.1       142.1
On-farm Furrow Equipment            27.9     7.0       34.9         -      -        -        27.9       7.0   34.9        34.9
Accessory & Auto. Control Equip.-
Canals & Pipes                   46.7      8.3      55.0         -       -        -        46.7       8.3   55.0        55.0
Asbestos Cement Pipes               22.8    50.7       73.5         -      -         -       22.8      50.7   73.5        73.5
O & M Equipment                     14.6     1.0       15.6         0.4    4.0      4.4      15.0       5.0   20.0        19.6
Farm Machinery                     155.2    44.8      200.0        0.8    7.2       8.0    156.0       52.0  208.0       207.2
Construction Equipment              52.5     9.3       61.8        5.8  212.2    218.0       58.3    221.5  279.8        274.0
c/
Total -                           653.0   198.7      851.7         7.6  229.3    236.9    660.6    428.0 1088.6         1081.1
US$ Million---                                                                                                            _
(32.7)  (9.9)    (42.6)        (0.3) (11.5)   (11.8)   (33.0)   (21.4) (54.4)    (54.0)
B. Procured Locally Under IBRD Guidelines (Million Lei)
Item                                        Local         Foreign       Total
Minor Auxillary Pumping Equipment            10.2           1.1          11.3
O & M Tools and Small Items                   1.5           0.5           2.0
cotal~/                                 11.7           1.6         13.3
Total
US$ Million                                 (0.6)          (0.1)         (0.7)
a/ For breakdown see Tables 2 through 5.
b/ Excludes pump purchased from USSR.
c/ Discrepancies due to rounding.



ANNEX 7
Table 2
ROMANIA
GIURGIU-RAZMIRESTI IRRIGATION PROJECT
Project Plant Equipment and Materials
(Procured Through ICB)
Cost
Item                                        .__
1000 Lei          US$ Million
Pumping Equipment
Pumps and Motors for Pump Stations                 131,80a(-              6.6
Technical Equipment, valves and metal               77,900                3.8
fittings for pump stations
Subtotal                                 209,700              l0.4
Transformers andX Material for Power Lines            65,600                3.3
On-Farm Portable Sprinkler System Equipment          142,100                7.1-
On-Farm Portable Furrow Irrigation Equipment          34, 900               1.7
Accessory and Automatic Control Equipment
For Pipelines                                       49,900                25     l
For Canals                                           5,100                0.2
Subtotal                                 55,00                 2.7
Asbestos Cement Pipe-                                 73,500                3.7
Plant Equipment and Materials Total Cost             58O,80o                28.9
a/ Excludes pumps purchased from U.S.S.R.
b/ Discrepancies due to rounding.
c/ Part of initial requirement to assure an adequate
supply until local fabricating plants are in full production.



ANNEX 7
ROMANIA                                Table 3
GIURGIU-RAZMIRESTI IRRIGATION PROJECT
Operation & Maintenance Equipment and Farm Machinery
(Procured Through IGB)
-- 1000 Lei --
Item                                  Quantity
Cost     Cost
A. Operation and Maintenance Equipment
Automobiles-sedan                              10           78        780
Automobiles-4 wheel drive                       4           78        312
Trucks-4 wheel drive-2 ton                      4           78        312
Trucks-4 wheel drive-3 ton                      4           85        340
Tank Trucks-4 wheel drive-5000 liters           3          260        780
Mobile Repair shops-4 wheel drive               4          305       1220
Dump Trucks                                    20          117       2340
Tractors-51                                     8           91        728
Tractors-S-650                                 15          130       1950
Bulldozers-S-651                               10           20        200
Hydraulic scrapers-3 cu. m.                    15           65        975
Front end loaders-0.4 cu. m.                    4          520       2080
Front end loaders-0.5 cu. m.                    8          545       4370
Dredger-UPM                                     1          432        432
Tractor drawn graders                           2          117        235
Car trailers-double axle                       13           26        338
Crane-self propelled-4 wheel drive              2          312        624
Canal cleaning equipment                        5           91        455
Pumps-EPT 65                                    2           39         78
Motor pumps-12"t                               15           65        975
Electromotors-Ave. differential type           52           13        676
Concrete mixers-electric-250 liters             3           35        105
Operation & Maintenance Equipment Total Cost                     20,000
Equivalent US$ Millions                                         (1.0)
B. Farm Machinery
Heavy tractors - 120 HP                        40        195.0      7,800
Tractors - 60 HP                             1450        104.0    150,800
Tractors - 5 tons                            1650         24.42    40,300
Trucks - 5 tons                                70        130.0      9,100
Farm Machinery Total Cost                                   208,000
Equivalent US$ Millions                                      (10.4)
a/ Discrepancies due to rounding



ANNEX 7
ROMANIA                               Table 4
GIURGIU-RAZMIRESTI IRRIGATION PROJECT
Construction Equipment
(Procured Through ICB)
---1000 lei-----
Item                            Quantity            Unit         Total
Cost        Cost a/
Elevating Scrapers (10-12m3  bucket)h/   11                1,950        21,450
Elevating Scrapers (15-20m3 bucket)Yi      6               3,120        18,720
Scrapers with trucks (6-8m3)b/           100                 750        75,000
Excavators, telescopic (O.Mm3)             3                 780         2,340
Excavators with dragline (1m3)            15              1,040         15,600
Graders (150-180 HP)                      10                 650         6,500
Cranes with tires (100 HP)                 8                780          6,240
Dump Trucks - 5 tons                      20                  90         1,800
Dump Trucks - 10 tons                     10                 260         2,600
Turnovers - 5 tons                        10                 130         1,300
Turnovers - 12 tons                       10                430          4,300
Turnovers - 17 tons                        6                 572         3,432
Loaders (0.8 43  bucket)                   6                 208         1,248
Loaders  (2 mi  bucket)                    6                 780         4,680
Bulldozers on track (60 HP)               20                 143         2,860
Bulldozers on track (180 HP)              10                 715         7,150
Bulldozers on tires (180 HP)              10              1,040         10,400
Bulldozers on tires (250-300 HP)          12              1,820         21,840
Sheep-foot rollers - 12 tons              10                624          6,240
Cranes (150 HP)                            7                 806        4h,642
Autocranes (150 HP)                       15                 300         4,500
Compactors (10-12 ton)                     8                 260         2,080
Concrete Batchplants (30,000m3/yr) 3       3                 910         2,730
Concrete Autotracking Machine (5-6m )   10                  520          5,200
Cisterns (5 tons)                          5                 145           725
Cisterns (10 ton)                          5                 350         1,750
Spare Parts                               -                   -         43,645
'lotal - Construction Equipment                                      279,800/
Equivalent US$ Millions                                              (14.0)
a/ Discrepencies due to rounding.
b/ The quantity, capacity and type of scrapers are subject to requirements
to be determined by the Borrower and the Bank.
c/ Excludes miscellaneous items estimated at Lei 14.0 million not appropriate
for loan financing.



AMNEX 7
Table 5
ROMANIA
GIURGIU-RAZMIRESTI IRRIGATION PROJECT
Equipment to be Procured Locally
Quantity    Unit Cost      Total CostJ
Item                                                  ------1000 Lei-
A. Auxillary Equipment for Pumping Stations
Electric fans (1500 RPM)                             8          6.0            48
Aerotherms (18kw)                                  28           5.0           154
Water supply plant (10 kgf/ce2)                     65        120.0         7,800
Water supply plant (2 kgf/cm )                     13           3.5            46
Electrocompressors (13 kw)                          77         24.0         1,848
Electrocompressors (1.5 kw)           2              5          3.0            15
Electric overhead crane (32-8 kgf/cm )              1         850.0           850
Hand power overhead crane (8 ton)                   1          75.0            75
Hand operated trolley and block (5 ton)            13           6.0            78
Hand operated trolley and block (1 ton)            75           2.5           188
Hanging beams                                      10          16.0           160
Total - Auxillary Equipment                                             11,300
Equivalent US$ Millions                                                  (0.6)
B.  Operation and Maintenance Tools and Miscellaneous Equipment
Car trailers (single axle)                          3          30.0            90
Welding machine (motor generator)                    3         58.0           174
Welding machine (electric generator)                 3         16.0            48
Motor generator sets (30 kva)                        3         56.o           168
Analytical balances                                  7          3.0            21
Small drilling sets                                 2          10.0            20
Boats (Reghin type)                                20           Ig4.0          80
Air oven                                             7          6.0            42
Drilling machine ( 6 - 10 mm)                       5           6.0            30
Drilling machine (16 - 25 mm)                      26          25.0           650
Grinding machines (300mm)                           5           6.0            30
Surveyors level                                     6           5.0            30
Miscellaneous items and parts                        -           -            617
Total - 0 & M Tools and Misc. Equipment                                  2,000
Equivalent US$ Millions                                                   (0.1)
a/ Discrepancies due to rounding.



ANNEX 8
ROMANIA
GIURGIU-RAZMIRESTI IRRIGATION PROJECT
Loan Disbursement Schedule
IBRD Fiscal Year                               Cumulative Disbursement at
and Quarter                                    End of Quarter (US$ Million)
1974 - 75
June 75                                                   3.0
1975- 76
September 75                                              7.5
December 75                                              21.0
March 76                                                 31.0
June 76                                                  40.0
1976 - 77
September 76                                             )5.0
December 76                                               9 .0
March 77                                                 5.0
June 77                                                  59 .0
1977 - 78
September 77                                             63.0
December 77                                              66.0
March 78                                                 68.0
June 78                                                  70.0



ANNEX 9
Page 1
ROMANIA
GIURGIU-RAZMIRESTI IRRIGATION PROJECT
Organization and Consultants
A.   Organization
1.        The Ministry of Agriculture, Food Industry and Water, with the
assistance of its subordinate and sister government agencies, would be res-
ponsible for planning, supervising and constructing and coordinating project
works. Its Department of Land Reclamation and Agricultural Construction
(DIFCA) would be responsible for the construction stage of project works,
except those related with electricity (see Chart 1).
2.        DIFCA would operate through its following executive units:  (i)
Technical Direction for Investment and Coordination (DTIC) and its subordi-
nates including Groups for Coordination and Supervision of Investments (GSI),
and the Institute for Land Reclamation Studies and Designing (ISPIF) dealing
with technoeconomic investigations and preparation of designs, and specifica-
tion of project construction; (ii) Direction for Construction and Local Deve-
lopment (DCAL) which would oversee the activities of Construction Trusts and
Enterprises for Land Reclamation Works (TCIF), which through its Site Con-
struction Units (SUT) is responsible for Construction of Project Works.
3.        CELIF would operate and maintain the project (See Annex 10).  The
Ministry of Electrical Energy, through its enterprises and their units, would
construct and maintain power transmission lines and would supply energy
to the project area.
4.        The Bank for Agriculture and Food Industry (BAFI) would manage
project financing. It would provide financing to DIFCA for design and con-
struction of the project and to CELIF for operation and maintenance. BAFI
would also be the primary source of finance to both State and cooperative
farms. Revenues from project output and water charges would flow through
project accounts kept by BAFI.
5.        Mechanization Enterprises, which are under the direct administrative
responsibilities of District General Agricultural Direction, would provide
agricultural machinery works to cooperative farms; State farms have their
own farm machinery units. There would be two Mechanization Enterprises in
the project area, one in Ilfov county and another in Teleorman.
6.        The Ministry of Agriculture's Department of State Agriculture (DAS)
would be responsible for providing extension services to State farms; and the
District General Agricultural Direction to cooperatives.



ANNEX 9
Page 2
B.   Consultants and Training
7.        Although DIFCA and CELIF have excellent technical engineering and
agricultural staffs, consultants would be needed, to assist in the prepara-
tion and processing of tender documents for procurement in accordance with
Bank guidelines for international competitive bidding. Suppliers post-sale
services would also be needed for guidance in the assembly, installation, and
initial operation of imported equipment and facilities; and for in-service
training of Romanian counterpart technicians in these fields. A specialist
in procurement and tender documents would be needed immediately and throughout
the project procurement and construction period.
8.        Specialized and on-the-job training in foreign countries is planned
for technical personnel in the fields of irrigation engineering and agriculture,
and development in international skills and technique to eliminate the need for
consultants on future projects in Ronania.
9.        Terns of reference for the consultants and/or suppliers post-sale
services would includCe the following:
(a) Advice and assistance to DIFCA in the preparation of ICB procure-
nent specification and tender documents, review and evaluate bids
received an( lal-he recomimendations for award of contracts;
(b) Assistance in the preparation of quarterly and annual progress
reports as directed.
(c)  Advice and techniical guidance in the erection and installation of
foreicsn Trojp.ct ennin ront ;
(d)  Guidance and technical assistance in the initial operation of
foreign purchased mechanical and electrical equipment and on-farL7
irrigation equipment; and
(e) Train Romanian counterpart staff in their respective fields of
activity in Romania and assist the Government in its training
program in foreign countries.
10.       The consulting firm would appoint an engineer experienced in speci-
fications and international procurement procedures. As needed local engineers
and other staff would be seconded by DIFCA and CELIF to work with the consult-
ing firm to receive in-service training on international tendering and procure-
ment, and with-post sale representatives on equipment installation, and opera-
tion and maintenance of the project works.



ROMANIA
GIURGIU-RAZMIRESTI IRRIGATION PROJECT
Organization
OFFICE OFTE T
| PRIME IMINISTER  
I AND FOD INDU-STR    D                                 S                      INDUSTR I A TNDL S                      DT
ISEAS lEFA-ESSEE, T
I AX X [A3 A) WiX wL A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T~A
L __________________   ~       ~       -   --  --   -   --  --   -  --   --   -  --   --   -  --   --   -   I    -- - - -



ANNEX 10
Page 1
ROMANIA
GIURGIU-RAZMIRESTI IRRIGATION PROJECT
Operation and Maintenance
1.        As in all land reclamation projects in Romania, the Central for
Exploitation of Land Reclamation Works (CELIF), through its enterprises (IELIF)
and their sub-units (see Chart 1, Annex 9) would be responsible for operation
and maintenance of the Giurgiu-Razmiresti irrigation project. The enterprises
would operate and maintain main project features, while their sub-units would
be responsible for minor facilities within the separate cooperative and State
farms. Activities of enterprises and their sub-units would be coordinated by
the Central's Headquarters in Bucharest.
2.        Annual operation, maintenance and replacement costs, (including
salary, repair and maintenance, replacements, energy, administration, supplies
and fuel) for the Giurgiu-Razmiresti project area are estimated at 1,500 lei/
ha (US$75/ha).  Annual total consumption of electrical energy would be about
187 Gwh or 1,850 Kwh per ha. (net area).  This would enable pumping an average
of 375.6 Mm3 of water from the Danube River providing the necessary pressure
heads for irrigation, and pumping for drainage.  Based on estimated fixed pro-
duction cost during nonpeak hours of .33 lei/kwh, 1/ (compared with the current
charge of 0.15 lei/kwh), the annual cost of electrical energy would total
about 6.2 million lei, or about 605 lei per gross ha (US$30/ha). CELIF would
get these funds from the State.
3.        Annual operations, maintenance, and replacement costs for Giurgiu-
Razmiresti are tabulated below; list of operation and maintenance equipment
is shown in Annex 7, Table 3.
1/   Appraisal report of Turceni Thermal Power.



ANNEX 10
Page 2
Annual Operation and Maintenance Costs
Per Hect re             Total - 102,00  ha (Gross)
Item                      (leiT                    (1000 lei)y
Salary-Operating Personnel        150                        15,300
Repair and Maintenance            200                        20,,400
Replacement of Facilities         195                        19,890
Cost of Electrical Energy         605                        61,710
Adninistration, Suipplies,
Fuel, etc.                    350                        35,700
Total - lei                 1,500                      153,000
Total-US $ Equivalent           (75.0)                       (7.65 million)
2/Discrepancies due to rounding



ANNEX 11
Page 1
ROMANIA
GIURGIU-RAZMIRESTI IRRIGATION PROJECT
Recovery of Project Costs
1.        About 79% of Project benefits would accrue to cooperative farms, 18%
to State farms and 3% to individual members of cooperative farms cultivating
garden plots.
2.        All project costs for investments, and operations and maintenance
would be recovered, mainly indirectly. Only on-farm investments which specif-
ically serve cooperative farms (such as movable sprinklers, surface pipes,
hydraulic equipment, tertiary transmission lines and on-farm drainage) would
be recovered directly. These account for about 6% of total project costs.
Such investments would be recovered within 25 years with an interest rate of
3% by the Romanian Bank for Agriculture and Food Industry through withholdings,
as "development funds", of upto 25% of the cooperative farms' income, part
of which would also be used for future investments and replacements on the
respective cooperative farms.
3.        All other investment costs would be charged to State enterprises
and recovered indirectly through: (i) project benefits from State farms
which would accrue to the State budget, (ii) taxes on incomes of members of
cooperatives, (iii) price mechanism of tradeable commodities, and (iv) payments
to mechanization enterprises by cooperatives for services rendered.
4.        Project benefits from State farms accrue to the State budget.  In
addition, the State recovers costs indirectly through taxes on income from
cooperative farms and garden plots. Incomes derived from cooperative farms
and garden plots carry higher tax than incomes from other sources. The tax
exempt limit of a hired permanent employee elsewhere in the economy is about
10,200 lei per year (850 lei per month) while exemption limit for income
derived from cooperative farms and garden plots is only 1,000 lei per year.
Under the currently operative income tax laws (Official Bulletin of the
Socialist Republic of Romania, Part I, No. 41), project income at full develop-
ment (after deducting withholdings for development fund, social security,
entertainment and emergency fund) would yield annual tax revenue of about
1,800 lei per member, an equivalent of 60 million lei from all active members.
5.        The State also recovers costs indirectly through revenues it earns
by paying low farmgate prices for crops and selling them at higher prices in
the world market. Farmgate prices in the project area are as low as one-third
of export prices. Marketing costs to major export ports represent about 16%
of the spread between farmgate and export prices. At full development, ex-
ports of incremental outputs of tradeables from cooperative farms alone (after
deducting marketing costs) could earn the State up to 324 million lei per year.
Farm machinery costs would be recovered through payments to mechanization
enterprises by cooperatives for services rendered.



ANNEX 1 1
Page 2
6.        As regards operation and maintenance costs, upto 30%, as is now
practiced, would be recovered directly from all farms through a water charge
at present averaging about 215 lei per hectare. The balance is recovered
indirectly.
7.        Estimated direct and indirect collections from all farms would
recover full operation and maintenance costs and all investments at about 8%
over 40 years. Part of the recoveries would flow through BAFI and the rest
through other government agencies.



ANNEX 12
Page 1
ROMAUNIA
GIURGIU-RAZM1IRESTI IRRIGATION PROJECT
Accounts and Audit
A.  Project Accounts
1.        The Bank for Agriculture and Food Industry (BAFI) would keep separate
accounts for all expenditures related to the project. Project investment funds
to be financed from state budget would be transferred annually to BAFI by the
Ministrv of Finance for disbursements.
B.   Audit and Control System in Romania
2.        To support its highly centralized decision-making process, Romania
has an elaborate control and audit system designed to keep the managers of the
economy advised on the progress of, and deviations from, planned activities.
This control system has three major objectives: (i) to audit accounts to en-
sure accurate financial status; (ii) to determine that resources are being
used in accordance with national plans; and (iii) to recommend desirable
changes in resource use.
3.        The system is organized like a pyramid.  At the top is the Court of
Superior Control, while at the bottom are the accountants checking and approv-
ing routine transactions at the enterprise level. The numerous organizations
involved perform either the "Internal Control" or the "External Control".
These controls can be divided in two broad categories: first, the preliminary
control which covers day-to-day transactions; second, the posterior control
which resembles annual audits. The External Control, simultaneously carried
out by three independent organizations (Banks, Ministry of Finance and the
Court of Superior Control), also has the preliminary and posterior control
functions. Thus an enterprise during a period of one year, is inspected by
(i) its own chief accountants; (ii) the internal controller, who reports both
to the general manager of the Central and Minister concerned; (iii) inspectors
from the financing banks, who report to the Ministry of Finance; (iv) control-
lers from the Ministry of Finance; and (v) inspectors from the Court of
Superior Control.
C.   Internal Control System
4.        Preliminary Control.  The chief accountant at each commercial unit
is responsible for checking and approving all financial transactions. He
reports directly to the General Manager of the unit and reports disagreements
to the manager of the supervising unit. To ensure the objectivity and inde-
pendence of the chief accountant, he is nominated by the supervising unit or
the Ministry concerned and cannot be changed by the management of the unit he
audits.



ANNEX 12
Page 2
5.        Posterior Control is performed by special "Internal Control Units"
at least once a year for all enterprises, unless specially exempted by the
Ministry of Finance. Such exemptions are given to very small units which are
audited once every 2-3 years. The audit involves a check of 14 items listed
in law no. 5 of 1970. Some of the checks are:
-    Inventory - quantity, quality and value;
-    Payments, receipts, etc. - their accuracy and validity;
-    Documents - e.g. orders, checks;
-    Entries in accounting books - their conformity to the rules
of the Ministry of Finance:
-    Status of assets and liabilities - actual vs book entries; and
-    Techno-economic indicators - e.g. productivity, input/output
ratios, etc. and their accuracy.
D.  External Control System
6.        This audit function is performed by organizations outside the opera-
tional units such as the Ministry of Finance and the Superior Control Court.
This has also preliminary and posterior stages. The responsibilities of various
organizations and the coverage of the two stages of control are described below.
7.        Banks.  Four banks (BAFI, Investment Bank, Foreign Trade Bank
and the National Bank) monitor the "economic" use of investments in sec-
tors they finance. These banks comment extensively on the desirability of
an investment before it is approved by the State, and supervise and certify
the appropriateness of investment work before releasing payments against sup-
plies. Their field branches exercise control on day-to-day transactions which
is of the nature of audit functions.
8.        Ministry of Finance oversees the work of all ministries.  Through
its own controllers and by reviewing the reports of the Internal Controllers,
it ensures that actual performance conforms to the annual plan approved for
each Ministry, and that the accounts of the Ministry and the Centrals/
Enterprises under it are maintained properly. The Finance Ministry reports
its findings to the Council of Ministers. Any expenditures exceeding the
allocation in the annual plans approved for a Ministry/Central must be eval-
uated by the Finance Ministry and approved by the Council of Ministers.
9.        Court of Superior Control controls the main state bodies in Romania,
e.g. the Ministry of Finance, other IMinistries and the Banks. It performs
both the "preliminary" and the "posterior" controls. The court reports di-
rectly to the President of Romania. To perform its function, the Court re-
ceives the following reports regularly:



ANNEX 12
Page 3
Quarterly reports from BAFI on its financial status;
Finance Ministry's control reports; and
-    Annual internal control reports from each Ministry, including
recommendations made by the Internal Controllers.
The Court prepares its report annually and recommends on the possibilities of
improving the economic use of resources. It evaluates reasons for shortfalls
in targets and fixes the responsibility for them. Besides, it (i) coordinates
the overall control system and ensures that there is no waste or duplication
and suggests means for improving the system; (ii) acts as the counsellor of
the State Council; and (iii) as a judicial court it analyses the "damages" to
the national economy due to economic mismanagement, fixes responsibilities for
such damages and determines what, if any, penalties/punishment should be im-
posed on the responsible individual(s).
10.       Preliminary Control is performed by controllers (inspectors) in each
Ministry to ensure that work is performed efficiently and the funds are employed
effectively. If the controller disagrees with any specific transaction, he
discusses his findings with the Minister concerned. In case they are unable
to resolve the issue at this level, the controller presents his report to the
Superior court. If the Court concurs in the objections of the controller, the
matter is taken to the Council of Ministers for a decision, where both the
Minister and the Court present their arguments. If the Council overrules the
objection raised by the Court, the President of the country receives a report
from the Court for his information.
11.       Posterior control follows similar procedure in which inspectors
from the Court audit the accounts of the State Bodies. The inspectors may
also audit accounts of the Centrals, though at present it is not done on an
annual basis.



ANNEX 13
Page 1
ROMANIA
GIURGIU-RAZMIRESTI IRRIGATION PROJECT
Output Prices
1.        Two sets of prices are used for project appraisal, one for the fi-
nancial analysis of farm budgets and incomes and the other for economic analy-
sis. For financial analysis all outputs are valued at official domestic farm-
gate prices, and for economic analysis tradeable commodities are priced at in-
ternational prices and non-tradeables at domestic farmgate prices. These are
shown in Table 1.
A.   Official Farmgate Prices
2.        All domestic prices in Romania are fixed by Government.  Prices
vary according to quality of products, and in some instances, according to
delivery dates. There are little or no year-to-year variations until there
are general domestic price revisions. The present prices have not changed
significantly since 1965. Farmgate prices reflect the cost of production
plus government determined "profit" margin.
3.        Farmgate prices of sunflower, peas, beans, and soybeans are uni-
form throughout Romania, while those of wheat, maize and barley are uniform
for State farms but for cooperative farms can vary from one region to another.
The objective of the differential pricing policy for cereals is "profit" equal-
ization per unit of output for all cooperative farms. The farmgate prices of
high cost farms, if cost differentials result from natural conditions, are
raised above farmgate prices of low cost producers so that "profits" per
unit of output for low cost producers are close to those of the high cost
producers. These price inequalities are government subsidies to high cost
producers. The differential pricing policy applies to a few selective com-
modities.
4.        Farmgate prices of vegetables, potatoes, fruits, sugar beets and
grapes are fixed by grades and dates of delivery. No price differentials
exist between State and cooperative farms, and in some cases among regions.
Prices are higher for early deliveries. This is designed to encourage early
delivery and offset possible low yields. The average price for any of these
crops in any given year can vary within the maximum price for early delivery
and superior quality crop and the minimum price for late delivery and poor
quality crop. It cannot, however, decline below the floor price or rise
above the ceiling price.
B.   International Prices
5.        International price equivalents of all tradeable commodities are
derived from IBRD forecasts for the period 1974-1985, with the following
adjustments. The incremental output of cereals are considered import



ANNEX 13
Page 2
substitutes until 1985 and exportables thereafter. Thus, the farigate equiv-
alent of international prices for wheat, barley and maize would be averages
of their prices as import substitutes and as exportables. Prices of pulses,
oilseeds, fruits and vegetables are also derived from forecast FOB prices;
these commodities are considered to be exportables at all times. Sugar
beets' price is derived from free world price of sugar (10/lb) by assuming
sugar recovery of 14%, and manufacturing cost of US$70 per ton of sugar.
Fodder crops and by-products such as stalks and leaves are considered to
be non-tradeables. Care has been taken to exclude taxes and subsidies.



ANNEX 13
Table 1
ROMANIA
GIURGIU-RAZKIRESTI IRRIGATION PROJECT
Farmgate Prices Used for Project Analysis
(US$ per ton)
Crop                                        P R I C E S
For Economic Analysis   For Financial Analysis
Cereals
Wheat                                      149                       62
Barley                                     100                       47
Maize                                      105                       52
Pulses
Beans                                      300                      175
Peas                                       180                      105
Oilseeds
Soybeans                                   200                      150
Sunflower                                  257                      101
Sugar beets                                 20                       20
Fruits & Vegetables
Peaches                                    130                       80
Tomatoes                                   130                       95
Potatoes                                    55                       30
Grapes                                     120                      130
Fodders
Alfal  (green)                              10                       10
Maize (silage & forage)                     10                       10
Alfalfa Pasture                              5                        5
Byproducts /a                                             4
/a Straw and stalks of wheat, barley, maize, beans, peas, soybeans, sunflower,
and sugar beet green leaves.
/b These refer to official farmgate prices.



ANNEX 14
Page 1
ROMANIA
GIURGIU-RAZMIRESTI IRRIGATION PROJECT
Project Charges and Farmers' 'Incomes
1.        Fixed daily wages of about US$1.80 are paid to hired laborers on
tihe State farms. Projected incremental output on State farms would have
little or no direct influence on the income of hired farm workers; it would,
however, influence income of members of the cooperative farms.
2.        A farm budget has been prepared for an average size crop producing
cooperative farm. Average size of such a farm in the project area is about
1,740 ha. Annual costs of production elements such as labor, machinery, fer-
tilizers, insecticides, herbicides, seeds, transport services, administrative
expenses and depreciation on farm buildings which apply equally to all sizes
of cooperative farms in Giurgiu-Razmiresti are presented in Table 1.
3.        Gross value of annual output on a cooperative farm, estimated using
domestic farmgate prices, would increase from 6.5 million lei in future with-
out the project to 19.3 million lei with the project, and annual production
costs, also based on domestic prices (excluding labor and project charges)
would increase from 2.6 to 3.3 million lei. Thus, farm income before project
charges and other deductions would increase from 3.9 to 16.0 million lei.
A.   Project Charges and Other Deduction
4.        Project charges are small but adequate.  All investment costs (in-
cluding replacements) incurred by the State which are specific to cooperative
farms would be recovered directly in not more than 20 years, with 3% annual
interest. In addition, up to 30% operation and maintenance costs, as is now
practiced, would be annually recovered directly through a water charge averag-
ing about 215 lei per hectare.
B.   Farmers Incomes
5.        Income of each active cooperative member is determined after deduct-
ing from the gross value of output, all non-labor production cost and compul-
sory Government withholdings. The withholdings include funds for development,
social security, entertainment and emergency.
6.        With project, income (after all deductions) would more than triple
that without the project. Besides, the project would increase income from
private garden plot following irrigation. Details are presented below:



ANNEX 14
Page 2
Income of An Average Crop Producing
Cooperative Farm
(million lei)
Item                                      With Project    Ilthout Project
1. Before Project Charges
Gross Value of Output                         1.9.3               6.5
Non-labor Production Cost                      3.3                2.6
Farm Income                                  16.0 /a              3.9 /a
2.  Project Charges                                 0.8 /b
3. Other Deductions
Development Fund /c                           3.5                 0.9
Social Security /d                            2.3                 0.6
Entertainment and Emergency /e                0.3                 0.1
4.   After all Deductions
Income to Members                             9.1                 2.3
Incremental Income                            6.8
/a   Normally, up to 25% of this income is withheld as Development Fund by
the State from the cooperative farms. Part of this fund is used to
pay directly recoverable investments and interest on them; the rest
is used for future investments on the respective cooperative farms.
/b   Water charges at 215 lei/ha (cropped land) and directly recoverable
costs of 183 lei/ha (cropped land).
/c   Assumed to be about 23% of farm income.
/d   About 15% of farm income.
/e   About 2% of farm income.



ROMANIA
CIURGIU-RAZMIRESTI IRRIGATION PROJECT
la
Annual Production Cost for An Average Farm Size
(Lei per hectare)
Lb      Animal                                           Plant                 Le                                  d
Crop                 Labor         Power         Machinery        Fertilizers        Protection       Seeds       Transportation       Others        Total
Future Without Project
Wheat                    94              _             640              225              100             270              37                163          1,529
Barley                   87              -             600              133               34             198              29                100         1,181
Maize                   190                            470              363              221              39              25                205         1,514
Peas                    250             18             594              170               40             420              14               255          1,761
Beans                   562             27             660              138               -              330               2               289          2,008
Soybeans                783             13             775              149               -              287               8               337          2,352
Sunflower               380             -              704              377              315              45              39               307          2,167
Sugar beets           1,226             22           1,175              596               74             197             171               520          3,982
Potatoes                637             -              756              202               67           1,347             101               510          3,620
Alfalfa (Green)         235             -              500              239               85             120             132                117          1,428
Alfalfa (Pasture)        1'             -               15               -                -              120              -                  -             150
Peaches               2,484             -              216              468              600             700              36                760          5,264
Grapes                6,084             -              266              380              722           1,171              38                333          8,994
Future With Project
Wheat                   228             -              650              224               90             270              60                256          1,778
Barley                  192             -              633              234               55             198              58                199          1,571
Maize                   458             -              473              402              221              39              58                218          1,870
Beans                   728            39              668              247                -             330                3               287          2,302
Soybeans                972            32              775              275                -             287              22,               338          2,701
Sunflower               562             -              704              426              315              45              44                291          2,387
Sugar beets           1,560             -            1,174              490               76             197             440                586         4,523
Tomatoes              7,400             -              600              400              225             775             300                700         10,400
Alfalfa (Green)       1,107             -              550              276               72             120             510                312          2,947
Alfalfa (Pasture)       998             -              550              279               76             121             783                300          3,107
Peaches               4,705             -              216              700              700             875             180                100          7,476
Grapes                9,402             -              266              500              800           1,464             200                100         12,732
Maize (Silo)            672             -              472              328                -              60             320                294          2,146
Maize (forage)          240             -              356              328                -             260             320                231          1,735
/   Size of an average cooperative farm in Giurgiu-Razmiresti is about 1,740 hectares.  Costs are valued at domestic farmgate prices
a  Refers to imputed labor on cooperative farms but is based on the wage level of hired labor on state farms. This is excluded from production costs when
calculating income.
/a  Establishment costs of peaches and grapes, including maintenance costs during  pre-fruitation period, are annualized over their productive lives
/d  Include administrative expenses and depreciation on farm buildings.



ANNEX 15
Page 1
ROMANIA
GIURGIU-RAZMIRESTI IRRIGATION PROJECT
Economic Rate of Return and Sensitivity Analysis
1.        The economic rate of return on the project excluding small sunk
costs of pumps already purchased (US$2.4 million), is estimated at 13.5%.
The project is evaluated by estimating its cost and benefit streams over
40 years.  Basic assumptions are summarized below.
A.   Development Period
2.   (i)  Project construction would start in late 1974 and be completed
by mid-1978. Drainage and erosion control works involving
about 40,000 ha. would start in 1975 and be completed in 1978.
Irrigation benefits would accrue initially to 20,400 ha in
1977 and the entire net project area of about 100,830 ha
would be irrigated by 1979. The irrigation, drainage and
erosion control developments would be as follows:
Cumulative Schedule of Development
Year            Irrigation    Drainage    Erosion Control
--'000 ha--
1976                -           33.6            2.0
1977                20.4          -             4.5
1978               70.6           -             5.9
1979              100.8                          -
(ii)  Anticipated level of full project benefits would be realized
in the eleventh year following initiation of project construc-
tion when tree crops would reach full production in 1985; how-
ever, annual crops would reach full production in 1983, 5 years
after the first irrigation of the respective areas. Yield im-
provement is based on actual experiences on similar irrigation
projects in Romania, so that 20% increases would be realized
in the first year of irrigation, 60% during the second and
third years, and the balance by the fifth year. Projected
area, yield, and output of crops at full development in
1985 are given in Annex 1, Table 3.
B.  Project Costs
3.        Investment, operation, maintenance and replacement costs are es-
timated using mid-1974 international prices of all tradeable inputs. This
involved increasing Romanian cost estimates by a minimum of 15% for civil
works and by a maximum of 150% for heavy equipment; labor being non-tradeable,



ANNEX 15
Page 2
is priced at the going wage rate. A summary of adjusted investment costs
(US$141 million) is in Chapter IV and its breakdown is in Annex 7. Items
which are excluded from economic rate of return calculation are:
(i) cost of land needed for the right of way since production fore-
gone on this area is reflected through decrease in the project
area;
(ii) capital cost of additional farm machinery purchased under the
project, because its depreciation is included in the annual cost
of mechanical operations.
(iii) price increase contingencies because all costs and benefits
are in constant 1974 prices. Equipment is replaced at the
end of its economic life, and its residual value, if any,
is included in project benefits at the end of the assumed
project life.
C.   Production Costs
4.        Tradeable inputs, particularlv fertilizers, insecticides and pesti-
cides are priced at international prices. Similar adjustments for farm machi-
nery and seeds are not made because these cost items would remain practically
unchanged with and without the project. All costs are notionally net of taxes
and duties. Unskilled labor is priced at the prevailing wage of 36 lei per
day of 10 average working hours. Hired labor is used onlv on State farms;
cooperative farms do not use hired labor. For project analysis, labor costs
are imputed for cooperative farms but are based on actual payments for hired
labor on State farms. The skilled labor used on the cooperative farms is
paid as part of the contract work and is not easily distinguished although
it is included in the mechanization cost of ploughing, seeding, harvesting,
etc. By implication, skilled labor is valued at current wages prevailing
in Romania.
D.   Output Prices
5.        In estimating the economic rate of return on the project, tradeable
commodities are priced at international prices and non-tradeables at domestic
farmgate prices. All prices are expressed in constant 1974 U.S. dollars or
U.S. dollar equivalents. Details are in Annex 13.
E.   Net Value of Production
6.        Annual net value of production without the project is assumed to
increase by US$3.1 million (from US$17.8 million to US$20.9 million) due to
State planned shift in cropping pattern and greater use of known technology.
The expected cropping pattern and yields without project are shown in Annex 1,
Table 3.  Any larger increases are unlikelv because of the limitations im-
posed by inadequate and unpredictable rainfall, soil erosion, drainage and



ANNEX 15
Page 3
irrigation constraints. With the project, the annual net value of production
at full development would increase by US$46.7 million coapared with the pres-
ent production, and by US$43.6 million compared with the future without proj-
ect.
E.   Economic Rate of Return
7.        Details of costs, benefits, with and without the project, and in-
crenental benefits are presented in Table 1 which yield the economic return
of 13.5%. The results of sensitivity tests are summarized below:
Assumption                                     Rate of Return (%)
(a)  Including sunk costs                                       13.3
(b)  Project costs increased by 20%                             11.6
(c)  Project benefits decreased by 20%                          10.3
(d)  Project development period extended by 2 years             11.2
(e) (c) and (d) combined                                        8.5



ROMANIA
jIURGIU-RAZMIRESTI IRRIGATION PROJECT
Cost and Benefit Streams with and without the Project
(us$'ooO)
With  Project                                           Without Project
C  a  s  t  s              .      B e n e f i t 8srduto
C  0  5  t  S      Benefits                    ~~~~~~~Production
0 &!X,                             Incremental                               Benefits
Investment   Replacement,  Total        Benefits                          Costs
& Annual                               Benefits
Production
1974       3,890          _        3,890          (3,890)      (3,890)
1975      45,040          _       45,0140        (45,040)    (45,o40)
1976      40,720          -       40,720         (40,720)    (40,720)               _                    _
1977      28,225       11,978     40,203          40,327       12,091             12,126               28,236
1978       1,630       17,919     19,549          40,524       11,380             12,129               29,144
1979                   23,723      23,723         59,783       27,876              12,129              31,907
1980                   26,381      26,381         74,412       41,731              12,129               32,681
1981                   25,257      25,257         82,656       49,868              12,129               32,788
1982                   25,566      25,566         87,652       54,756              12,129               32,896
1983                   32,848      32,848         89,868       56,865              12,129              33,003
1984                   25,748      25,748         90,021       57,018              12,129              33,003
1985                   27,448      27,448         90,173       57,170              12,129               33,003
1986-1988              25,7148     25,748         90,173       57,170              12,129               33,003
1989                   27,448      27,448         90,173       57,170              12,129               33,003
1990                   39,048      39,048         90,173       57,170              12,129               33,003
1991                   32,848      32,848         90,173       57,170              12,129               33,003
1992-1933              25,748      25,748         90,173       57,170              12,129               33,003
1994                   27,448      27,448         90,173       57,170              12,129               33,003
1995-1998              25,748      25,748         90,173       57,170              12,129               33,003
1999                   34,548      34,548         90,173       57,170              12,129               33,003
2000-2003              25,748      25,748         90,173       57,170              12,129               33,003
2004                   29,248      29,248         90,173       57,170              12,129               33,003
2005                   39,048      39,048         90,173       57,170              12,129               33,003
2006                   25,748      25,748         90,173       57,170              12,129               33,003
2007                   32,848      32,848         90,173       57,170              12,129               33,003    0 §
2008                   25,748      25,748         90,173       57,170              12,129               33,003    H 
2009                   27,448      27,448         90,173       57,170              12,129               33,003    (b
2010-2012              25,7148     27,7148        90,173       57,170              12,129               33,003 
0-23                   25,748      25,748          90,173      57,170              12,129               33,003
2013   25,748      25,748          90,173      57,170              12,129               33,003~~~. 



ANNEX 16
ROMANIA
GIURGIU-RAZMIRESTI IRRIGATION PROJECT
Employment
1.        Direct farm employment would increase from 1.1 million man-days
without the project to 2.9 million man-days with the project, a high degree
of mechanization notwithstanding (Table 1). The additional employment would
result primarily from higher yields from existing crops, intensive cultiva-
tion, additional acreages under relatively more labor intensive crops and
labor required for irrigation. In addition handling and processing of in-
creased volumes of inputs and outputs would generate indirect employment.
2.        The additional man-days would be sources of employment primarily
to otherwise underemployed members of the cooperative farms. The project
area is composed of 46 cooperative farms which account for about 80% of the
area to be irrigated. Total working age membership in the cooperative farms
is about 60,000, about 32,600 of whom are engaged in crop production. About
7,400 are engaged in other cooperative farms' activities. Since demand for
labor on the cooperative farms is not sufficient to fully utilize the avail-
able supply, some cooperators work either on adjoining State farms as sea-
sonal labor and/or on their own small private plots. Both of these addi-
tional sources of employment are inadequate to absorb surplus supply of
labor. The project would reduce the underemployment and nearly treble the
imputed income of the present labor force beginning almost immediately, the
initial employment in project construction works being gradually replaced
by production activities.



ANNEX 16
Table 1
ROMANIA
GIURGIU-RAZMIRESTI IRRIGATION PROJECT
Yearly Labor Requirements
Man-days, (000)
Crop                                        .
With Project            Without Project
Wheat                         69.8                     29.7
Barley                        28.8                     13.3
lMaize                       470Q9                    242.5
Peas                            -                       2.7
Beans                         51.7                     33.3
Soybeans                    317.8                     262.7
Sunflower                    68.2                      64.3
Sugar beets                 240.6                     194.1
Potatoes                       -                       63.2
Tomatoes                    727.6                        -
Grapes                      316.2                      89.4
Peaches                      65.2                      13.8
Fodders              '      536.8                      78.1
Total         2,893.6                   1,087.1






'Th .ucharest                                   IBRD 11167
fit'                                             A    >-\-~~~~~~~~~~.  Ur>~_-AUGUST  W197
ROMANIA                                                 1/$-$f
GIURGIU-RAZMIRESTI IRRIGATION PROJECT                                                  f  l                        7/ >tyF-                        / - - - 7
GENERAL PROJECT                                                                          A 4's
...   S   i,,Wf   ,,,   y4XW  ..  /  n~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~B,
ON X,01 ;U-'Vt,.                                                                     ''A
f41'~, '   V                                                                                                          4                                                           ,  ,14 z,         jIBLCU,,4  , @,--RAEL RAD
KIOMEIE RS > v.g/g/ffi/' \ C S X X 4t~~"~; ME
A        '>    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'                  7"    '4 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~INTERNATIONAL  BOUNDARIES
IN                      ~~~~                            ~~\0\ )KY
Xnl/~~~~~~~~~~~~4
IS                                                                1'!                                                                             /4' </4'~~~~~~~~~~~~
RAZMIRE ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~N    
SI~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
Q  ~~~~~                              '4   \t'      4»'           <~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7
'4                                     1977   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IRRIGATION AREAS BY
19781        OPE'UIT0 DEVELOPMENT
4                                                                                                                         S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PRINKLERS
'4                                                                                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FURROWS
A                                                                                                                                                       -      CANALS
\  V                                                                   I                      '~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IRI  CAMA CHANNEL
4  \~~~~'\~~~\\'\'\N  ½  NV   tNt  \~~~~~~~~~~~~6%///'  A                                                        _____ ~~~~~~~~DRAINAGE CHANNRLS
4'> <4""'  /      A   ~~CANAL PUMPING STATIONS
>7                                                                             A   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DRAINAGE CHANNEL PUIMPING, STATIONS
... dl/47' MAJOR CITIES AND TOWNS
ASPHALT ROADS
5     2      4     6      a      IS-RVE  OD
K'ILO-METER'S  .   .   .                                                                                                    '>---RVL  OD
~~   &4'<~~~~~~3'~~~                                             r-'----~~~~~~~~~---i ~~~RAILROADS



