CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1082 RO
Loan Agreement
(Giurgiu-Razmiresti Irrigation Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
AND
BANCA PENTRU AGRICULTURA SI INDUSTRIE ALIMENTARA
DATED FEBRUARY 6, 1975


﻿CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1082 RO
Loan Agreement
(Giurgiu-Razmiresti Irrigation Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
AND
BANCA PENTRU AGRICULTURA SI INDUSTRIE ALIMENTARA
DATED FEBRUARY 6, 1975


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated February 6, 1975, between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank)
and BANCA PENTRU AGRICULTURA SI INDUSTRIE ALIMENTARA
(hereinafter called the Borrower).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank,
dated March 15, 1974, with the same force and effect as if they were fully set
forth herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements
of the Bank being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "Romania" and "Guarantor" both mean The Socialist Republic of
Romania;
(b)   "Foreign Trade Bank" means the Romanian Bank for Foreign Trade,
established by Law No. 16/1968 of Romania;
(c)   "DIFCA" means the Department of Land Reclamation and Agricultural
Construction in the Ministry of Agriculture, Food Industry and Water of Romania;
(d)   "ISPIF" means the Design Institute for Land Reclamation, established
by Decision No. 178/1974 of the Council of Ministers of Romania;
(e)   "CELIF" means the Central for the Exploitation of Land Reclamation
Works, established by Decision No. 178/1974 of the Council of Ministers of
Romania;
(f)   "Charter" means the Charter of the Borrower approved by Decree
No. 55 of 1970 of the Council of State of Romania, approved by Law No. 15
of 1970 of Romania, as amended from time to time;


﻿4
(g)   "Project Land" means all land which shall be served by the irrigation
facilities constructed or installed under the Project, including land cultivated by
State Farms and Cooperative Farms and plots given in use to members of
Cooperative Farms;
(h)   "State Farm" means any Agricultural State Enterprise established and
operating under Law No. 11 of 1971 of Romania, as amended from time to time;
(i)   "Cooperative  Farm"  means any    Cooperative  for Agricultural
Production established and operating under a charter approved by the Second
Congress of the National Union of Cooperatives for Agricultural Production held
in February 1972; in accordance with the principles set forth in Articles 9 and
10 of the Constitution of Romania, including any subsequent amendments of such
charter; and
(j)   "plots given in use to members of Cooperative Farms" means plots
of land situated in contiguous blocks and cultivated by members of Cooperative
Farms on an individual basis.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and
conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in various
currencies equivalent to seventy million dollars ($70,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as
such Schedule may be amended from time to time by agreement between the
Bank and the Borrower, for expenditures mad- (or, if the Bank shall so agree,
to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan and in respect of interest and other charges on the
Loan.
(b) On or before each of the semi-annual interest payment dates specified
in Section 2.07 of this Agreement, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay,
on such date, interest and other charges on the Loan accrued and payable on
or before the dat. set forth, and up to the amount allocated, in Schedule 1 to
this Agreement, ab such Schedule may be amended from time to time.


﻿5
(c)   The Foreign Trade Bank is designated as representative of the Borrower
for the purpose of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under
the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section and Article V of the General
Conditions.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree,
contracts for the purchase of goods agreed between the Bank and the Borrower
and for the carrying out of works or services (other than consultants' services)
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be awarded
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1978, or such other
date as shall be agreed between the Bank and the Borrower.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan not wi.hdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of eight per cent
(8%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semi-annually on
May 1 and November 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan
in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall cause the Project to be carried out with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate engineering,
financial and administrative practices as follows:
(a)   the Borrower shall supervise the execution of the Project, including
the procurement of the goods and services required therefor;
(b)   ISPIF shall provide the general engineering services required for the
Project;


﻿6
(c)   DIFCA shall:
(i)         make suitable arrangements for the procurement of the
goods and services required for the Project;
(ii)        make   timely  arrangements, in form     and  substance
satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank, with ISPIF
for the supply of the general engineering services required
for the Projet, and with the appropriate construction
organizations of Romania as required for the civil works
and the electrical installations included in the Project; and
(iii)       have overall responsibility for the coordination of the
implementation of the Project and for the Project-related
activities of the other departments and agencies of
Romania.
Section 3.02. Consultants acceptable to the Bank and the Borrower shall
be employed in DIFCA, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank and
the Borrower, for the purpose of providing assistance in the procurement of the
equipment and machinery required for the Project.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall cause adequate provision to be made for
the insurance of the imported goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of importation into the territory of Romania, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable to replace or repair
such goods.
Section 3.04. Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan to be used exclusively for the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Achievement of the Purposes of the Project
Section 4.01. The Bank and the Borrower agree that, in order to realize
the purposes of the Project, it shall be necessary that:
(a)   the irrigation and drainage facilities constructed or installed under the
Project will be operated and maintained by CELIF in close cooperation with the


﻿7
State Farms and Cooperative Farms cultivating Project Land, and the electric power
networks serving the irrigation and drainage facilities constructed or installed under
the Project will be operated and maintained by the competent electric power
enterprises of Romania, and all necessary repairs and renewals of such facilities
and installations will be made from time to time, all in accordance with appropriate
agricultural, administrative and engineering practices; and
(b)   the cultivators of Project Land will be supplied with agricultural
technical and advisory services, seeds, fertilizers, pesticides, agricultural financing
and marketing facilities, all as required to make optimal productive use of such
Land.
The Borrower shall, to the extent that it is authorized under the laws of
Romania, ensure that the requirements set forth in this Section will be met.
ARTICLE V
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Financial Covenants
Section 5.01. The Borrower shall manage and conduct its operations and
affairs in accordance with appropriate administrative and financial standards and
practices and in accordance with the Charter.
Section 5.02. The Borrower shall maintain records adequate to reflect in
accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices its
operations in respect of DIFCA and CELIF.
Section 5.03. (a) It is not the practice of the Borrower to create liens as
security for debt. Accordingly, the Borrower represents that at the date of this
Agreement no lien exists on any of its assets as security for any debt.
(b)   For the event that, notwithstanding the foregoing, a lien shall be
created on any of the Borrower's assets as security for any debt, the Borrower
undertakes that, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree: (i) if the Borrower shall
create the lien, such lien will equally and ratably secure the payment of the principal
of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and in the creation of such lien
express provision will be made to that effect, at no cost to the Bank, and (ii)
if the lien shall be created by law, the Borrower shall grant, at no cost to the
Bank, an equivalent lien satisfactory to the Bank to secure the payment of the
principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan.


﻿8
Section 5.04. The Bank and the Borrower agree that in carrying out the
provisions of this Agreement the Borrower shall take such measures as shall be.
necessary according to the State Plan of Romania and the applicable laws in order
to achieve the purposes of the Project.
ARTICLE VI
Cooperation and Information
Financial Data
Section 6.01. The Bank and the Borrower shall cooperate fully to assure
that the purposes of the Loan will be accomplished. To that end:
(a)   the Bank and the Borrower shall from    time to time at the request
of either party exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
progress of the Project, the benefits derived from the Project, the performance
of their respective obligations under the Loan Agreement, the fulfillment of the
requirements set forth in Section 4.01 of this Agreement and other matters relating
to the purposes of the Loan, and the Borrower shall enable the Bank's
representatives to exchange views with representatives of DIFCA and CELIF with
regard to the Project, the benefits derived from the Project and the fulfillment
of the requirements set forth in Section 4.01 of this Agreement;
(b)   the Borrowei shall obtain from     DIFCA   and the other agencies
concerned of Romania, and furnish to the Bank, upon their preparation, the plans,
specifications, reports, contract documents and construction and procurement
schedules for the Project, and the material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Bank and the Borrower shall agree;
(c)   the Borrower: (i) shall maintain or cause to be maintained records
adequate to record the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and
to identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, and
to disclose the use thereof in the Project; and (ii) shall furnish to the Bank within
forty-five calendar days after each calendar quarter a report, of such scope and
in such detail as the Bank and the Borrower shall agree, on the progress of the
Project during such quarter;
(d)   the Borrower shall enable the Bank's representatives to visit and
examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the facilities and
construction sites included in the Project and the records and documents relating
to the Project of DIFCA and the other departments or agencies of Romania
responsible for the Project or any part thereof;


﻿9
(e)   the Borrower shall: (i) furnish to the Bank not later than five months
after the end of each of its fiscal years, (A) certified copies of its financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related
statements, as agreed between the Bank and the Borrower), and until the completion
of the Project certified copies of its records referred to in paragraph (c) of this
Section recording the cost of the Project, for such fiscal year submitted to an
independent audit conducted, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by the Ministry of Finance of Romania, and (B) the report
of such audit by said auditor, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank and
the Guarantor shall agree; and (ii) furnish to the Bank such other information
concerning the before-mentioned financial statements of the Borrower and the audit
thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request; and
(f)   the Bank and the Borrower shall from time to time furnish to each
other such additional information as the other party shall reasonably request with
regard to the progress of the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan,
the goods and services financed out of such proceeds, the operations, resources
and expenditures of DIFCA and CELIF, the benefits derived from the Project and
the general status of the Loan.
Section 6.02. The Bank and the Borrower shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the progress
of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, the maintenance
of the service thereof or the performance by either party of its obligations under
the Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to
the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01(c)
of the General Conditions, namely, that the Council of Ministers of Romania has
approved the technical and economic indicators for the Project and such approval
has become effective.
Section 7.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the
meaning of Section 12.02(c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely, that the technical and
economic indicators for the Project have been duly approved by the Council of
Ministers of Romania and such approval has become effective.


﻿10
Section 7.03. The date May 5, 1975 is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VIII
Addresses
Section 8.01. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.
For the Borrower:
Banca pentru Agricultura si
Industrie Alimentara
Strada Smirdan No. 3
Bucharest, Romania
Telex No.:
11622
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed


﻿11
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s / Munir P. Benjenk
Regional Vice President
Europe, Y le East and North Africa
BANCA PENTRU AGRICULTURA
SI INDUSTRIE ALIMENTARA
By /s/ Corneliu Bogdan
Authorized Representative


﻿12
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each
Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated              % of
(Expressed in           Expenditures
Category                   Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1)   Equipment,                    54,000,000           100% of foreign
spare parts,                                       expenditures and
materials,                                         100% of local ex-
supplies and                                       penditures ex-
post-sale                                          factory
services by
suppliers,
other than those
referred to
in paragraph
A.2 of Sched-
ule 4 to this
Agreement
(2)   Equipment and                    700,000           100% of local ex-
materials re-                                      penditures ex-
ferred to n.                                       factory
paragraph .2
of Schedule 4
to this Agree-
ment
(3)   Consultants'                     300,000          100% of foreign
services and                                       expenditures
staff training
(4)   Interest and                  10,000,000          Amounts due
other charges on
th Loan accrued
on or before
October 31, 1978
(5)   Unallocated                    5,0000
TOTAL         70,000,000


﻿13
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term  "foreign expenditures" means expenditures for goods or
services supplied from the territory and in the.currency of any country other than
Romania; and
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of
Romania and for goods and services supplied from the territory of Romania.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compliance with the
policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan shall be disbursed on account
of payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, Romania on goods or
services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if any event occurs which shall affect the amount of any such taxes
included in the cost of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan,
the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, correspondingly adjust the disbursement
percentage then applicable to such item.
4.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or the disbursement
percentages set forth  ; the table in paragraph I above, if the Bank has reasonably
estimated that the amount of the Loan then allocated to any Category will be
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Category,
the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category to the
extent required to meet the estimated shortfall proceeds of the Loan which are
then allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are
not needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully
meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such Category may
continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.    If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the procurement of any
item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to
in this Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or limiting
any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the Loan Agreement, by
notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Loan as in the Bank's reasonable
opinion represents the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have
been eligible for financing out of h: proceeds of the Loan.


﻿14
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is to provide irrigation and drainage facilities and erosion control
to serve adequately an area of about 100,800 ha. of cultivated land encompassing
the towns of Giurgiu in Ilfov County and Razmiresti in Teleorman County and
bordered on the east by the Bucharest-Giurgiu highway and on the south by the
Danube River. The Project shall serve about 18,500 ha. under cultivation by State
Farms, and about 82,300 ha. owned by Cooperative Farms, including about
3,200 ha. of plots given in use to members of Cooperative Farms.
The Project consists of:
1.    Construction and installation of two main supply pumping stations
and two repumping stations;
2.    Construction of about 240 km of lined main, branch and secondary
irrigation canals, including the necessary land preparation works;
3.    Installation of about 2,170 km of buried distribution pipelines;
4.    Installation of 65 pressure pumping stations sufficient to serve 65
sectors under sprinkler irrigation, averaging about 1,200 ha. each; and
13 pressure pumping stations sufficient to serve 13 sectors under
furrow irrigation, averaging about 1,620 ha. each, after the necessary
land preparation; together with the necessary portable sprinkler system
equipment and furrow irrigation equipment;
5.    Construction of adequate drainage facilities where required, serving
about 33,600 ha., including the construction of about 75 km of main
drains and about 287 km of collector drains and the installation, of
12 lift pumping stations;
6.    Installation of a power network (transmission lines and transformers)
as required to serve adequately the irrigation and drainage pumps
installed under the Project;
7.    Erosion control works on about 6,000 ha.;
8.    Supply of operation and maintenance equipment and farm machinery;
and


﻿15
9.   Training of Romanian technical personnel and economists in the
operation and maintenance of the facilities provided under the Project.
The Project is to be completed by June 30, 1978.


﻿16
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                                 (expressed in dollars)*
May 1, 1980                                               735,000
November 1, 1980                                          765,000
May 1, 1981                                               795,0
November 1 1981                                           830,00
May 1, 198k                                               860,000
November 1, 1982                                          900,000
May 1, 1983                                               930,000
November 1, 1983                                          970,000
May 1, 1984                                             1005,000
November 1, 1984                                        1,050,000
May 1, 1985                                             1,00,000
November 1, 1985                                        1,135,000
May 1, 1986                                             1,180,000
November 1, 1986                                        1225,00
May 1, 1987                                             1,275,000
November 1 1987                                         1,325,000
May 1, 198A                                             1,380,0
November 1 1988                                         1,435,000
May 1, 198§                                             1495,000
November 1, 1989                                        1,550,000
May 1, 1990                                             1,615,000
November 1, 1990                                        1,675,000
May 1, 1991                                             1,750,000
November 1, 1991                                        1,815,000
May 1, 1992                                             1,890,000
November 1, 1992                                        1,965,000
May 1, 1993                                             2,040,000
November 1, 1993                                        2,25,000
May 1, 1994                                             2,210,000
November 1, 1994                                        2,295,000
May 1, 1995                                             2,390,000
November 1, 1995                                        2,485,000
May 1, 1996                                             2,585,000
November 1, 1996                                        2,690,000
May 1, 1997                                             2,795,0
November 1, 1997                                        2,905,000
May 1, 1998                                             3,025,000
November 1, 1998                                        3,145,000
May 1, 1999                                             3,270,000
November 1,  1999                                       3,400,000
*  To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a currency other
than dollars (see General Conditions, Section 4.02), the figures in this column
represent dollar equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿17
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums payable on
repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the principal amount of the
Loan pursuant to Section 3.05(b) of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                                 Premium
Not more than three years                            1-1/4%
before maturity
More than three years but                                2%
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but not                          3-3/4%
more than eleven years
before maturity
More than eleven years but                           5-3/4%
not more than sixteen
years before maturity
More than sixteen years but                              7%
not more than eighteen
years before maturity
More than eighteen years                                 8%
before maturity


﻿18
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.    General Procedures
1.   Except as provided in paragraph A.2 hereof, contracts shall be awarded under
procedures consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement under
World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in April 1972, as
revised in October 1972 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of
international competitive bidding.
2.    Contracts for goods designated by agreement between the Bank and the
Borrower and estimated to cost $700,000 equivalent in the aggregate shall be
awarded under Romanian procurement procedures.
3.    Suppliers of equipment or machinery shall be required to provide assistance
in the installation and initial operation of such equipment and machinery.
B.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods;
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the supply of
goods: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry)
price for imported goods or the ex-factory price for domestically-manufactured
goods; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods shall be
excluded; and (iii) the cost of inland freight and other expenditures incidental
to the delivery of goods to the place of their use or installation shall be included.
2.    Goods manufactured in Romania may be granted a margin of preference
in accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
(a)   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall clearly
indicate any preference which will be granted, the information required to establish
the eligibility of a bid for such preference and the following methods and stages
that will be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b)   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in one of the
following three groups:
(1)   Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Romania if the
bidder shall have established to the satisfaction of the Borrower


﻿19
and the Bank that the manufacturing cost of such goods includes
a value added in Romania equal to at least 20% of the ex-factory
bid price of such goods.
(2)   Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured in Romania.
(3)   Group C: bids offering goods manufactured outside Romania.
(c)   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared among
themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import taxes on goods to be
imported and any sales or similar taxes on goods to be supplied domestically, to
determine the lowest evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall
then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this comparison, a bid
from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
(d)   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) above, the lowest
bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids shall be further compared with the
lowest evaluated bid from group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the
imported goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of customs duties and other
import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay for the importation
of the goods offered in such group C bid, or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of
such goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If the group
A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award;
if not, the lowest evaluated bid from group C shall be selected.
C.   Review of Procurement Decisions by Bank
1.   Review of invitation to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equivalent of $150,000
or more:
(a)   Before bids are invited, DIFCA, acting as representative of the
competent Romanian foreign trade enterprise, shall furnish to the Bank, for its
comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and other bidding
documents, together with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said documents or
procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any further modification to the
bidding documents shall require the Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.


﻿20
(b)   Promptly after the bids have been received, DIFCA shall inform the
Bank of the names of the bidders and the respective amounts of the bids.
(c)   After bids have been evaluated, DIFCA shall, before a final decision
on the award is made, inform the Bank of the name of the bidder to which the
contract is intended to be awarded and the reasons for the intended award and
shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report, by
the consu1lants referred to in Section 3.02 of this Agreement, on the evaluation
and comparison of the bids received, together with the recommendation for award
of the said consultants and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably
request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the intended award would be
inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform DIFCA and
state the reasons for such determination.
(d)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not without the Bank's
concurrence materially differ from those on which bids were asked or
prequalification was invited.
(e)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the Bank
promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the first
application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect of such
contract.
2.    With respect to each contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan and not governed by the preceding paragraph, DIFCA shall furnish to the
Bank, promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of
the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect
of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together with the analysis
of bids, recommendations for award and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the award of the contract
was not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform DIFCA
and state the reasons for such determination.


