Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 4842 RO 
 
Project Agreement 
 
(Transport Sector Support Project) 
 
between 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION  
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
and 
 
NATIONAL RAILWAY COMPANY OF ROMANIA (CFR SA) 
 
Dated  November 27, 2006 
 
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER 4842 RO 
 
PROJECT AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated November 27, 2006, entered into between INTERNATIONAL 
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (
“Bank”) and NATIONAL 
RAILWAY COMPANY OF ROMANIA (CFR SA) (“Project Implementing Entity”) 
(“Project Agreement”) in connection with the Loan Agreement of same date between 
ROMANIA (“Borrower”) and the Bank (“Loan Agreement”).  The Bank and the Project 
Implementing Entity hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I - GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01.1. The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to the Loan Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.01.2. Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in the Project 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the Loan Agreement or the 
General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE II - PROJECT
 
2.01. 
The Project Implementing Entity declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project and the Program.  To this end, the Project Implementing Entity shall: 
 
(a) 
carry out Part II of the Project in accordance with the provisions of 
Article V of the General Conditions; and  
 
(b) 
provide promptly as needed, the funds, as transferred to it by the relevant 
Governmental authorities, facilities, services and other resources 
required for its Respective Part of the Project.  
 
2.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 2.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Bank and the Project Implementing Entity shall otherwise agree, 
the Project Implementing Entity shall carry out its Respective Part of the Project 
in accordance with the provisions of the Schedule to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III - REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
3.01. 
The Project Implementing Entity’s Representative is its General Director. 
 
Page  3
-
2
-
3.02. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818 H Street, NW 
 
Washington, DC 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) 
or 
1-202-477-6391 
 Washington, 
D.C. 
64145(MCI) 
 
3.03. 
The Project Implementing Entity’s Address is: 
 
National Railway Company of Romania (CFR) 
 
38,
Dinicu Golescu Blvd., Sector 1, Floor 3 
 
010873
Bucharest 
 
Romania 
 
Facsimile: 
 
+40-21-222-2517 
 
AGREED at Bucharest, Romania, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCITON AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Anand Seth 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
NATIONAL RAILWAY COMPANY OF ROMANIA 
 
By /s/ Costantin Axinia 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  4
-
3
-
SCHEDULE 
 
Execution of the 
Implementing Entity’s Respective Part of the Project 
 
Section I.
Institutional and Other Arrangements
1. 
During Project implementation, the Project Implementing Entity shall maintain 
an organizational and management structure, staffing and resources which shall be 
adequate to enable it to effectively implement its Respective Part of the Project, and 
which shall be acceptable to the Bank.  In particular, the Project Implementing Entity 
shall: (i) maintain a project management unit (PMU) with a sufficient number of 
qualified staff and adequate facilities, as satisfactory to the Bank; and (ii) maintain 
adequate staffing specialists trained in the area of environmental management.  Such staff 
shall continue to receive periodic training in such area. 
 
2. 
The Project Implementing Entity shall take all necessary measures to implement   
its Respective Part of the Project in accordance with the Annual Infrastructure 
Maintenance Programs for its Respective Part of the Project, and shall not amend, 
suspend, abrogate, repeal or waive any provision of such Annual Infrastructure 
Maintenance Programs without prior approval of the Bank. 
 
3.  
The Project Implementing Entity shall: 
 
(a) 
carry out its Respective Part of the Project in accordance with the 
provisions of the Environmental Legislation and when its Respective Part of the Project 
involves land acquisition activities, the Land Acquisition Framework; and 
 
(b) 
 promptly inform the Bank  of any developments in the legislation, rules 
or procedures of, or applicable to, the Borrower or the Project Implementing Entity that  
may affect the implementation of its Respective Part of the Project. 
 
4.  
The Project Implementing Entity shall notify the Borrower and the Bank of any 
intended acquisition of land for the purposes of its Respective Part of the Project, in 
whole or in part, of the following: residences, agricultural holdings, commercial 
structures and businesses; and/or land used by people without claim to legal title.   
 
Section II
.
Project Monitoring; Reporting; Evaluation
A. Annual 
Infrastructure
 
Maintenance Programs and Project Reports 
 
1. 
The Project Implementing Entity shall: 
 
(a) 
not later than November 15 of each year during the implementation of 
the Project, or such later date as may be agreed by the Bank, starting November 15, 2006, 
submit to the Borrower and the Bank, for their review and approval, an Annual 
Page  5
-
4
-
Infrastructure Maintenance Program, to be satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank, for 
its Respective Part of the Project for the following calendar year, which shall include 
agreed activities and corresponding costing to be financed with Loan proceeds for the 
respective year and an updated five-year program of maintenance, current and periodic 
repair, overhaul and investment activities;  
 
(b) 
monitor and evaluate the progress of its Respective Part of the Project 
and prepare Project Reports for its Respective Part of the Project in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions, on the basis of indicators agreed 
with the Bank; each Project Report shall: (i) cover the period of one (1) calendar semester 
quarter; (ii) be furnished to the Borrower and the Bank not later than forty-five (45) days 
after the end of the period covered by such report; and (iii) indicate the progress, outputs 
and outcomes achieved in implementing the Annual Infrastructure Maintenance Program 
for the period preceding the date of such report;  
 
(c) 
not later than December 15 of each year during the implementation of the 
Project, or such later date as may be agreed by the Bank, starting December 15, 2006, 
jointly undertake with the Borrower and the Bank, the review of the activities, outputs 
and outcomes for its Respective Part of the Project based on the Project Reports referred 
to in sub-paragraph (b) above, and if such review is satisfactory to the Bank, agree with 
the Borrower and the Bank on the Annual Infrastructure Maintenance Program for the 
following calendar year and the updated five-year program of maintenance, current and 
periodic repair, overhaul and investment activities; and 
 
(d) 
not later than February 15 of each year during the implementation of the 
Project, or such later date as may be agreed by the Bank, starting February 15, 2007, 
jointly undertake with the Borrower and the Bank, the review of the activities, outputs 
and outcomes for its Respective Part of the Project based on the Project Reports referred 
to in sub-paragraph (b) above, and jointly agree with the Borrower and the Bank on any 
adjustments to be made to the Annual Infrastructure Maintenance Program for the 
remaining part of the calendar year. 
 
2. 
The Project Implementing Entity shall provide to the Borrower not later than four 
(4) months after the Closing Date, for incorporation in the report referred to in Section 
5.08 (c) of the General Conditions, all such information as the Borrower or the Bank shall 
reasonably request for the purposes of that Section. 
 
B.
 
Financial Management; Financial Reports; Audits 
 
1. 
The Project Implementing Entity shall maintain a financial management system 
and prepare financial statements in accordance with consistently applied accounting 
standards acceptable to the Bank, both in a manner adequate to reflect the operations and 
financial condition of the Project Implementing Entity, including the operations, 
resources and expenditures related to its Respective Part of the Project. 
 
Page  6
-
5
-
2. 
The Project Implementing Entity shall have its financial statements referred to 
above audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with 
consistently applied auditing standards acceptable to the Bank.  Each audit of these 
financial statements shall cover the period of one (1) fiscal year of the Project 
Implementing Entity.  The audited financial statements for each period shall be furnished 
to the Borrower and the Bank not later than six (6) months after the end of the period.
 
Section III
.
Procurement
All goods, works and services required for 
the Project Implementing Entity’s 
Respective Part of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be 
procured in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement. 
 
