                                                                                          36184

                        PROJECTINFORMATIONDOCUMENT(PID)
                                        APPRAISAL STAGE


I                                                                                 ReportNo.: AB219
  ProiectName                        I TRANSPORT SECTOR SUPPORT PROJECT                                   1




1.       Key Development Issues andRationalefor BankInvolvement

Joining the European Union i s one o f the central development objectives o f Romania with the
recently signed Accession Treaty committing the government to EU membership in 2007. EU
accession will require wide ranging reforms o f the Romanian economy in order to prepare for
competition, and to improve the physical infrastructure. While the Government has achieved
significant progress in structural and institutional reform o f the transport sector with support o f the
World Bank,l the state of Romania's existing transport infrastructure represents a key challenge for
convergence and integration with EUmember states. Road and rail network capacity is limited, the
efficiency and safety o f infrastructure services are below EU standards, and a large backlog in
rehabilitation and maintenance has accumulated mainly due to inadequate funding in the past. These
issues were identified in the Government's transport sector strategy for 2003-2010, and the Ministry
o f Transport, Construction and Tourism (MTCT) i s currently developing a comprehensive medium-
term investment program for the rail androad sector to prepare for EUintegration.

The Government's strategic investment priorities in the railways sector are aimed at achieving
network interoperability with neighboring countries, improved quality and safety o f infrastructure
services and signaling systems, and reduced maintenance costs. Previous Bank financed projects have
supported the restructuring o f the State Railway and the modernization o f the railway's Information
and Communication Technology. The new Transport Restructuring project further supports
management development, and should improve the way that the Railways manage train operations
and track maintenance with the acquisition o f modem track maintenance equipment. The proposed
project will consolidate the achievements o f previous Bank projects by financing rehabilitation and
modernization o f the physical infrastructure to clear the substantial backlog o f maintenance and the
poor condition of the signaling systems.

For the road sector, strategic investment priorities laid out in the Government's Road Rehabilitation
Program include improvements to the bearing capacity, road geometry and riding quality o f the



'Through the Second RoadsProject, the Railway RehabilitationProjectand Transport Restructuring Project.

 national road network, inorder to align these with EUstandards.:!      The recommendations inprevious
 Bank AAA reports clearly indicate the need to counteract further deterioration in the transport
 infrastructure by improving the management of maintenance and rehabilitation, as well as increased
 financing. For the road network, the introduction of a Pavement Management System (PMS) and a
 Bridge Management System (BMS) under the Transport Restructuring Project will help to maximize
 resource allocation under current budget constraints, leading to improved road network condition.3
 Further efficiencies could be gained by improvingprocurement practices for civil works contracts in
 the road sector through development o f a competitive private sector construction industry and further
 use o f competitive biddingwhich couldreduce current contract costs by up to 30 per~ent.~

 The government of Romania has prepared a Sector Operational Program for Transport (SOPT) as a
 component o f the National Development Plan (NDP), a keyrequirement for EUaccession. The SOPT
 will specify the activities and financing resources that the government will make available for the
 period 2005 - 2013. This includes fkding from EUpre- and post accession grant funds (ISPA up to
 2006, and the Cohesion Fund from 2007 onwards) that are targeted for improving transport
 infrastructure capacity and (to a limited extent) for network rehabilitation along the Trans-European
 Corridors IV and E. While the EIB will partly co-finance EU grant funds, significant co-financing
requirements from the Government remain5. Consequently, this project will contribute to financing
components of the SOPT dealing with the essential investment in maintenance and rehabilitation o f
the existing transport infrastructure. The Government of Romania has requested World Bank
assistance to finance periodic maintenance and priority modernizatiodrehabilitation investments for
theroad andrailnetworks.

The draft Country Partnership Strategy for Romania puts much emphasis on supporting the
strengtheningo f institutional capacity, ensuringmacro-economic stability, increasingcompetitiveness
and strengthening the private sector, in order to curb poverty and promote economic growth. The
Bank will support the investments in priority sectors determined by Romania, and thereby assist the
country to fulfill its pledges with regard to EUaccession and with the absorption o f EUgrant funds.

2.       ProposedObjective(s)

The objective o f the Project i s to assist the Borrower to reduce transport costs through improvement
o f the overall quality o f its national roads and railways networks during the first years o f EU
accession. For the proposedroads component, this will be achievedby:

(i)      improvingthe overall condition o fnational roads;
(ii)     establishing reliable and sustainable funding for road maintenance, rehabilitation, and road
         safety, through a coherent 5-year rolling program; and
(iii)    improving the capacity within the road agency (RNCMNR) to operate efficiently and
         effectively inmanagingroadmaintenance and rehabilitation.




  Since beginning o f the program inmid-l990s, approximately 2,500 kmwere modernized; around 7,000 km
(worth approx. USD 8 billion) are scheduledto be completed over the next 10 years.
  To date, maintenance works are scheduled at predetermined frequencies.
  The average cost o f completed periodic maintenance work is about USD 180,000 per km,which is relatively
high compared to the unit costs of resurfacing reported by RNCMNR
  EBRDno longer provides sovereign finance to Romania and commercial bank and bondfinance to the railway
companies is currently limited to rehabilitation.


                                                       2

 The development objective for the proposed railway component will be achieved by:

 (i)      Lowering the costs o f rail transport through rehabilitation o f track infrastructure to permit
          cheaper, faster and safer train operations.

 (ii)     Interoperability o f the railway network with neighboring counties through modernization o f
          equipment on the rail network, at border crossings, and improved connections with the
          domestic branch network. This shouldresult inincreased transit traffic, reducedtravel times,
          and increased productivity.
 3.       Project Description

 The proposed project will provide financial support to ensure full implementation o f the
 government's program for rehabilitation and maintenance o f the existing road and rail networks. The
 project focuses on the Government's maintenance and rehabilitation program, which is part o f a
 larger investment program, and includes measures to strengthen the management capacity o f the road
 and railway infrastructure companies. The project i s designed to assist the Government in setting
 priorities and to foster stable financing for maintenance and rehabilitation o f existing road and
 railway infrastructure. As indicated inthe draft Country Partnership Strategy, the World Bank would
 provide a maximum o f USD 750 million over the period 2006 - 2010, including this proposed USD
 180 million Specific Investment Loan (SIL) that will cover 2006 - 2007. The government would
 commit to a five-year transport infrastructure maintenance, rehabilitation and modernization program
to ensure long-term program sustainability, and to address current concerns over inadequate
maintenance expenditure as expressedby the EUand others.

The Government's proposed plan for the period 2007 - 2013 includes investments in roads and
railways infrastructure averaging EUR 2.5 billion and EUR 2 billion per year, respectively. The
Government i s in the process o f revising this investment program to fit within the overall medium
term expenditure framework defined inthe budget. The necessity to prioritize the program derives not
only fiom financial constraints, but also from the need for a more balanced expenditure program,
which better serves the development of the private sector and which avoids peaks and troughs in the
investment program. The balanced program also permits gradual improvement in Romania's
absorptive capacity to utilize EUgrants.

The proposed loan o f USD 180millionwill contribute to financing a USD 218 million national roads
periodic maintenance program, and railway infrastructure repair and rehabilitation program in 2006
and 2007. These programs were developed by RNCMNR, CFR, and MTCT, with the support o f the
Ministry of Public Finance. The proposed project includes two components for: (i)Road Sector
Support; and (ii)Railway Sector Support. For both components, disbursement o f loan proceeds
initially will be based on statement o f expenditures (SOEs), with the possibility o f adopting a
programmatic approach so that disbursements would based on interim financial reports (IFRs).

The Roads Sector support component comprises periodic maintenance works on national roads, as
well as technical assistance to RNCMNR in 2006 and 2007. This will provide support to RNCMNR
to implement the National Roads Periodic Maintenance Program, and modernize its maintenance
practices through: (i)the implementation o f a program for the maintenance and rehabilitation o f
national roads, including the removal o f road safety black spots; (ii) provision o f technical
                                                                             the
assistance to modernize RNCMNR as an organization, improve its road management practices and
for the design and supervision o f road maintenance and rehabilitation works; and (iii)  the provisiono f
technical assistance to RNCMNR in order to develop the operating and competitive selection
procedures of rural roads management consultants which will provide technical assistance to groups
o f counties.


                                                     3

 The Railways sector support component includes maintenance and overhaul of main railway lines,
 and technical assistanceto the National Railways Infrastructure company, CFR. This will provide
 support to CFR to implement the Maintenance and Rehabilitation Program, and modernize its
 maintenance practices through: (i)the implementation o f a program for the maintenance and
 rehabilitation o f main lines in order to eliminate temporary speed restrictions and improve the safety
 o f traffic; and (ii)
                     the provision o f technical assistance to CFR to improve its railway management
 practices and for the design and supervision o f railway maintenance and rehabilitation works.


 4.        SafeguardPoliciesthat Might Apply (including public consultation)

 Romania is one o f the countries being considered for piloting the use o f country environmental
 systems, specifically inthe Transport Sector Support Project. This pilot operation i s governed by the
 Bank's new operational policy OPBP 4.00, "Piloting the Use of Borrower Systems to Address
 Environmental and Social Safeguard Issues in Bank-SupportedProjects".

 A safeguards diagnostic study hasbeenundertakento assess (a) the equivalence o fRomaniansystems
 and World Bank requirements and (b) the acceptability of implementation practices, track record and
 capacity o f the agencies involved. This diagnostic review addresses the environmental and social
 safeguard issues triggered by this project in the following areas: (a) Environmental Assessment and
 (b) Involuntary Resettlement.

Equivalence and Acceptability Assessments: The equivalence and acceptability assessments for
piloting the use o f country systems were carried out by an interdisciplinary team o f Bank staff in
collaboration with relevant Government staff. The World Bank review included meetings and site
reviews incooperation with environmental officials at the local and regional levels. The methodology
included desk review o f current in force legislation and supporting mandatory guidelines, discussion
with MoEWM officials, other relevant environmental authorities, and roads and railways authorities,
and field visits to Arad, Bucharest, and Targu Mures. The results o f the diagnostic review indicate
that with regard to Environmental Assessment the Romanian system o f laws, regulations and
practices inthe sub-sectors to be supported by the project are equivalent to those o f the World Bank,
and are acceptable in practice. With regard to Involuntary Resttlement, the review found several
differences between Romania's system pertaining to expropriation and the operational principles
stated inOP 4.00.

Proposed Gap Filling Measures: Gap-filling measures are needed for piloting Involuntary
Resettlement. The following actions are recommended by the diagnostic study: (i)        Notify affected
persons, in a full and timely manner, o f their rights and the relevant procedures, through an
information brochure acceptable to the Bank; (ii)Monitor the promptness and adequacy o f
compensation, including prejudice, and the impacts o f expropriation through independent monitors;
(iii)Sharevaluation assessments carriedout by qualified assessors with affectedpersons, before
negotiations under the expropriation procedures start; (iv) Pay compensation at the assessed value o f
land, structures and damages; and (v) notify the Bank o f the following (unlikely) cases: intended
acquisition o f residences; agricultural holdings; commercial structures and businesses; andor land
used by people without claim to legal title, and agreejointly with the Bank on the appropriate course
o f action.

As a result, in this case, a separate resettlement framework document is not needed at this stage, as
the combination of gap fillers and Romania's system should be adequate to achieve the objectives
stated inTable A1 o f OP4.00 in the limited resettlement expected under the project. And, as already



                                                    4

 mentioned, the Bank would require prior notification and joint decision with Romania on the course
 o f action should any unforeseen cases arise6.

 With the application of these gap-filling measures, Romania's systems can be considered equivalent
 and acceptable and piloting under OP/BP 4.00 in the two safeguards-related areas triggered by the
 project, canbe supported.

 World Bank supervision on safeguard-related matters will continue throughout the implementation o f
 the proposed project to: (i)ensure compliance with "equivalent and acceptable" Romanian
 procedures, (ii)    assess implementation o f gap-filling measures, (iii) compliance with Bank
                                                                                     ensure
 policies if/where they apply in lieu o f Romanian systems, and (iv) more broadly, track results in
 environmental and social development outcomes.

 Public Consultation and Disclosure: MoEWM and the World Bank jointly organized a public
 consultation workshop to discuss the draft version of the Equivalence and Acceptability Report in
 Bucharest on December 12, 2005. Inpreparation for this meeting, MoEWM circulated copies o f the
 Executive Summary o f the draft report to a large number individuals and relevant agencies inviting
 for their participation and comments. Over thirty-five people, representing NGOs, EA consultants,
 academia, and various Government departments, attended this workshop. Participants expressed their
 support to the proposal to pilot Romanian Environmental and Social system in the context o f the
 project and agreed with the findings and gap filling actions proposed to achieve and sustain
 equivalence and acceptability. The full report including the executive summary discussed during the
 workshop was disclosedinRomania and Washington on January 25,2006.


The safeguards policies triggeredby the project are as follows:

Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project                                             Yes                     No
Environmental Assessment (OPBP/4.01)                                                     [I                    [XI
NaturalHabitats (OP/BP 4.04)                                                             [I                     [XI
Pest Management(OP 4.09)                                                                 [ I                    [XI
CulturalProperty (OPN 11.03, beingrevised as OP 4.11)                                    [ I                    [XI
InvoluntaryResettlement (OPBP 4.12)                                                      [ I                    [XI
Indigenous Peoples(OPBP 4.10)                                                            11                     [XI
Forests (OPBP 4.36)                                                                      [I                    1x1
Safety ofDams (OPBP 4.37)                                                                [I                    [XI
Projects inDisputedAreas (OPBP/GP 7.60)*                                                 [ I                   [XI
Projects on International Waterways (OPBP/GP 7.50)                                       [ I                   [XI
Piloting the Use of Borrower Systems to Address Environmental and
Social SafeguardIssues inBank-Supported Projects (OP/BP 4.00)                           [XI                     [ I




  At this stage a resettlement framework may berequired.
* By supporting theproposed project, the Bank does not intend toprejudice thejinal determination of theparties` claims on
the disputed areas


                                                            5

5.      TentativeFinancing

                                          2006  2007  2008  2009  2010  Total
IBRD(USDmillion)                           60   120                     180
Government o fRomania (USDmillion)         14    20                      34


6.      ContactPoint

Contact:       HenryG.R.Kerali
Title:         Lead Transport Specialist
Tel:           +1 (202) 473-5401
Fax:           +1 (202) 614 0900
Email:         Hkerali@worldbank.orq

7.     For more informationcontact:

       The InfoShop
       The WorldBank




                                            6

