                                     Document of
                                  The World Bank




                                                     Report No: ICR00001476




           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                            (IBRD-48420)



                                        ON A

                                        LOAN

                     IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 180.0 MILLION


                                          TO

                                      ROMANIA

                                        FOR A

                    TRANSPORT SECTOR SUPPORT PROJECT


                                     June 28, 2010




Sustainable Development Department
Central Europe and the Baltic Countries Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region
                               CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                        (Exchange Rate Effective May 31, 2010)
                       Currency Unit = New Romanian Lei (RON)
                                US$ 1.00 = RON 3.40

                                       FISCAL YEAR
                                   January 1 ­ December 31

                         ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AADT       Annual Average Daily Traffic            Marfa     Romania National Railway
Calatori   Romania National Railway                          Freight Operations Company
           Passenger Company                       MOT       Ministry of Transport
CAS        Country Assistance Strategy             MPF       Ministry of Public Finance
CESTRIN    Central Laboratory for Transport        MTCT      Ministry of Transport,
           and Road Infrastructure                           Construction and Tourism
CFR        Romanian National Railway               MTEF      Medium-Term Expenditure
           (Infrastructure) Company                          Framework
CPS        Country Partnership Strategy            MTR       Midterm Review
DPL        Development Policy Loan                 NCB       National Competitive Bidding
EBRD       European Bank for Reconstruction        NPV       Net Present Value
           and Development                         PAD       Project Appraisal Document
EC         European Commission                     PAL       Programmatic Adjustment
ECA        Europe and Central Asia (World                    Lending
           Bank region)                            PDO       Project Development Objective
EIA        Environmental Impact Assessment         PHARE     EU Fund for Assistance to Central
EIB        European Investment Bank                          and Eastern European Countries
EIRR       Economic Internal Rate of Return        PMU       Project Management Unit
EMP        Environmental Management Plan           RNCMNR    Romania National Company for
EU         European Union                                    Motorways and National Roads
HDM        Highway Development and                 SIL       Specific Investment Loan
           Management System                       SNCFR     National Railway Company of
ICB        International Competitive Bidding                 Romania (former)
ICR        Implementation Completion and           SWAp      Sector Wide Approach
           Results Report                          TRP       Transport Restructuring Project
IFI        International Financial Institution     TSSP      Transport Sector Support Project
IRI        International Roughness Index           VOC       Vehicle Operating Cost
IRIS       Integrated Railway Information
           System
IT         Information Technology

                             Vice President:     Philippe H. Le Houerou
                           Country Director:     Peter C. Harrold
                            Sector Manager:      Henry G. R. Kerali
                       Project Team Leader:      Mohammed Dalil Essakali
                          ICR Team Leader:       Mohammed Dalil Essakali
                                              ROMANIA
                                    Transport Sector Support Project


                                                    CONTENTS




Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes............................................... 4
  3. Assessment of Outcomes ............................................................................................ 8
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 12
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance...................................................... 13
  6. Lessons Learned........................................................................................................ 17
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners........... 18
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 19
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component.................................................................................. 20
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 21
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes............. 25
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 27
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 28
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 29
  Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 32
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents....................................................................... 33

   MAP IBRD No. 37920
A. Basic Information
                                                                          TRANSPORT
Country:                Romania                 Project Name:             SECTOR SUPPORT
                                                                          PROJECT
Project ID:             P093812                 L/C/TF Number(s):         IBRD-48420
ICR Date:               06/28/2010              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                          MINISTRY OF
Lending Instrument:     SIL                     Borrower:
                                                                          PUBLIC FINANCE
Original Total
                        USD 180.0M              Disbursed Amount:         USD 123.3M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 123.3M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
 National Railway Infrastructure Company (CFR)
 National Company for Motorways and National Roads
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                               Revised / Actual
     Process             Date             Process             Original Date
                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review:       05/24/2005     Effectiveness:            07/25/2007         07/25/2007
Appraisal:            04/25/2006     Restructuring(s):
Approval:             11/02/2006     Mid-term Review:          09/30/2008         09/30/2008
                                     Closing:                  12/31/2008         12/31/2009

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Moderately Unsatisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Substantial
Bank Performance:                               Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Unsatisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                 Ratings                 Borrower                    Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:               Unsatisfactory
                                                Implementing              Moderately
Quality of Supervision: Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:          Unsatisfactory
Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
                        Moderately Satisfactory                           Unsatisfactory
Performance:                                    Performance:




                                                i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                          Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                        Quality at Entry
                           No                                             None
at any time (Yes/No):                             (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                           Quality of
                           Yes                                            None
time (Yes/No):                                    Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before           Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:   Unsatisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                 Original           Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                     5
Railways                                                             45                  30
Roads and highways                                                   50                  70


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Injuries and non-communicable diseases                               20
Regional integration                                                 20                  25
Rural services and infrastructure                                    20                  35
Trade facilitation and market access                                 40                  40

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                        At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:            Philippe H. Le Houerou              Shigeo Katsu
Country Director:          Peter C. Harrold                    Anand K. Seth
Sector Manager:            Henry G. R. Kerali                  Motoo Konishi
Project Team Leader:       Mohammed Dalil Essakali             Henry G. R. Kerali
ICR Team Leader:           Mohammed Dalil Essakali
ICR Primary Author:        Hernan Levy


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The objective of the proposed project is to assist the Borrower to reduce transport costs
through the improvement of the overall quality of its national roads and railways
networks during the first years of EU accession.




                                                ii
Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)



(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                              Original Target      Formally        Actual Value
                                               Values (from         Revised        Achieved at
   Indicator          Baseline Value
                                                 approval           Target        Completion or
                                                documents)          Values        Target Years
Indicator 1 :     Reduction in road transport costs on sections financed through this project
Value
                                                                              Between 90% and
quantitative or 100%                       60%
                                                                              95%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 11/02/2006                   12/31/2008                         12/31/2009
                The periodic maintenance works led to reduction in vehicle operating costs in the
Comments
                order of 5-10 percent for maintenance works using asphalt concrete overlay
(incl. %
                depending on the type of vehicles. This range is considered normal for this type
achievement)
                of works.
Indicator 2 : Increase in train operating speeds on sections financed through this project
Value
                                           140% freight
quantitative or 100%                                                          See comment
                                           130% passenger
Qualitative)
Date achieved 11/02/2006                   12/31/2008                         12/31/2009
                The target was achieved on a smaller scale because of the reduced scope of the
Comments
                railways component. In addition, major floods at the start of the project further
(incl. %
                damaged the track, increasing the amount of hazard locations and speed
achievement)
                restrictions.

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target                     Actual Value
                                                                   Formally
                                               Values (from                       Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value                               Revised
                                                  approval                       Completion or
                                                                Target Values
                                                documents)                       Target Years
Indicator 1 :     Percentage of national roads in good and fair condition
Value
(quantitative     61.5%                     70%                                 77.6%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     06/15/2005                  12/31/2008                        12/31/2009
Comments          The target was exceeded, as a result of a combination of the project-financed
(incl. %          works, and similar works in other roads carried out with financing from state
achievement)      budget or other financiers.
                  Funding increase in current terms for periodic maintenance and current repair of
Indicator 2 :
                  national roadsand (ii) hazard locations (number)
Value
                RON 363 million
(quantitative                               Increased by 30%                    +38.6%
                (=100%)
or Qualitative)



                                                  iii
Date achieved     06/15/2005                 12/31/2008                        12/31/2009
Comments          The government during the project period met the target, by increasing the
(incl. %          allocation from the State budget, since the highway agency's own revenues
achievement)      remained about constant during the period
Indicator 3 :     Unit costs for Summer maintenance decrease in current terms
Value
(quantitative     RON 11,836 / km            Reduced by 9.5%                     -10.48%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     06/15/2005                 12/31/2008                          12/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %          Unit costs were reduced by more than originally expected.
achievement)
Indicator 4 :     Implementation and effective use of road management system by RNCMNR
                                                                                 Implementation and
Value
                                                                                 effective use in
(quantitative     No                         Yes
                                                                                 RNCMNR's
or Qualitative)
                                                                                 CESTRIN
Date achieved     06/15/2005                 12/31/2008                          12/31/2009
Comments          The target was partially achieved, since a broader use of the road management
(incl. %          system was hampered by lack of progress under the parallel Transport
achievement)      Restructuring Project (TRP) regarding the reclassification of the road system.
Indicator 5 :     Capacity of road administrations (RNCMNR) to manage road maintenance
                                                                                 Study completed
Value                                        One area-wide
                                                                                 and first pilot
(quantitative     N/A                        maintenance
                                                                                 identified and
or Qualitative)                              contract
                                                                                 prepared in 2008.
Date achieved     06/15/2005                 12/31/2008                          12/31/2009
Comments
                  RNCMNR reported in early 2010 that the documentation is ready for launching
(incl. %
                  the bid. This is expected to happen after loan closing.
achievement)
Indicator 6 :     Road user satisfaction surveys done and published
Value
(quantitative     None                       One/year                            None
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     06/15/2005                 12/31/2008                          12/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 7 :     Length of rail track generating speed restrictions on the interoperable lines
Value
(quantitative     630 km                     585 km                              See comment
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     06/15/2005                 12/31/2008                          12/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %          See comment for PDO Indicator 2.
achievement)
Indicator 8 :     Number of hazard locations on the interoperable lines
Value             1,060                    1,030                                 About 30% of


                                                  iv
(quantitative                                                               initially expected
or Qualitative)                                                             reduction
Date achieved     06/15/2005                  12/31/2008                    12/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %          See comment for PDO Indicator 2.
achievement)
Indicator 9 :     Update of Business Plan for the periods 2007-2011 and 2008-2012
Value
(quantitative     No                          Yes                           Partially done
or Qualitative)
Date achieved   06/15/2005                  12/31/2008                        12/31/2009
Comments        Initial Business Plan for 2004-2008 was updated to cover 2006-2010. New
(incl. %        business plan 2008-2012 was prepared by CFR management, but never
achievement)    approved by CFR's board of directors
                Effective development and use of a rolling medium-term (5-year) railway
Indicator 10 : infrastructure maintenance planning system (to be prepared as part of the
                exercise to update CFR business Plan)
Value
                                                                              Not yet part of
(quantitative   No                          Yes
                                                                              Business Plan
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/15/2005                    12/31/2008                        12/31/2009
Comments        This target is interlinked with the Business Processes Redesign activity
(incl. %        implemented in parallel under the Transport Restructuring Project. Such activity
achievement) was not completed.
                Effective use of an economic evaluation methodology for preparing the Annual
Indicator 11 :
                maintenance program.
Value
                                                                              Not yet part of
(quantitative   No                          Yes
                                                                              Business Plan
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/15/2005                    12/31/2008                        12/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %        See comment for Indicator 9
achievement)
Indicator 12 : Train operator satisfaction surveys done and published
Value
                                                                              Surveys was
(quantitative   None                        One/Year
                                                                              undertaken in 2008
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/15/2005                    12/31/2008                        12/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                 Actual
         Date ISR
 No.                               DO                          IP            Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                             (USD millions)
  1     04/05/2007             Satisfactory                Satisfactory                 0.00


                                                    v
                         Moderately                     Moderately
  2    01/09/2008                                                            18.00
                       Unsatisfactory                 Unsatisfactory
  3    05/05/2008   Moderately Satisfactory            Satisfactory          19.61
  4    11/07/2008   Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory   40.19
  5    04/08/2009   Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory   43.29
                         Moderately                     Moderately
  6    09/11/2009                                                            55.61
                       Unsatisfactory                 Unsatisfactory
                         Moderately                     Moderately
  7    01/05/2010                                                            92.40
                       Unsatisfactory                 Unsatisfactory


H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable



I. Disbursement Profile




                                              vi
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

At the time of the appraisal of the Transport Sector Support Project (TSSP) in April 2006,
Romania was expecting to join the European Union (EU) in 2007, and much of the government's
social and economic development policies were driven by this goal. EU accession would require
wide ranging reforms of the Romanian economy in order to prepare for competition, and to
improve physical infrastructure.

Romania was pursuing a balanced modernization approach between roads and railways, the two
dominant transport modes carrying more than 90 percent of goods and passengers. Thanks to a
long process of railway reforms that started in the 1990s, and still continuing at the time, railways
had managed to keep a relatively high transport market share.

While the government had achieved significant progress in structural and institutional reform of
the transport sector with support of the World Bank, the state of Romania's transport
infrastructure was a key challenge for convergence and integration with EU member states. The
quality of road and rail infrastructure was deemed to be limited, the efficiency and safety of
transport was below EU standards, and a large backlog in rehabilitation and maintenance had
accumulated partly because Romania had underinvested in transport infrastructure. There was an
urgent need to speed up the improvement of infrastructure quality and to rationalize transport
institutions.

These issues had been identified in the government's transport sector strategy for the period
2003-2010 as well as in the National Development Plan. The Bank's Country Partnership
Strategy (CPS) covering the period 2006-2009 notes that "the overarching long term objective of
Romania is to achieve convergence with the EU". The CPS also notes that the main issues facing
the transport sector are the poor quality of infrastructure, the inadequate financing of maintenance
and the need to complete the program of railway restructuring.

The World Bank had actively supported Romania's transport sector through three investment
operations and advisory services since the mid-1980s. The most recent operation--prior to the
TSSP--was the Transport Restructuring Project (TRP), approved two years before the TSSP. The
TRP included financing for new road investments--the construction of city bypasses--and, for
railways, the procurement of railway maintenance equipment to support CFR's mission as the
railway infrastructure manager. The TRP included a significant policy reform and institutional
development component to be achieved through a series of technical assistance inputs as well as
the provision of management information systems to improve the quality of decision making for
the management of both railways and roads. At the time of preparation of the TSSP, the Bank
was also implementing the first series of the Programmatic Adjustment Loan (PAL) for Romania.
The expectation was that the PAL program would support the TRP reform objectives.

The TSSP was implemented in parallel with the TRP. While the TRP loan was approved two
years earlier than the TSSP, both projects were expected to be completed at about the same time,
because the TSSP was conceived as a fast disbursing operation. A number of factors that affected
performance under the TSSP also did so under the TRP. The ICR of the TRP complements and
provides in some areas more details than this ICR.




                                                 1
1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

As stated in the Loan Agreement, the objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower to reduce
transport cost through improvement of the overall quality of its national roads and railways
networks during the first years of EU accession.
The objective would be reached through:
    (i) In the road sector:
             a. Increasing the percentage of national roads in good condition
             b. Providing sustainable funding for road maintenance, rehabilitation and road
                 safety, through a coherent multi-year rolling program
             c. Improving the capacity within the Romanian road administration (RNCMNR and
                 others) to operate efficiently and effectively in managing road maintenance and
                 rehabilitation
Key PDO indicators: reduction in road transport costs, improvement of road condition, better
funding for road maintenance, effective use of road management systems.
    (ii) In the railways sector:
              a. Reducing the number of hazard locations and the proportion of sections on the
                  main lines subject to temporary speed restrictions, through repair and
                  rehabilitation of track infrastructure and signaling and electrification
              b. Providing sustainable funding for railway infrastructure maintenance, current and
                  periodic repair and overhaul, through a coherent multi-year rolling program
              c. Improving the capacity within the infrastructure railway company to operate
                  efficiently and effectively in managing railway maintenance and rehabilitation
Key PDO indicators: increased train operating speeds, reduction in number of sections with speed
restrictions, reduction in number of hazard locations, development of rolling 5-year infrastructure
maintenance planning system

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

The PDO and Key Indicators were not revised.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

The PAD does not specifically identify the project beneficiaries. The project objectives and
components suggest the main beneficiaries would be the operators of the road and railway
systems, and the users of these two transport systems. In the case of roads, the maintenance
programs will allow the Romania National Company for Motorways and National Roads
(RCNMNR) to address a significant backlog in the maintenance of the national road network,
preventing further deterioration and therefore reducing future road maintenance costs. Road users
will benefit from reduced vehicle operating costs and safer roads.

In the case of the railways, CFR and the various railway operators will benefit from the
elimination of speed restrictions, which will allow a more efficient use of railway equipment.
Railway users will benefit from faster services, and probably increased frequency of some
services that will be made possible by the elimination of speed restrictions and consequent
increase in rail track capacity.




                                                2
1.5 Original Components

Component A: Road Sector Support (US$112.5 million).

Subcomponent A1: Periodic Maintenance and Current Repair Works on National Roads
(US$109.5 million). This comprises financial support for the RNCMNR's Infrastructure
Maintenance Program planned for 2006-2007, which is part of a larger national roads program
that covers the period up to 2013. This subcomponent ensures that there is an appropriate balance
between expenditures on maintenance, reconstruction and development within the multi-year
investment program. The program is expected to cover over the two years a total of 2,909
kilometers, with works divided between asphalt concrete overlay for heavily trafficked roads, and
single and double surface treatment for medium traffic roads.

Subcomponent A2: Technical Assistance for RNCMNR (US$3.0 million). This comprises
studies and consulting services aimed at: (a) preparing and implementing a pilot of output-based
area-wide, multiyear contracts, (b) hiring a Technical Adviser to improve management and
technical capacity within RNCMNR, (c) conducting a first road user satisfaction survey, (d)
training of RNCMNR staff on preparation, procurement and technical/financial management of
maintenance activities, and (d) the design of periodic maintenance and current repair works.

Component B: Railways Sector Support (US$112.5 million).

Subcomponent B1: Maintenance, current and periodic repair, and overhaul works on
interoperable lines, and supply of necessary goods (US$98.7 million). This comprises financial
support for CFR's Infrastructure Maintenance Program for interoperable lines, planned for 2006-
2007. This program is part of CFR's longer term infrastructure maintenance program spanning
2006-2010 whose main objective is to eliminate temporary speed restrictions and improve traffic
safety. This subcomponent is designed to fund three types of maintenance works: (a) overhaul of
public infrastructure (i.e. tracks, bridges, tunnels and embankments, in track sections requiring
comprehensive repairs of various kinds), as well as interlocking and signaling electrification
systems (45 percent of cost), (b) repair and maintenance of above public infrastructure, in
sections requiring selective repairs (35 percent of cost) and (c) repair and maintenance of
interlocking, signaling and electrification systems (20 percent of cost).

Subcomponent B2: Technical Assistance for CFR (US$13.8 million). This comprises studies
and consultants needed for the implementation of the maintenance program, including (a) the
design and inspection of maintenance works, (b) training on procurement and financial
management, and (c) support to improve railway management practices through the development
of an updated Business Plan for the periods 2007-2011 and 2008-2012. The development of an
immediate and medium-term (5 years) maintenance plan based on the effective use of the
information technology (IT) system and the track geometry car will be carried out through the
TRP Technical Assistance for CFR's maintenance management program

1.6 Revised Components

The project components were not revised.

1.7 Other significant changes
(in design, scope and scale, implementation arrangements and schedule, and funding allocations)




                                               3
The loan closing date was extended by one year, to December 31, 2009, in three stages. The first
3-month extension was approved to give time to the government to provide views on the future of
the TRP and the TSSP. The second, a one-month extension was meant to provide the government
with additional time to confirm the availability of funding for the extension period. The third, an
8-month extension, was intended to allow completion of most of the road component, and a large
part of the rail component.
An amount of US$35 million of the loan was canceled, since disbursing this amount would not
have been possible under the (revised) closing date.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

Preparation

The project was prepared in conjunction with the supervision of the Transport Restructuring
Project. Both projects covered railways and roads and dealt with the same agencies, which
facilitated preparation of the TSSP project. Conditions for appraisal included an agreed policy
framework and reforms before start of the project, a sustainable expenditure framework linked to
the government's Medium Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF), and agreements on
institutional capacity building. The appraisal was further linked to progress on key institutional
development activities under the TRP, notably (i) selection of consultants by RNCMNR to
evaluate road management systems and organization, and (ii) preparation by CFR of terms of
reference for business development and updated business plan.
The project, initially envisaged as Sector Wide Approach Project (SWAP), was structured as a
fast-disbursing, specific investment loan to be implemented over a period of two and a half years,
and was intended to be the first of a series of programmatic support for the transport sector in
Romania.
Project design took into account lessons from previous transport projects. Because the ongoing (at
the time) TRP and PAL projects had substantial institutional objectives, the TSSP, while
complementing the institutional objectives, focused on ensuring the execution of maintenance and
rehabilitation of roads and rail infrastructure and systems. Attention to road and railway
infrastructure maintenance--although a clear necessary condition to improve the quality of the
service in roads and rail--had not received adequate funding from the various transport projects
supported by European funds or other international financial institutions (IFIs). Experience with
past projects had shown that the Romanian implementing agencies were competent in procuring
and implementing civil works. It had also shown that technical cooperation was needed in
conceptualizing and implementing new management methods, training both management and
staff, prioritizing projects within budget constraints and updating standards and regulations.

Quality at Entry (QAE)

There was no assessment of the project's QAE by the Bank's Quality Assessment Group (QAG).

Risks

One risk to project development objective was considered substantial and four were considered
modest. The overall risk was rated as modest. The risks and the mitigation measures were the
following:


                                                4
      ·    Turnover of leadership and staff in RNCMNR (Substantial): technical assistance and
           training of staff.
      ·    Resistance to institutional change in RNCMNR (Modest): close monitoring of the
           technical assistance activities.
      ·    Insufficient funding for road maintenance and rehabilitation (Modest): increase in
           Rovinieta1 revenues and careful and timely assessment of the 5-year road program and its
           supporting MTEF.
      ·    Insufficient funding for repair and overhaul of railway infrastructure (Modest):
           provision of sufficient budget allocation in the MTEF for railway infrastructure.
      ·    Lack of management support to continue railway restructuring (Modest): frequent
           and effective supervision and cooperation with the railway management.

The leadership and staff risk, rated as substantial, was likely the result of the experience with the
TRP, which in its early implementation years was already suffering from significant turnover in
the management and staff of the RNCMNR.

2.2 Implementation

The TSSP was implemented in parallel with the TRP, and some of the same problems that
affected TRP also affected TSSP, especially budget ceilings imposed by the government and
management and staff turnover. Implementation of the TSSP also was affected by the non-
achievement of reforms under the TRP, such as the restructuring of RNCMNR or the
implementation of Business Processes Redesign in CFR, which were essential to materialize
some of the TSSP's expected outputs. Altogether, implementation of the TSSP was simpler than
TRP, since the physical components were the annual maintenance programs of the roads and
railway sectors rather than new investments requiring detailed technical specifications or
complicated negotiations between the road agencies and local city government and land
acquisition (in the case of the city bypasses included in the TRP).
Initial Delays and Implications. The project was negotiated in May 2006, but, due to delay in
submission of the audit reports for CFR and RNCMNR the loan was not approved until
November 2006. Thereafter, effectiveness was also delayed--as it had happened with the TRP--
and was only declared in July 2007. As a result, it became apparent very early during
implementation that it would be unlikely that the project could be completed, in one and a half
years, by the original closing date at the end of 2008. A number of other issues, listed below, led
to delays during implementation.
Implementation organization and management. Contrary to what had happened in previous
transport projects, the TSSP (as well as the TRP) did not have a unified PMU, but separate units
responsible for the road and rail parts of the project, with diffused responsibilities for the
technical assistance components. Frequent changes of senior management of RNCMNR and CFR
led to recurrent changes in, and shortage of, the staff responsible for implementing the project.
The changing investment priorities in the transport sector in Romania further contributed to
instability in the management of project and implementation delays.
Budget ceilings. The budget approved by the government for 2008 provided for only about 60
percent of the CFR program for the year, and about one third of the funds necessary to cover the
road contracts expected to be executed during the year. These were spending limits on IBRD-
financed investments, which also occurred in 2007 and 2009, and they were an important factor

1
    Time-based road user fee charged to users of national roads in Romania.


                                                      5
contributing to implementation delays. These budget ceilings decision seemed to reflect the
government's goal at that time of graduating from the Bank and moving to raise debt in the
international financial market.
Temporary Suspension of Procurement. In late 2008 and early 2009, the road and rail agencies
suspended procurement procedures for contracts not yet awarded, pending a decision regarding
restructuring of the project and its extension--as explained in more detail in the next sections of
this report. This suspension was a contributing factor to the project's further implementation
delays.
Pilot for Outsourcing Road Maintenance. This component became complicated due to the fact
that a similar study was underway under an EBRD-financed project. As a result, the Bank-
financed study was not launched. However, the Bank supervision missions coordinated with
EBRD and followed closely the progress and results of the study.
Floods. Major floods in 2007, when project implementation was starting, damaged roads and rail
infrastructure, meaning that the condition of transport infrastructure at the start of the project was
in a worse condition than estimated at appraisal.
Comparative Progress of the Roads and Rail Component. By the end of 2007, RNCMNR had
managed to carry out the agreed Annual Maintenance Program for that year. In contrast, CFR at
that time was still hesitant to prepare or launch any works for two main reasons: (i) drastic
constrains on the state budget allocated to CFR and lack of own sources, which prevented CFR
from awarding contracts for technical designs necessary to start the works under this component,
and (ii) the effects of the 2007 floods on the scope of works that were envisaged under the
railway Annual Maintenance Program. Therefore, CFR could not even prepare technical
documentation and bidding documents that would have allowed it to launch the bids as soon as
the budget situation was resolved. It took CFR a few months in 2008 to catch up and launch the
first bids, thanks mainly to the appointment at the start of the year of a dedicated project team.
Final Project Cost and Loan Cancellations. Due to implementation delays, and the loan
cancellation, the final project cost was substantially lower than originally estimated: US$175.1
million actual cost compared with US$225.0 million at appraisal. Most of the reduction of project
cost was in the railway component. There was also a drastic cut in the amount of technical
assistance for both road and rail, which was practically reduced to zero.
Project at Risk Status

The project's development objective (PDO) was rated moderately unsatisfactory in September
2009, and this rating remained until project closing.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

Design

The M&E framework included two project outcome indicators, one for roads, reduction in
transport costs, and one for railways, increase in operating speeds. The railway indicator was a
well selected, simple indicator and the target was realistic. The road indicator, however, posed a
problem in that transport costs are influenced by many factors in addition to the condition of
roads. Further, that target--a reduction of 40 percent in transport costs--appeared optimistic. A
reduction in vehicle operating costs would have been a more sensible indicator, and the target
value could have been determined through a modeling exercise considering the baseline road
condition and the expected road condition at completion.



                                                  6
The M&E also included six intermediate outcome indicators for roads, of which three could be
measured in numerical terms and three were of the yes/no type, and another six intermediate
outcome indicators for the railways, of which two numerical and four of the yes/no type.
Baselines were established for all indicators. However, major floods in 2007, at the start of
implementation, damaged the rail track, further increasing the number of railway sections and
kilometers with speed restrictions, effectively altering the baseline for this indicator. The source
of the data for monitoring was expected, for roads, to come from the road data register being
developed under the TRP project. The technical assistance component for that project also
included the development of performance indicators for the road sector. For the railway sector,
monitoring was provided by the Integrated Railway Information System (IRIS), and Oracle
Financials systems, both of which were already in operation, and staffed with trained personnel,
at start of the TSSP.
Implementation and Utilization

Monitoring data was regularly reported in the PMU's periodic reports to the Bank and discussed
with the supervision missions. The data was utilized by RNCMNR and CFR for their own
management control and monitoring purposes.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Environment

The TSSP piloted the Use of Country Systems under the Bank's Operational Policy OP/BP 4.00.
Equivalency analysis of the Bank and Romania procedures carried out in 2006 concluded there
are no gaps between the two procedures. Therefore, the project was carried out in conformity
with the Romanian Environmental legislation. Bank supervision teams undertook several reviews
and concluded that the approach agreed between the government and the Bank was followed.
Given the relatively good practice with regards environmental assessment in Romania--which is
compliant with EU practices--the piloting of the use of country systems was not expected to
make any significant changes in an already existing capacity in the country. The use of country
systems did however reduce Bank supervision efforts and more importantly removed any
confusion or additional burden on the implementing entities since they were using their national
systems with which they were already familiar.

Financial Management

The Loan Agreement required project audits as well as entity audits of RNCMNR and CFR.
There were some delays in submitting the entity audit reports by the annual deadline of June 30,
which delayed project approval by the Bank. The audits for 2004 were the first audits of
RNCMNR in its new legal form as a joint stock company. Although RNCMNR's annual audits
have been received and they have been found satisfactory to the Bank, the entity audits were
qualified because of the significance of valuation of RNCMNR's concession rights, impairment
of asset, and because of emphasis of matter on the going concern issue. The qualified auditors'
opinion raises the questions of the suitability of RNCMNR's legal status as a joint-stock company
and the broader issue of long term road sector funding.

Social safeguards

Works under the project were within the existing right-of-way, and there was no resettlement or
land acquisition.


                                                 7
Procurement

During project preparation, it was envisaged that the project would be implemented using a
SWAp approach relying on Romania's public procurement law. However, the assessment done
by the Bank found differences between Bank and Romanian procurement procedures, which did
not permit the use of country systems for procurement. Using Romanian systems would have
probably led to a much faster and streamlined implementation. Given the relatively small size of
road maintenance contracts, a large number of works contracts fell under National Competitive
Bidding (NCB), and RNCMNR and the Bank agreed to use the Bank's ECA regional sample
bidding document in Romanian language and to have procurement done at the level of
RNCMNR's regional directorates. This approach has proved to be very successful.

In the case of CFR, the project consisted of more than 250 contracts, spread all over the country.
CFR chose to develop its own sample bidding document for works and goods for NCBs--
modified to meet Bank requirements as per the loan agreement. Arriving at a document
acceptable to the Bank took valuable time and contributed to the delay in the railway component.
On the positive side, the procurement of goods under this component turned out to be very
smooth despite the complexity of several ICB packages.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

The improved road and railway infrastructure was put in operation as the works were completed.
The investments financed under the project are integral parts of annual maintenance programs for
roads and railways. Thus, these investments, and their operations and management, are the
responsibility of the RNCMNR and the CFR, with funding provided by their respective budgets.

The institutional and managerial improvements supported by the TSSP are being adopted by the
respective road and rail agencies, although their effective implementation is contingent on the
completion of activities launched under the parallel TRP project.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

Improving the road and railway infrastructure and management was and remains an important
priority for Romania. Strong economic growth in Romania through 2008 continued to put
pressure on the country's transport system, confirming the importance of carrying out satisfactory
maintenance of road and rail infrastructure. While the economy contracted in 2009 due to the
global economic downturn, it is expected to recover in 2010/2011, bringing with it a resumption
of transport demand growth and requiring the operation of infrastructure in good condition.

The current CPS, issued in 2009 in the midst of the global economic and financial crisis, notes
that the new Government faced the difficult task of reconciling short-term fiscal consolidation
with the need to mitigate the social costs of the crisis and restore the sources of sustainable and
equitable growth. The government had put in place a program aimed to address the situation.
According to the CPS, the World Bank Group will complement and support this program by (i)
helping the Government to implement structural reforms to help mitigate the crisis by reducing
social and economic vulnerabilities and (ii) putting in place the basis for sustainable economic
growth in the medium-term. The TSSP by helping improve critical transport infrastructure that
was in poor condition following years of accumulated backlog maintenance, and, together with


                                                8
the TRP, by supporting improvement in the management of the road and rail sector, contributes to
the government program and the CPS strategy.

Project design--focused on supporting the annual maintenance program of roads and railways--
was appropriate to meet the project objectives. The road and rail agencies were responsible for
preparing and implementing their maintenance programs. This approach helped strengthen the
agencies, as they had to deliver timely programs to be included for financing under the project.
The TSSP's limited institutional development goals were appropriate, because the parallel TRP
had a strong focus on policies and institutions and the need to avoid duplication of efforts.

At the same time, the project's fast-disbursing concept, to be completed in a two-year period, was
reasonable considering the focus of the project on physical components, that such components did
not involve complex engineering or environmental analysis, and that the respective implementing
agencies had the capacity to prepare their annual maintenance programs. Still, the rail component
was considerably more difficult to implement than the road component, because it required
procuring a substantial number of goods and equipment under international competitive bidding
(such as transformers, related electrical equipment, rail sleepers) in addition to civil works.

All in all, the design of the project as a fast-disbursing loan was relevant. Despite the delays in
starting the project, the budget limits imposed by the government, the impact of the global
financial crisis on ongoing Bank loans to Romania in 2009, the project had one of the highest
disbursement performance of any Bank specific investment loan to Romania.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

A number of factors combined to prevent the project from fully achieving its objectives. First,
initial delays between project negotiations and Bank approval, and further delays until the project
became effective, meant that civil works that were planned to be carried out in 2006 and 2007 had
to be postponed until the implementing entities were certain the loan would be approved and
become effective. The delay between negotiations and Board approval of the loan was due to the
Bank's concerns over the auditor's opinion--which became available after negotiations--
regarding RNCMNR's unusual legal status as a joint stock company. For a two-year fast-
disbursing project, a delay of several months in starting implementation was very critical. A
second, major factor affecting outcome, was the spending limits on IBRD-financed projects
imposed by the government in 2007, 2008 and 2009. These spending limits or ceiling constraints
in the last two years came at a time when the road and rail agencies had greatly improved their
implementation capacity. A third factor, affecting some of the TSSP's expected outputs, was the
lack of progress in the institutional components under the TRP project. A fourth factor was major
floods in 2007, before project implementation had actually started, that substantially worsened the
condition of road and rail infrastructure, altering some of the project baselines, which would have
required to formally amend them as well as performance indicators' targets.

A.      Road Sector

Overall the project outputs necessary to meet the project objectives and targets were mostly
achieved.

The proportion of national roads in good condition improved from 61.5 percent at start of the
project to 77.6 percent at closing, exceeding the original target of 70.0 percent for 2008. The
improvement in road condition reflects in part the maintenance and rehabilitation works carried
out on 2,197 kilometers under the project through the end of 2009 (versus 2,909 kilometers


                                                9
estimated in the PAD).2 The improved road condition of the national roads is estimated to have
reduced vehicle operating cost by about 5 percent on roads receiving asphalt concrete overlay--
and that have not deteriorated to the point where they need reconstruction--and by a lower
percentage on roads receiving single or double surface treatments. This level of reduction in
vehicle operating costs is considered fairly standard. The project target expecting a reduction of
40 percent in road transport cost (as opposed to vehicle operating cost) as a result of the road
maintenance and rehabilitation works was unrealistic, as noted in Section 2.3.

Funding for periodic maintenance increased in current terms by 38.6 percent compared to 2006,
exceeding the target of a 30 percent increase.

Progress was made in the preparation for a pilot for performance-based maintenance, in which
there was collaboration between the EBRD, who financed the initial study, and the Bank team
that reviewed the study and the bid documentation. Delays, mainly due to the complexity of the
initial bid and draft contract documents suggested by the consultants, prevented launching the
pilot during 2009. The documents were revised, a road section in Dolj county (Craiova region)
has been selected for the pilot, and a contract is expected to be awarded after loan closing.

Lack of progress under the TRP on the road reclassification and related reorganization of the
RNCMNR hampered further improvement in the utilization of the road management system that
had been developed under previous road projects.

B.      Railway Sector

Overall, most of the project targets for railways were not met.

Even with the one-year extension of the loan closing date, only about 44 percent of the railway
component in value was implemented--30 percent of the works and 75 percent of the goods
originally planned to be supplied under the project were effectively delivered. While some speed
restrictions were eliminated, this had only limited influence on achieving the targets, which
increased significantly because floods at the start of the project further increased the initial
number of speed restrictions. In addition, an increase in deferred maintenance of the rail track
since project appraisal until the start of implementation due to insufficient CFR allocations for
track maintenance further raised the initial number of speed restrictions. The combination of the
effects on the railway infrastructure of the floods and the increased deferred maintenance meant
that at the start of project implementation the condition of the railway infrastructure was
substantially worse than assessed at appraisal. To account for this situation, the baseline regarding
the number of speed restrictions should have been amended, and corresponding adjustments
should have been made in the respective target. However, since only 30 percent of the works
were executed, a change in the baseline and targets would have had no substantive effect on the
assessment of the outcome.

2
   The link between the overall improvement in the condition of the road network and the number of
kilometers improved under the project is complex. The condition of the roads improved in part because of
the project-financed road improvements, but there were during the project period other road improvements
financed by EU funds or other IFI projects, which also contributed to improving the road conditions. It is
impossible in practice to isolate the effect on road condition of the Bank project only. On the other hand,
the condition of the road is assessed on the basis of the road surface's roughness, by measuring the IRI
(international road index). Some road maintenance works, such as asphalt overlays, change the roughness
and can greatly reduce the IRI. Other works, such as single or double bitumen treatment, mainly seal the
roads, without altering the IRI, although the seal prevents the surface from deteriorating and extends the
life of the road.


                                                   10
CFR prepared a draft business plan identifying investment required in infrastructure, and expects
to have it approved by its board of directors after loan closing.

Studies for the rationalization of the railway network have been carried out under the TRP
Business Processes Redesign component, and their recommendations are under review, although
their actual implementation is uncertain.

3.3 Efficiency

The ICR economic re-evaluation was conducted separately for the roads and railway components.
The economic analysis shows that the efficiency of the periodic maintenance works undertaken
under the road component was very strong. The economic analysis of the railway component--
which was done for CFR's overall maintenance program--shows that the program in itself
remains an efficient solution compared to deferring the maintenance, but the efficiency of the
program will depend on whether the program will effectively be completed by CFR after the loan
is closed.

Roads. For the economic analysis, five representative road sections were selected to perform a
cost-benefit analysis of the maintenance strategy selected using the Highway Design and
Management model (HDM-4). The analysis also made an estimation of the reduction in vehicle
operating costs (VOC).

The results of the economic analysis show high economic internal rate of return for asphalt
overlay works--reflecting in part the relatively high level of traffic as well as the appropriateness
of this maintenance strategy when funds are available. The economic rate of returns of the surface
treatment are higher than the cut-off rate of 12 percent, and the analysis shows that this strategy is
a much better and cost-effective maintenance solution to preserve and extend the life of roads that
have not been severely damaged to the point where they need reconstruction.

At the same time, the reduction in VOC--immediately after the implementation of the project--is
estimated to be around 5 percent on average for road sections receiving asphalt concrete overlay.
This level of VOC reduction is in line with experience elsewhere with this type of periodic
maintenance (40 mm AC overlay) for roads that have not approached the collapse of their
structural integrity and which have predominately private car traffic.

The reduction in VOC is lower for the roads receiving surface treatment. This is also expected
because the key objective of surface treatment is to prolong the lifecycle of the road by sealing
the road surface against ingress of water, arresting deterioration of the road surface, and providing
a skid resistant road surface with the resultant benefits of reduction in accidents. The roughness of
the road--to which VOC is directly linked--is affected only marginally by surface treatment,
although such treatment significantly slows down the deterioration of the road's surface condition
over time. The positive NPV and the good EIRR reflect these benefits.

Railways. The project intended to support CFR's infrastructure maintenance, current and periodic
repair, and overhaul program for nine interoperable lines in order to eliminate temporary speed
restrictions and improve the safety of traffic. The ICR economic analysis used a similar approach
to the analysis carried out at project appraisal but using different assumptions due to project
changes and to implementation delays--especially with regards the phasing out of the multi-
annual investment program to account for the limited financial and physical capacity of CFR to
implement such a program. The results show that the implementation of the program originally


                                                 11
envisaged in the PAD over a longer horizon would yield an economic internal rate of return of 16
percent--lower than the one estimated in the PAD.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory.

While the achievement under the road component would have warranted a moderately
satisfactory rating--provided the outcome target on transport costs is corrected--the limited
performance of the railway component made the project's overall performance in terms of
achievement of outcome moderately unsatisfactory.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

In addition to the economic benefits of the project, the decision to extend the project by one year
until the end of 2009--a severe recession year in Romania--had significant social impacts. It was
estimated that the implementation of the project generated about 90,000 person-months--out of
which about 50,000 person-months in 2009 alone corresponding to about 6,500 jobs.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

The only significant institutional impact of the TSSP is the preparation of the pilot for a
performance-based maintenance contract. While an actual contract was not awarded, the
preparation of bid and contract documents required detailed discussions within the RNCMNR,
providing the agency a good understanding of the benefits and the expertise required to operate a
program of performance-based maintenance contracts.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

The implementation of the project in a time of a severe financial crisis in Romania in 2009 has
had a positive impact on the construction industry--which is very sensitive to the predictability of
financing through public works contracts.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

This is a Core ICR, and does not require beneficiary survey and/or stakeholder workshops.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Substantial.

The road and rail infrastructure improvements carried out under the project are subject to
considerable risk due to the uncertainty of the funding that the respective agencies would be
provided to maintain the road and rail infrastructure in good condition. In the case of the roads,
while funding has improved in recent years, very limited funding has been allocated in the 2010
budget, and there is uncertainty about future allocations. Funding provided by the Rovinieta--a
dedicated source of revenue for RNCMNR form road users meant to be used for road
maintenance--covers only a small part of the RNCMNR's needs. On the railway side, CFR



                                                12
revenues have been falling--and this has been exacerbated by the fall in railway traffic due to the
global financial crisis--and its 2010 budget does not provide adequate funding for maintenance.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Moderately satisfactory.

The project design as originally conceived was correct. The linkages with the TRP, and division
of functions between the two, with the TRP focusing on policy and institutional reforms and the
TSSP focusing on the road and rail maintenance--a high priority area that had not received
necessary level of support from other IFIs--were appropriate. A number of conditions were set
by the Bank for appraisal to ensure a satisfactory quality at entry. The conditions included an
agreed policy framework for the transport sector, a linkage between this sector framework and the
government's medium-term expenditure framework (MTEF), and a government commitment to
carry out the required reforms. After appraisal, and until effectiveness, the Bank made sure that
the latest audit reports had been sent to the Bank, and that remedial actions regarding RNCMNR
identified in the respective audit, had been addressed.

The Bank team that was involved during the identification-approval process was experienced
with the road and rail agencies as it was essentially the same team, with some minor changes, that
appraised and supervised the TRP project.

One weakness of the PAD, was the key PDO target for the road part of the project. This
weakness, however, did not compromise the project objectives or components, and could have
been easily corrected during implementation. The target reflected the expectation that as a result
of the maintenance works financed under the project, transport costs could be reduced by 40
percent. This target was implausible, because transport cost depend on more factors than the
condition of the roads, and because experience elsewhere shows that most road rehabilitation or
maintenance works yield vehicle operating costs savings (not transport costs) in the range of 5-10
percent.

The PAD properly identified the project's major risks. One of the risks, which became serious
during implementation, was the funding for repair and overhaul of railway infrastructure.
Hypothetically, if this risk had been rated substantial instead of modest, this could have alerted to
the need of having stronger mitigation measures than the one identified in the PAD, which proved
ineffective. However, it is uncertain whether it would have been possible to identify mitigation
measures that would have proven to be effective in practice, and prevent the funding problems
that occurred during project implementation.

(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Moderately satisfactory.

The Bank carried out frequent supervision missions that provided detailed reports on the progress
and issues with the project. The supervision effort was correct, with on average two supervision
missions per year. There was good attention to fiduciary and procurement issues. Most of the



                                                 13
supervision team members remained throughout project implementation, and had been involved
with the project since preparation and appraisal.

The supervision missions early on became concerned with implementation progress. The
November 2007 mission, just four months after the project was declared effective, raised the
possibility of restructuring the project, cancelling the railway component since there was no
indication of progress on that component. Yet, while progress on the rail component was a
serious issue, there were a number of other additional factors affecting implementation. These
factors included the implausible target set for road outcome indicator, changes in the baseline
stemming from major floods in 2007, the budget ceilings imposed by the government on IBRD-
financed projects that constrained both the road and the rail components, the lack of progress on
the institutional components on the TRP project, and the fact that with the delays in project
effectiveness there was only 1.5 years to implement the project. These factors, combined with the
slow progress on the railway component, strongly suggested that it would not be possible for the
project, with the original objective and targets, to achieve a satisfactory outcome. Given the
warnings and the consideration of a possible project restructuring presented by the 2007
supervision mission, it is surprising that no action was taken by the Bank to restructure the
project. The decision not to restructure seems to be due to the fact that a restructuring would most
probably have entailed a decision in late 2007 by the Bank to extend the loan closing date. Such
an early decision would not have been possible given the poor performance of the parallel TRP
and the status of the overall dialogue between the government and the Bank in 2007 and 2008.

The missions often took a broad view of the performance of the transport sector, beyond the
direct implementation of the project, with the intention to impress on the government the need to
take remedial actions. The Aide-Memoire of one of the supervision reports stated that lack of
clear and consistent government mandate for transport institutions was leading to poor transport
sector performance, and identified four specific issues that needed to be addressed by the relevant
government agencies: lack of clear transport financing framework, lack of agreement by finance
and transport ministries on the medium term sector budgets, unclear division of responsibilities
between MOT and modal entities, and the lack of stability in the management of companies. That
Aide-Memoire listed seven detailed recommendations.

The supervision missions provided a number of other useful suggestions and recommendations,
both for the project and more broadly for the road and rail subsectors. One of the supervision
mission provided a detailed program how performance-based contracts could be introduced in
Romania, listing several practical suggestions, such as that contracts should have a mix of input
and performance based features and the winning contractors be required to employ redundant
RNCMNR staff and be allowed during the contract period to lease the highway agency's land and
buildings no longer needed for road maintenance.

Damages caused by the floods during 2007 forced CFR to make changes in priorities in the
project-financed works and to focus on urgent repairs to the rail track, since CFR had no other
source of funds to carry out such repairs. The selected repairs were scattered through a number of
different lines. The supervision mission during the Mid-Term Review (MTR, October 2008)
recommended to reconsider the priorities so as to avoid so much dispersion of the repair efforts.
Had this been done, the rail component would have resulted in a more significant outcome.

In the last 2 years of the project, supervision missions increasingly focused on the effect of the
implementation delays on the project's potential for achieving its objectives, and on the options
available for the project to be successful. Starting in 2008, implementation regained speed,
especially the railway component that was the most delayed. The supervision missions warned


                                                14
that despite the improved implementation performance, it would be impossible to complete most
of the project outputs within the original closing date. The Aide Memoire of the MTR mission
concluded that the project would need an extension of 12-18 months and the removal of budget
ceilings imposed by the government to make possible significant progress towards achieving the
project objective.

A review of the status of the project in the Aide Memoire of the March 2009 included a detailed
analysis of options regarding extension of the closing date and amounts of loan cancellation. The
option that provided the highest probability for the project to reach a satisfactory outcome
required the smaller amount of loan cancellation. Following this course would have also required
an additional extension of some 12 months, but would have had a high chance of leading to a
good outcome, provided project baselines and targets were formally amended to reflect
infrastructure damages at start of the project, because of the improved implementation
performance since 2008, and the lack of difficult policy decisions that was marring
implementation of the TRP. Further, continuing the implementation of the TSSP would have
helped create jobs at a time of rising unemployment. However, Romania's difficult fiscal
situation with the onset of the global financial crisis led the government to discuss with the Bank
a program to provide Romania significant budgetary support in the form the crisis-response DPL.
This was done in parallel to the decision to cancel US$35 million of the TSSP loan in 2009 due to
the project's implementation underperformance.

While the decision by the Bank to grant a first 3-month extension until the end of March 2009
was meant to give the new government (at that time) sufficient time to provide its views on the
future of TSSP and TRP and to ensure the government's commitments to the projects, the second
extension until the end of April 2009 was somewhat counterproductive. The options were already
laid out in March 2009, and for fast-disbursing maintenance projects such as TSSP--where actual
construction contracts are normally tendered out in the winter and implemented during the
construction season between April and October--prolonging uncertainty should have been
avoided. The Bank may have wanted to receive formal endorsement from the government, but in
the end this may have impacted negatively how much could be done in 2009 by RNCMNR and
CFR--with significant negative impact on the railway program that was envisaged in 2009.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory. Based on the detailed assessment above of the Bank's
performance at entry and during supervision, the overall Bank performance is rated moderately
satisfactory.

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance

Rating: Unsatisfactory.

The government appeared to strongly support the project during preparation, and even requested
advancing the date for approval of the project. Unfortunately, things changed drastically once the
project was approved. Most serious were the annual budget limits or ceilings (loan and
government contribution) imposed by the government on IBRD-financed projects, that
constrained the amount to be spent on road and rail contracts. These budgetary decisions seemed
to reflect the government's goal at that time of graduating from the Bank and moving to raise
debt in the international financial market. These ceilings were substantially below what would


                                                15
have been required to implement the project according to the implementation plan agreed during
negotiations of the TSSP project. Without such ceilings, the road component could have been
completed earlier than 2009. Equally serious were the multiple state budget revisions during the
calendar year, which had a strong negative impact on the implementing agencies, especially the
CFR, to plan procurement. Such revisions were even more critical when funds were made
available at the end of the year, which were too late to launch and implement contracts during the
construction season (March-October).

The fact that budget ceilings occurred from the beginning of the project, before the onset of the
economic crisis and of the deterioration in the country's fiscal position, suggested that while the
project may have had real, strong support by the roads and railway companies, it did not seem to
have equivalent support by the Ministry of Transport or central economic authorities. This is
probably because a maintenance project such as TSSP is less visible and less politically
rewarding than a large investment project such as city by-passes or motorways. Yet, to the credit
of the government, they did increase during the project period the funding allocated to road
maintenance--although the latest information indicates that no such allocation has been made for
the 2010.

The preparation of the project identified road and railway sector funding as a risk and identified
the development and agreement on a medium-term expenditure framework (MTEF) as a
mitigating factor. It turned out that the government's transition to multi-annual budgeting and to a
MTEF--which was one of the areas supported by the Bank's PAL--was not successful, and
budgetary processes remain a major issue facing all sectors in Romania.

The government delays in resolving the legal and financial situation of the RNCMNR--which
ultimately centers around the issue of funding of the road sector in Romania--created additional
constraints to the implementation of the road component of the project.

The delays in moving forward with the railway reforms expected under the TRP also affected
progress of the rail component under the TSSP.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory.

The RNCMNR performed well, especially in the beginning and then in the last 12-18 months of
the project. The Annual Maintenance Programs were timely prepared, and bidding started soon
after the project became effective. The high turnover of transport authorities and senior managers
and staff of RNCMNR during implementation affected the agency's capacity, and was the main
cause of the periods when implementation did not progress satisfactorily.

The performance of CFR was less satisfactory, and this is reflected in the limited proportion of
the rail component that had been implemented by the loan closing date. The 2007 floods had an
impact on the scope of works that were envisaged under the railway Annual Maintenance
Program, and it took CFR some time before it could finalize a revised and implementable
program starting in 2008. The state budget provided to CFR for investment was so limited that
CFR could not launch the preparatory technical studies and designs. CFR also put on hold the
preparation of tendering documents pending clarification of the budget situation.

CFR could not prioritize works in a way that at least some lines would have had all the activities
completed early/during 2009, which would have increased the benefits of the project-financed


                                                16
investments. CFR reporting on progress focused on the status of rail track procurement, but with
little linkage to the works and installation activities that will make the new track operational,
making it difficult to assess progress in achieving the project objectives.

It should be recognized that a significant improvement in the implementation capacity of CFR
happened with the appointment in 2008 of a project management unit (PMU) comprising 43 (both
at central and regional levels) experienced staff responsible for procurement and technical
specifications. Until the PMU was established, the staff allocated by CFR to implement the
project lacked the administrative authority to call on experts in the different fields to help prepare
the procurement documents.

The reluctance of the implementing agencies, whether by their own decision or under instructions
from the government, to utilize the project's technical assistance funds resulted in practically no
such training or other institutional strengthening activities being undertaken under the project.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Unsatisfactory.

The overall performance of the Borrower is rated unsatisfactory. The Borrower's decision to set
budgetary ceilings for the project--that were much lower than the agreed project implementation
plan--was a key factor in the project's failure to achieve its development objectives.

6. Lessons Learned

The following lessons emerge from this project:

Dependency of one project on progress in another project. Several outputs of the TSSP
depended on progress of outputs to be produced by the TRP--and the TRP depended itself on the
outcome of the Programmatic Adjustment Loan (PAL). For example, preparation of an immediate
and medium term (5 years) maintenance plan for CFR that was to be carried out under the TRP
was an essential input for the annual maintenance program of the railways to be financed under
the TSSP. This lesson can be divided in three areas: (i) that an additional, important risk is
introduced in a project when achieving its objectives depends on the completion of another
project's outputs, (ii) that because of such dependency, the Bank--supervision teams and relevant
managers--should put especial attention, including raising the issue at higher government levels,
on completing the outputs of the companion project--the TRP in this case--and, (iii) if such
outputs are not likely to be generated, restructure and amend the project objectives, with a view to
delink it from the progress on the companion project.

Project funding, budget ceilings, risk and mitigation. Funding for project implementation,
whether counterpart funding or loan disbursement ceilings, is one of the most common project
implementation risks. The budget ceilings imposed by the government were one of the critical
factors causing the project not to be completed in time. Except in countries that have a solid
tradition of providing adequate funding during project implementation, inadequate funding
should be presumed to be a substantial risk. Mitigation of this risk is extremely difficult and
requires a broad Bank involvement, during preparation as well as during implementation, with the
country central economic authorities as well as with the respective sectoral agencies.

Designing and launching performance-based maintenance pilots. Both the EBRD and the
World Bank underestimated the problems with preparing and launching a pilot for a performance-


                                                 17
based maintenance contract. While there is substantial international experience with such kind of
contracts, there is also a wide variation in the specifics of such contracts, notably to take into
account factors such as the capacity of the local road agency, the capacity and experience of local
contractors, the size of the area to be included in the pilot, the utilization of road agency facilities
and laid-off personnel, the proportion of inputs and performance-based parts in the contract, local
procurement rules and others. As important is the question of funding for such multi-annual
contracts. Even though a contract was not awarded, the process of designing and eventually
finalizing the bid documents represents a valuable learning for Romania.

Making decisions on project restructuring. There were indications early during
implementation that for the project to achieve a satisfactory outcome, substantial changes would
need to be introduced that required restructuring the project. Aspects that needed to be revised in
a restructured project included the target for the road outcome indicator, the expected rail
outputs--affected by slow start of implementation and the rail infrastructure damages caused by
the floods early during implementation--the budget ceilings, and the non-achievement of
important TRP outputs which had an impact on the TSSP. Lessons need to be learned on how to
make project restructuring decision in the case of a fast-disbursing project such as TSSP that was
envisaged to be implemented in two years.

Factors affecting the performance of the transport sector. The problems experienced during
the implementation of the TSSP--and the companion TRP--happened in the context of, and
reflected, a poor transport sector performance. The root cause is the lack of a clear and consistent
government mandate for transport institutions. In turn, this gives rise to four fundamental issues,
namely, the lack of: (i) a satisfactory transport financing framework, that ensures the provision of
adequate funding for the operations, investments and maintenance of transport infrastructure and
facilities, (ii) agreement between the ministries of finance and transport on the medium term
sector budgets, (iii) a clear division of responsibilities between the MOT and the modal entities
such as the RNCMNR and the CFR, and (iv) stability in the management of those entities.
Resolution of these issues is essential to improve the performance of the transport sector,
including the implementation of investment projects.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

Comments provided by the implementing agencies are summarized in Annex 7.

The comments show similar views by the two implementing agencies regarding the key factors
affecting implementation and outcome, and the lessons that can be derived from the project. In
particular, the comments highlight the delayed start of the project due to the need for the
Borrower to fulfill the conditions for achieving loan effectiveness, the negative effects on project
implementation of the budgetary ceilings imposed by the Ministry of Public Finance and the
importance of maintaining a stable staff responsible for implementing the project.

(b) Cofinanciers
N/A

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)
N/A




                                                  18
 Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD million equivalent)
                                                           Actual/Latest
                                   Appraisal Estimate                           Percentage of
           Components                                        Estimate
                                     (USD million)                               Appraisal
                                                           (USD million)
Road Sector Support                         112.5              125.4                112
Periodic maintenance works of
                                            109.5               125.4               115
national roads
Technical Assistance for RNCMNR               3.0                 0.0                0

Railway Sector Support                      112.5                49.7                44
Maintenance, repair and overhaul
                                             98.7                49.3                50
works, and supply of goods
Technical Assistance for CFR                 13.8                 0.4                3

Total Project Cost                          225.0               175.1                78


(b) Financing
                                                      Appraisal   Actual/Latest
                                     Type of                                    Percentage of
         Source of Funds                              Estimate      Estimate
                                   Cofinancing                                   Appraisal
                                                    (USD million) (USD million)
Road Sector Support
                           BorrowerBudget               22.5            38.6              172
              International Bank for
                                     Loan               90.0            86.8              96
  Reconstruction and Development
                        Total Roads                    112.5            125.4             111
Railway Sector Support
                           BorrowerBudget               22.5            13.2              59
              International Bank for
                                     Loan               90.0            36.5              41
  Reconstruction and Development
                    Total Railways                     112.5            49.7              44
Total Project
                           BorrowerBudget               45.0            47.8              106
              International Bank for
                                     Loan              180.0            123.3             69
  Reconstruction and Development
                               Total                   225.0            175.1             78




                                              19
   Annex 2. Outputs by Component


   Outputs by component are summarized in the table below

           Component                       Output                             Comment
                                            ROADS
                                      Physical Investments
Periodic Maintenance                                            Including works to be completed in
    a) Asphalt concrete overlay    561.1 km                     the first half of 2010.
    b) Thin layer                  602.0 km                     568.6 km
    c) Bituminous surface          1,029.0 km                   614.2 km
        treatment                                               1,059.1 km
        Total                      2,192.1 km                   2,241.9 km

                                      Technical Assistance
TA for RNCMNR                              None                 RNCMNR in view of cuts in
                                                                funding, allocated all TA project
                                                                budget to road maintenance
                                                                Study for multi-annual performance-
                                                                based maintenance of roads was
                                                                undertaken under parallel EBRD-
                                                                supported project

                                            RAILWAYS
                                       Physical Investments
Track and related infrastructure   8 hazardous locations (9.3   Output achieved through civil works
                                     km) and 4 sections with    contracts and installation of sleepers
                                    restricted speed (1.8 km)   and related hardware.
                                         were eliminated        Overall, output less than expected
                                                                due to implementation delays and
                                                                partial loan cancellation.
Signaling and electrification      Better signaling and more    Output achieved through the
systems                             efficient electric supply   purchase and installation of
                                                                equipment and supplies.
                                                                Overall, output less than expected
                                                                due to implementation delays and
                                                                partial loan cancellation

                                      Technical Assistance
Design of maintenance works               Achieved              Were used in carrying out the track
                                                                and signaling repairs and upgrading.
Training                                     None
Business Plan                         Draft Business Plan       Expected to be approved by CFR
                                           prepared             Board of Directors after loan closing



                                                20
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

This Annex presents the economic re-evaluation of the project. It comprises two main sections;
(i) economic analysis of the roads component; and (ii) economic analysis of the railways
component.

(i) Economic analysis of the road component

The economic re-evaluation of the roads component was done using the Highway Design and
Management model (HDM-4), and focused on a representative set of road sections. HDM-4 was
used to estimate the net benefits of periodic maintenance works on each road section in terms of
reductions in vehicle operating costs, travel time, and road maintenance expenditures. The ICR
economic analysis used the data provided by RNCMNR on road condition before the project,
traffic, and unit costs. Annual traffic growth was estimated at 3 percent--a conservative rate
compared to the growth rates registered in the period prior to the global economic crisis. The
analysis period was 15 years to account fully with the lifecycle of certain type of period
maintenance technologies. Table 1 shows the main characteristics of the sections that were
analyzed. Table 2 provides information on the scenarios used for the sake of the economic
analysis--"project scenario" being the maintenance strategy effectively implemented under the
project.

          Table 1: Representative road sections selected for the economic re-evaluation

 Road                                                                Section Length
               Section (km points)   Work type                                           Traffic (2005)
 number                                                                   (km)
 DN-1          45+150 - 49+650       Asphalt Concrete Overlay              9.64             34,237
 DN-2          39+000 - 42+633       Asphalt Concrete Overlay              6.23             13,669
 DN-13         36+000 47+000         Asphalt Concrete Overlay             11.79             4,319
 DN-1F         16+000 - 36+000       Surface treatment                    21.12              3,134
 DN-2F         2+000 39+100          Surface treatment                    35.08              2,069

                                     Table 2: Analysis scenarios

Type of works            Category of roads       Roads          Base scenario         Project scenario
Asphalt concrete         High traffic            DN-1, DN-2     40 mm AC overlay      40 mm AC overlay
overlay                                                         when IRI>5.5          when IRI>4.5
                         Medium Traffic          DN-13          40 mm AC overlay      40 mm AC overlay
                                                                when IRI>6.0          when IRI>4.5
Surface treatment        N/A                     DN-1F,         40 mm AC overlay      Surface treatment
                                                 DN2-F          when IRI>6.0          every 5 years

The AC overlay was used for roads with relatively high traffic and those that need additional
strengthening for their structure to cope with increasing traffic. The base scenario corresponds to
delaying the maintenance until the road condition reaches IRI=6.0 for medium trafficked roads,
and IRI=5.5 for high traffic roads. The results of the economic analysis--Table 3--show high
economic internal rate of return for AC overlay works--reflecting in part the relatively high level
of traffic as well as the appropriateness of this maintenance strategy when funds are available.
The comparison of the two alternatives also shows that deferring such maintenance works has
significant economic costs.



                                                   21
The economic rate of returns of the surface treatment are higher than the cut-off rate of 12 percent
(Table 3), and the analysis shows that this strategy is a much better and cost-effective
maintenance solution to preserve and extend the life of roads that have not been severely
damaged to the point where they need reconstruction.

                             Table 3: Economic analysis summary

                   Present Value of Total      Decrease in User Costs      NPV (US$ M)       EIRR
                   Agency Costs (US$ M)              (US$ M)                 @ 12%         (percent)
 DN-1                       2.76                        5.84                  5.23            92
 DN-2                       1.06                        1.38                  1.23            96
 DN-13                      2.01                        2.47                  1.98            57
 DN-1F                      1.77                        0.73                  0.59            24
 DN-2F                      2.95                        0.75                  0.53            19

The HMD-4 model also provides vehicle operating costs (VOC) for the scenarios considered
under the analysis. Table 4 shows the reduction in VOC--vehicle type weighted average
reduction--achieved immediately after the implementation of the project. The average reduction
in VOC is around 5 percent for roads receiving AC overlay. Overall the reduction in VOC is
higher for heavy vehicles. This level of VOC reduction is in line with experience elsewhere with
this type of periodic maintenance (40 mm AC overlay) for roads that have not approached the
collapse of their structural integrity and which have predominately private car traffic. It should be
noted that the difference between VOC in the years following the periodic maintenance and the
VOC under the base scenario becomes even higher than the 5 percent achieved the first year after
project completion because road deterioration under the base scenario accelerates until periodic
maintenance is carried out.

The reduction in VOC is lower for the roads receiving surface treatment. This is also expected
because the key objective of surface treatment is to prolong the lifecycle of the road by sealing
the road surface against ingress of water, arresting deterioration of the road surface, and providing
a skid resistant road surface with the resultant benefits of reduction in accidents. The roughness of
the road--to which VOC is directly linked--is affected only marginally by surface treatment,
although such treatment significantly slows down the deterioration of the road's roughness. The
economic benefits expressed by the positive NPV and the good EIRR reflect these benefits.

                    Table 4: Reduction in Vehicle Operating Costs (VOC)

                                              Reduction in VOC
                                                  (percent)
                                   DN-1              6.0
                                   DN-2              5.4
                                   DN-13             5.0
                                   DN-1F             1.0
                                   DN-2F             1.0

(ii) Economic analysis of the railways component

The project was originally intended to support CFR's infrastructure maintenance, current and
periodic repair, and overhaul program for interoperable lines during the period 2006 ­ 2007. Due
to delays in implementation, the railways component started in 2008 and in the end only 44



                                                 22
percent of the component--in value--was implemented. The main objective of the railway
component was to eliminate temporary speed restrictions and improve the safety of traffic.

At project appraisal the economic evaluation focused on the nine interoperable railway lines
candidates for CFR's maintenance program 2006-2010 program--that was envisaged to be
covered by the project in 2006 and 2007, and by subsequent loans--as shown in Table 5. The
methodology and assumptions for the cost-benefit analysis are described below.

                       Table 5: CFR's nine interoperable railway lines

                  Line n.      Itinerary
                      1        Arad- Timisoara- Craiova- Calafat
                      2        Ungheni- Iasi- Pascani
                      3        Halmeu ­Oradea- Cluj- Coslariu
                      4        Buzau- Faurei- Galati- Reni
                      5        Craiova- Videle-Bucuresti
                      6        Videle- Giurgiu
                      7        Vintu de Jos -Rm.Valcea-Pitesti ­Bucuresti
                      8        Oradea- Ep.Bihorului
                      9        Halmeu - Baia Mare- Dej ­ Cluj

General assumptions. The cost-benefit analysis in the PAD mad an assessment separately for
each line. The following benefits were assessed: (i) direct savings on track maintenance; (ii)
removal of speed restrictions leading to time savings for passengers, savings in freight costs due
to better utilization of wagons and locomotives, and savings in both passenger and freight train
crew costs (time). Time savings on high value and perishable cargo are not considered.

The PAD cost-benefit analysis covered 20 years. In the "with project" scenario, investments were
implemented over the period 2006-2010. The "without project" scenario corresponded to deferred
project scenario whereby the same investments would be implemented, but with a five year delay
and over a longer period of 10 years.

The economic re-evaluation for the ICR was carried out following a similar methodology to the
one in the PAD but using different assumptions due to the project changes and to the
implementation delays occurred during implementation.

General assumptions. The re-evaluation assessed the component by integrating the nine lines into
a single program. This is because the program was implemented only partially, and some of the
investments in the goods for example will be completed after loan closing, and it is not possible
to identify at this stage on which line they will be installed.

From the implementation experience of the project, the re-evaluation considered an even longer
implementation period of 15 years for the original program to reflect CFR's capacity--with
reduced benefits and increased investment costs commensurate with the extended implementation
period. In the alternative scenario, investments are delayed by five years and implemented over a
20-year period. While the cost-benefit analysis reflects the financial and institutional capacity
limitations of CFR that appeared during the implementation of the project, it also shows the
consequences of further delaying the much needed maintenance program.




                                               23
Results. Investment cost (with and without project), time saving, operational cost saving and
maintenance cost saving are evaluated in Table 6 for the PAD and ICR analysis.

                      Table 6: Costs and benefits comparison PAD/ICR

         Net present value of                   PAD (US$ M)            ICR (US$ M)
         Investment cost with project               415                    337
         Investment cost without project            250                    190
         Time saving                                220                    134
         Operational cost saving                     66                     36
         Maintenance cost saving                     23                     14

         NPV @ 12%                                   145                     36

         EIRR (%)                                     22                     16

The re-evaluation concludes that, the NPV for the railways component is US$ 36 million and
EIRR is 16 percent for the base re-evaluation. These figures are lower than the ones calculated at
appraisal stage, due to the delays and partial cancelation of the loan. The analysis assumes that
the remaining part of the maintenance program that was originally envisaged in the PAD analysis
would still be implemented--at a considerably reduced pace to reflect CFR's capacity. The
results of the cost-benefit analysis are therefore subject to this assumption.




                                               24
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                              Responsibility/
          Names                            Title                 Unit
                                                                                Specialty
Lending
Henry Kerali               Lead Transport Specialist            ECSIE    Task Team Leader
Mohammed Dalil Essakali    Infrastructure Economist             ECSIE    Transport specialist
Antti Talvitie             Consultant                           ECSIE    Institutional Development
Sunja Kim                  Consultant                           ECSIE    Railway Financial Analysis
                                                                         Railway Institutional
Allan Pozniak              Consultant                           ECSIE    Development
Gaetan Tracz               Financial Analyst                    ECSIE    Financial Analysis
Salim Benouniche           Sr. Procurement Specialist           ECSPE    Procurement
                                                                         Social Development and
Stan Peabody               Lead Social Scientist                ECSSD    Safeguards
Ruxandra Floroiu           Consultant, Environment Specialist   ECSSD    Environment
Doina Visa                 Project Officer                       ECSIE   Project management
Otilia Nutu                Consultant                            ECSIE   Project management
Bogdan Constantinescu      Financial Management Specialist      ECSPS    Financial Management
Jean-Charles de Daruvar    Senior Counsel                       LEGEC    Lawyer
Ruxandra Costache          Counsel                              LEGEM    Lawyer
Nicholay Chistyakov        Disbursement Officer                 LOAG1    Finance Officer
Coral Bird                 Program Assistant                     ECSIE   Administrative support
Juderica Dias              Team Assistan                         ECSIE   Administrative support

Supervision/ICR
                                                                      Program/Task Team Leader
Henry Kerali               Lead Transport Specialist            ECSSD (until 10/01/2007)
                                                                      Task Team Leader (from
Mohammed Dalil Essakali    Senior Infrastructure Economist      ECSSD 10/01/2007)
                                                                      Program Team Leader (from
Gerald Paul Ollivier       Senior Infrastructure Specialist     ECSSD 10/1/2008)
Antti Talvitie             Consultant                           ECSSD Institutional Development
                                                                      Railway Institutional
Allan Pozniak              Consultant, Railway Specialist       ECSSD Development
Sunja Kim                  Consultant                           ECSSD Railway Financial Analysis
Gaetan Tracz               Financial Analyst                    ECSSD Railway Financial Analysis
Astrid Manroth             Senior Financial Analyst             ECSSD Railway Financial Analysis
Nadia Badea                Operations Analyst                   ECSSD Project management, ICR
George Banjo               Senior Transport Specialist          ECSSD Engineering, road safety
Hernan Levy                Consultant                           ECSSD ICR Primary Author
Alejandro Lopez Martinez   Engineer, JPA                        ECSSD Engineering, ICR
Doina Visa                 Project Officer                      ECSSD Project management
Alexandra Stan             Operations Officer                   ECSSD Project management
Otilia Nutu                Consultant                           ECSSD Project management
Salim Benouniche           Sr. Procurement Specialist           ECSPS Procurement
Vladislav Krasikov         Sr. Procurement Specialist           ECSPS Procurement



                                                   25
                                                                   Social Development and
Stan Peabody              Lead Social Scientist              ECSSD Safeguards
                                                                   Social Development and
Lucian Pop               Senior Social Scientist             ECSSD Safeguards
Ruxandra Floroiu         Environmental Engineer              ECSSD Environment
Cesar Niculescu          Environment Specialist              ECSSD Environment
                         Senior Financial Management
Bogdan Constantinescu    Specialist                          ECSPS   Financial Management
Anneliese Viorela Voinea Financial Management Specialist     ECSPS   Financial Management
Ruxandra Costache        Counsel                             LEGEM   Lawyer
Nicholay Chistyakov      Disbursement Officer                CTRFC   Finance Officer
Coral Bird               Program Assistant                   ECSSD   Administrative support
Lorraine McCann Kosinski Program Assistant                   ECSSD   Administrative support
Cristina Zirimis         Program Assistant                   ECSSD   Administrative support
Alexandra Livia Onofrei  Program Assistant                   ECSSD   Administrative support



(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                             Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                            USD Thousands (including
                                           No. of staff weeks
                                                                 travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY05                                              19                        89.4
  FY06                                              64                       262.2
  FY07                                              25                        67.0
                             Total:                108                       418.7
Supervision/ICR
  FY07                                                 10                     41.8
  FY08                                                 23                    107.6
  FY09                                                 33                    132.7
  FY10                                                 20                     94.5
                             Total:                    86                    376.6




                                                  26
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

N/A.




                                      27
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

N/A.




                                   28
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR
Contributions by the implementing agencies RNCMNR (roads) and CFR (railways) are
summarized below.

Roads Component
Key factors affecting implementation and outcome

Among the key-factors affecting the project implementation, there can be mentioned the
following:
        · In order to access the funds, the Borrower had to fulfill the conditions for achieving
           the loan effectiveness, as well as the ratification of the Loan Agreement, procedures
           that lasted about 6 months;
        · Due to insufficient budgetary allowances, public procurement procedures could not
           start according to agreed schedule;
        · Usage of IBRD's procurement guidelines by Regional Directorates instead of
           Emergency Ordinance no. 34 for Public Acquisition.

Borrower performance

RNCMNR implemented contracts for periodic maintenance and current repairs of national roads.

TSSP was supervised by a project implementation unit (PIU) established within RNCMNR. The
contracts were implemented by staff from Regional Directorates. The PIU responsible for TSSP
implementation consists of staff involved both in implementation of contracts and financial
management and disbursement.

Lessons

Efficiency of project implementation depends on:

         a) Availability from the start of all necessary documents (bidding, technical, financial)
         according to specificity of included projects;
         b) Availability of necessary funds (both from Loan and Government contribution) during
         the whole period of implementation;
         c) Establishment of both Project Management Unit and Project Implementation Unit and
         stability of the involved staff (technical, procurement and financial).
Strong and continuous cooperation between the Government, Ministry of Transport and
Infrastructure, RNCMNR and the Bank is essential for successful implementation of the project.

Commitment from the Ministry of Public Finance regarding availability of necessary funds for
implementation of the Project is necessary.

The Bank staff was very helpful and provided technical assistance both for staff from RNCMNR
and for staff from Regional Directorates during the whole implementation period of the Project.




                                               29
Railways Component
Key factors affecting implementation and outcome

Among the key factors affecting the project implementation, there can be mentioned the
following:
        In order to access the funds the Borrower had to fulfill the conditions for achieving the
        loan effectiveness, as well as the ratification of the Loan Agreement, process that took
        approximately 12 months;

        Both in the PAD (dated October 6, 2006) and the Loan Agreement (dated November 27,
        2006) the Procurement Plan was designed at a general level. Its form was to be finalized
        subject to prioritization of activities according to CFR needs;

        In 2007 the Romanian territory was affected by severe and repeated floods that damaged
        the railway infrastructure. These impacted the Procurement Plan leading to frequent
        changes of priorities; in this context the Procurement Plan was finalized at the beginning
        of 2008;

        The postponing of some procurement processes, due to the budgetary ceiling imposed by
        the Ministry of Public Finance;

        The lack of progress in institutional outcomes under TRP;

        Continuous change in personnel and management in the railway company;

Assessment of outcomes

By execution of works contracts, a number of 8 hazardous points in total length of 9,300 m and 4
speed limits in total length of 1,786 m were eliminated.

Borrower performance

CFR has managed to implement 120 contracts for works, goods and technical design services.
The total value of these contracts is US$ 49.66 million equivalent, out of which US$ 49.25
million for goods and works and US$ 0.41 million for technical design services and works.
Disbursements from the Loan up to February 20, 2010 were US$ 45.00 million, out of witch the
Counterpart contribution being US$ 9.04 million.

Transport Sector Support Project (TSSP) is implemented by a project management unit (PMU)
established within CFR. The PMU in CFR is also carrying out the implementation of the
Transport Restructuring Project (TRP). The PMU is having several financial experts in charge
with projects' financial management and disbursement. The staff has the appropriate skills and
resources in managing the financial management and disbursement aspects of the projects, with
most of the experts having worked previously on other World Bank financed projects.

Lessons

The speed of the implementation depends, among others, on:




                                               30
Involvement, starting with the loan preparation phase, of both technical and economic
staff. In this way the ownership and therefore the implication of the final beneficiary
(mostly technical part) will become stronger.

The possibility to keep the same project team (technical, procurement and economical
experts) during both preparation and implementation phases.

The stability of management team for all involved entities at medium and upper level.

The budgetary constraints can be overrun through a very accurate and timely overview of
the allocated ceiling corroborated with the specific needs of each project. This allows
reallocating of funds from a project to another, in order to meet the specific situation
requirements, without affecting the budgetary imposed ceiling.

The tight cooperation between the Government, CFR and the Bank is a key factor that
leads to the success of the project.

The Bank is not only a monitoring entity but has a strong involvement in the
development of strategies to insure the overall success of the Railway Reform

The Bank staff was very supportive during all the Project stages.




                                       31
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders
N/A.




                                    32
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

The World Bank, Transport Sector Support Project: Project Appraisal Document (Report
No.35702-RO), October 6, 2006
The World Bank, Transport Sector Support Project: Loan Agreement (Loan/Credit IBRD
) between Romania and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development.
Aide-Memoires of Romania-Transport Restructuring Project, World Bank Supervision
missions, 2004 to 2010.
Mid-Term Review, Transport Restructuring Project, World Bank Supervision Mission,
2008.
World Bank, 2001. Country Assistance Strategy for Romania
World Bank, 2006. Country Assistance Partnership, Romania.
World Bank, Independent Evaluation Group, 2005. Country Assistance Evaluation
World Bank, 2008. Implementation Completion and Results Report, First Programmatic
Adjustment Loan, Romania




                                        33
                                                                                                                                                              RO M A N IA
                                                                                                       TR A NS PO RT S E CTO R S U PPO RT PR O J E C T                                                                                                                                            MAIN ROADS

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  RAILROADS

                                                                                                                         To Uzhhorod                                                                                                                                                              EUROPEAN CORRIDORS ­ ROADS
                                                                                         22°E                                                      24°E                                                       26°E                                                       28°E
                                                                                                                                                                                                       To
                                                                                                                                                                                                Ivano-Frankivs'k
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  RAILROADS EUROPEAN ­
                                                      ROMANIA                                                        Halmeu
                                                                                                                                                                       UKRAINE
                                                                                                                                                                       UK RA INE                                                                                         48°N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  CORRIDORS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Siret                                                                        MAIN CITIES AND TOWNS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Si
                                                                                                                 Satu                                                                                                               Botosani                                                      COUNTY (JUDET) CAPITALS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                        re
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          t
                                                                                                                 Mare
                                                                                                                                        Baia Mare                                                                                                                                                 NATIONAL CAPITAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Suceava
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Pr
                                                                                                                         Somes




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ut
                                                                                                                        Zalau                                                                    Bi                                                               Iasi
                                                                                                                                                                                                     str
                                                                               Bors     Oradea                                               Dej                                                        ita
                                                                                                                                                                    Bistrita                                                                                                                       To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        30°E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Piatra-                                                           Chisinau
                                       NG
                                   H U NG A RY                                                                                                                                    es
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Neamt        Roman
               To




                                                                                                                                                                              r
                                                                                                                                                                            Mu
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Albita
            Budapest
                                                                                                                           Cluj-                                                                  Gheorgheni                                                 Vaslui
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             MOLDOVA
                                                                                                                         Napoca                                                                                                                                                   Husi
                                                                                                                                                            Tîrgu                                                                 Bacau
                                                                                 Crisul Al
                                                                                          b
                                                                                                                                     Turda                 Mures                                                                                                                               MAINTENANCE, REPAIR, AND OVERHAUL
                                                                                                                                                                                                Miercurea-                                                                                       WORKS ON INTEROPERABLE LINES




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Si
                                                                                                                                                                                                Cuic                      Gheorghe
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      VARIOUS LOCATIONS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   re
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Gheorghiu-Dej




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   t
                                                
                                               Nadlac
                                                                   Arad                                                                                                                                                                                               Birlad
                                                                                                              Brad           Alba                   Medias
               To
            Subotica                                                           Mures                                         Lulia                                                                                                                                                                            UKRAINE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              UKR AI N E       46°N
                                                                                                                                      Sebes
                                                                                                                Deva                                                                                          Sfîntu
                                                                                                  Hunedoara                                                                                                   Gheorghe                                        Tecuci                      PERIODIC MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR
                                                                                                                                                          Sibiu                                                                                                                              WORKS ON NATIONAL ROADS
                                                             Timisoara                                                                                                                                                                    Focsani
                                                                               Lugoj                                                                                                                                                                                                             VARIOUS LOCATIONS
                                                                                        Ti




                                                                                                                                                                                                  Brasov
                                                                                          m
                                                                                           is




                                                                                                                                 Petrosani
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Galati
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               zau
                                                                        Resita                                                                                                                                                                               Bu       Braila
                                               Moravita
              To
            Novi Sad                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Tulcea
                                                                                                                                                                  Rimnicu                                                                   Buzau
                                                                                                                                                                  Vilcea
                                                                                                          Targu Jiu
                                                                                                                                                                                   Targoviste
                                                                                                                                                                                                      Ploiesti
                                                                                                                                                                               Pitesti
                                                                                                                     Ji




                                                                                         Orsova       Drobeta-
                                                                                                                       u




                                                                          Danub
                                                                               e                                                                                                                                                                                      mita
                                                                                                      Turmu Sererin                                                                                                                                               Ialo

                                                                                                                                                                                                Ar
                                                                                                                                                                                                  ge
                                                                                                                                                                                                       s                                                      Slobozia                                             Black
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Fetesti
                                                                                                                                                              Slatina
                                                To
                                                Nis                      RB
                                                                     S E RB I A                                                  Craiova
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             BUCHAREST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Medgidia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Navodari
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Sea
                                                                                                                                                              Olt




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            nube               Calarasi                           Constanta
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Da
              44°N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             44°N
                                                                                                                                                             Caracal
                         0         25          50         75        100 Kilometers
                                                                                                               Calafat                                                      Alexandria           Giurgiu
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Mangalia
                         0                25                 50                 75 Miles                                                                                    Turnu Magurele




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      IBRD 37920
            This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
JUNE 2010




            The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
            shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
            Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
            endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
                                                                                                                 To
                                                                                                               Sofiya                          24°E                 B ULGA RIA
                                                                                                                                                                    BULGARIA                               To
                                                                                                                                                                                                             
                                                                                                                                                                                                     Veliko Turnovo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Shumen
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Varna
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               30°E
