Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 4842 RO 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Transport Sector Support Project) 
 
between 
 
ROMANIA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated November 27 , 2006  
 
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER 4842 RO 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated November 27, 2006, between ROMANIA (
“Borrower”) and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
(“Bank”).  The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I - GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in the Loan 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II - LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of one hundred and eighty million 
Dollars ($180,000,000) (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
 
2.03. 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to three-fourths 
of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance, subject 
to any waiver of a portion of such charge as may be determined by the Bank from 
time to time. 
 
2.04. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one percent (1.0%) 
of the Loan amount, subject to any waiver of a portion of such fee as may be 
determined by the Bank from time to time.  The Borrower shall pay the Front-
end Fee not later than sixty (60) days after the Effective Date. 
 
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread, subject to any 
waiver of a portion of such interest as may be determined by the Bank from time 
to time. 
 
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are May 15 and November 15 in each year. 
Page  3
-
2
-
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III - PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project and the 
Program.  To this end, the Borrower, through MTCT, shall: (i) cause RNCMNR 
to carry out Part I of the Project; and (ii) cause CFR to carry out Part II of the 
Project, both in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General 
Conditions. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower, 
through MTCT, shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV - REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following: 
 
(a) 
a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, 
or a significant part thereof, will be carried out; 
 
(b) 
Law No. 47/2004 of the Borrower has been amended, suspended, 
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the 
ability of RNCMNR to perform any of its obligations under the 
RNCMNR Project Agreement;  
 
(c) 
Government Decision No. 581 of 1998, as completed and amended at the 
date hereof, has been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or 
waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of CFR to 
perform any of its obligations under the CFR Project Agreement; and 
 
(d)  
the Environmental Legislation has been amended, suspended, abrogated, 
repealed or waived so as to, in the opinion of the Bank, affect materially 
and adversely the implementation of the Project or the achievement of 
the objective thereof. 
 
4.02. 
The Additional Events of Acceleration consist of the following: any event 
specified in paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs. 
 
ARTICLE V - EFFECTIVENESS
 
Page  4
-
3
-
5.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following: 
 
(a) 
The RNCMNR Subsidiary Agreement has been executed on behalf of the 
Borrower and RNCMNR. 
 
(b) 
The CFR Subsidiary Agreement has been executed on behalf of the 
Borrower and CFR. 
 
(c) 
RNCMNR has submitted to the Bank its audited financial statements for 
2004 satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
5.02. 
The Additional Legal Matters consist of the following. 
 
(a) 
The RNCMNR Subsidiary Agreement has been duly authorized by the 
Borrower and RNCMNR and is legally binding upon the Borrower and 
RNCMNR in accordance with its terms. 
 
(b) 
The CFR Subsidiary Agreement has been duly authorized by the 
Borrower and CFR and is legally binding upon the Borrower and CFR in 
accordance with its terms. 
 
5.03. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred and fifty (150) days after the 
date of this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE VI - REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is its Minister of Public Finance. 
 
6.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of Public Finance 
 
17,
Apolodor Street 
 
Bucharest 
 
Romania 
 
Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
11239
4021
312
6792 
 
6.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Page  5
-
4
-
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) 
or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
AGREED at Bucharest, Romania, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
ROMANIA 
 
By /s/ Sebastian Vladescu 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Anand Seth 
 
Authorized Representative 
Page  6
-
5
-
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower to reduce transport costs 
through improvement of the overall quality of its national roads and railways networks 
during the first years of EU accession. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
 
Part I
:
Road Sector Support
Support to RNCMNR to implement the National Roads Infrastructure 
Maintenance Program, and modernize its maintenance practices through: (i) the 
implementation of a program for the periodic maintenance and current repairs of national 
roads; and (ii) the provision of technical assistance to modernize RNCMNR as an 
organization, improve its road management practices and for the design of road 
maintenance works, including training of relevant staff. 
 
Part II
:
Railway Sector Support
Support to CFR to implement the Railway Infrastructure Maintenance Program, 
and modernize its maintenance practices through: (i) the implementation of a program for 
the maintenance, current and periodic repair and overhaul of interoperable railway lines 
in order to eliminate temporary speed restrictions and improve the safety of traffic; and 
(ii) the provision of technical assistance to CFR to improve its railway management 
practices and  the design and inspection of railway maintenance works, including training 
of relevant staff. 
Page  7
-
6
-
SCHEDULE 2
 
Project Execution 
 
Section I
.
Subsidiary Financing; Institutional and Other Arrangements
A.
 
Subsidiary Agreements 
 
1.
 
To facilitate the carrying out of Part I of the Project by RNCMNR, the Borrower 
shall make part of the proceeds of the Loan available to RNCMNR under a subsidiary 
agreement between the Borrower
’s Ministry of Public Finance, MTCT and RNCMNR 
(“RNCMNR Subsidiary Agreement”), under terms and conditions approved by the Bank.  
 
2.
 
To facilitate the carrying out of Part II of the Project by CFR, the Borrower shall 
make part of the proceeds of the Loan available to CFR under a subsidiary agreement 
between the Borrower’s Ministry of Public Finance, MTCT and CFR (“CFR Subsidiary 
Agreement”), under terms and conditions approved by the Bank.  
 
3. 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Agreements in such 
manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the 
purposes of the Loan.  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not 
assign, amend, abrogate
 
or
waive the Subsidiary Agreements or any of their respective 
provisions. 
 
B
.
Institutional and Other Arrangements 
 
1. 
During Project implementation, the Borrower, through MTCT, shall ensure that 
RNCMNR and CFR are maintained with an organizational and management structure, 
staffing and resources which shall be adequate to enable them to effectively implement 
Part I and Part II of the Project respectively, and which shall be acceptable to the Bank.  
 
 
2. 
The Borrower, through MTCT, RNCMNR and CFR, shall take all necessary 
measures to implement the Project in accordance with the Annual Infrastructure 
Maintenance Programs and shall not amend, suspend, abrogate, repeal or waive any 
provision of the Annual Infrastructure Maintenance Programs without prior approval of 
the Bank. 
 
3.  
The Borrower, through MTCT, shall ensure that: 
 
(a) 
the Project is carried out in conformity with the provisions of the 
Environmental Legislation; 
 
(b) 
the Bank is promptly informed of any developments in the legislation, 
rules or procedures of, or applicable to, the Borrower, RNCMNCR or CFR that may 
affect the implementation of the Project; and 
Page  8
-
7
-
(c) 
 the first three (3) environmental impact assessment reports and the first 
three (3) environmental permits/licenses that may be required for the carrying out of the 
Project shall be  sent to the Bank. 
 
4. 
The Borrower, through RNCMNR and CFR, shall: 
 
(a) 
 notify the Bank of any intended acquisition of land for the purposes of 
the Project, in whole or in part, of the following: residences, agricultural holdings, 
commercial structures and businesses; and/or land used by people without claim to legal 
title; 
 
(b) 
disclose the Land Acquisition Framework and the Information Brochure 
in a manner satisfactory to the Bank no less than sixty (60) days prior to carrying out any 
land acquisition activities under the Project; and 
 
(c) 
 ensure that all land acquisition under the Project shall be undertaken in 
accordance with the Land Acquisition Framework, and the Information Brochure shall be 
sent to all affected persons at the onset thereof along with the notice of expropriation. 
 
Section II
.
Project Monitoring; Reporting; Evaluation
A. 
Annual Infrastructure Maintenance Programs and Project Reports   
 
1. 
The Borrower, through MTCT and RNCMNR, shall: 
 
(a) 
not later than November 30 of each year during the implementation of 
the Project, or such later date as may be agreed by the Bank, starting November 30, 2006, 
submit to the Bank for its review and approval, an Annual Infrastructure Maintenance 
Program, to be satisfactory to the Bank, for Part I of the Project for the following 
calendar year, which shall include agreed activities and corresponding costing to be 
financed with Loan proceeds for the respective year;  
 
(b) 
monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare Project 
Reports for Part I of the Project in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the 
General Conditions, on the basis of indicators agreed with the Bank; each Project Report 
shall: (i) cover the period of one (1) calendar quarter; (ii) be furnished to the Bank not 
later than forty-five (45) days after the end of the period covered by such report; and (iii) 
indicate the progress, outputs and outcomes achieved in implementing the Annual 
Infrastructure Maintenance Programs for the period preceding the date of such report;  
 
(c) 
not later than December 31 of each year during the implementation of the 
Project, or such later date as may be agreed by the Bank, starting December 31, 2006, 
jointly undertake with the Bank, the review of the Project activities, outputs and 
outcomes based on the Project Reports referred to in sub-paragraph (b) above, and if such 
Page  9
-
8
-
review is satisfactory to the Bank, agree with the Bank on the Annual Infrastructure 
Maintenance Programs for the following calendar year; and 
 
(d) 
not later than April 30 of each year during the implementation of the 
Project, or such later date as may be agreed by the Bank, starting April 30, 2007, jointly 
undertake with the Bank, the review of the Project activities, outputs and outcomes based 
on the Project Reports referred to in sub-paragraph (b) above, and jointly agree with the 
Bank on any adjustments to be made to the Annual Infrastructure Maintenance Programs 
for the remaining part of the calendar year. 
 
2. 
The Borrower, through MTCT and CFR, shall: 
 
(a) 
not later than November 15 of each year during the implementation of 
the Project, or such later date as may be agreed by the Bank, starting November 15, 2006, 
submit to the Bank for its review and approval, an Annual Infrastructure Maintenance 
Program, to be satisfactory to the Bank, for Part II of the Project for the following 
calendar year, which shall include agreed activities and corresponding costing to be 
financed with Loan proceeds for the respective year and an updated five-year program of 
maintenance, current and periodic repair, overhaul and investment activities; 
 
(b) 
monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare Project 
Reports for Part II of the Project in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the 
General Conditions, on the basis of indicators agreed with the Bank; each Project Report 
shall: (i) cover the period of one (1) calendar quarter; (ii) be furnished to the Bank not 
later than forty-five (45) days after the end of the period covered by such report; and (iii) 
indicate the progress, outputs and outcomes achieved in implementing the Annual 
Infrastructure Maintenance Programs for the period preceding the date of such report;  
 
(c) 
not later than December 15 of each year during the implementation of the 
Project, or such later date as may be agreed by the Bank, starting December 15, 2006, 
jointly undertake with the Bank, the review of the Project activities, outputs and 
outcomes based on the Project Reports referred to in sub-paragraph (b) above, and if such 
review is satisfactory to the Bank, agree with the Bank on the Annual Infrastructure 
Maintenance Programs for the following calendar year and the updated five-year program 
of maintenance, current and periodic repair, overhaul and investment activities; and 
 
(d) 
not later than February 15 of each year during the implementation of the 
Project, or such later date as may be agreed by the Bank, starting February 15, 2007, 
jointly undertake with the Bank, the review of the Project activities, outputs and 
outcomes based on the Project Reports referred to in sub-paragraph (b) above, and jointly 
agree with the Bank on any adjustments to be made to the Annual Infrastructure 
Maintenance Programs for the remaining part of the calendar year. 
 
Page  10
-
9
-
B.
 
Financial Management; Financial Reports and Audits   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall cause RNCMNR and CFR to maintain financial management 
systems in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions. 
 
2. 
The Borrower shall cause RNCMNR and CFR to prepare and furnish to the Bank 
not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of each calendar quarter, interim un-
audited financial reports for the Project covering the quarter, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall cause RNCMNR and CFR to have the Financial Statements 
audited in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions.  
Each audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one (1) fiscal year of the 
Borrower.  The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to 
the Bank not later than six (6) months after the end of such period.
 
Section III
.
Procurement
A. General
 
1.
 
Goods and Works.  
 All goods and works required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with 
the provisions of this Schedule. 
 
2.
 
Consultants’ Services.  
All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines and 
with the provisions of this Schedule.   
 
3. 
Definitions.
 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts 
refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement Guidelines, or 
Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works  
 
1.
 International 
Competitive 
Bidding.
 
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2
below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
International Competitive Bidding.
 
2.
 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works
.
The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive Bidding, 
which may be used for goods and works.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the 
circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
Page  11
-
10
-
Procurement Method
(a) 
National Competitive Bidding: contracts for works estimated to cost less than 
$5,000,000 per contract and goods estimated to cost less than $500,000 per 
contract may be procured under the Borrower’s national laws and regulations 
to the extent they are previously found to be acceptable to the Bank.  
 
(b) Shopping 
 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1.
 Quality- 
and 
Cost-based 
Selection.
 
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2
below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
Quality and Cost-based Selection.
 
2.
 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
.
The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, 
which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the 
circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method
(a) Quality-based 
Selection 
(b) 
Least Cost Selection 
(c) 
Selection based on Consultants’ Qualifications 
(d) Single-source 
Selection 
D.
 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Bank’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
 
Section IV
.
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General   
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by 
notice to the Borrower to finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in 
paragraph 2 below. 
 
Page  12
-
11
-
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
 (“Category”), the allocation of the amounts of 
the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible 
Expenditures in each Category. 
 
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(Expressed in Dollars) 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
Financed 
(1) Goods, 
Works 
and 
Consultants’ Services for 
Part I of the Project as 
identified in the Annual 
Infrastructure Maintenance 
Programs for such Part I of 
the Project 
 
$90,000,000 
 
80% 
(2) Goods, 
Works 
and 
Consultants’ Services, for 
Part II of the Project as 
identified in the Annual 
Infrastructure Maintenance 
Programs for such Part II of 
the Project 
 
$90,000,000 
 
80% 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
$180,000,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   
 
1.
 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made: 
 
(a) 
from the Loan Account until the Bank has received payment in full of the 
Front-end Fee; or 
 
(b) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that 
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $36,000,000 equivalent may be 
made for payments made prior to this date but on or after January 1, 2006, for Eligible 
Expenditures under Categories (1) and (2). 
 
2.
 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2008. 
 
Page  13
-
12
-
SCHEDULE 3
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
Principal Payment Date
Principal Amount of the  Loan Payable 
(Expressed in Dollars
*
)
On each May 15 and November 15 
 
beginning May 15, 2012 
 
through November 15, 2023 
7,500,000 
 
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be repaid, except as provided in 
Section 3.10 of the General Conditions. 
 
Page  14
-
13
-
APPENDIX 
 
Definitions 
 
1. 
“Annual Infrastructure Maintenance Program” means each of the two (2) 
documents: (i) prepared by RNCMNR and CFR, with respect to Part I and Part II 
of the Project, respectively, which include the list of activities to be carried out in 
each calendar year under the respective Part of the Project, as well as the 
implementation plan, the procurement and monitoring arrangements and the 
budget relating to such activities; and (ii) agreed between the Borrower and the 
Bank pursuant to Part  A of Section II of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.  
2. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
3. 
“CFR” means the National Railway Company of Romania established pursuant 
to Government Decision No. 581 of 1998, as completed and amended at the date 
hereof. 
4. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004. 
 
5. 
“Environmental Legislation” means one or more of the following: Emergency 
Ordinance No. 195/2005 providing the framework for protection of the 
environment; Government Decision (“GO”) No. 918/2002 (as modified by GD 
No. 1705/2005), regarding procedures for environmental impact assessment and 
classification of project types; and all secondary legislation related to it. 
 
6. 
“EU” means the European Union. 
 
7. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005. 
 
8. 
“Information Brochure” means the Project Implementing Entities’ document 
referred to in Paragraph 4 of Section I. B. of Schedule 2 to this Agreement and 
satisfactory to the Bank, explaining the different stages and procedural 
requirements of the expropriation procedure, and the rights of owners and other 
affected persons at each such stage, including in particular how to document 
claims and any rights of appeal. 
 
9. 
“Land Acquisition Framework” means the document, satisfactory to the Bank 
and adopted by the Borrower, setting forth the laws and administrative 
procedures as well as a process of disclosure (including the Information 
Brochure) providing for processes and appropriate compensation for relocation 
of, or loss of income to be incurred by, individuals or business entities on account 
Page  15
-
14
-
of land to be acquired for public purposes, including for implementation of the 
Project. 
 
10. 
“MTCT” means the Ministry of Transport, Construction and Tourism of the 
Borrower, or any successor thereto. 
 
11. 
“National Roads Infrastructure Maintenance Program” means the program of 
periodic maintenance and current repairs activities for 2006-2007, as set forth in 
the Program, to be applied to the national road network of the Borrower and 
designed to improve the road infrastructure. 
 
12. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004. 
 
13. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Implementing Entities’ procurement plan for the 
Project, dated May 25, 2006, and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the 
Procurement Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the 
same shall be updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said 
paragraphs. 
 
14. 
“Program” means the program of activities for 2006-2013 for the transport sector 
of the Borrower designed to improve the road and railway infrastructure. 
 
15. 
“Railway Infrastructure Maintenance Program” means the program of 
maintenance, current and periodic repair and overhaul activities for 2006-2007, 
as set forth in the Program, to be applied to the interoperable railway lines, as so 
defined in the Government Decision No. 27 of 2004. 
 
17. 
“RNCMNR” means the Romanian National Company of Motorways and 
National Roads established pursuant to the Borrower’s Law No. 47/ 2004. 
 
18. 
“Subsidiary Agreements” means the RNCMNR Subsidiary Agreement and the 
CFR Subsidiary Agreement referred to in Paragraphs A.1 and A.2, respectively, 
of Section I of Schedule 2 to this Agreement pursuant to which the Borrower 
shall make part of the proceeds of the Loan available to RNCMNR and CFR, 
respectively. 
 
