Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 3885-WSO 
GRANT NUMBER H083-WSO 
 
Development Financing Agreement 
 
(
Cyclone Emergency Recovery Project) 
 
between 
 
INDEPENDENT STATE OF SAMOA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated May 5, 2004 
 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 3885-WSO 
GRANT NUMBER H083-WSO 
DEVELOPMENT FINANCING AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated May 5, 2004, between INDEPENDENT STATE OF 
SAMOA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(the Association). 
 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;  
 
(B) 
the Borrower and the Association intend, to the extent practicable, that 
the proceeds of the Grant be disbursed on account of expenditures in respect of the 
Project before disbursements of the proceeds of the Credit are made; and 
 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit and the Grant to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set 
forth in this Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through October 6, 
1999), with the modifications set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement (the General 
Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement.  
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
 
Page  3
-
2
-
(a) 
“Affected Areas” means the areas of the Borrower’s territory which 
incurred material damage as a result of the Cyclone.   
 
(b) 
“Beneficiary” means a local community or a non-governmental 
organization eligible to carry out Sub-projects under Part A(4) of the Project in 
accordance with the provisions of the Operational Manual, and the term “Beneficiaries” 
means, collectively, more than one Beneficiary. 
 
(c) 
“Category” means a category of items set forth in the table in paragraph 
1
of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 
(d) 
“Cyclone” means the tropical cyclone Heta that has affected the 
Borrower, on January 4-5, 2004. 
 
(e) 
“Displaced Person” means a person who, on account of the execution of 
the Project, has experienced or would experience direct economic and social impacts 
caused by: (i) the involuntary taking of land, resulting in (A) relocation or loss of shelter; 
(B) loss of assets or access to assets or (C) loss of income sources or means of livelihood, 
whether or not such person must move to another location; or (ii) the involuntary 
restriction to access to legally designated parks and protected areas, resulting in adverse 
impacts on the livelihood of such person, and “Displaced Persons” means, collectively, 
the plural thereof. 
(f) 
“Eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (4) set forth in the 
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 
(g) 
“Eligible Expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the reasonable 
cost of works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Credit and the Grant allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.  
 
(h) 
“Environmental Policy Framework” means the framework, satisfactory 
to the Association, adopted by the Borrower on March 16, 2004, describing the rules, 
guidelines and procedures to assess environmental impacts under the Project and defining 
measures to reduce, mitigate or offset adverse environmental impacts and enhance 
positive impacts of the Project, as such framework may be amended from time to time 
with the prior agreement of the Association. 
 
(i) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” means each report prepared in accordance 
with Section 4.02 of this Agreement. 
(j) 
“Land Acquisition and Resettlement Framework” means the framework, 
satisfactory to the Association, adopted by the Borrower on March 16, 2004, providing 
procedures, rules, and guidelines for: (i) the involuntary taking of land and other assets 
Page  4
-
3
-
from Displaced Persons, (ii) resettlement and
 
rehabilitation of, and compensation to, 
Displaced Persons, (iii) reporting and monitoring arrangements to ensure compliance 
with such framework, and (iv) design criteria in accordance with which a resettlement 
action plan is submitted to the Association for approval, as such framework may be 
amended from time to time with the prior agreement of the Association. 
 
(k) 
“Ministry of Finance” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance, and 
any successor thereto. 
(l) 
 
“Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment” means the 
Borrower’s Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment, and any successor thereto. 
(m) 
“Ministry of Works, Transport and Infrastructure” means the Borrower’s 
Ministry of Works, Transport and Infrastructure, and any successor thereto. 
(n) 
“Operational Manual” means the manual, satisfactory to the Association, 
to be adopted by the Borrower, in accordance with paragraph 6 of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement, as said manual may be amended from time to time with the prior agreement 
of the Association. 
(o) 
“Program Steering Committee” means the committee maintained within 
the Ministry of Finance in accordance with paragraph 1 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
(p) 
“Project Management Team” means the team to be established and 
maintained by the Borrower in accordance with paragraph 2 of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
 
(q) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Part B.1 of Schedule 
1
to this Agreement. 
 
(r) 
“Sub-grant” means a grant made or proposed to be made by the 
Borrower, through its Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment, to a Beneficiary, 
out of the proceeds of the Grant, through a Sub-grant Agreement, satisfactory to the 
Association, to finance the carrying out of Sub-projects under Part A(4) of the Project, in 
accordance with the provisions of the Operational Manual, and the terms “Sub-grants” 
means more than one Sub-grant. 
 
(s) 
“Sub-grant Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into between 
the Borrower, through its Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment, and a 
Beneficiary for purposes of providing a Sub-grant, as the same may be amended from 
time to time with the prior agreement of the Association, and the term “Sub-grant 
Agreements” means, collectively, more than one Sub-grant Agreement. 
 
(t) 
“Sub-project” means a specific community-based small-scale project 
included in the positive list of eligible activities set forth in the Operational Manual 
Page  5
-
4
-
financed or to be financed in part out of the proceeds of the Grant under Part A(4) of the 
Project, and the term “Sub-projects” means, collectively, more than one Sub-project.   
ARTICLE II 
The Financing 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to make available to the Borrower, on the 
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement: 
 
(a) 
an amount in various currencies equivalent to one million four hundred 
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 1,400,000) (the Credit); and 
 
(b) 
an amount in various currencies equivalent to one million six hundred 
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 1,600,000) (the Grant). 
 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account and the amount of the Grant may be withdrawn from the Grant Account, in each 
case in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, for: (i) amounts 
paid (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be paid) on account of withdrawals made for 
the benefit of a Beneficiary to meet the reasonable costs of eligible expenditures relating 
to a Sub-project under Part A(4) of the Project, and in respect of which the withdrawal 
from the Grant Account is requested; and (ii) expenditures made (or, if the Association 
shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of works and services 
required for other Parts of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Financing.
 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2006 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date. 
 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association:  (i) a commitment 
charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to 
be set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, such rate not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum; and (ii) a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Grant not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the 
Association as of June 30 of each year, such rate not to exceed the rate of one-half of one 
percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
 
Page  6
-
5
-
(b) 
Each commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or the Grant Account (as 
the case may be), or canceled; and (ii) at the respective rate set as of the June 30 
immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates as may be set from time to 
time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The respective rate set as of June 30 in 
each year shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement. 
 
(c) 
Each commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or 
in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for 
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency 
or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the 
provisions of that Section. 
 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on October 15 and April 15 in each  year. 
 
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each 
October 15 and April 15 commencing October 15, 2014, and ending April 15, 2044. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on April 15, 2024 shall be one 
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two 
percent (2%) of such principal amount.  
 
(b) 
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the level 
established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access the 
Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the 
Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the 
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the repayment of installments under 
paragraph (a) above by: 
Page  7
-
6
-
Page  8
-
7
-
(A) 
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such 
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have 
been repaid; and 
 
(B) 
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal amount 
of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment date referred to in 
paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on which 
the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this 
paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a 
grace period of a minimum of five years on such repayment of principal. 
 
(c) 
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of the 
increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate 
agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification. 
 
(d) 
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further 
modify the terms of repayment of the Credit to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above. 
 
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out: (i) 
Parts A(1), A(2), A(3), B and C(1) of the Project through its Ministry of Works, 
Transport and Infrastructure; (ii) Parts A(4) and A(5) of the Project through its Ministry 
of Natural Resources and Environment; and (iii) Part C(2) of the Project through its 
Ministry of Finance, all with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, financial, economic, engineering and technical practices and 
Page  9
-
8
-
sound social and environmental standards, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the 
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project. 
 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the  
works and consultants’ services required for the Project (except for Part A(4)  of the 
Project) and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be governed by the 
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such 
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a 
plan to ensure the continued achievement of the Project’s objective; and 
 
(b) 
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Financial Covenants 
 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in accordance with 
consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Association, adequate to 
reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project.  
 
(b) The 
Borrower 
shall: 
 
Page  10
-
9
-
(i) 
have the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the 
Association) audited, in accordance with consistently applied 
auditing standards acceptable to the Association, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the Association; 
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year (or such 
other period agreed to by the Association), (A) certified copies 
of the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for such year (or other period agreed to by the 
Association), as so audited, and (B) an opinion on such 
statements by said auditors, in scope and detail satisfactory to the 
Association; and 
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
such records and accounts, and the audit of such financial 
statements, and concerning said auditors, as the Association may 
from time to time reasonably request. 
 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account and the Grant Account were made on the basis of  reports referred to in Part A.5 
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement (Report-based Disbursements) or on the basis of 
statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
 
(i) 
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report for, or covering, the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Credit Account and the Grant Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and 
other documents) evidencing such expenditures; 
 
(ii) 
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such 
records; and 
(iii) 
ensure that such reports and statements of expenditure are 
included in the audit for each fiscal year (or other period agreed 
to by the Association), referred to in paragraph (b) of this 
Section.  
 
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the Borrower’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in paragraph 10 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, the Borrower shall 
prepare and furnish to the Association a financial monitoring report, in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Association, which: 
Page  11
-
10 - 
 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Credit and the Grant, and 
explains variances between the actual and planned uses of  such 
funds; 
 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual
 
and planned Project 
implementation; and 
 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
 
(b) 
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Association not later than 45 
days after the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the 
period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of 
such first calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Association not 
later than 45 days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar 
quarter.  
ARTICLE V 
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General 
Conditions: 
 
(a) 
the Project Management Team has been duly established and sufficiently 
staffed with terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, in accordance with 
paragraph 2 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
the Operational Manual has been duly adopted by the Borrower’s 
Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment, in a manner and substance, satisfactory 
to the Association, in accordance with paragraph 6 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and   
 
Page  12
-
11 - 
(c) 
the Borrower has: (i) established a computerized financial management 
system for the Project; (ii) provided training to the staff of the Project Management Team 
in the above-mentioned financial management system 
and in the Association’s financial 
management and disbursement procedures; and (iii) adopted a financial management 
manual, all in a manner and substance satisfactory to the Association. 
 
Section 5.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or 
opinions to be furnished to the Association, namely, that the Environmental Policy 
Framework and the Land Acquisition and Resettlement Framework have been adopted by 
the Borrower and are legally binding upon the Borrower in accordance with their 
respective terms.  
 
Section 5.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
 
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
 
Private Bag 
 
Apia, Independent State of Samoa 
 
Cable 
address: 
     Facsimile: 
 
FINSEC      685-21312 
 
Apia 
      685-24779 
 
Page  13
-
12 - 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
Page  14
-
13 - 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
INDEPENDENT STATE OF SAMOA 
 
By 
/s/ Ali’ioaiga Feturi Elisaia 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By 
/s/ Natasha Beschorner  
 
Authorized Representative 
Page  15
-
14 - 
SCHEDULE 1
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Financing 
Part A
.
General 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Financing, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit and the amounts of 
the Grant to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed 
in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
Amount of the 
 
Credit Allocated 
Grant Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
(SDR Equivalent)
(SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
 
Works 
 
a. under Parts A.1   
1,150,000 
680,000  
 
75% 
 
A.2 and B of 
 
the Project 
 
b. under Parts A.3   
     250,000  
 
75% 
 
and A.5 of the 
 
Project 
 
(2) 
Consultants’ services:                                550,000 
80% for foreign individual 
 
consultants; 75% for 
 
local individual consultants 
 
and local firms; and 67% 
 
for foreign firms 
 
(3) 
Sub-grants                                                   90,000 
100% of the Sub- grant 
 
amount disbursed 
 
under Part A (4) of the 
 
Project 
 
Page  16
-
15 - 
 
Amount of the 
Amount of the 
 
Credit Allocated 
Grant Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
(SDR Equivalent)
(SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(4) Incremental operating 
 
 
    30,000      
 
75%  
 
costs  
 
 
under Part C (1)  
 
of
the Project 
 
(5) Unallocated  
250,000 
 
1,400,000
1,600,000   
TOTAL  
 
3,000,000
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Borrower for services supplied from the territory of any 
country other than that of the Borrower;  
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower for services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and 
(c) 
the term “Incremental operating costs” means reasonable expenditures 
directly related to Part C(1) of the Project, incurred by the Borrower (which expenditures 
would not have been incurred absent the Project), including expenditures for the cost of: 
(i) travel per diem and transportation of Project staff and other participants, but excluding 
salaries and allowances; (ii) rental of meeting facilities; (iii) publication and 
dissemination of Project related materials; (iv) office supplies and consumables; and (v) 
communications. 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of 
SDR 600,000 may be made in respect of Categories 1(a) and (2) on account of payments 
made for expenditures before that date but after March 1, 2004.  
Page  17
-
16 - 
4. 
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account and the Grant 
Account to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a)  
works costing less than $600,000 equivalent per contract; (b) contracts for the 
employment of consulting firms costing less than $100,000 equivalent per contract; (c) 
contracts for the employment of individual consultants costing less than $50,000 
equivalent per contract; (d) Sub-grants; and (e) incremental operating costs; all under 
such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 
5. 
The Borrower may request withdrawals from the Credit Account and the Grant 
Account to be made on the basis of reports to be submitted to the Association in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Association, such reports to include the Financial 
Monitoring Reports and any other information as the Association shall specify by notice 
to the Borrower (Report-based Disbursements).  In the case of the first such request 
submitted to the Association before any withdrawal has been made from the Credit 
Account and the Grant Account, the Borrower shall submit to the Association only a 
statement with the projected sources and applications of funds for the Project for the six-
month period following the date of such request. 
Part B
.
Special Account
1. 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in Dollars 
a
special deposit account in the Central Bank of Samoa on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association.   
2. 
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been opened, withdrawals from the Credit Account and the Grant Account 
of amounts to be deposited into the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
if the Borrower is not making Report-based Disbursements, withdrawals 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and  
 
(b) 
if the Borrower is making Report-based Disbursements, withdrawals shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.
 
3. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for Eligible Expenditures. 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Association shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:  
Page  18
-
17 - 
 
(a) 
if the Association, at any time, is not satisfied that the reports referred to 
in Part A.5 of this Schedule 1 adequately provide the information required for Report-
based Disbursements;  
 
(b) 
if the Association determines at any time that all further withdrawals for 
payment of Eligible Expenditures should be made by the Borrower directly from the 
Credit Account and the Grant Account; or 
 
(c) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit 
of: (A) the records and accounts for the Special Account; or (B) the records and accounts 
reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were Report-based 
Disbursements or were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, as the case may 
be.  
5. 
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the 
Association shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in 
part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account and the 
Grant Account pursuant to Section 6.02 of the General Conditions.  Upon such 
notification, the Association shall determine, in its sole discretion, whether further 
deposits into the Special Account may be made and what procedures should be followed 
for making such deposits, and shall notify the Borrower of its determination. 
6. 
(a) 
If the Association determines at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or 
was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Association, provide such additional evidence as the 
Association may request, or deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall 
so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment.  
Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association into 
the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or 
made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Association determines at any time that any amount outstanding in 
the Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures 
during the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such outstanding amount. 
Page  19
-
18 - 
 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.  
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to subparagraph (a), (b) or (c) 
of this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Credit Account and the Grant Account  for 
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of this  
Agreement. 
Page  20
-
19 - 
ANNEX A 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are Not  
Report-based Disbursements 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Annex, the term “Authorized Allocation” means an 
amount equivalent to $450,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and the Grant 
Account deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2(a) of this Annex.  
2. 
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to 
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:  
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount 
or amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation.  On the basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and the Grant Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested.  
 
(b) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Association requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the 
Association shall specify.  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested.  On the basis of each such request, the Association shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and the Grant Account and 
deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and 
as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of 
the Special Account for Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit into the Special 
Account shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account and the Gant 
Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories. 
3. 
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit and the Grant minus the total 
amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant 
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount 
of the Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account and the 
Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit and the Grant shall 
follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such 
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Association shall 
Page  21
-
20 - 
have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as 
of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible Expenditures. 
Page  22
-
21 - 
ANNEX B 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are 
Report-based Disbursements 
 
1. 
Withdrawals from the Credit Account and the Grant Account shall be deposited 
by the Association into the Special Account in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement. Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be 
withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account and the Grant Account under one 
or more of the Eligible Categories.  
2. 
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Credit and 
the Grant, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and the Grant Account and deposit into the Special Account an amount equal to 
the lesser of: (a) the amount so requested; and (b) the amount which the Association has 
determined, based on the reports referred to in Part A.5 of this Schedule 1 applicable to 
such withdrawal application, is required to be deposited in order to finance Eligible 
Expenditures during the six-month period following the date of such reports. 
 
Page  23
-
22 - 
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in recovering resilience of 
the natural and built environments damaged by the Cyclone to a sustainable level so that  
the vulnerability of the people and the economy to prevailing natural hazards is reduced. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
Part A
:
Coastal Resilience Recovery  
1. 
Carrying out of a program of repair and rehabilitation of shoreline protection 
structures in the length of about fourteen (14) kilometers (km) damaged by the Cyclone at 
selected locations in the Affected Areas. 
2. 
Carrying out of a program of reconstruction and upgrading of shoreline  
protection structures in the length of about ten (10) km in the Affected Areas to withstand 
prevailing natural hazard risks.   
3. 
Carrying out of a program of restoration of the natural resilience of the shoreline 
of about two (2) km to withstand prevailing natural hazard risks through non-structural 
measures, including beach nourishment, stabilization, or avoidance measures in selected 
Affected Areas. 
4. 
Providing Sub-grants to improve the resilience of coastal environments and 
communities in the Affected Areas through various small-scale Sub-projects. 
5. 
Supporting the recovery of marine and coastal fringe ecosystems in the selected 
Affected Areas through, inter alia, assessment surveys, mapping and analysis of 
vulnerable areas, community consultation and development and implementation of 
recovery plans.   
Part B
:
Road Infrastructure Rehabilitation
1. 
Carrying out of a program of rehabilitation or replacement of road pavements, 
drainage structures, slope stabilization and road furniture damaged by the Cyclone in the 
Affected Areas.   
2. 
Carrying out of a program of upgrading of about five (5) small river crossings 
that were damaged by the Cyclone or are highly vulnerable to natural hazards risks in the 
Affected Areas.   
Page  24
-
23 - 
Part C
:
Project Implementation Support
1. 
Supporting the Ministry of Works, Transport and Infrastructure and the Ministry 
of Natural Resources and Environment in carrying out: (i) coastal engineering for the 
identification, design and supervision of selected structural and non-structural coastal 
resilience measures; (ii) small-scale natural hazard mitigating measures; (iii) management 
of Sub-projects; (iv) preparation and supervision of road rehabilitation activities referred 
to in Part B(1) of this Schedule; (v) design, preparation and supervision of small river 
crossings upgrades referred to in Part B(2) of this Schedule; through provision of 
technical assistance.    
2. 
Supporting the Ministry of Finance in managing and implementing the Project 
through provision of technical assistance.  
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2006. 
Page  25
-
24 - 
SCHEDULE 3
 
Procurement 
 
Section I
.
Procurement of Works
Part A
:
General
Works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank 
in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 
1999  (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section. 
 
Part B
:
International Competitive Bidding
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, works shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines 
and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
 
Part C
:
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding
(a) 
Works estimated to cost more than $100,000 equivalent, but less than 
$1,000,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,500,000 
equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
 
(b) 
The procedures to be followed for National Competitive Bidding under 
this Paragraph 1, Part C, shall be those set forth in the Guidelines for Government 
Page  26
-
25 - 
Procurement by Public Tender (February 2003), issued by the Tenders Board, 
Independent State of Samoa, with the modifications set forth in the Annex to this 
Schedule 3 required to ensure economy, efficiency, transparency, and consistency with 
Section I of the Guidelines (as required by paragraph 3.3 thereof). 
Page  27
-
26 - 
2.  
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $250,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, 
fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) qualified 
domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation shall include a 
detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the required completion 
date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Association, and relevant drawings, 
where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price 
quotation for the required work, and who has the experience and resources to complete 
the contract successfully. 
 
3. Direct 
Contracting
Works additional to existing contracts, estimated to cost less than $20,000 
equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $200,000 equivalent, 
may, with the Association's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines. 
Part D
:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1. Procurement 
Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1. 
 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to: (i) each contract for works estimated to cost the 
equivalent $600,000 or more and procured in accordance with Part C(1) of this Section; 
and (ii) the first contract for works to be procured under each sub-component of the 
Project estimated to cost less than $600,000 equivalent; the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
Page  28
-
27 - 
(b) 
With respect to the first contract procured in accordance with the 
provisions of Paragraphs C(2) and C(3), the following procedures shall apply: 
 
(i) 
prior to the execution of any contract for procurement of small works, 
the Borrower shall provide to the Association a report on the 
comparison and evaluation of quotations received; 
(ii)  prior to the execution of any contract procured under direct 
contracting or procurement of small works procedures, the Borrower 
shall provide to the Association a copy of the specifications and the 
draft contract; and 
(iii) 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 3 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines shall apply. 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Sections I and IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in 
September 1997, January 1999 and May 2002 (the Consultant Guidelines), paragraph 1 
of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto and the following provisions of Section II of 
this Section. 
 
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Consultant Guidelines, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof 
applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
Page  29
-
28 - 
 
2. 
The following provision shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph: the short 
list of consultants for services under Part A(5) of the Project, estimated to cost less than 
$200,000 equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 and footnote 8 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
 
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1. Least-cost 
Selection
Services under Part A(5) of the Project estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines 
 
2. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services under Part A (5) of the Project  estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
3. 
Single Source Selection
Services for project management under Part C(2) of the Project which are 
estimated to cost less than $150,000 equivalent per contract, may, with the Association’s 
prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 
3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
4. Individual 
Consultants
Services of individual consultants for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in 
paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant 
Guidelines, or selected on a sole-source basis if the provisions of paragraph 5.4 of the 
Consultant Guidelines are met, subject to prior approval of the Association. 
Page  30
-
29 - 
 Part D
:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
A
plan for the selection of consultants, which shall include contract cost 
estimates, contract packaging, and applicable selection criteria and procedures, shall be 
furnished to the Association for its review and approval prior to the issuance to 
consultants of any requests for proposals.  Such plan shall be updated every six (6) 
months during the execution of the Project, and each such updating shall be furnished to 
the Association for its review and approval.  Selection 
of
all consultants’ services shall be 
undertaken in accordance with such selection plan (as updated from time to time) as shall 
have been approved by the Association. 
 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms  
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2, 3 and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the report on the 
comparison of the qualifications and experience of candidates, terms of reference and 
terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Association for its prior 
review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall 
have been given.  The provisions of paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines shall also apply to such contracts. 
 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply. 
Page  31
-
30 - 
ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 3 
National Competitive Bidding 
Participation in Bidding
1. 
State-owned enterprises in the Independent State of Samoa shall be eligible for 
bidding only if they can establish that they are legally and financially autonomous, 
operate under commercial law, and are not a dependent agency of the Borrower.  
2. 
No bidder shall be denied access to bidding for reasons unrelated to its capacity 
to perform the contract.  In particular, bidders shall not be denied participation for reason 
of being registered in a category higher than the nominated category.  Furthermore, any 
request to register or to update registration shall be promptly entertained so as to allow 
any qualified bidder to participate.    
3. 
Subject to paragraph 7 below, foreign bidders shall be eligible to participate in 
bidding under the same conditions as national bidders.  In particular, no domestic 
preference over foreign bidders shall be granted to national bidders in bid evaluation, nor 
shall foreign bidders be asked or required to form joint ventures with national bidders in 
order to submit a bid. 
Advertising; time for bid preparation
4. 
Invitations to bid shall be advertised in at least one newspaper of national 
circulation, allowing a minimum of thirty (30) days for the preparation and submission of 
bids, such thirty (30) days to begin with the availability of the bidding documents or the 
advertisement, whichever is later. 
Standard bidding documents
5. 
Until national standard bidding documents, approved by the Association are 
available, bidding documents approved by the Association shall be used. 
Qualification; post-qualification
6. 
Registration shall not be u
sed to assess bidders’ qualifications.  Prequalification 
(if required) shall not be denied to any bidder for reasons unrelated to that bidder’s 
capability and resources to successfully perform the contract, nor may bidders be pre-
selected through short lists in place of prequalification.  If prequalification is not 
required, the bidder determined to be the lowest evaluated responsive bidder shall be 
subject to post-qualification as a prerequisite to contract award.  
Page  32
-
31 - 
Registration
7. 
A foreign bidder shall not be required to register as a condition for submitting its 
bid and, if determined to be the lowest evaluated responsive bidder, shall be given 
reasonable opportunity of registering, without any let or hindrance. The registration 
process shall not be applicable for Sub-contractors. 
Bid Opening and Bid Evaluation
8. 
All bidding for works shall be carried out through one envelope procedure. 
9. 
Bidders may submit bids, at their option, either in person or by courier service or 
by mail. 
10. 
Bids shall be opened in public, immediately after the deadline for submission of 
bids. 
11. 
Evaluation of bids shall be made in strict adherence to the criteria declared in the 
bidding documents and contracts shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated responsive 
bidder. 
Rejection of Bids
12. 
Rebidding shall not be carried out without the Association’s prior concurrence. 
Extension of validity of bids
13. 
In exceptional circumstances, the procuring entity may, before the expiration of 
bid validity, request all bidders in writing to extend the validity of their bids.  In such 
case, bidders shall not be requested nor permitted to amend the price or any other 
condition of their bids.  Bidders shall have the right to refuse to grant such an extension 
without forfeiting their bid security, but bidders granting such an extension shall be 
required to provide a corresponding extension of their bid security.  
No post-bidding negotiations
14. 
There shall be no post-bidding negotiations between the procuring entity and the 
lowest or any other bidder. 
Inspection and Auditing
15. 
Each contract financed from the proceeds of the Credit shall provide that the 
contractors shall permit the Association, at its request, to inspect their accounts and 
records relating to the performance of the contract and to have said accounts and records 
audited by auditors appointed by the Association. 
Page  33
-
32 - 
SCHEDULE 4
 
Implementation Program 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain, until completion of the Project, a Program Steering 
Committee established within the Ministry of Finance, chaired by the Chief Executive 
Officer of the Ministry of Finance and comprising of representatives, inter alia, the 
Ministry of Works, Transport and Infrastructure, Ministry of Natural Resources and 
Environment, Ministry for Women, Community, and Social Development and 
community, including two deputy chairpersons, with terms of reference satisfactory to 
the Association and assigned with such funds, responsibilities and resources as shall be 
required to enable it to provide overall guidance in the carrying out of the Project, review 
the progress of Project implementation, assist in achieving the Project objectives and 
complying with the terms and conditions of this Agreement. 
2. 
The Borrower shall establish and maintain, until completion of the Project, the 
Project Management Team within the Ministry of Finance, headed by a Project manager, 
provided with sufficient resources and such responsibilities and funding as shall be 
required to enable it to carry out the day-to-day management, monitoring
 and 
coordination
 of 
procurement, accounting, disbursement, financial management and other 
Project related activitie
s, and reporting to the Program Steering Committee, and staffed 
with competent personnel in adequate numbers, all under terms of reference acceptable to 
the Association.  
3. 
The Borrower shall:  
(a) 
maintain until completion of the Project, a financial management system 
for the Project, acceptable to the Association; and 
(b) 
not abrogate, amend, assign, repeal, suspend or waive any provisions of 
the financial management manual without the prior agreement of the 
Association. 
4. 
The Borrower shall, by March 31, 2005, appoint an independent auditor 
acceptable to the Association, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, to 
carry out annual audits of Project accounts and financial statements in accordance with 
the provisions of Section 4.01 of this Agreement. 
5. 
For purposes of carrying out Parts A and B of the Project, the Borrower shall 
select Project sites in accordance with criteria acceptable to the Association, and, 
thereafter, implement the respective Parts of the Project in a manner and substance 
satisfactory to the Association. 
Page  34
-
33 - 
6. The 
Borrower 
shall: 
(a) 
prepare, adopt and thereafter apply the Operational Manual, satisfactory 
to the Association, as such manual may be amended from time to 
time with the prior agreement of the Association, in the 
implementation of Part A(4) of the Project, which Operational 
Manual shall provide, inter alia, for: (i) procedure and criteria for 
selection of Beneficiaries; (ii) appraisal criteria for design and 
screening for the carrying out of  measures to mitigate risks from 
natural hazards; (iii) terms and conditions governing the Sub-grant 
Agreements; (iv) procurement procedures for goods, works and 
services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Sub-grants; (v) 
process for monitoring implementation; and (vi) financial 
management and disbursement arrangements; and 
(b) 
not abrogate, amend, assign, repeal, suspend or waive any of the 
provisions of the Operational Manual without the prior agreement of 
the Association. 
7. 
For purposes of the carrying out of Part A(4) of the Project, the Borrower shall 
enter into a Sub-grant Agreement with each Beneficiary on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association; and shall not abrogate, amend, assign, repeal, suspend or 
waive any of the provisions of the Sub-grant Agreement without the prior agreement of 
the Association.    
8. 
The Borrower shall:  
(a) 
carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of the 
Environmental Policy Framework and the Land Acquisition and Resettlement 
Framework, as the case may be; and  
(b) 
not abrogate, amend, assign, repeal, suspend or waive the provisions of 
the Environmental Policy Framework and the Land Acquisition and Resettlement 
Framework without the prior agreement of the Association. 
9. 
The Borrower shall, by June 30, 2004, authorize the implementing agencies 
under this Project to approve changes to contracts for civil works up to 10% of the initial 
contract price (including provisional sum and allowance for dayworks), notwithstanding 
any law or regulation requirement in this regard in effect at the time of issuance of said 
authorization.  
10. The 
Borrower 
shall: 
Page  35
-
34 - 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators set forth in Schedule 6 to this 
Agreement, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about June 30, 2005, a report integrating the results of 
the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the 
efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during 
the period following such date; and 
(c) 
review with the Association, by September 30, 2005, or such later date as 
the Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and 
the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations 
of the said report and the Association’s views on the matter. 
11. 
The Borrower shall, through its Ministry of Works, Transport and Infrastructure: 
 
(a) 
establish and maintain a database, satisfactory to the Association, to 
record main procedures taken in handling requests for shoreline protection or other 
coastal works, including: (i) verification against the relevant Coastal and Infrastructure 
Management Plan; (ii) site investigation; (iii) recommendation of proper treatment of the 
concerned request; (iv) cost estimates; and (v) environmental impacts category; and     
 
 
(b) 
prepare a report every six months, beginning on July 31, 2004, on all 
shoreline protection works commenced within the last six months, including information 
on location, type of works, size, relevant Coastal Infrastructure Management Plan, 
required environmental clearances, and cost estimates upon works completion; and 
thereafter submit said report to the Association for review and comments.     
 
12. 
The Borrower shall apply the draft EIA Regulations, the Interim Codes of 
Environmental Practice and any successor thereto, and any Coastal Infrastructure 
Management Plan as a Sustainable Management Plan referred to in the Borrower’s 
Planning and Urban Management Act (2004), to all works under the Project, all in a 
manner and substance, satisfactory to the Association.  
 
Page  36
-
35 - 
SCHEDULE 5 
 
Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
For the purpose of this Agreement, the provisions of the General Conditions are 
modified as follows: 
 
1. 
Section 1.01 is amended to read: 
 
“These General Conditions set forth certain terms and conditions 
generally applicable to development financing granted by the 
Association as a development credit and development grant to its 
members.  They apply to any development financing agreement 
providing for any such development finance to the extent and subject to 
any modifications set forth in such agreement.” 
 
2. 
Paragraph 8 of Section 2.01 is amended to read as follows: 
 
8. 
 “Development Financing Agreement” means the particular 
Development Financing Agreement to which these General Conditions 
apply, as such agreement may be amended from time to time.  
Development Financing Agreement includes these General Conditions as 
applied thereto, and all schedules and agreements supplemental to the 
Development Financing Agreement. 
 
3. 
The following new paragraphs are added to Section 2.01: 
 
15. 
“Grant” means the development grant provided for in the 
Development Financing Agreement.”; 
 
16. 
“Grant Account” means the account opened by the Association 
on its books in the name of the Borrower to which the amount of the 
Grant is credited.”; 
 
17. 
“Financing” means, collectively, the Credit and the Grant. 
 
18. 
“Financing Accounts” means, collectively, the Credit Account 
and the Grant Account (or, where the context so requires, either of the 
Credit Account or the Grant Account). 
 
4. 
The term “Credit”, wherever used in the following Articles and Sections of the 
General Conditions, is amended to read “Financing”:  Sections 2.01(3), 2.01(12), 4.01, 
Article V, Article VI (excluding Section 6.05), Section 7.01(d), Article VIII, and Article 
IX. 
 
Page  37
-
36 - 
5. 
The term “Credit Account”, wherever used in the following Articles and Sections 
of the General Conditions, is amended to read “Financing Accounts”:  Section 2.01(6), 
4.01, Article V, Article VI, and Section 12.03. 
 
6. 
The term “Development Credit Agreement”, wherever used in the General 
Conditions, is amended to read the Development Financing Agreement. 
 
7. 
Section 3.01 is modified to read as follows:   
 
“Section 3.01.  
Financing Accounts.  
The amount of the Credit shall be 
credited to the Credit Account and may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account by the Borrower as provided in the Development Financing 
Agreement and in these General Conditions.  The amount of the Grant 
shall be credited to the Grant Account and may be withdrawn from the 
Grant Account by the Borrower as provided in the Development 
Financing Agreement and in these General Conditions.” 
 
8. 
The phrase “(including any development financing agreement or development 
grant agreement)” is added to Section 6.02(a)(ii) after the words “any development credit 
agreement” and before the words “between the Borrower and the Association”, to Section 
6.02(c)(i) after the words “any development credit agreement” and before the words 
“with the Association”, and to Section 7.01(b)(i) after the words “any other development 
credit agreement” and before the words “between the Borrower and the Association”:   
 
9. 
Section 6.05 is amended to read as follows: 
 
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, any 
cancellation of any amount of the Credit shall be applied 
pro rata
 to the 
several installments of the principal amount of the Credit maturing after 
the date of such cancellation.” 
 
Page  38
-
37 - 
 
SCHEDULE 6 
 
Performance Indicators 
 
Components Activities 
Unit Year 
1 
(June 
2005) 
Year 2 
(June 
2006) 
Year 3 
End of 
Project 
 
A
Coastal 
resilience 
A.1. Structural 
Rehabilitation 
km  
5 
12 
 
14 
.
A2. Structural 
Upgrading 
Km 3 
8 
 
10 
A3. Non-
structural 
Rehabilitation 
Km 1 
2 
 
2.5 
A.4. Small 
Resilience 
Subprojects 
completed 
number
5
20
25
A.5 
Ecosystem 
Recovery 
Plans prepared
number
2
6
8
B. Road 
Infrastructure 
rehabilitation 
B2.  River 
crossings 
completed 
number
2
5
5
C. 
Implementation 
Support 
C.  Resilience 
projects 
prepared 
%
budget 
60
100
100 
