                 Documentof
                The WorldBank




                                       ReportNo. T-7622




             TECHNICAL ANNEX


                    FOR A

PROPOSEDGRANT INTHE AMOUNT OF SDR 1.6MILLION

                    ANDA

PROPOSEDCREDIT INTHE AMOUNT OF SDR 1.4MILLION


       (EQUIVALENT TO US$4.47 MILLION)

                     TO

      THE INDEPENDENT STATE OF SAMOA

                    FOR A

   CYCLONEEMERGENCY RECOVERY PROJECT




                 April 8,2004

                                       CURRENCYEQUIVALENTS
                                           (as o f February 29,2004)

                               Currency Unit            = SamoanTala

                               U S $ l.oo
                               1WST                     = US$0.36
                                                        = WST 2.75
                               1SDR                     = US$1.495



                                       WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
                                                  Metric System


                                 ABBREVIATIONSANDACRONYMS

                         ADB           Asian Development Bank
                         CBS           Central Bank of Samoa
                         CERP          Cyclone Emergency Recovery Project
                         C I M         Coastal Infrastructure Management
                         COEPs          Codes of EnvironmentalPractice
                         CRM           Coastal RiskManagement
                         EMP            EnvironmentalManagement Plan
                         EPC            Electric Power Corporation
                         ERRP          Emergency RoadRehabilitationProject
                         EU             European Union
                         FMS            Financial Management System
                         FMM            Financial Management Manual
                         FMR            Financial Monitoring Report
                         GOS            Government of Samoa
                         IA             Implementing Agency
                         IAMP           Infrastructure Asset Management Program
                         IDA            InternationalDevelopment Association
                         IPSC           IAMProgramSteering Committee
                         rUCN           The World Conservation Union
                         LAW            LandAcquisition and Resettlement Framework
                         MNRE           MinistryofNaturalResourcesandEnvironment
                         M O F          Ministry of Finance
                         MWTI           MinistryofWorks, Transport, and Infrastructure
                         NDEC           NationalDisaster and Emergency Council
                         PFMS           Project Financial Management System
                         PIP            Project Implementation Plan
                         PMT            Project Management Team
                         P M U          Project Management Unit
                         PUMA           Planning and UrbanManagement Agency
                         SA             Special Account
                         SOE            Statement of Expenditures
                         TC             Tropical Cyclone


                                                FISCAL YEAR
                                                  July 1- June 30

Regional Vice President                   :    Jemal-ud-din Kassum, EAPVP
Country Director                          :    Xian Zhu, EACNF
Sector Director                           :    Jitendra N.Bajpai, EASTR
Task Team LeadedTask Manager              :    William D.O. Paterson, EASTR

                                 THE INDEPENDENTSTATE OFSAMOA
                                TECHNICAL ANNEX FORA PROPOSED
                        CYCLONEEMERGENCYRECOVERY PROJECT

                                                                   Contents


I COUNTRYBACKGROUND
 .                                               ..................................................................................................         1

I1 THE CYCLONEDISASTER
  .                                              ..................................................................................................         1
    The Cyclone Damage Estimates .................................................................................................                          1
    Responseto the Cyclone Emergency ..........................................................................................                             2
    Response Gap and the Responseby IDA....................................................................................                                 3
    Lessons Leamed..........................................................................................................................                3
    Rationale for IDA Involvement ..................................................................................................                       4

I11 DETAILED PROJECTDESCRIPTION
   .                                                                 ...............................................................................        4
    Project Objectives .......................................................................................................................              4
    Project Description......................................................................................................................               4
    Project Cost and Financing .........................................................................................................                    6

I V INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTSFORPROJECTIMPLEMENTATION
  .                                                                                                                                            .............6
    Project Organization and Management....................................................................................... 6
    FinancialManagement and Disbursementand Reporting ..........................................................                                            7
    FundsFlow..................................................................................................................................             7
    Disbursement Arrangements .......................................................................................................                       7
    Audit ........................................................................................................................................          8
    Retroactive Financing.................................................................................................................                  8
    Project Sustainability ..................................................................................................................               8
    Environmental and Social Aspects..............................................................................................                          8
    PotentialLandTenure Issues ......................................................................................................                       9
    Participatory Approach ...............................................................................................................                  9

V . PROJECTBENEFITSAND RISKS                                 .......................................................................................        9
    Project Benefits...........................................................................................................................             9
    Project Risks .............................................................................................................................           10
    Agreed Actions .........................................................................................................................              10


Appendix 1 .Technical Component Design.................................................................................                                    11
Appendix 2   .ProjectCosts............................................................................................................                    20
Appendix 3   - FinancialManagement Assessment ........................................................................
Appendix 4     Procurement Capacity Assessment and ImplementationArrangements .................23                                                         31
Appendix5    --EnvironmentalPolicy Framework ..........................................................................                                   34
Appendix 6   - LandAcquisition and Resettlement Framework.....................................................                                            40
Appendix 7 - Key ImplementationActivities and MonitoringIndicators ....................................                                                   54
Appendix 8   - Map of Previous Coastal Protectionworks .............................................................                                      55

Map: IBRD32860


                          THE INDEPENDENTSTATE OF SAMOA
                TECHNICAL ANNEX FORA PROPOSEDCREDIT FORA
                     CYCLONE EMERGENCYRECOVERY PROJECT




                                 I. COUNTRYBACKGROUND
1.      Samoa comprises nine islands inone main cluster situated just south o f the equator inan
area prone to tropical cyclones. The islands o f Upolu and Savai'i make up 96 percent of
Samoa's land area o f 2,842 square k m s and account for 99 percent o f its population. The
economy o f Samoa has traditionally been dependent on development aid, family remittances
from overseas, agriculture, and fishing. The country i s vulnerable to devastating storms and has
been hit by three major cyclones over the last fifteen years. Agriculture employs two-thirds o f
the labor force, and provides 90 percent o f exports, including coconut cream, coconut oil, and
copra. The manufacturing sector mainly processes agricultural products. The decline of fish
stocks in the area is a continuing problem. Tourism is an expanding economic sector and
accounts for approximately 25 percent o f GDP; about 88,000 tourists visited the islands in 2001.
The Samoan Government has undertaken substantial economic reform inthe past eight years and
plans deregulation o f the financial sector, encouragement o f investment, and continued fiscal
discipline, meantime protecting the environment. The country has a healthy level o f foreign
reserve, the external debt i s stable, and inflation i s low at an average annual rate o f 1.9 percent,
in2003. The country assistance is coveredbythe Pacific Regional Strategy (Report 20370-EAPY
May 2000) which is expected to be updated inearly 2005.



                                 11. THE CYCLONEDISASTER


The CycloneDamageEstimates

2.      Tropical Cyclone (TC) Heta passed within 80 k m s of Samoa as it moved southwest o f the
country on January 4-5, 2004. It was accompanied by hurricane force winds with sustained
winds of up to 100 knots (180 km/h) and gusting up to 140 knots (250 km/h) at its peak, and
torrential rain covering all the country.    The cyclone caused significant damages estimated at
about US$35 m (about 12 percent o f GDP), mainly in coastal and utilities infrastructure, trees
and crops, and coastal ecosystems. Power, water, transport, and other services were disrupted
for periods up to a week or more before being substantially restored. Although several houses
were destroyed, there were no fatalities. The extent o f damage was limitedwhen compared with
the major events o f Cyclones Ofa and Val in 1990 and 1991, due to the moderate duration o f 36
hours and the effect o fthe protectionbuilt since the previous events.

3.      Along coastal areas, mainlyalong the north andwest coasts of Savaii andthe north coast
o f Upolu, strong wave action overtopped seawalls and caused significant localized erosion of
road shoulders, culverts and seawalls, depositing substantialdebris of boulders, sand and flotsam

                                           - 2 -


across roads and into villages. Erosion and debris damage was worst on Savaii from Sataua in
the northwest to Faga in the east. Electric power lines and some telephone services were cut,
andwater services were disruptedby landslides or erosioninseveral areas. A few private houses
were severely damaged or destroyed by tornado winds in the Fagalii-Moataa area. There was
extensive wind damage to trees, including about 80 percent o f the breadhit and banana trees
severely damaged. The damage to trees i s relatively short-term in nature as these will naturally
recover and regenerate over the course o f a year. Six large historic trees inApia were uprooted-
the worst damage appeared due to localized tornadoes generated by the cyclone.

4.      There was also extensive damage to 50-70 percent o f coral reefs and coastal fishing
which will take some years to recover. This adds,vulnerability to the coastline that has already
suffered growing erosion due to ongoing sand-miningactivities andprevious storms.

5.      An initial assessment o f recovery costs for road and coastal infrastructure, completed by
the Government, showed the following needs: (i)     about 9,300 m o f seawalls requiring repair or
replacement; (ii) 20 km o f severe erosion making coastal communities and a hospital in
                   nearly
Savai'i very vulnerable to future storm events; (iii)   about 11.9 km o f coastal roads requiring
rehabilitation due specifically to storm damage; and (iv) other road and drainage repairs arising
from flooding, landslide and erosion damage. The assessment estimated recovery costs at WST
40.2 myincluding WST 26.2 m for seawall repair and construction, and WST 14.0 m for road
repairs and restoration. Of the total, WST 21.6 m was for Upolu and WST 17.6 m for Savai'i.
Subsequentreviews reducedthese cost estimates byabout 40%.

Response to the Cyclone Emergency

6.      An IDA evaluation mission visited Samoa in January, 2004.            At the government's
request, the mission focused on the impact on transport and coastal infrastructure, and the
performance o f the emergency management procedures established under the ongoing IDA-
financed Infrastructure Asset Management Program (IAMP). Limitedrecovery assistance for the
power and water sectors is being provided through ongoing assistance from the Asian
Development Bank andthe EuropeanUnion.

7.      The emergency response arrangements performed satisfactorily for both communications
and restoration o f services. The Meteorological Office provided warnings from December 31,
2003 when the depression formed northwest o f Savai'i, declared a `blue' alert gale force warning
on January 2,2004 when the TC changed course for Samoa, and from the morning o f Saturday
January 3 issued bulletins 3-hourly by radio and faxed to each member o f the National Disaster
and Emergency Council (NDEC) and the Central Control Group, drawing data from three
sources, Le., Nadi, Honolulu, and Pago-Pago, giving greater accuracy and timeliness than
previously available. At the calling o f `red alert' on Sunday, January 4, the National Disaster
Management Plan was fully activated, with the Prime Minister's office taking control.
Government service providers (e.g., Ministry o f Works, Transport and Infrastructure, power and
water authorities, etc.) undertook rescue and restoration actions during the cyclone. The NDEC
inspected damage on Upolu and Savai'i on January 5-6 immediately after the event, and the
MWTIcompletedits damage assessment andreportedit to the NDEC on January 12,2004.

                                               - 3 -


ResponseGap and the Responseby IDA

8.      The damage was widespread and fairly significant and, according to the Government's
initial assessment, recovery was estimated to cost about WST 90 million ($35 million). This i s
equivalent to about 12 percent o f annual GDP, comprising about WST 63 million damage to
infrastructure and about WST 30 million to trees, crops and buildings. Ofthis total, the recovery
costs for damage to roads and coastal infrastructure were estimated to be WST 22.0 million
(US$8 million).         The government requested IDA assistance for recovery works and
implementation services for roads and coastal infrastructure, and IDA conducted preparation and
appraisal o f the project duringMarch 1-12,2004,

Lessons Learned

9.      Relevant lessons can be drawn from international and Bank experience in disaster
management, from other projects in the Pacific Islands, and from previous and ongoing
infrastructure operations inSamoa, e.g., Emergency Road Rehabilitation Project (ERRP) and the
Infrastructure Asset ManagementProgram (IAMP). These include:

    0   First, the cyclone emergency has demonstrated the importance o f adopting a
        comprehensive approach to risk management, including risk mitigation. The emergency
        response system in place in Samoa performed satisfactorily in communications,
        assistance andrestoration o f services during, and after, the storm.


    0   Second, it i s crucial, where appropriate, to design and build protective structures in
        accordance with the Design Code to take account o f local topography and wave
        conditions. Well-designed protective seawalls constructed under the ERRP and IAMP-I
        performed well under storm conditions, with relatively minor damage, and yielded
        substantial benefits through the protection o f inland infrastructure, estimated inthe order
        o f three to ten times the investment cost. Sub-standard protective structures are likely to
        collapse and may increase the risks o f storm damage. Inadequately designed seawalls,
        with either under-sized boulders, lack o f filter layer, or low crest, tended to disintegrate
        or collapse causing dangerous debris to be thrown ashore and provided little resistance to
        erosion.


    0   Third, soft protection measures canbe effective, provided valuable assets are not located
        inthe hazard zone. Sand beach, vegetation, and inland drainage provisions, can perform
        satisfactorily if there i s adequate space for wave run-up without adversely impacting
        infrastructure or private assets.      The apparent preference of communities for hard
        structures i s resulting in substantial losses o f natural beaches and communities need to be
        made aware o f effective alternatives for enhancing the natural shoreline.


    0   Fourth, contract maintenance can and did function effectively in providing immediate
        response for restoringroad access, so recent institutional reforms inpublic works actually
        improved the emergency response.

                                             - 4 -




     0   Storm damage to the fringing reef and ecosystems can take years to recover - sustainable
        practices aimed at nurturing recovery o f the ecosystems can accelerate recovery o f the
        natural protection provided by the reefto the shore.


RationaleFor IDA Involvement

10.     The financing gap in the recovery efforts i s beyond the financial capacity o f the
Government at this time; total recovery costs are estimated at about a quarter o f the
government's budget. Reducing the vulnerability o f small island states to economic andphysical
shocks i s a focus o f the Bank's regional strategy inthe Pacific. Under the IAMProgram IDA i s
supporting the strengthening o f national emergency management arrangements and the
development o f a sustainable risk management approach to reducing the vulnerability o f the
economy and society to natural hazards. The benefits o f previous strengthened requirements for
resilience ininfrastructure activities havebeendemonstrated as a result o f T C Heta. Further IDA
assistance can help restore the resilience o f areas damaged by the cyclone and reinforce the
sustainable approaches to coastal protection. The latter i s especially relevant as much o f the
economic activity and population are concentrated in fragile coastal zones vulnerable to natural
hazards, and the shoreline is being hardened to reduce the risks but with some adverse
environmental impacts.       Other IDA programs, including the Climate Change Adaptation
initiative andwork on catastrophe insurance help indeveloping a sustainable strategy.



                         111.   DETAILED PROJECTDESCRIPTION


ProjectObjectives

11.     The objective o f the Project is to assist the Borrower in recovering the resilience o f the
natural and built environments damaged by the Cyclone to a sustainable level so that the
vulnerability of the people andthe economy to prevailingnatural hazards is reduced.

12.     The resilience will be recovered through: (a) Recovery o f coastal resilience to erosion,
flooding and landslide hazards through appropriate and sustainable use o f hard or soft
interventions; (b) Nurturing the recovery o f fragile coastal ecosystems through sustainable
practices; and (c) Rehabilitation o f damaged landtransport communications.

ProjectDescription

13.     The Project would assist the recovery o f resilience to natural hazards o f the coastal
environments and communities and road infrastructure, through the following components:

                                               - 5 -


A. CoastalResilienceRecovery ($3.65 million)

A.1      Coastal Structures Rehabilitation: The repair or rehabilitationo f about 14kmo f existing
shoreline protection structures damaged by the cyclone at selected critical locations in the
affected areas.

A.2      Coastal Structures Reconstruction:       The reconstruction or upgrading o f about 10 km o f
shoreline protection structures inthe affected areas to withstand prevailing natural hazard risks in
accordance with preparedrisk management plans.

A.3      Non-structural Rehabilitation:     Restoration o f the natural resilience o f about 2.5 km o f
the shoreline to withstand prevailing natural hazard risks through non-structural measures,
including planting, beach nourishment, stabilization or avoidance measures in selected affected
areas.

A.4      Small-scale Resilience Strengthening: Improving the resilience o f coastal environments
and communities in the affected areas through various small-scale measures implemented on a
participatorybasis under grant support.

A.5      Coastal Ecosystem Recovery:         Supporting the recovery o f marine and coastal fringe
ecosystems in the affected areas through various measures including assessment surveys,
mapping o f vulnerable areas, community consultation, and development and implementation o f
recovery plans.

B. RoadInfrastructureRehabilitation($1.38 million)

B.1      Road and Drainage Rehabilitation: Rehabilitation or replacement o f road pavement,
drainage structures, slope stabilization and road hmiture damaged by the cyclone in affected
areas.

B.2      Bridge Replacement: Replacement or upgrading o f about five river crossings that were
damaged or are highlyvulnerable to natural hazards risks.

C. ImplementationSupport:

C.1      Technical and Advisory Assistance:         Provision o f technical assistance which supports
implementation o f the Project to achieve the defined development objectives within the specified
resources, including specifically: (i)coastal engineering for the identification, design, and
supervision o f eligible structural and non-structural coastal resilience measures; (ii)technical advice
on small-scale natural hazard mitigating measures and facilitation o f related consultations;       (iii)
management o f grant-based operations;        (iv) preparation and supervision o f road rehabilitation
activities; and (v) Design, preparation, and supervision o f small bridgereplacement.

C.2     Project Management:             Provision o f services to support the management and
implementation o f the Project.

                                              - 6 -


ProjectCost andFinancing

14.     The project costs have beenbasedon quantities derivedfrom ajoint IDA-MWTIestimate in
March 2004 o f a core program o f priority coastal resilience recovery and road rehabilitationworks
and related design and supervision services, and recent competitively awarded contract cost rates in
local currency (Samoan Tala). Financing i s based on IDA financing the hllnet o f tax costs o f the
works and services. Finance i s provided through a blend comprising a Grant under the IDA-13
allocation for natural disasters (IDA-N) amounting to 40 percent o fthe total project cost, and an IDA
Credit for the balance. Project costs are summarized inTable 1and detailed inAppendix 2.




                                            Indicative                 IDA-           IDA
                                              costs        % of      financing     financing
                Component                    (US$M)       Total      (US$M)            ("A)

   CoastalResilienceRecovery                   3.65        60.9         2.77          62.0
   RoadInfrastructure Rehabilitation           1.38        23.0         1.03          23.1
   ImplementationSupport                       0.97        16.1         0.67           14.9
   TOTAL PROJECT                               6.00       100.0         4.47          100.0



  IV. INSTITUTIONALARRANGEMENTSAND PROJECTIMPLEMENTATION


Project OrganizationandManagement

15.     Oversight. The oversight o f the Project would be made a responsibility o f the existing
IAMP Steering Committee (IPSC), for efficiency and synergy considerations. The IPSC reports
to the Ministryo f Finance (MOF) as executing agency, and comprises heads o f the implementing
agencies and representatives o f other key stakeholders including Ministry for Women,
Community and Social Development and a civil society representative, among others.

16.     Project Management. A Project Management Team (PMT), comprising a Project
manager and accountant, would be responsible for the day-to-day management, monitoring, and
coordination o f the project activities. To leverage the existing project management facilities and
experience, the P M T may be attached to the IAMP Project Management Unit (PMU) located
under the MOF, and the accountant would work with the IAMP Project Accountant using the
same financial management methods. The PMT would report to the IPSC and report monthly on
progress inproject implementation.

17.     Implementing Agencies. There are three implementing agencies - MOF, MWTI, and
Ministry o f Natural Resources and Environment (MNRE) - that will implement the respective
components under the project, as follows:

    (a) Ministryo fFinance:                                   Component C.2;
    (b) MinistryofWorks, Transport andInfrastructure          Components A.1, A.2, A.3, B & C.1

                                             - 7 -


    (c) Ministryo fNaturalResources and Environment        Components A.4 and A.5.

 18.    Under the guidance of the PMT, the implementing agencies will be responsible for
project procurement, including preparation ofbiddingdocuments, evaluation and contract award,
inspection andcertification o f completion o fworks, andmanagement o f contracts.

19.     Implementation: Project implementation is expected to be completed by June 30, 2006.
The ClosingDate o fthe Grant and Credit will be December 31,2006.

FinancialManagementandDisbursementandReporting

20.     An assessment of the financial management system concluded that the project will meet
minimum Bank financial          management requirements, subject to the implementation o f
modifications required for the IAMP. The PMT will be responsible for overall project financial
management activities and will manage the project's Special Account (SA). The banking
arrangement i s adequate, with the SA held at the Central Bank, where IDA funds are deposited.
There were no major problems in the flow o f funds from IDA to the final beneficiaries. The
existing Project Financial Management System (PFMS) and accounting system performed
generally well in LAMP-1, and is being upgraded to achieve full functionality for reporting and
financial monitoring. The system will be capable o f report-based disbursement, but the
implementation will first continue with transaction-based reporting and move to report-based
later when the MOF i s readyto apply this to other IDA-assistedprojects. The accounting systems
and software differ in each Implementing Agency (IA), however, the present Project financial
management arrangements cope with this and are considered satisfactory, so they would
continue for Cyclone Emergency Recovery Project (CERP) with a few minor adjustments. The
Government o f Samoa (GOS) complied with the audit covenant consistently and the audit
reports were unqualified. Details o f the financial management assessment are inAppendix 3 and
the assessmentreport is inthe Project file.

FundsFlow

21.     At central level, the MOF will open one SA denominated in U S Dollar currency for
receiving funds from the Bank, and will set up a separate Project Account (GPA 99) for CERP,
which will be treated as a Bank Account, instead o f opening another account for the project ina
commercial bank. Any payments will be charged to individual "child accounts" for each project
component identified under the parent GPA 900 coded account with a separate GPA sub-account
for the counterpart contribution from which taxes will be paid out. The SA will be opened at the
Central Bank of Samoa (CBS). The GPA account will have an opening balance from the
counterpart contribution to CERP under implementing agencies' budgets and funds transferred
fi-om the SA (held with CBS), based on a payment request provided by the PMT. The payments
to thirdparties will be initiatedby the PMT based on approved contracts.

DisbursementArrangements

22.     The M O F will open and maintain a SA at the CBS with an authorized allocation of
US$0.45 m. Initially, the allocation would be limited to US$0.20 m, until disbursements have

                                             - 8 -


reached SDR 0.80 myat which time the full authorized allocation could be claimed. These
amounts would be used only for the purposes o f the project to cover its project expenditures.
Disbursements under the grant and credit will be report-based, using Statement of Expenditures
(SOEs), for: (a) grants, (b) contracts for the employment o f consulting finns costing less than
US$lOO,OOO     equivalent per contract; and (c) contracts for the employment o f individual
consultants costing less than US$50,000 equivalent per contract. Supporting documents will be
maintained by the coordinating team, and made available to the IDA'Svisiting missions and
auditors as required. The PMT will also prepare and provide to IDA its quarterly reports on
implementation progress along with Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs) in formats agreed
with the IDA. The FMRs will be used for monitoring purposes.              These arrangements are
discussed indetail inAppendix 3 to this Technical Annex.

Audit

23.     A combined audit o fthe financial statements, SA, andthe FMRswill be conducted under
terms o f reference acceptable to IDA. An independent auditor will be appointed by March 31,
2005 under terms of reference acceptable to IDA.

Retroactive Financing

24.     Retroactive financing o f up to SDR 0.60 m (US$0.89 m) (20 percent o f the proposed
Grant and Credit amount) would be available for eligible expenditures incurred since March 1,
2004, which i s the date o f start o f the Bank's appraisal, provided they comply with the agreed
procurement guidelines. This provision would allow for the Grant and Credit to cover project
preparation activities and for the main contract to be procured in time to achieve completion by
the end o f 2006.

Project Sustainability

25.     Under the parallel IAMP, the national emergency management arrangements are being
strengthened and a sustainable risk management approach i s being implemented to reduce the
vulnerability o f the economy and society to natural hazards.        The benefits of strengthened
requirements for resilience in coastal infrastructure have been demonstrated under TC Heta. The
Project assistance will help restore the resilience o f areas damaged by the cyclone and reinforce
the sustainable approaches to coastal protection. MNREwill complete the preparation o f Coastal
Infrastructure (Risk) Management Plans (CIM Plans) under IAMP, and will need to reinforce
compliance with the plans and raise awareness at both local and national levels for these C I M
Plans to be effective.

Environmental and Social Aspects

26.     Environmental impacts under the Project range from negligible to substantial, as the
activities involve a range of structural and non-structural interventions inthe fragile coastal zone
to protect economic and natural assets. An Environmental Policy Framework, based on that
approved for the IAMP in November 2003, establishes rules and procedures to be followed
under the Project with regard to environmental assessment, monitoring and mitigation of

                                            - 9 -


potential negative impacts (see Appendix 5).          GOS environmental legislation and draft
regulations satisfy the requirements of World Bank Operational Policy (OP 4.01).
Environmental assessment of project components shall be undertaken in accordance with the
procedures set out inthe draft EIA Regulations 1998. Inthe coastal marine eco-system, Project
activities are designed to help the eco-system recover from the damage which occurred during
Cyclone Heta and so are expected to have beneficial impacts. A set o f operating procedures for
routine smaller projects with minimal environmental impacts is based on a set o f Codes o f
Environmental Practice (COEPs) which guide and control the ways in which environmental
aspects o f all civil engineering works and the private sector are managed and addressed. When
the scope o f the project cannot be handled by implementation o f a COEP a sub-project with
some adverse environmental impacts (i.e., a Category B project) shall be the subject o f an
Environmental Management Plan (EMP) which can stand on its own or be an integral part o f the
Project Implementation Plan(PIP).

27.     Social impacts o f the Project will generally be positive due to the restored and improved
resilience to the natural hazards of erosion, flooding and landslides. However, some impacts
such as those on tourism, local fishing industry, and other coastal activities, may be mixed and
may warrant investigation and review through the consultation framework which had been
established for the IAMP.

PotentialLandTenureIssues

28.     Works will be undertaken generally on public land andno land acquisition is anticipated.
A Land Acquisition and Resettlement Framework (LARF),based on that established for IAMP,
would be applied ifcompensation were needed (see Appendix 6).

ParticipatoryApproach

29.     The development o f the District-level Coastal Infrastructure Management Plans (CIM
Plans), on which the natural risk management approach is based, has involved substantial
participation and consultation among affected communities, led by the MNRE. The
investigation and design activities proposed under the Project will follow the provisions o f the
ConsultationFramework established under the IAMP.


                            V. PROJECTBENEFITS AND FUSKS

ProjectBenefits

30.     There are various direct and indirect sources o f benefits from the project. Indirect
benefits due to improved resilience to natural hazards will accrue only during a hazard event.
Recent estimates o f the benefits arising from the previous construction o f protection structures,
range from about 3- to 10-times the cost o f investment, including public and private assets.
Indirect benefits include the conservation o f land resources. Benefits from the recovery o f the
coastal eco-system are indirect to the communities, but are typically multiple in effect: healthy

                                            - 10-

reef systems dissipate wave energy and enlarge fish stocks, shoreline vegetation including
mangroves provide stabilization, andthe net effect canbe reduced vulnerability to storm hazards.

Project Risks

31.    Pressure from coastal communities can typically focus on structural treatments such as
rock walls because o f a perception o f more durable and effective protection. Recent experience
inSamoa and other tropical islandcountries shows that this can leadto substantial hardening of
the coastline and loss o f the natural shoreline environment.     Under-designed structures can
disintegrate and increase the risks o f damage during an emergency event.         Reclamations or
material extraction and other modifications o f the shoreline can change patterns o f erosion or
aggradation and may increase risks. Community and political pressures for quick solutions may
deter efforts to establish a sustainable approach to improving coastal resilience.

AgreedActions

32.    Establishment o f implementation arrangements including: maintaining oversight by a
Steering Committee; appointment o f project management team; operation o f financial
management system; adoption o f Operational Manual for sub-grants -prior to effectiveness.

33.    Entry into a sub-grant agreement with each beneficiary in regard to implementation o f
small-scale subprojects for improving resilience, inaccordance with the terms o f the Operational
Manual;

34.     Implement the Project in accordance with the provisions o f the Environmental Policy
Framework and the Land Acquisition and resettlement Framework, and apply the draft
Environmental Impact Assessment regulations inthe conduct o f the Project;

35.     Through the Ministry o f Works, Transport and Infrastructure, maintain a record of
handling requests for improved coastal protection; and report on all shoreline works constructed
inthe country ona six-monthly basis.

                                            -11 -



                             INDEPENDENTSTATE OF SAMOA
                     CYCLONEEMERGENCYRECOVERYPROJECT

                            TECHNICAL COMPONENTDESIGN

Background

1.      Tropical Cyclone Heta moved southwest o f Samoa on January 4-5, 2004, accompanied
by hurricane force winds with sustained winds o f up to 100 knots (180 Wh) and gustingup to
140 knots (250 Wh) at its peak, and torrential rain covering all the country.         The cyclone
caused significant damages estimated at about US$35 m (about 12 percent o f GDP), mainly in
trees, crops and coastal infrastructure.    However, the extent o f damage was limited when
compared with the major events o f Cyclones Ofa and Val in 1990 and 1991, due to the moderate
duration o f 36 hours and the effect of the protectionbuilt since the previous events. Without the
previous investments, the infrastructure damage i s likely to have been five to eight times higher,
inthe orderofabout $200 m.

2.      For infrastructure along coastal areas, mainly along the north and west coasts o f Savai'i
and the north coast of Upolu, strong wave action overtopped seawalls and caused significant
localized erosion o f road shoulders, culverts and seawalls, depositing substantial debris o f
boulders, sand and flotsam across roads and into villages. Erosion and debris damage was worst
on Savai'i from Sataua inthe northwest to Fagainthe east.

3.      The Government's assessment o f recovery costs for road and coastal infrastructure
(MWTI, January 2004), was WST 40.8 m (US$ 14.8 m) comprising: (i) 9,300 m o f   about
seawalls requiring repair or replacement; (ii)   nearly 20 km o f severe erosion making coastal
communities and a hospital inSavai'i very vulnerable to future storm events; (iii) 11.9 km
                                                                                    about
o f coastal roads requiringrehabilitation due specifically to storm damage; and(iv) other road and
drainage repairs arisingfrom flooding, landslide and erosion damage.

4.      An IDA mission identified a smaller core program o f recovery actions of about US$ 6 m
including civil works and related services. The need for risk mitigation actions to be sustainable,
identified within the context o f the Coastal Infrastructure Management Strategy and individual
District Plans and include non-structural options was emphasized. The majority o f the proposed
works are in districts where coastal management plans have already been developed under the
IAMP. These locally agreed frameworks could also be used as reference in cases where these
plansare not yet inplace.

5.      The storm was equivalent to a 15-20 year event, which exceeds the design return period
adopted for previous emergency recovery works, and is at or above the design standard
commonly adopted under IAMP.           Damages are therefore expected to be moderate where
protection has been afforded but substantial in other areas at risk.       The seawalls and other
protective measures constructed under the Emergency Road Rehabilitation Project (ERRP) and
the recent first phase of the IAMP generally performed well and sustained relatively minor
damage. There has also been considerable construction o f seawalls recently outside the E W
and IAMP, supported under either Government budget or privately. However, in many cases

                                              - 12 -


those walls, and some o f older design, had disintegrated and the undersized boulders became an
additional hazard as part o f the debris washed inland. Along the northem Savai'i coast, there
was substantial aggradation of beach sand inseveral areas, illustrating that erosion is not the sole
mechanism o f damage and that alternative mitigation measures, e.g., soft or non-structural
options, need to be considered.        Table 1 compares the extent o f existing seawalls, recent
construction, and appraisal estimates o fthe length requiring rehabilitation or reconstruction.

 Table I: Rock Seawalls: Pre-cyclone Inventory, Recent Construction, and Appraisal Damage
                                                Estimates




Source: Samoa Asset Management System, MWTI(2002). Recent construction inFY04from MWTIrecords
(March 2004). Damage estimates requiring reconstructionor rehabilitation (IDA review, 1/04)



PreviousEmergencyandSustainableManagementProjects

6.      Previous cyclone emergency response projects completed in Samoa have included the
ERRP, finished in the aftermath o f Cyclones Ofa and Val, and the corresponding support
provided through the ADB.           These emergency response projects provided the basis for
introducing shoreline protection systems designed and implemented according international best
practice. The first phase o f the IAMP, which was developed after the successful completion o f
the ERRP, was the vehicle for introducing a robust approach to risk management in the coastal
hazard zone that is now being integrated into the activities of MNRE and MWTI. The outcome
has been the establishment o f effective environmental management and coastal risk management
processes for Samoa, which need strengthening but are already being promoted as a model for
other developing countries in the Pacific. This environmental and risk management framework,
and the principles on which it is based, has guided many o f the decisions andproposed approach
inthe designofthe currentproject. Theseprinciples include:

    0   Environmental management o f all emergency works;

    0   Application o f the CIM Strategy and C I M Plans as guiding documents on the allowable
       nature and extent o f infrastructure development inthe coastal zone.

    0   Sound technical, economic and risk management-based decision-making relating to
        infrastructure development inthe coastal zone.

                                             - 13 -

ComponentObjective

7.       The project design presented here for the CoastalRecovery component o f CERP has been
developed from the work done during the IDA Mission of January 13-16, 2004 (Aide Memoire,
January 2004), and outlined hrther inthe Project InformationDocument (2004) and Project Concept
Note (2004). However, the elements o f the project have been adapted to clearly emphasize the
principles for sustainable development in the coastal hazard zone as set out in the C I M Strategy
developed under IAMP (and where available, the CIM Plans), and to incorporate a wider range o f
recovery and resilience initiatives withinthe coastal zone.

     (a) The objective for the CERP i s that:

     The resilience against natural hazards of the infrastructure assets, livelihood of
     inhabitants and coastal eco-systems, impacted by Cyclone Heta, will be recovered and
     improved to sustainable levels with due safeguards for the natural environment.

     (b) More detailed output goals for the CERP arethat:

         -   Coastal rehabilitation works are sustainable andfollow the best practice approachesfor
             assessment, design, implementation, environmental management and natural risk
             management developed under IAMP.
         -   Community and GoS recovery activities are consistent with the CIM Strategy and CIM
             Plans where available.

ComponentDescription

8.       A core program o frecovery measures, focused mainly on the restoration and improvement of
coastal resilience, plus some restoration and rehabilitation of roads, i s proposed.           Coastal
rehabilitation measures are proposed to include repair and reconstruction o f coastal structural
systems to restore selected coastal infrastructure to levels o f service standards adopted under IAMP.
It is also proposed that, at some sites, rehabilitation should involve non-structural works where this
supports the development goals (e.g. tourism and/or community preferences) for the affected area
and/or technical criteria point to such an approach as being the preferred coastal hazard reduction
treatment. The CERP also provides an opportunity to ensure that the vision and principles set out in
the CIM Strategy are achieved, and that applicable coastal resilience initiatives identifiedinthe CIM
Plans are implementedat both GoS and local community levels for sites selectedfor treatment under
the project.

9.       Although a significant proportion o f the works and activities under the project will relate
to GoS coastal infrastructure, Cyclone Heta also affected infrastructure, heritage, land, natural
resources (including eco-systems) and developed resources on customary land managed by
village communities.      It is therefore proposed to support community lead initiatives for
rehabilitation works or activities that meet the objective and output goals for the project. These
works or activities will involve a partnership between the GoS and approved village
communities, in which the GoS will provide funds for materials, and the communities will
undertake the planning and provide labor or assistance inkind, to implement the initiatives. It is
also proposed to provide for specialized technical services to monitor the recovery o f coastal

                                                       - 14-


eco-systems, and to develop strategies and implementation approaches to aid the recovery o f
these systems at selected sites.

10.        Coastal environments are ecologically fragile and vulnerable to natural hazards. At the
same time, the ecological and physical disturbances cause by extreme natural events is part o f
their natural ecological cycle o f regeneration and renewal. Natural ecosystems thus have innate
mechanisms for renewal and adaptation that ensures their re-growth and restoration.
Furthermore, these mechanisms and processes can be influenced and resilience and restoration
accelerated when favorable environmental conditions are created by extemal interventions. The
Coastal Resilience component aims to support such interventions.

11.         Professional services will be required to provide technical, administrative, implementation
assistancein relation to the above recovery initiatives to support needs o f MWTIand MNRE intheir
respective roles under the project. Both MWTI and MNRE will provide counterpart inputs, but
departmental, overall project management and financial management will be achieved through an
extension o f existing or proposed arrangements under IAMP to avoid duplication o f effort.
Similarly, for efficiency reasons, wherever possible and appropriate, administrative procedures,
processes, systems, guidelinesand implementation methodologies, already developed under IAMP or
IAMP, will be applied under CERP.

12.        The environmental assessment procedures of the Environmental Policy Framework (EPF,
Appendix 5) and the Government's draft EIA Regulation will apply to all works and activities under
CERP in the manner required under IAMP. The mandatory requirements o f the newly enacted
Planning and Urban Management Act, 2004, will also apply. Furthermore, it i s proposed that CIM
Plans will be applied under the project as if they where enforceable Sustainable Management Plans
underthe Act.'

13.        Although extensive use o f the IAMP framework will be used, it is emphasised that the
CERP is a separateproject, and that the activities to not overlap or duplicate activities under
I M P . The proposedtask activities to achieve the above described project outline are as
follows:

A.         CoastalResilience Recovery

14.        Coastal protection works were damaged or failed at a number o f sites, especially on the
northern sides o f Upolu and Savai'i.               On the whole, works that were implemented based on
international good practice as part o f the Cyclones Ofa and Val rehabilitationprogrammes under the
auspices o f the IDA and ADB performed satisfactorily. Loss o f riprap and washout o f adjacent road
segments was often limitedto isolated failures over short segments, as detailed inthe MWTI damage
assessment report o f January 5-7, 2004. However, the immediate emergency response to many o f
these localised failures was to back-tip material back into the eroded segments without appropriate
grading o f materials, use o f structural and filter layers, and toe and crest detailing. It i s often the
proper implementation o f such details that ensures that the desired levels o f service are achieved
duringdesign events. It is appropriate at sites where failures occurred that structural coastal defence
works be restored to achieve the desired levels o f service under fiture storm events. Inthe following


 It is likely that the existingCIMPlans, preparedunder IAMP, andpossiblysome of the CIM Plans completedin the first year of
      IAMP, will officially becomeSMPs under the PLJMAct within the durationofthe CERP.

                                               - 15 -

task descriptions, a distinction has been made between: (i) where repair works are required to
                                                               sites
properly restore the armour layers; (ii)  sites where it would be preferable to completely remove and
interim works and reconstruct the underlying core fill material, and overlying filter and structural
layers; and (iii) sites where, due to natural circumstances, a non-structural or `soft' treatment would
be appropriate.

15.      Structural Rehabilitation (Task Al):      This task covers the rehabilitation o f sites where
existing coastal riprap works require light to heavy maintenance o f denuded armour layers inorder to
bring the site back up to an adequate standard. Such works are expected to cover short lengths o f
riprap shoreline defence systems (i.e. 10-100 m) where local deterioration, and the current residual
risks to the adjacent infrastructure warrant an intervention above the standard o f repair achieved
immediately post-cyclone.

16.      Structural Replacement (Task A2): This task covers the partial to full dismantling o f interim
repair works, and reconstruction o f the structural system, to ensure an adequate level o f service inthe
future. This type o f intervention will bejustified at locations where the current residual risks to the
adjacent infrastructure are significant and warrant the level o f investment. Such works are expected
to cover mediumlengths o f riprap shoreline defence systems (i.e. 50-200 m).

17.      It is proposed that there would also be considerable benefits in taking advantage o f the
opportunity presented by the CERP to experiment with alternative forms o f structural defence
systems that have the potential to contribute at least the same or higher level o f coastal resilience as
traditional shore protection systems, but which offer either cost efficiencies, or improve recreational,
ecological or customary land use values. Examples o f such alternatives might include inter alia
artificial submerged reefs, detached breakwaters and headland control. The experience gained from
adoption o f at least some experimental sites would, over say a 10-year timeframe, contribute to the
body o f knowledge on the practical performance o f a variety o f shoreline defence systems in low
lying, sensitive atoll environments. Such an approach would be confined to one or two carehlly
selected sites under the CERP where the potential benefits can be demonstrated, but the risks
associated with the uncertainty inlong-term performance can also be accepted.

18.      Non-structural Rehabilitation (Task A3): It will be appropriate to implement non-structural
coastal hazard reduction treatments at some sites where this supports the development goals for the
affected area (e.g. tourism andor community preferences) and/or technical criteria point to such an
approach as beingthe preferred option. Examples o f such treatments might include inter alia beach
nourishment, stabilised dune systems, geotextile systems and combinations o f the preceding list. Iti s
proposed that several sites be identified and reserved for this type o f treatment under the project.

The map outlining the location andpriority shoreline protection rehabilitation andreplacement works
i s included at the end o f document. This map also shows the proposed sites relative to the Districts
for which CIM Plans have been prepared. It is emphasised that the locations and priority ratings
works are very preliminary, and need to be confirmed or developed further after more detailed
assessment.

19.      Small-scale Resilience Strengthening (Task A4): There are numerous options for enhancing
the resilience o f coastal environments, and for accelerating ecosystem restoration, involving small-
scale, low-cost schemes to be implemented through local community groups or NGO's. Such options
enhance the protection and restoration o f coastal infrastructure, as well as community and private
assets. Examples o f such activities are coastal re-vegetation and replanting schemes, the enforcement

                                              - 16-


o f village bans on sand-mining, the use o f no-take zones to regulate the harvesting o f live corals, the
control o f crown-of-thorns, community awareness and education. Such initiatives accelerate coastal
ecosystems recoverythereby improvingprotection o f coastal resources and communities.

To be eligible, activities must be able to be linked to effects arising from Cyclone Heta. The
following focal areas constitute the broad scope from which eligible activities and projects will be
selected:

         0   Enhancement o f coastal protection processes
         0   Rehabilitationo f coastal and marine ecosystems and habitats
         0   Sustainable coastal ecosystems and resources management
         0   Riskreductionandrestorationmeasures for vulnerable communal assets
         0   Community awareness raising and education for hazardmanagement

Works and activities that do not contribute directly to the restoration coastal infrastructure,
community assets and natural resources, to improve resilience to cyclones, will not be eligible.
Examples o f ineligible activities will include:

         0   Hiringo fequipment for the repair or construction o faccessroads.
         0   Activities seeking support for privately ownedproperty and or profit-based ventures.
         0   Procurement o f capital assets such as vehicles, outboard motors etc. or the payment o f
             wages, fees or allowances to recipients and projectbeneficiaries.

20.      It is proposed that funds for community-based activities will be disbursed through a Small
Grant Scheme, to be administered by MNRE. Community proposals for project support will be
solicited appropriately and will be evaluated and approved based on defined criteria. The scheme
will be implemented and administered by a full time Small Grants Scheme Manager operating under
the auspices o f P U M A (Planning and Urban Management Agency). This manager will coordinate
activities to promote public awareness o f the scheme, solicit project proposals from eligible parties,
coordinate their evaluation with technical support from others in MNRE, prepare evaluation reports
and technical recommendations to a select committee for approval, and undertake monitor and
reportingon progress inproject implementation.

21.      PUMA will provide administrative and logistics support for the scheme. The Scheme
Manager will also be expected to draw on the technical expertise from within MNRE for support and
assistance inthe technical evaluation o fproposals. The administrative processes for the Small Grants
Scheme will be fully harmonised with those to be applied for a similar scheme under IAMP.

22.      Coastal Eco-systems Recovery (Task A5): Coastal ecosystems such as fringing coral reefs,
lagoon flats, mangrove stands, etc. play key roles incoastal protection against the impact o f cyclones
and similar natural events. This task i s aimed at contributing to the restoration o f such systems.
Activities will involve: (i) assessment surveys o f selected reef, lagoon and mangrove areas; (ii)
                            rapid
data analyses and mapping to highlight areas o f high vulnerability and resilience; (iii)    community
consultation; and (iv) development and implementation o f site-level recovery plans. Data will also
be used to update existingC I M Plans and to assist inthe compilation o fnew plans under IAMP.

23.      Task A5 will also strengthen M N R E ' s technical advisory capacity to proactively assist
developers make ecologically sustainable decisions. Activities will include: (i)information
packaging and dissemination so that village communities can make informed decisions about

                                               - 17-

recovery interventions or restraints; (ii) facilitation o f community consultation; and (iii)provision o f
technical advice. P U M A will coordinate the procurement o f expert services for the implementation
of post-cyclone assessment inselected marine areas.

24.     The IUCN/World Bank Aleipata and Safata MPAs are expected to be included as sites to be
assessed underthis task. It i s also notedthat the roofo f Aleipata MPA Regional Centre buildingwas
damaged during Cyclone Heta, and needs repair. This building, used for District meetings and
community consultation, i s crucial to supporting the successful operation and enforcement o f the
MPA. It i s proposed to arrange repair o f the building under the project. However, as important
structural elements o f the building, constructed under a community initiative, were not made o f
durable materials or cyclone resistant detailing, it i s proposed to upgrade these features to ensure that
the investment in the roof repairs is worthwhile. This will involve professional engineering design
and specification, although implementation o f the repairs may still be carried out based on
community labour.

B.      Road Infrastructure Recovery

25.     Road and Drainage Rehabilitation (Task Bl): National roads, drainage structures and
roadside furniture, including crash barriers, were washed out or damaged at a number o f locations.
Damaged ranged from seal stripping through to undercutting o f the road sub-grade, and dislocation
of culverts and headwalls. Although these sites have been temporarily patched up, more permanent
works are requiredto restore the sites basedon appropriate design standards that achieve the required
levels o f service and economic life o f the network. This may include better design detailing at some
sites, including the incorporation o f outlet headwalls at drainage culverts (where not previously
providedfor), to mitigate wave-induced washout o friprap during future storm events.

26.     Minor Bridge Replacement (Task B2):                  Two coastal river-crossing fords caused
communications to be cut during Cyclone Heta and under other emergency conditions, namely at
Malaemalu and Vaoai on the south-coast road in Upolu. Vehicles were washed downstream, and
previously there have been fatalities at both locations under flooding conditions. Low-cost forms of
crossings structures such as large culverts or small bridges are appropriate at these locations, having
much larger flow capacity, higher profiles, and improvedmanagement o f debris. For similar reasons,
and also because o f inadequate low flow capacity and accretion o f sand inthe outlet channels, similar
treatments are also proposed at three river crossings in Savai'i, namely Lano Nos. 1and 2 and Safai.

C.      Implementation Support

27.     Technical Advisory Services (Task Cl): This task involves the provision o f assistance which
supports implementation o f the project to achieve the defined development objectives within the
specified resources. The following assistance will be required, which will be provided through
companies and individuals as appropriate:.

      (i)   EngineeringDesign and Supervision Services: This will involve the appointment of a
            firm able to undertake all aspects ofthe engineering design andsupervision, including
            investigation, environmental assessments, documentation and construction
            supervision relatingto: (i)   eligible coastal structural rehabilitation, reconstruction and
            non-structural rehabilitation works; (ii)    structural rehabilitation assessment and design
            relatingto the Aleipata MPA Regional Centre; (iii)       preparation and construction
            supervisionof road and drainage rehabilitationworks; and (iv) design, documentation

                                              - 18 -

            and construction supervision o f small bridge replacements. The firm engaged for this
            role will needto have demonstrated a capability across abroad range o f disciplines,
            and a commitment to planningfor andimplementingthe works within tight
            timefkames to fixed budgets.

     (ii)Manazement         of Grant-BasedActivities: Itis proposedthat a full-time Manager be
            appointed to administer the Small Grants Scheme. The Manager will be a nominated
            subcontractor to the firm appointed under (i)  above, but will report to MNRE. The
            manager will coordinate activities to promote public awareness o f the scheme, solicit
            project proposals from eligible parties, coordinate their evaluation with technical
            support from others inMNRE,prepare evaluation reports andtechnical
            recommendationsto a committee for approval, and undertake monitoring and
            reporting on progress inproject implementation. The Manager will have a highlevel
            o f interaction with village communities, will need to be fluent inthe Samoan
            language, and have a good understanding o fFa 'aMatai, Fa 'a Samoa and Samoan
            community consultation processes.

      (iii)TechnicalAdviceonEco-SystemsRecovery: Itisproposedthatafull-timeCoastal
            Resilience Adviser be appointed to support implementation o f the eco-system
            recovery initiative. The Advisor will be a nominated subcontractor to the firm
            appointed under (i) but will report to MNRE. The Advisor is expected to have
                                  above,
            a background inmarine or earth science. Specialist marine survey contractors will be
            engaged to undertake site-specific studies, andprepare recovery plans, andpossibly
            assist intheir implementation. The Advisor will plan, design and supervise these
            activities. It is also expected that the Advisor will assist inthe technical review o f
            project proposals considered for funding under the Small Grant Scheme. As for the
            position under (ii), Advisor will have a highlevel o f interaction with village
                                 the
            communities, will need to be fluent inthe Samoan language, andhave a good
            understandingo fFa 'aMatai, Fa 'a Samoa and Samoan community consultation
            processes.

28.     Project Management (Task C2): Due to the limited duration o f the project, and to avoid
unnecessary overheads, it i s proposed that project management and project auditing arrangementsbe
implementedas an extension of the existing arrangements under IAMP under contract to the MOF.
Procedures, manuals and resources, required for the efficient administration o f the CERP, will, as far
as practicable, be basedon the systems that will operateunder IAMP.

29.     Incremental Operating Expenses (Task C3): This covers incremental operating costs incurred
inimplementingtheproject.

ProcurementArrangement

3 1.    The procurement packages for CERPare specified inthe Project Implementation Manual.

                                        - 1 9 -


References

AM, 2004. `Assessment of Cyclone Heta EmergencyRecovery Assistance', Aide Memoire, IDA
      Mission 13-16 January, 2004, IntemationalDevelopment Agency.
PCN, 2004. `Samoa Infrastructure Emergency Recovery Project', Project Concept Note,
      InternationalDevelopment Agency, January, 2004.
PID, 2004. `Concept Stage, Infrastructure Emergency Recovery Project', Project Information
      Document, Report AB702, International Development Agency, January.
SMEC, 1990, `Savai'i North Coast Road Reconstruction Project, Summary & Design Phase,
      Design Report, Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation and G.M. Meredith &
      Associates.

                                          - 20 -


                             INDEPENDENT STATE OF SAMOA
                     CYCLONEEMERGENCY RECOVERY PROJECT

                                      PROJECTCOSTS



                          Table 1: TotalProjectCosts by Financiers



                                               million)


                        IDA Grant     0.95      1.44      2.39    39.8
                        IDA Credit    1.26      0.82      2.08    34.7
                        Total        3.74       2.26      6.00   100.0

Taxes =US$1.53 million


                         Table 2: Componentsby CostComposition

                                      Foreign             Local            Total
Component                             Exchange       Excl. I Duties   Amount  I  YO
                                                     Taxes    and
                                                              Taxes
1.Coastal Resilience Recovery             1.27        1.50    0.88     3.65     60.9
2. RoadInfrastructure Rehabilitation     0.55         0.49    0.34     1.38     23.0
3. Technical Assistance                  0.44         0.22    0.31     0.97     16.1
TOTAL,PROJECT                            2.26         2.21    1.53     6.00     100.0



                     Table3: ExpenditureCategoryby Cost Composition

                                                    -21 -


                            Table4: ExpenditureAccounts by Component

                                            Coastal                       Implementation
Expenditure Category                      Resilience                         Support     Total




l a Subproject grants to communities for small-scale activities.




                             Table 5: ComponentExpendituresbyYear




                                   Table 6: EstimatedDisbursements

                                                     2003/04     2004/05 2005/06   Total
               GOS                                       0.11       1.42    0.45     1.98
               IDA                                       0.29       2.46    1.27     4.02
               Total                                     0.40       3.88    1.72     6.00

                                                 - 22 -



                                    Table 7: Project Costsby Component

                                             Estimated Cost (,OOO)            Disbursements
                                                         Base Cost                                GOS
                                             Base Cost      (USD    Cost (incl IDA Disb IDA(USD   CuSD
  Code                Component              (WST ,000)     ,000)   conting.)    YO       ,000)   ,000)
A      Coastal Resilience                          8947        3253     3650                2771      879
A.1    Structural rehabilitation                   2402         873       980      75%       735      245
A.2    Structural reconstruction                   4212         1532     1718      75%       1289     430
A.3    Non-structural Rehabilitation                983         357       401      75%       301      100
A.4    Small-scale Resilience                       325         118       133     100%        133       0
A.5    Coastal Eco-system
A.5.1  Eco-system services                          615         224       251      75%        188      63
A.5.2  Eco-systemworks                              410         149       167      75%        125      42

B      Road Infrastructure Rehabilitation          3374        1227      1376               1032      344
B.l    Roadand Drainage                            2078         756       848      75%       636      212
B.2    Bridge replacement                          1296         471       528      75%       396      132

C      Implementation Support                      2688         977       977                668      309
c.1    Technical Assistance                        2234         812       812      67%       544      268
c.2    Project management                           312         113       113      75%         85      28
c.3    Operating Costs                              142           52       52      75%         39      13

       Subtotals                                   15009       5457
                                                    1501        546
       Totals                                      16510       6003      6003               4471     1532

                                            - 23 -



                              INDEPENDENTSTATE OF SAMOA
                      CYCLONEEMERGENCYRECOVERYPROJECT

                          FINANCIALMANAGEMENTASSESSMENT


                                           SUMMARY

FinancialManagement

1.      The Financial Management System proposed for this project i s the same as that adopted
for the Second Infrastructure Asset Management Project (IAMP) which was approvedby IDA on
December 29, 2003 (Cr. 3848-WSO).         The desk review for that system was carried out by a
qualified accredited Financial Management Specialist in accordance with the details provided in
the Guidelines to Staff on June 30, 2001, "Assessment of Financial Management Arrangements
in World Bank Financial Projects," Guidelines for FM Assessment, Financial Monitoring
Reports: Guidelines to Staff, and Assessment o fFinancialManagement Arrangements inWorld-
Bank Financed Projects. The objective o fthe reviewwas to determine whether the Project had
inplace an adequate financial management system as requiredbythe World Bank under OP/BP
10.02.

2.      The assessment concluded that the project will meet minimum Bank financial
management requirements subject to the implementation o f the following agreements under
IAMP:     (i)upgradingthe existing accounting system and software andstaff capacity, (ii)
updatingthe project financial management manual as part of the Project Implementation Plan
(PIP) and providing trainings to project staff, and (iii)strengthening internal controls and
accounting procedures through designing, reporting and monitoring features to track and verify
the use o f the project proceeds and flow o f funds. While compliance with these requirements has
not yet been certified, compliance i s required precedent to Grant and Credit effectiveness
scheduled for not later than July 31,2004.

FinancialManagementArrangements

3.      The proposed project will be managed through supplemental services to the P M U o f the
I M P , which is a small private sector team under contract to the MOF, and fall under the
direction o f the existing IPSC. The PMU i s the same central agency responsible for the first
IAMP project (Cr. 3193-WS). The PMU will be responsible for overall project financial
management activities including planning and budgeting, preparing consolidated financial
statements and progress reports o f the project and ensuring a smooth flow o f funds to their
respective project activities. It will manage the project's Special Account (SA) and maintain the
local currency account and ensure their timely replenishment including preparation o f statements
of expenditure and reimbursement claims.

4.      The existing PMU is headed by the Project Manager (engineer), Accountant, and
Administrative Assistant.     The supplemental PMU services will comprise a CERP Project
Manager (serving continuously but not fulltime) and an Assistant Accountant dedicated to

                                            -24-


CERP. The proposed organization structure o f the supplemented PMU was reviewed and was
considered to be appropriate for the needs o fthe project. The organization chart will be similar to
IAMP, which is illustratedbelow.

Organization Chart


                            IAMP STEERINGCOMMITTEE




                                                                              /'
                              PROJECTMANAGEMENTUNIT (CERP)                  //
                                         PROJECTOFFICE                    //
                                                                        /
                                  PROJECTNFORMATIONCENTER

                                   PROJECTMANAGER(CERP)
                                   PROJECT ACCOUNTANT(CERP)
                                   STAFFASSISTANT (IAMP)



ProjectAccounting

5.      The PMUhas an established computerizedaccounting system. Its major strengths are: (i)
good cash accounting system. Accounting books are maintained on double-entry system and are
up-to-date; (ii) have been trained to carry out basic accounting functions; (iii)reasonable
                staff                                                                  a
system of internal controls is in place. An accounting Manual has been developed, and this
documents the various accounting systems and procedures; and (iv) there is a good system o f
transaction audit by a private audit firm.

6.      Underthe proposed upgraded computerized accounting and reporting system for IAMP-
2, which will be used also by the CERP, the accounting controls at all levels will be adequate.
There will be proper verification and documentation procedures. Journal and Payment vouchers
will be adequately prepared and checked. The SA will be reconciled with the bank statements.
The filing system will facilitate for subsequent audit andthere will be clear segregation o fduties.

7.      Information System. The existing computerized accounting system has limited capacity.
It can only produce basic books and standard reports such as trial balance, general ledger,
balance sheet and income statements.

8.      The IAMP FMS review found that the existingaccounting software andthe Management
Information system had limitations. The specification and features o f the IAMP upgraded
software has been reviewed and is acceptable to the Bank. The software shall be installed and
test run before effectiveness. The minimum specifications and features of the upgraded FMS
software are indicatedbelow:

    0   Multi-level reporting byproject, sub-project or any component level
    0   Multi-currency support

                                             -25 -


         Ability to tracldlink to physicalperfonnance indicators
         Capability to track andreport onprocurement/contract basis
         Ability to track and report expenses on expenditure category level, field level, screen
         level and sub-project level
         Ability to track and report using flexible reporting cycles: monthly, quarterly, yearly or
         any user-definedperiod
         Ability to track basedon Actual, Budget, Forecast, andLife o fthe Project
         Multiple location and consolidation facility
         Multi-level help at screen and field levels, as well as on-line documentation
         Drill-down feature to take the user to the origin o f the transaction from the Query screen.

Staffing and Training

9.       The PMU staff is experienced with IDA Guidelines and policies on disbursement and
financial management.        Staff are highly qualified in business administration, accounting,
engineering and information technology background. They are proficient in the use o f EXCEL
and WORD software.          They have knowledge and experience in accounting and financial
management and are familiar with the Bank's financial reporting requirements. The proposed
staffing level is deemed to be adequate, the roles and job descriptions for each position is
specified anddocumented.

10.      Training on generating reports under the upgraded computerized accounting system is
being provided under IAMP and will be extended for CERP. The organization structure, job
title, responsibilities, educational background and professional experiences will be documented
inthe CERP supplement to the IAMPFinancial Management Manual(FMM).

Financial Management

11.      Overall, the financial management and computerized accounting system o f the proposed
Project i s satisfactory. The computerized accounting system has been inoperation since the start
of IAMP in 1999, andwill be upgraded (para. 8). The PMUprepares and submits regular project
management reports inaccordance with Article IV, Sections 4.01 and 4.02 o fthe DCA.

12.      For the proposedproject, the PMUMOF would prepare counterpart fund arrangements in
advancewithin the schedule o f the government budget cycle, and include those expenditures that
mustbereflected inthe annual budgetproposals.

13.      Financial Management Manual. The IAMP Phase 2 Project FMMwill be used for the
proposed project. It will be consistent with the upgraded accounting software, and will be used
as a guide for staff and training. It describes the flow o f funds, authorities and delegation o f
responsibilities o f the project staff, disbursement procedures, internal controls, financial and
accounting policies and procedures, and transaction flows as well as budget preparation
procedures.

                                            -26 -


InternalControls

14.     The PMUhas experience inmobilizing project funds based on IAMP and informulating
reports on uses o f funds to reimburse claims from the Bank. However, the control procedures
and documentation reconciliation for tracking down payments made by the MOF were deemed
to be inadequate.

15.     Inaddressing those previous deficiencies, the MOF proposed a different funds flow and
payment arrangement structure within finance division to ensure verification and reconciliation
accounts and supporting documents are obtained by the PMU in a timely fashion. The
accounting system and documentation has been redesigned in order to control and keep track o f
the flow o f project funds where the project will operate. The necessary and simple reporting and
monitoring features will be built into its system to track the use o f project proceeds. Such
procedures will bereflected inthe Project FMM.

16.     The payments to third parties will be initiated by the PMU based on approved contracts,
under the followingdetailedprocedures:

               PMU Project Manager           will approve     the invoice    submitted by the
               consultant/supplier;

               PMU staff prepares payment voucher based on approved invoice; records in the
               accounting system; and submits to MOF. A copy o f voucher i s retained at the
               PMUfor follow-up;

               Treasury's Finance Division verifies payment voucher/invoice and passes to
               Accounting Division (if paid out o f Government Advance Fund account, or
               Finance Division verifies payment voucher (with supporting vouchers) and
               submit with authorization letter to the Central Bank o f Samoa (CBS) for
               processing o f telegraphic transfer from the SA. A copy o f remittance instruction
               is sent to the PMU, with dischargedvouchers.

               PMU receives all cheques from the MOF and obtains SA statements from the
               FinanceDivision; and

               For a direct payment, the PMU prepares the withdrawal application, submits to
               MOF for verification, certification and signature before transmitting to IDA for
               payment (with supporting voucher/approved invoice/contract).

Disbursements

17.     A SA would be maintained at the CBS and would be operated by the PMU under the
report-based disbursement method.            The authorized allocation of the SA would be
US$450,000 which represents about three months o f estimated disbursements from the Credit.
Under the report-based disbursement method, a forecast o f project expenditures is agreed upon
between the P M U and IDA, covering the current and next FMR reporting period. Thereafter,
aggregate disbursement requests not exceeding this forecast amount are transferred by IDA into

                                            -27 -


the SA upon demand by the PMU. The SA would be operated in accordance with the IDA'S
operational policies.    The Project Manager, with the assistance o f the Accountant, will be
responsible for administration o f the SA and all Credit disbursements related transactions for the
project. Only two signatures are required on any withdrawal application-that o f the Project
Manager and one official from the MOF. The general principles that other accounts should not
be combined with the World Bank fhds inthe SA have been notified to the Recipient.

18.     Special Account. At central level, the M O F will open one SA denominated inU S Dollar
currency for receiving funds from IDA, and will set up a separate Project Account for the
counterpart funding (identified as GPA 99 account, an internal code used by the borrower) for
CERP, which will be treated as a Bank Account, instead of opening another account for the
project in a commercial bank. Any payments will be charged to individual "child accounts" for
each project component identified under the parent GPA 900 coded account with a separate GPA
sub-account for the counterpart contribution from which taxes will be paidout.

19.     The GPA account will have an opening balance from the counterpart contribution to
CERP under implementing agencies' budgets and funds transferred from the SA (held with
CBS), based on a forecast o f disbursements provided by the PMU. It was agreed upon that the
project will adopt the transaction-based disbursement, until the request from the Government to
move to report-based disbursement is received.

20.     Withdrawal Applications (WAS). The current arrangement under IAMPwill continue and
will be adapted for CERP, as illustrated herein. (i)For replenishment o f SA, a withdrawal
application will be prepared monthly by the PMU (with supporting documents) and submittedto
Treasury-Finance Division for verification, certification and signature before transmitting to
IDA; and (ii) for reimbursement will be prepared by the PMU on a quarterly basis (with
                WA
supporting documents such as SOE statements or FMRs) and sent to Treasury for verification,
certification and signature prior to transmitting to IDA.

21.     Disbursement Arrangement. The type o f disbursement system to be adopted for this
project i s report-based with the submissiono f quarterly financial monitoring reports to IDA.

22.     Uses of Statements of Expenditures (SOEs) and Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs).
Under a transaction-based disbursement method, disbursements would be made against WASfor
replenishments to the SA and reimbursements supported by full documentation, i.e., invoices;
and/or SOEs, and against direct payments supported by full documentation. IDA would disburse
against SOEs for the following types o f expenditures: (i) contracts for civil works costing less
                                                            on
than US$600,000 equivalent: (ii)     on contracts for goods costing less than US$50,000; (iii)   on
contracts for consultants services costing less than US$50,000; (iv) training; and (v) PMU
operating costs. Under a report-based disbursement method, disbursements would be made
against WAS supported by FMRs which include information on financial, procurement and
physical progress, source o f supply, breakdown o f aggregate disbursements by legal
disbursement category and percentage, SA reconciliation and bank statements, and forecast o f
expendituresfor the next two FMRreporting periods.

     - 2 8 -




c

                                            - 29 -


procurement contracts; (iii)check on serial numbering o f payment vouchers; (iv) comparison
                              a
o f actual expenditure against budgeted amounts for each sub-component o f the Project, as well
as for line item expenditures, i.e., goods, civil works, and consulting fees; and (v) monitoring of
physical progress o fproject implementation.

24.     A sample format o f FMRs was provided for firther modification to comply with the
project cost structure. These reports will also be required to be submitted to the Bank on a
quarterlybasis within 30 days after the end o f each quarter. The format o f the reports and output
monitoring indicators have been agreed during appraisal and set o f FMR report shall comprises
o f (i)Discussion o f Project Progress; (ii)  Sources and Uses of Funds Statement; (iii) o fUses
Funds by Project Activities; and (iv) Procurement Report.

25.     Project Reporting Requirements, Monitoring and Evaluation Arrangements. Reports will
include: (i)  quarterly FMRs; (ii)   bi-annual IDA supervision mission aide memoires; and (iii)
implementation completion report prepared jointly by IDA and the Government within six
months before the project's closing date.

26.     IDA will conduct bi-annual supervision missions with MOF on the basis o f a report
prepared by the PMU, and this includes: (i)    an assessment o f progress in the implementation o f
key actions and performance indicators (see under paragraph on Financial Management Action
Plan); (ii)verification o f the continued validity o f the design assumptions in light o f
implementation experience and the evolving environment; and (iii)        identification o f remedial
actions that might prove necessary to achieve the objectives of the Project. Bank supervision
missions including financial management will be conducted twice a year. Quarterly FMRs
including annual audit reports will be submitted to IDA for review and comments. There will be
no mid-termreview because o f the short implementationperiod.

27.     The BorrowerPMU shall submit an audit o f its project accounts within six months after
the end o f each fiscal year; and (ii)The BorrowerPMU shall fimish quarterly financial
management reports to IDA within 30 days after each quarter.

RiskAnalysis

28.     There is a risk that the counterpart funds will not be available during project
implementation.      In the earlier project, this was mitigated by ensuring the PMU budget
requirements are included in the budget requirements o f the MOF. The same practice will be
adopted for CERP, which was confirmed duringnegotiations.

29.     There is lack o f capacity withinthe country interms o f competent accountants. There is
a risk that the staff turnover inthe PMUwould result innon-submission o f financial reports and
weak accounting system management. To mitigate this risk, the PMU would ensure that the
accountant is backed-up by support from the system-developer and their in-house accountant.

                                            - 30 -

Audit

30.     Internal Audit. The internal audit set-up and evaluation functions are currently exercised
by the MOF, with its audit bureau staff responsible for internal audit functions and physical
inspection including checking and verifying accounting documents andBank reconciliation.

31.     External Audit. Similar to the existing arrangement under IAMP, a combined audit o f the
project financial statements, the SA and the FMRs or SOEs will be conducted annually by an
independent auditor acceptable to the Bank. In order to ensure that the audit fee shall be
adequate for an acceptable quality o f audit, the project audit cost will be treated as an eligible
project cost. The selection o f auditing firm will be based on a least cost selection, following the
Bank's procurement guidelines. The Terms o f Reference (TOR) is valid and consistent with the
Bank's requirements. Each annual audit report shall be submitted to the Bank within six months
o f the endo f the fiscal year.

32.     Supervision Plans.       The Bank`s Financial Management Specialist will join the
supervision team at least once a year to ensure the financial safeguards are in place. The
quarterly FMRs and annual audit reports will be reviewed and comments will be provided to the
PMU/MOF.

FinancialManagementAction Plan

33.     To assure that the project financial management arrangements are in place before the
project starts, below is a financial management action plan to improve the system to meet the
Bankminimumrequirements:

Action:                                                    IResponsibility:       I Deadline:

Accounting Software andTraining                             PMU
    0   Train PMUassistantaccountantfor CERP
    0   Complete trial generationofFMreports.

Project FinancialManagementManual:                           PMUfBank               ByEffectiveness
        ProduceCERP supplement to Project Financial
        ManagementManual acceDtableto the Bank.

                                            - 3 1 -



                              INDEPENDENTSTATE OFSAMOA
                      CYCLONE EMERGENCYRECOVERY PROJECT

      PROCUREMENTCAPACITY AND IMPLEMENTATIONARRANGEMENTS


General

1.      Procurement o f works and goods will follow the Guidelines-Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits dated January 1995, revised in January and August 1996, September
1997 and January 1999 (the Guidelines).           IDA'S Standard Bidding Documents (including
standard prequalification and bid evaluation documents) will be used for all IDA financed
procurement carried out by International Competitive Bidding (ICB).         Biddingprocedures for
contracts procured under National Competitive Bidding (NCB) will use local procedures and
bidding documents, as modified to ensure economy, efficiency, transparency, and consistency
with SectionIofthe Guidelines. The main modifications needed are inthe areas o f participation
in bidding, advertising and time for bid preparation, use of Standard Bidding Documents,
classification o f contractors, qualification and post-qualification, registration, bid opening and
evaluation, rejection o f bids, post-bidding negotiations and inspection and auditing o f accounts,
all o f which are covered in an Annex to the DCA. Procurement o f consulting services will
conform to the Guidelines - Selection and Employment o f Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers dated January 1997, revised in September 1997, January 1999 and May 2002. A
Procurement Plan, providing a timeline for each step in the procurement process is included in
the Project Implementation Plan(BPIP), andwill be updated quarterly.

ProcurementAssessmentof ImplementingAgencies

2.      An Assessment of Agency's Capacity to Implement Project Procurement was carried out
in2003 inrespect of the three agencies involved inthis project, namely, the MOF, the MWTI,
andthe MNRE.All these agencies have previous experience indonor-financed procurement, and
ongoing training is being provided under the IAMP. The conclusion o f the assessment was that
the overall procurement risk was Average and the mitigation measures under IAMP-2 are aimed
at controlling and lowering the risk.

Procurementmethods(Table A)

 3.     The project costs by procurement arrangement are shown inTable A. Works for coastal
resilience with an estimated contract value o f US$1 m equivalent and over for a total cost of
$3.31 m will be procured by modified ICB in two packages. Works for road rehabilitation and
bridge replacement, for a total cost o f $0.98 m, will be procured by N C B in three packages.
Minor works for restoration o f drainage structures, for a total cost of US$0.40 m, will be
procured through direct contracting with existing maintenance contractors (most of which were
competitively selected) to be implemented under existing contract conditions. ICB will be used
for 71 percent o f the value o fworks procured under the project.

                                          - 32 -


4.     No goods will be procured directly under the Project.            Small quantities o f goods,
estimated at less than 1 percent o f component value, may be procured under the small grants
component, and within the Implementation Support services for the purposes o f implementing
the contract activities.

5.      Consultants will be selected usingIDA Standard Request for Proposals (RFP) - Selection
o f Consultants dated July 1997, revised April 1998, July 1999 and March 2002 for one contract
estimated to cost US$200,000 equivalent and over with a total cost o f $0.99 m. Contracts
estimated to cost less than US$200,000 equivalent with a total cost of $0.20 m will be procured
using local RFP documents, which are based on IDA'SStandard Request for Proposals. Firms
will be appointed using Quality and Cost-Based Selection (QCBS) for most contracts having a
total cost of $1.19 mywith an option for using Least Cost Selection (LCS) or Consultants'
Qualifications (CQ) for small contracts o f less than $100,000, as shown in Table Al. One
consulting assignment with a contract value estimated to cost more than US$200,000 equivalent
will be advertised in UN Development Business. All assignments will be advertised in two
national newspapers.

6.     Miscellaneous. Some small activities to the value o f US$120,000 will be carried out
through Grants to local communities or NGOs, disbursed and monitored in accordance with
procedures outlined in an Operational Manual, approval o f which i s required as a condition o f
credit effectiveness.

Prequalification

7.      Contractors for ICB works, with a total cost o f $3.31 mywill be post-qualified in
accordance with the biddingdocuments. Contractors.for N C B works are registered according to
class with MWTI, but foreign contractors who wish to bid are permitted to do so and will be
post-qualified. The conditions o f acceptability o f the registration procedures are indicated in an
Annex to the legal agreement.

Prior review thresholds(TableB)

8.     The thresholds for procurement by ICB, NCB, and Other methods are shown inTable B.
The thresholds for prior review are US$600,000 for Works plus the first contract under each
sub-component valued at under US$600,000, US$50,000 for Goods, and US$lOO,OOO for
consultant services contracts with firms and US$50,000 for consultant services contracts with
individuals. Prior review would apply to 82 percent o f the total value o f works, goods and
consultant services procured under the project. Ex-post review would cover 50 percent of
contracts not subject to prior review.

NationalCompetitiveBidding MandatoryProvisions
                                  -

9.     Because o f some differences between the Tenders Board Guidelines for Procurement and
the Bank's Guidelines, a sideletter has been attached as an Annex to the D C A detailing the
mandatory provisions to be followed whenprocuring goods or works through NCB.

                                                           - 33 -


Procurementmethods(TableA)

         Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (inUS$ million equivalent)

                                                            Procurement Method                Total

                                                                                    Other

               Civil works
                                                                                               3.48)


               Grants

               Incremental Operating                                                0.05
               costs                                                                 0.04)     (0.04
                                                                                              ~



                   Total                           3.10
                                                   (2.32)         (1.03)            (1.12)     (4.47) I
I'AllcostsincludecontingenciesandfiguresinparenthesisaretheamountstobefinancedbytheGrantandCredit
Other: includingcommunityparticipation,various consultant selectionmethods,andincrementaloperatingcosts.



                Table B: Consultant Selection Arrangements (inUS$ millionequivalent)




Note:
QCBS = Quality and Cost Based Selection
LCS   = Least Cost Selection
CQ    = Selection Basedon Consultants' Qualifications
SS    = Single-Source Selection
Other = Selection ofindividual consultants (per Section V ofConsultants Guidelines).

                                          - 34 -


                            INDEPENDENTSTATE OF SAMOA
                    CYCLONE EMERGENCYRECOVERY PROJECT


                       ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY FRAMEWORK


1.     This Environmental Policy Framework establishes rules and procedures to be followed
under the Cyclone Emergency Recovery Project (the Project) with regard to environmental
assessment, monitoring and mitigation of potential negative impacts. The Framework is based
on that approved for the Infrastructure Asset Management Program (IAMP) inNovember 2003.
GoS environmental legislation and draft regulations satisfy the requirements o f World Bank
Operational Policy (OP 4.01). Environmental assessment o f project components shall be
undertakeninaccordance with the procedures set out inthe draft EIA Regulations 1998.

EnvironmentalAssessment

2.     Sub-projects will be screened into one o f three categories for the purposes o f
environmental assessment, each requiring a different level o f investigation, reporting and
independent review reflecting the significance o f the potential impacts, as follows:

       For projects that have no, or low but acceptable environmental impacts, the Director
       MNRE may issue a waiver to the proponent from the further requirements of the EL4
       Regulations. In issuing a waiver, the Director MNRE will rely on the advice o f the
       Assistant Director, PUMA. Such works are to be covered by Codes o f Environmental
       Practice (COEP) provisions.

    a  For other projects, in order to determine whether an EIA i s necessary, a systematic
       procedure will be followed, as indicated inthe GoS Treasury Manual on Project Planning
       and Programming.      This commences with a Preliminary Environmental Assessment
       Report (PEAR) that i s prepared by the proponent. The project may proceed if, after
       review, the Director PUMA concludes there will be no significant adverse environmental
       impacts.

       Projects for which there are potential significant adverse environmental impacts will be
       subject to a full EIA process.     The EIA, prepared by the proponent, must consider
       alternatives and mitigation measures.       The EIA is reviewed by PUMA. Affected
       communities must be consulted and there may be formal public meetings. PUMA may
       request hrther information and, if approving the works to proceed, may set special
       conditions that must be met by the proponent.

3.     A screening checklist has been developed under IAMP as part of the institutional
strengthening and reform component which includes both physical and social impact
components.    The use o f this screening checklist has been adopted by PUMA and would
continue both for the Project and for broader implementation o f the EL4 assessment system
underthe new environmental legislation.

                                              - 35 -


StandardOperatingProcedures: Codes of EnvironmentalPractice(COEPs)

4.      Under IAMP a set o f operating procedures for routine smaller projects with minimal
environmental impacts was implemented through the introduction o f a set o f Codes o f
Environmental Practice (COEPs). These guide and control the ways in which environmental
aspects o f all civil engineering works and the private sector are managed and addressed. The
Interim COEPs for Samoa were published in 2001, and formally adopted by the Public Works
Department (now MWTI) and Department o f Lands, Surveys and Environment (now MNRE),
as standard operating procedures for civil works, in compliance with the draft environmental
legislation. The COEPs shall be applied in all civil works contracts financed under the Project.
The COEPs shall also be incorporated in the standard procedures o f MWTI through assistance
under the Project.

5.      Under the IAMP the Government will establish a contractor qualification system, to
include a provision to purchase the COEP's manual and undergo training workshop(s) on the
system in order to qualify for all Government Contracts. Furthermore it i s proposed that the
linkage to the PUMA compliance monitoring system be more fully developed and the
introduction o f penalty provisions for contractors be scheduled over the course o f the Project in
order to encourage compliance.

ComplianceMonitoring

6.      Monitoring o f compliance should be done by staff in MNRE. Responsibilities will
include the following:

        carry out principal liaison with PUMA on all environmental and social issues arising
        from the project and support to the extent possible non-project activities by MWTI.

        fully implement the Deed Of Agreement Waiver Provisions, August 2001 between the
        former DLSE and PWD and update to reflect new government reform structure.

        responsibility for preparation o f initial screening reports for all sub-projects

        responsibility for reporting the recommendations from PUMA

        responsibility for ensuring that all recommendations are provided within the scope o f
        services o fthe design and supervision consultants

        responsibility for review o f draft environmental management plans prepared by design
        consultants in order to ensure they are realistic and able to be implemented by
        supervision consultants and contractors.

        to carry out compliance monitoring for all sub -projects to an agreed schedule and in
        cases where event monitoring i s necessary due to either complaint or unusual event.

                                            - 36 -


    0   responsibility for the final editing and completion o f the COEP's manual and for on-
         goinginvolvement inupdating


    0   responsibility for organization o f annual workshops on the implementation o f COEP's
         and compliance monitoring o f EnvironmentalManagement Plans (EMP)

    0   to prepare appropriate sections for inclusion in an overall quality management and
        registration system for all contractors

EnvironmentalManagementPlans

7.       When the scope o f the project cannot be handled by implementation of a COEP a sub-
project with some adverse environmental impacts (i.e. a Category B project) shall be the subject
o f an Environmental Management Plan (EMP) which can stand on its own or be an integral part
of the Project Implementation Plan (PIP).

8.      The EMP shall not be confined to on-site effects, but will include the effect o f off-site
activities, e.g. trucking routes, sediment outwash, traffic diversion and spoil dumps. The exact
nature o f the mitigation measures will depend on the location o f the site relative to potentially
sensitive settings (e.g., coastal fringes, farming corridors, communities).     The EMP will be
developed by the proponent, then ratified by PUMA. It will then be agreed to by the Project
Manager andthe site contractor(s).

9.      PUMA will also make provision in the EMP so it can inspect project sites at any time
(during or outside work hours) to look at work practices and the implementation of assigned
mitigation measures or approved conditions for the project. Where it is observed that such
measures have not been implemented, then the officer concerned will, inserious cases, report the
nature and location o f the alleged breach directly to the Assistant Director, PUMA. The Assistant
Director, P U M A shall then make direct contact with whoever has responsibility for the
implementation o f the EMP at the project site and make arrangements for corrective measures.
Inminor indiscretions, the site project manager is to be advised directly.

10.      An EMP shall be prepared for each o f the project's sub-components or groups o f sub-
components (e.g., bridge replacement works, or road widening). Where the individualprojects
are not large scale and will not have potentially significant environmental effects, standard type
documentation can make up a significant proportion o f the EMP that should also be
supplemented by information to reflect conditions at the particular sites. The EMP document
should be as succinct as possible, yet sufficiently detailed to provide clear directions to project
designers and construction contractors.

11.     A compliance monitoring system shall integrate the provisions o f each EMP with
performance on the implementation of COEP's as the success o f the system is dependent on the
implementation of both.

                                           - 37 -


InstitutionalArrangements

12.     The draft EIA regulations clearly set out the steps and responsibilities for each stage o f
the environmental assessment process. For each sub-project, proponents such as MWTIor S A A
shall be responsible for liaison with and advising PUMA, preparing all environmental
assessment submission documents, developing mitigation measures and alternatives, ensuring
affected communities are consulted and kept informed. The proponents shall also be responsible
for implementing the sub-projects within the scope approved under the environmental
assessment, implementing the works within the provisions o f the COEP, and meeting any
specific conditions o f EA approval.

13.     PUMA shall be responsible for independent review o f application for an environmental
assessment, giving the appropriate approval or not, as the case may be, or referring the
application to a higher stage inthe EL4process. PUMA will generally be required to respond to
applications within a time frame specified inthe draft Regulations.

14.     Whilst the responsibility to carry out environmental assessments and develop mitigation
measures lies with the proponents o f each sub-project, in many instances this responsibility
during IAMP Phase 1 was exercised through local and intemational consultants. Proponent's
staff, particularly those o f MWTI, shall be familiar and competent in managing consultancy
contracts for which the TOR includes provision for preparing documentation for, and obtaining,
environmental assessment approvals. MWTI staff are to be familiar with the requirements and
applications o f the COEP, and develop a working understanding o f the implications o f
environmental issues on projects, especially during the inception phase o f the sub-project cycle
before engineering consultants are appointed. Within the MWTI, the key responsibilities are to
bewith:


    0   The CEO MWTIfor policy development and implementation, and ilistitutional leadership
        on environmental matters within the Department;

        The Director, Asset Management - Roads, Infrastructure and Seawalls and the Principal
        Asset Engineer, MWTI for developing and incorporating environmental management and
        best practice (including the COEP) into engineering design, contract documentation and
        supervisions, and monitoring;    The Principal Architect, MWTI has a similar role in
        respect o fbuildingworks and architectural developments;


    0   The Principal Contracts Engineer, MWTI works closely with the Principal Asset
        Engineer, MWTI for the application o f environmental controls (including the COEP) into
        the construction and maintenance works operations and liaison with PUMA on
        compliance monitoring and enforcement issues.


    0  The Component Manager for the Project, works closely with the Principal Asset Manager
        and the Principal Contracts Engineer, MWTI for the application o f environmental
       controls (including the COEP) into all aspects o f design and supervision o f sub-project
       contracts andthe application o f the draft EL4regulations to all aspects o f the construction
       and maintenance works operations. This position i s a key supervisory role to ensure that

                                            - 3 8 -


       the design inception report includes evidence of initial consultation between the sub-
       project on behalfo f MWTIandPUMA concerning initial screening requirements.

15.    The role o f PUMA is also critical to ensure that a recommendation on the results o f the
screening process i s sent to the IAMP Component Manager and the Principal Asset Engineerina
timely fashion so that adequate time i s allowed to include the screening recommendation within
the final design inceptionreport. This recommendationmay leadto the needfor avariation inthe
scope o f work included in the contract for design services. There was some evidence found
during the review o f performance under IAMP Phase 1that there was an inordinate amount of
time elapsing between the submission o f environmental documentation and a recommendation
from PUMA. PUMA shall work to improve perfonnance inthis regard.

16.    Under IAMP-1, the PWD (now MWTI) carried out most design and environmental
management activities for sub-projects through engineering consultants.       With the reform of
Ministry o f Works in October 2002, all services, including EIA, are to be undertaken by
consultants, under specifications and supervisionby MWTImanagingengineers. Within the new
MWTIstructure there is provision for both an environmental planner andinfrastructure planner.
The initial liaison between the MWTI on behalf o f the project and PUMA in relation to sub-
project screening should ideally be carried out by one o f these officers. At the moment, both o f
these positions do not appear to be functioning. Fillingthem is a priority.

Consultation

17.    The draft EIA Regulations require proponents to consult andkeep informed local
communities affectedby the sub-projects. The draft EIA Regulations emphasize early
communication betweenthe proponent andMNREto ensure procedures are streamlined. The
Regulations alsorequire MNREto prepare andpublishguidelines on EIAprocedures to
proponents. Because the draft EIA Regulations are not yet enacted by Cabinet, a number of
features inthem cannot realistically be adopted (e.g. Ministerial approvals, functions of the
Environment Board, and application o fpenalties). For the purposes of the Project, suitable
altemative delegations for these aspects have been adopted that keep the actions within the
MNRE.The new environmentallaws the PlanningandUrbanManagementBilldoes not
contemplate the adoption o f any regulations to support the new law so the previous interim
Regulationswill continue to apply.

Monitoring

18.    Monitoringunder the Project shall be strengthened insupport o f environmental
management, as follows:

    0  Monitoring on sub-projects to ensure that the scope o f works does not differ from the
       scope that was approved under the draft EIA Regulations, compliance with any COEP
       provisions or conditions of EIA approval. In some instances appropriate baseline
       environmental information will need to be gathered and submitted with the EIA. Such
       preparatory monitoring shall be identified inthe implementation plan for the sub-project.
       This will permit the evaluation o f impacts over time compared with baseline data. At

                                           - 39 -


       present there are no specific provisions in the Interim Regulations. Although not literally
       provided in the EIA Guidelines, provision shall be made for the explicit monitoring o f
       impacts. The proponent is also required to carry out monitoring o f impacts through data
       collection andthe provision of it to PUMA for its evaluations.


   0   Critical areas such as the coastal hazard zone shall be monitored to identify the long-term
       trends o f natural processes and so quantify changes in the baseline conditions. As the
       inventory o f coastal hazard zones has been completed, monitoring should be facilitated
       due to the presence o f detailed baseline information in mapped output with indicators o f
       sensitivity.

Disclosure

19.    The following documents producedunder the Project shallbe made available for public
disclosure within two weeks o f submission, Le.:


   0   This Environmental Policy Framework;
   0   The Codes ofEnvironmental Practice;
   0   Environmental Management Plans (EMP);
   0   Environmental Impact Assessment report.

                                            -40 -




                            INDEPENDENTSTATE OF SAMOA
                    CYCLONE EMERGENCY RECOVERY PROJECT


              LANDACQUISITION AND RESETTLEMENT FRAMEWORK


INTRODUCTION

1.      This Land Acquisition and Resettlement Framework              (LARF or the Framework)
establishes parameters for the conduct o f land acquisition and resettlement o f Displaced Persons
(DPs) who may be affected during implementation o f sub-projects o f the Cyclone Emergency
Recovery Project (CERP or the Project). While the number o f people and magnitude o f adverse
impacts are expected to be minimal, the Project will work to further minimize the number of DPs
and/or adverse impacts o fthe sub-projects.

2.      The objective o f the Project i s to assist the Independent State of Samoa (Samoa) in
recovering the resilience o f the natural and built environments damaged by Cyclone Heta to a
sustainable level so that the vulnerability o f the people and economy to prevailing natural
hazards i s reduced.

3.      The Project consists o f the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof as
Samoa and the International Development Association (the Association) may agree upon from
time to time to achieve such objectives: (a) Coastal Resilience Recovery; (b) Road Infrastructure
Rehabilitation; and (c) Implementation Support.

4.      Project components which may require land acquisition andresettlement include:

   (a) Reconstruction or upgrading o f various shoreline protection structures amounting to
        about 10kmintotal length; and

   (b) replacement or upgrading o f about five (5) river crossings on primary roads;

5.      The Framework is based on the World Bank's Operational Policy 4.12 on Involuntary
Resettlement, which i s based on the following principles:

   0    Avoid or minimise involuntary resettlement where feasible.
   0    Assist displacedpersons inimproving their former living standards, earning capacity and
        production levels or at least restoring them.
   0    Encourage community participation inplanningand implementingresettlement, and
   0    Provide assistance to affected people regardless o f the legality o f title o f land.

6.      This framework includes guidelines for land contributed inreturn for compensation, for
land contribution without compensation and for involuntary land acquisition by government for
sub-projects under the Project. The guiding principle for land acquisition is that where land i s

                                             -41 -


required for implementation o f the Project it should be provided voluntarily, as a donation
(without compensation) or in return for compensation, in accordance with the process specified
below. The Government o f Samoa will take every step to ensure that no land is acquired against
the will o f the person(s) exercising pule over the land. In the event that such acquisition i s
unavoidable, it shall be done accordingto the process outlined below.

DEFINITIONS

7.     Unless the context shall otherwise require, the following terms have the following


               Census means a field survey carried out to identify Displaced Persons                in
               accordance with procedures, satisfactory to the Association, including criteria for
               eligibility to compensation, resettlement and other rehabilitation measures, and
               consultationswith Displaced Persons.

               Compensation means the payment in land, cash or other assets given in exchange
               for the taking o f landandbuildings, inwhole or inpart, and all fixed assets on the
               landandbuildings.

               Cut-off date for eligibility to entitlements means the date o f the commencement o f
               the Census.

               Displaced Persons means persons who, on account o f the involuntary taking o f
               land and other assets under the Project resulting in a direct economic and social
               adverse impact, whether or not said Displaced Persons must physically relocate,
               had or would have their: (i)   standard o f living adversely affected, whether or not
               the Displaced Person must move to another location ; (ii) title, interest in
                                                                               right,
               any house, land (including premises, agricultural and grazing land) or any other
               fixed or movable asset acquired or possessed, temporarily or permanently,
               adversely affected; (iii) to productive assets adversely affected, temporarily
                                        access
               or permanently;or (iv) business, occupation, work or place o f residence or habitat
               adversely affected; and "Displaced Person'' means any o f the DisplacedPersons.

               Involuntary Displacement means direct economic and social impacts caused by:
               (a) the involuntary taking o f land resulting in:(i) relocation or loss o f shelter; (ii)
               lost o f assets or access to assets; or (iii) o f income sources or means o f
                                                               loss
               livelihood, whether or not the Displaced Persons must move to another location;
               or (b) the involuntary restriction of access to legally designated parks and
               protected areas resulting in adverse impacts on the livelihoods o f the displaced
               persons.

               Involuntary Land Acquisition i s the taking o f land by government for public
               purpose against compensation where the landowner must surrender their land
               involuntarily and has only the right to negotiate and appeal the amount o f
               compensation proposed. This includes land or assets for which the owner enjoys
               uncontested customary rights.

                                 -42 -


(g) Land refers to aaricultural and non-agricultural land and any structures thereon
    whether temporary or permanent andwhich is required for the Project.

(h) Land acuuisition means the taking o f land, buildings or other assets from
    Displaced Persons for purposes o f the Project against provision o f Compensation
    andRehabilitation Assistance.

(i) Rehabilitation Assistance means the provision o f development assistance in
    addition to Compensation such as land preparation, credit facilities, training, or
    job opportunities, needed to enable Displaced Persons to improve their living
    standards, income earning capacity and production levels, or at least maintain
    them at pre-Project levels.

    Replacement cost means the method o f valuation o f assets which assists in
    determining the amount sufficient to replace lost assets and cover transaction
    costs, as follows: (i)  "Replacement cost for agricultural land" means the pre-
    project or pre-displacement, whichever is higher, market value o f land o f equal
    productive potential or use located in the vicinity o f the affected land, plus the
    costs of: (a) preparing the land to levels similar to those o f the affected land; and
    (b) anyregistration andtransfer taxes; (ii)  "Replacement cost for houses and other
    structures" means the market cost o f the materials to builda replacement structure
    with an area and quality similar to or better than those o fthe affected structure, or
    to repair a partially affected structure, plus the costs of: (a) transporting building
    materials to the construction site; (b) any labor and contractors' fees; and (c) any
    registration and transfer taxes; and (iii)    "Replacement cost for land in urban
    areas" means the pre-displacement market value o f land of equal size and use,
    with similar or improved public infrastructure facilities and services and located
    inthe vicinity of the affected land, plus the cost of any registration and transfer
    taxes.

(k) Resettlement Assistance means the measures to ensure that Displaced Persons
    who need to be physically relocated are provided with assistance during
    relocation, such as moving allowances, and provided with residential housing or
    housing sites or, as required, agricultural sites.

    voluntary Land Contribution refers to a process by which an individual or
    communal owner agrees to provide land or property for project-related activities.
    Voluntary Land Contribution may be o f two types: Voluntary Land Contribution
    for Compensation, or Voluntary Land Contribution without Compensation.
    Voluntary contribution i s an act o f informed consent, made with the prior
    knowledge of other options available and their consequences, including the right
    not to contribute or transfer the land. It must be obtained without undue coercion
    or duress.

                                              -43 -


INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS

8.      Overall responsibility for the implementation o f this Framework will reside with the
Ministry o f Natural Resources and Environment, assisted by Ministryo f Works, Transport and
Infrastructure and the Ministry o f Finance in conjunction with the Contractor company.           The
MNRE will ensure that the Framework is publicly disseminated and that project staff have the
requisite skills and knowledge and, where necessary, receive appropriate training to implement
the framework.

9.      Upon identification o f the specific land area to be acquired, an appointed Department
representative will initiate negotiations with the village chiefs and orators, matai or beneficial
owner o f customary land, registered proprietor or DPs. Inter-department cooperation should be
utilised where appropriate by including both a representative from the Ministry o f Natural
Resources and Environment andthe Ministry o f Works, Transport andInfrastructure.

10.     Clear explanation o f the purpose o f the acquisition, the area o f land required and the DPs
right to compensation according to the law will be given to all Displaced Persons. Payment of
any compensation or other entitlements will be completed before any award of contract for civil
or other works is finalised.

COMPENSATION

11.     The payment o f compensation or other entitlements is to be negotiated and determined
usingthe following guidelines:

12.     Voluntary Land Contribution with Compensation: Voluntary Land Contribution with
Compensation refers to a process by which an individual or communal owner agrees to provide
land or property for project-related activities in return for negotiated compensation.            The
calculation o f compensation due to DPs shall be done accordingto the following principles:
        (a)     I n general:

                (i) DPslosing               than 20 percent of their productive assets (agricultural
                        land, house, or business) or        when the remaining assets are not
                        economically viable are entitled to:

                    0   Fullcompensation at replacement cost o fthe entire asset or at direct land
                        asset replacement and
                        Rehabilitation assistance that allows them to enhance or at least maintain
                        their standardo f living.

                (ii)    DPs losing less than 20percent of their productive assets, and where the
                        remaining assets remain viable for continued use, are entitled to cash
                        compensation at replacement cost for the affected asset.

        (b)     Specifically:

                (i)     For Situations inwhich Land, Crops or Premises are Wholly Affected:

                            -44 -


   a. For houses, structures and fixed assets, cash compensation shall be at full
      replacement cost o f the structures, without deduction for depreciation or
      salvage materials;

   b. For residential, agricultural or grazing land, including premises, the DP
      shall be given a choice o freplacement land or cash, where:

      0   Replacement land i s equivalent in size, productive capacity, financial
          value, is located as close as possible to the land that was lost and i s
          otherwise satisfactory to the Displaced Person;
      0   Cash compensation shall be at full replacement cost, without deduction
          for salvage materials anddepreciation;
      0   Crops and trees: Cash compensation shall be given for standing crops,
          fruit, industrial trees and productive trees in cash for the value o f the
          lost crop(s) and to include replacement value o f the destroyed assets
          (trees, fruit, industrial trees, etc.);
      0   For    sites    of  spiritual    or    cultural signzjkance, appropriate
          compensation to Displaced Persons shall be negotiated for interference
          with or destructiono f such sites; and
      0   Where suitable replacement land is not available, or at the informed
          request o f the DPs, assistance shall be provided in developing
          opportunities for employment or self-employment.
   c. Tenants who have leased a house for residential purposes will be provided
      with a cash grant o fthree monthsrental fee at the prevailing marketrate in
      the area andwill be assisted inidentifying altemative accommodation.

(ii)  For Situations inwhich Land, Crops or Premises are Partially Affected:
   a. If more than 20 percent o f a parcel o f land is acquired, or where the
      remaining holding i s not viable or not sufficient for the original use, the
      entire landholding shall be acquired and cash compensation will be
      providedto the DisplacedPersons at full replacement cost.

   b. Ifthe portion o fthe landto be lost represents 20 percent or less o fthe total
      area o f the landholding, and the remaining land is still a viable economic
      holding, cash compensation for the lost land, at full replacement cost,
      shall be provided to the DisplacedPerson.

(iii) ForSituationsinwhichLandorPremisesareTemporarilyTaken:
Where landor premises are temporarily taken or are not able to beused as a result
ofworks under the project, compensation shall be as follows:


   0  Fullcompensation for loss o fincome, including the cost ofaltemative
      premises.

                                             -45 -


                        Fullcompensation for any damage to productive assets, including
                        standing crops or infrastructure, andincluding any cost of soil and/or
                        habitat restoration.
                (iv)    Additional Entitlements:

                Inadditiontotheabove, DisplacedPersonsshallbeentitledtothefollowing:

                    0   Allowances sufficient to cover the cost o f transfer and subsistence until
                        the Displaced Persons are reestablished intheir new location.
                        Any other financial andphysical resources for resettlement and
                        rehabilitation as may be reasonably requiredbythe DisplacedPersons.
                (v)     Other Cases:
                Incases where community infrastructuresuchas schools churches, healthcenters,
                water sources, roads or electrical andwater supply connections are damaged, the
                Project will ensure that these are restored or repaired as the case may be, at no
                cost to the community.

13.    Voluntary Land Contribution without Compensation. Individuals or groups may elect to
voluntarily contribute individual or communal land without compensation for use insub-projects
o f LAMP. Where such donations of lands for the Project are made, there should be arrangements
to ensure that the donation i s indeed voluntarily given, that the donor i s the legitimate owner o f
such lands and that the donor i s fully informed o f the nature o f the sub-project and the
implications o f donating the property.

       (a)      The following safeguards would be applied according to the circumstances o f the
                donation o f land and the project requirements:

                0   An assessment that the affected person does not suffer a substantial loss
                    affecting hisher economic viability as a result o f the donation.
                0   Inthe case o f Customary land, confirmation from the appointed matai and
                    any beneficial owners in writing,         that the land is free o f claims or
                    encroachments from any thirdparty;
                0   Deed o f donation, witnessed by a person authorised under the Oaths,
                    Affidavits andDeclarations Act 1963.
                0   Declaration o f Ownership with waiver o f rights.

       (b)      Any voluntary contribution o f land without compensation must be accompanied
               by a consent form which includes the name o fthe land donorh, and details o f the
                contribution (type, size, location, specified period of use etc. as appropriate). This
                should be signed by the landdonorh, including the male and female heads o f the
               household involved and/or any person(s) who has pule over the land.

Process for LandAcquisition

14.    The objective is to ensure that persons displaced either physically or economically by the
Project maintain their livelihood. It shall be the goal of the Project to minimize the physical and

                                              -46 -


economic displacement o f persons as a result o f the implementation o f the project; provided,
however, when the involuntary acquisition o f land i s required, the Project shall, first, utilize
available freehold or public land, second, seek voluntarily donated lands sufficient for the
purposes o f the Project following the provisions above; third, negotiate provision o f land suitable
for implementation of the Project against agreed compensation and, only as a last resort, acquire
landthrough involuntary acquisition following the belowprovisions.

    0   There shall be no involuntary landacquisition o f landand other assets and resettlement of
        people, unless absolutely necessary. Inparticular, acquisition of sites o f spiritual or
        cultural significance shall be avoided.
    0   Ifsuchinvoluntarylandacquisitionis absolutely necessarythenit shallbeminimizedto
        the greatest extent possible.
    0   Plans for involuntary acquisition of landand other assets andprovision o frehabilitation
        measures will be carried out inconsultation with the DisplacedPersons, to ensure
        minimaldisturbance    .
    0   The DisplacedPersons will participate throughout the various stages o f the planning and
        implementation o f the Resettlement Plans. For these purposes and prior to the preparation
        o fthe Resettlement Plans, the DisplacedPersons, will be informed ofthe provisions o f
        this Framework andtheir entitlements at public meetings.

15.     The Taking o f Land Act 1964 sets out indetail under Sections 14 & 15 the procedure for
the acquisition o f customary land and freehold landby Government for public purposes.

16.     Inthepast, governmenthas appealedto the loyalty andpatriotismofitspeopleto allow
the necessary works o f government for the public good to go unimpeded with assurances for the
late payment o f compensation. In some cases, such as the case o f communal land owned by
chiefs and orators o f the villages, communal land required by government for public works i s
pledged by the village as their contribution to government-works-initiatives. Whereas this
customary approach may have its advantages, the Ministry has encountered numerous problems
from landowners subsequently who lodged complaints about government's failure to provide
compensation as assured many years after the works have been completed. This failure i s
significant, as it may affect the rights o f the landowner(s) to making application to the Court to
fix a hllandjust compensation.

17.     The procedure (except for paragraph 1) as prescribed by the Taking o f Land Act 1964 i s
enumerated hereunder to provide a Work Plan for the Land Acquisition process:

        (a)     Obtain Cabinet Approval to acquire customary and freehold land required by
                government for public purposes.
         (b)    Inthe case ofcustomaryland,ascertain from the Samoa LandandTitles Court if
                that Court has determined the matai who has the pule over that land; and in the
                case o f freehold land ascertain who the registered owner or owners o f the
                freehold landto be acquired.

        (c)     Cause a survey o f land to be acquired to be made; and a plan to be prepared and
                certified to be accurate showing:

                            -47-



(9      landto be acquired; and

(ii) thenamesoftheownersandoccupiersofthatlandasfarastheycan be
        ascertained; or

(iii)inthecaseofcustomarylandthenameofthemataiwhohasthepuleover
        the landifthat has been determined bythe Land & Titles Court; and if not
        the names o f the matai proposed by the Minister to be dealt with as if he
        has that pule until the Samoa Land & Titles Court has determined who
        has that pule.

Cause a copy of such plan to be deposited in the Office o f the Ministry o f
NaturalResources andthe Environment inApia

Valuation: Obtain government marketvaluation o flandto be acquired as at date
o fProclamation andnotify landowner(s) (who may deem it necessary to obtain an
independent valuation) o f same for compensation purposes. Said compensation,
however, is to be based on replacement value o f similar land in location and
productive capacity.

Cause a publicnoticeto bepublishedinthe Savali Newspaper and the Observer;


Send a copy of public notice to each owner, occupier and person having an
interest in the land or agent of them, whose name and address are readily
ascertainable stating:

(i)     Government's Proposal to acquire the land;
(ii)    The public purpose for which it i s wanted;
(iii)   That the plan may be inspected in the Office o f the Ministry o f Natural
        Resources and the Environment duringworking hours; and
(iv)    That any person affectedmay give written notice of objection with reasons
        to the Chief Executive Officer o f the Ministry o f Natural Resources and
        the Environment within 28 days of thefirst publicationof theNotice.

Objections: Upon receiving by the Chief Executive Officer o f MNRE any such
objection with any reason (other than an objection to the amount or the method o f
payment o f compensation) appoint a time and place in Samoa at which the
objector may appear before the Minister or some person appointed by him and
supportthe objection by such evidence andargument as the objector thinks fit.

Dispose of objection(s) and Prepare Proclamation: After the 28 day-period
from the first publication of the Public Notice in the Savali and/or Observer
newspaper, and if there are no objections received to the Notice or after due
consideration o f the objection or objections, the Minister is o f the opinion that
effect should be given to the proposal to acquire land for the public purpose; and

                                          -48 -


               that no private injury will be done thereby for which due compensation is not
               provided by this Act, the Head o f State acting on the advice of the Minister may,
               by Proclamation, describing the land and stating the public purpose acquire the
               landfor the public purpose.

               Prepare Proclamationfor landacquired and arrangefor its executionby the
               Headof State.

               Proclamation to be gazetted and publicly notified as soon as possible;
               Proclamation to come into effect on the day named inthe Proclamation.

               Registerthe Proclamationinthe LandRegister o f Samoa.

               Pay compensation or secure agreements for payment o f compensation with
               landowner(s) before commencement o f works.

18.    Processfor the Paymentof Compensation:

       (a)     By agreementbetweenthe Ministerand the Landowner(s):The Minister shall
               offer such sum as he thinks fit as compensation to that person; and that person
               may agree with the Minister as to the compensation payable bythe Minister.

       (b)     By the Court if there is no agreement: If the compensation payable is not
               agreed upon between the Minister and that person, it shall be determined by the
               Court andinmanner hereinafter prescribed.

       (c)     Claim for compensation statute barred: Five years from the date of the
               Proclamation, any claim for compensation is statute barred or 12 months after the
               execution o f the purpose out o f which the claim has arisen in respect o f any
               damage done to the landacquired.

       (d)     Customary approach to negotiations for and payment of compensation:
               Where convenient, government may appeal to the traditional and customary
               loyalty and respect o f the landowners in the interests o f public works by
               government for the common good, to agree to an amount and time for payment of
               compensationandto allow works to continue prior to payment.

19.    The manner in which the delicate issue of taking lands for public purposes is handled
often determines the likelihood of obstacles or resistance from DPs. There i s a commonly held
understandingthat any matter of contention can be resolved with the customary or traditional
negotiation and consensus agreement. It is therefore crucial to fully involve local village groups
andindividuals ina fully transparent process at the inceptiono f anyproject's implementation.

PUBLIC CONSULTATION AND PARTICIPATION

20.    The process o f consultation, information dissemination and disclosure and planning for
land contributions with or without compensation shall be as follows:

                                             -49 -



    0   The principles concerning the voluntary nature o f land or property contributions for sub-
        projects of the Project, including the optionbetween compensation andno compensation,
        will be disclosed to all potentially affected communities and persons by the MNRE and
        the personnel trained to act as community liaisons. Once a sub-project has been defined,
        the MNREteam (assisted, where appropriate, by MOWand other agencies) will facilitate
        meetings with all potentially affected landholders to explain the likely land andor
        resettlement implications and to begin the process of negotiation o f compensation and
        related issues.

    0   The MNRE! team should work closely with the village mayors or Pulenuu who are the
        established liaisonbetween villages and Government andwho are well informed about all
        Government projects duringtheir monthlymeetings inApia. As members o f the Alii ma
        Faipule o f their respective villages, they will assist in the identification o f those who
        havepule over land required for acquisition by the sub-project.


    0   Meetings inthe respective villages with the village councils should be held and also with
        those who are directly affected andhave control orpule over any landto be acquired. The
        actual occupants o f the land shouldalso be consulted regarding any possible resettlement
        or relocation and should also be informed about any compensation to be paid. Every
        assurance should be made that all key stakeholders have been consulted and are freely
        entering into the compensation agreement.

ResettlementPlans

21.     The actions described under this paragraph shall be carried out by the MNRE. In this
undertaking, the MNRE shall employ and retain consultants with qualifications, terms o f
reference and terms and conditions o f employment satisfactory to the Association. Ifthe cost o f
such consultants i s to be financed out o f the proceeds o f the Credit, then the selection process o f
said consultants should follow the provisions set forth in Section I1o f Schedule 3 to the Credit
Agreement.

22.     A Census shall: (i)be carried out to identify Displaced Persons in accordance with
procedures, satisfactory to the Association, including criteria for eligibility to Compensation,
Resettlement Assistance and other Rehabilitation Assistance; and (ii)       include an inventory of
their assets lost which shall to form the basis for planningand implementation o f a relocation and
resettlement action plan.

23.     The census will be accompanied by information to the Displaced Persons about the
entitlements regarding Compensation, Resettlement Assistance and Rehabilitation Assistance,
together with the a time schedule for provision o f Compensation, Resettlement Assistance and
other RehabilitationAssistance andrelocation.

24.     Based on the census and inventory o f losses, and in consultation with the Displaced
Persons, a time bound action plan with a budget will shall be prepared. All Compensation,

                                             - 50 -

Resettlement Assistance, as the case may be, must shall be provided to the Displaced Persons
before road construction or rehabilitation activities works causing said displacement commence.

25.    To ensure transparency o fprocedures, Displaced Persons shallbe informedofthe method
of valuation o f their assets being applied and all payments o f Compensation, Resettlement
Assistance and Rehabilitation Assistance, as the case may be, should shall be made in the
presence o f the DisplacedPerson inquestion.

       (a)     EligibilityCriteria

           0   The procedures, satisfactory to the Association, for the carrying out o fthe census,
               shall include criteria for eligibility to Compensation, Resettlement Assistance and
               Rehabilitation Assistance measures, and Displaced Persons shall be classified in
               one o f the following three groups:

           0   those who have formal legal rights to land, building or fixed assets on the land
               and buildings taken by the Project (including customary and traditional rights
               recognized under the laws ofthe Borrower);

           0   those who do not have formal legal rights to land, building or fixed assets on the
               landand buildings taken by the Project at the time the Census begins but have a
               claim to such land, buildingor fixed assets on the land andbuildings taken by the
               Project, provided that such claims are recognized under the laws o f the Borrower
               or become recognized through a process identified inthe resettlement plan; or

           0   those who have no recognizable legal right or claim to the land, buildingor fixed
               assets on the land and buildings being occupied by Displaced Persons and taken
               bythe Project.

           0   Displaced Persons classified under paragraph 26 (a) and (b) shall be provided
               Compensation, Resettlement Assistance and Rehabilitation Assistance for the
               land, building or fixed assets on the land and buildings taken by the Project in
               accordance with the provisions of this framework, including:

       (b)     Displaced Persons shall be:

           0   informed about their options andrightspertaining to Resettlement;

               consulted on, offered choices among, and provided with technically and
               economically feasible Resettlement alternatives;

           0   provided prompt and effective compensation, regardless o f their legal rights or
               lack o f their land and assets, at full replacement cost for losses o f land, buildingor
               fixed assets on the land andbuildings taken by the Project;

           0   offered support after physical displacement, for a transition period, based on a
               reasonable estimate of the time likely to be needed to restore their living

                                              - 5 1 -


                 standards, income earning capacity and production levels, or at least maintain
                 them at pre-Project levels;

             0   provided with development assistance in addition to compensation measures
                 described in sub-paragraph (iv) above, such as land preparation, credit facilities,
                 training, orjob opportunities; and

         (c)     when physical displacement i s not avoidable, residential housing, or housing sites,
                 or, as required, agricultural sites for which a combination o f productive potential,
                 locational advantages, and other factors shall be at least equivalent to the
                 advantages o f the old site and assistance to Displaced Persons during relocation
                 shall be provided;

         (d)     Displaced Persons classified under paragraph 40 (c) shall be provided
                 Rehabilitation Assistance inlieu o f Compensationfor the land, and Compensation
                 for buildings or other fixed assets being taken by the Project, and Resettlement
                 Assistance, as the case may be, all in amounts sufficient to achieve the objectives
                 set forth in this Framework, if they occupy the Project area prior to the Cut-off
                 date (date o f commencement o f the Census). Displaced Persons who encroach on
                 the Project area after the Cut-off date shall not be entitled to Compensation, or
                 any Resettlement Assistance or any other form o fRehabilitation Assistance.


GRIEVANCEPROCEDURES

26.      Consensus and negotiation are central to Samoan life and decision making. Generally,
Samoan people are keenly aware o f their standing or "va fealoa'i" with any other person.
"Tautua" or service to the country and to one's village and family are central to one's life as a
citizen o f the country. For that reason, many Government initiatives relating to the establishment
o f infrastructure, water, electricity and other amenities and services have been completed without
interruption or obstacles being placed before Government by DPs. From experience o f the
Ministry o f Works, Department of Natural Resources and Environment, and other government
departments and service Corporations, the initial contact made by the Government's
representatives with a village or community, is crucial to the success or failure o f any project.

27.      Negotiation and agreement by consensus will provide the best avenue to iron out and
resolve any grievances expressed by the individuals, the matai or households whose land might
be affected by sub projects. The MOWshould assure itself that any consensus achieved is freely
entered into by the main parties involved. The general public should be advised clearly by the
MOWor other government representative as to who is responsible for and the procedure for
handling grievances or compensation claims.

28.      Any grievances should be invited and addressed during the verification and appraisal
process. Ifa suitable solution is not found, the MNRE Team cannot verify the consent forms and
the sub-project cannot proceed. The issue will then go back to the community for discussion.
The village may ask the assistance o f the MNRE Team, the NGO responsible for monitoring or
others to mediate in the compensation process. The mediation process will be implemented

                                              - 52 -


according to traditional methods of mediatiodconflict resolution. The resolution will then be
documented on the relevant consent forms andverified.

29.    Once agreement is reached concerning the contribution of land, including receipt o f the
relevant forms of consent, the land donors or other DPs or members o f the community may ask
the assistance o f the agency responsible for monitoring, or may raise concerns with the MNRE
team, or may approach the PMU, within 30 days o f the verification meeting. Inthe event such
concerns are raised, the issue will be referred back to the community for further discussion
through the traditional process of negotiation and consensus building. This should be clearly
explained to all communities andDPs.


MonitoringandEvaluation.
30.    Supervision and monitoring o f the implementation o f compensation and land acquisition
should be undertaken by an independent third party such as a local NGO. The role o f the
independent third party should be explained clearly to DPs in order for them to understand that
they may approach that entity as an independent thirdparty.

3 1.   The independent third party responsible for monitoring should visit sub-project sites at
least quarterly, and should monitor the following issues and collect the specified indicators:


    0  Ensure that no construction takes place until all compensation arrangements, including
       any resettlement, have been fully implementedto the satisfactiono f the DPs;
    0  Ensure that all land donations have been freely entered into and have not entailed undue
       pressure or duress;
    0  Monitor the number of grievances recorded and the disposition o f such grievances;
    0  Monitor payment o f compensation and receipt o f other entitlements agreed to with
       respect to the various sub-projects.


ImplementationSchedule

32.    The following timeframes shall apply unless otherwise agreed between the Association
and the Recipient; provided, however, no such agreement to waive the timeframes shall
adversely affect the rights or interests o f Displaced Persons under this Framework:

    0  The inventory shall be completed at least four months prior to the commencement o f
       work.
    0  The Resettlement Plan shall be submittedto the Association for its approval.
    0  Compensation, resettlement and rehabilitation activities will only commence after the
       Association has accepted the Resettlement Plan.
    0  The compensation, resettlement and rehabilitation activities, if any, will be completed at
       least one month prior to the commencement o f work.
 Funding
 33.   The Government o f Samoa shall bear the costs for Compensation, Resettlement
 Assistance and Rehabilitation Assistance.

                                         - 53 -


Disclosure

34.    The following documents producedunder the Project shall be made available for public
disclosure within two weeks o f submission, i.e.:


   0   This LandAcquisition and Resettlement Framework; and
   0   Land Acquisition and Resettlement Action Plan (if and when such Plan i s required to be
       prepared under the Framework).

                                             - 54 -


                                INDEPENDENT STATE OF SAMOA
                       CYCLONE EMERGENCY RECOVERY PROJECT

                 KEYIMPLEMENTATIONACTIVITIES AND INDICATORS




                                         PhysicalIndicators

Components             Activities        unit      Year 1  Year 2     Year 3   Endof
                                                                                Project
A Coastalresilience    A.l. Structural    km       5                            14
                       Rehabilitation
                       A2. Structural     km       3       8                    10
                       Upgrading
                       A3. Non-structural km       1       2                   2.5
                       Rehabilitation                               II
                       A.4. Small         number   5                            25
                       Resilience
                       Subprojects
                       completed
                       AS Ecosystem       number   2       6                    8
                       Recovery Plans                     i
                       prepared
B.Road                 B2. River          number   2                            5
Infrastructure         crossings
rehabilitation         completed
C. Implementation      C. Resilience      %        60                           100
support                projects prepared  budget

Note: d = output achieved


