Page  1
 
 
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB702 
Project Name 
Infrastructure Emergency Recovery Projec 
Region 
EAST ASIA AND PACIFIC 
Sector 
Flood protection (70%);General transportation sector (20%);General public 
administration sector (10%) 
Project ID 
P088246 
Borrower(s) 
INDEPENDENT STATE OF SAMOA 
Implementing Agency 
 
 
Independent State of Samoa 
Samoa 
 
 
Ministry of Finance 
Samoa 
 
Environment Category 
[ ] A   [X] B   [ ] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Safeguard Classification 
[ ] S
1
   [X] S
2
  [ ] S
3
   [ ] S
F
   [ ] TBD (to be determined)
 
Date PID Prepared 
February 18, 2004 
Estimated Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
March 9, 2004 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
April 29, 2004 
 
 
1. 
Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
Tropical Cyclone Heta passed within 80 kms of Samoa as it moved southwest of the country on January 4-5, 2004.  
It was accompanied by hurricane force winds with sustained winds of up to 100 knots (180 km/h) and gusting up to 
140 knots (250 km/h) at its peak, and torrential rain covering all the country.   The cyclone caused significant 
damages estimated at about US$30 million (about 12% of GDP), mainly in trees, crops and coastal infrastructure.  
Power, water, transport and other services were disrupted for periods up to a week or more before being 
substantially restored.  Although several houses were destroyed, there were no fatalities.  The extent of damage was 
limited when compared with the major events of Cyclones Ofa and Val in 1990 and 1991, due to the moderate 
duration of 36 hours and the effect of the protection built since the previous events. 
 
Along coastal areas, mainly along the north and west coasts of Savaii and the north coast of Upolu, strong wave 
action overtopped seawalls and caused significant localized erosion of road shoulders, culverts and seawalls, 
depositing substantial debris of boulders, sand and flotsam across roads and into villages.  Erosion and debris 
damage was worst on Savaii from Sataua in the northwest to Faga in the east.  Electric power lines were extensively 
damaged by falling trees and power was not restored in many areas for over one week.  Some telephone services 
were cut,  and water services were disrupted by landslides or erosion in several areas.  A few private houses (4 to 5) 
were severely damaged or destroyed by tornado winds in the Fagalii-Moataa area.  There was extensive wind 
damage to trees, including about 80% of the breadfruit and banana trees destroyed or severely damaged, and six 
large historic trees in Apia uprooted - the worst damage appeared due to localized tornadoes generated by the 
cyclone. 
 
An IDA evaluation mission, responding to a Government request, visited the country eight days after the event to 
assess the emergency recovery needs for infrastructure and the performance of the emergency management systems.  
A detailed assessment of recovery costs for road and coastal infrastructure, just-completed by the Government, 
showed the following needs:  (i) about 9,300 m of seawalls requiring repair or replacement;  (ii) nearly 20 km of 
severe erosion making coastal communities and a hospital in Savaii very vulnerable to future storm events;  (iii) 
about 11.9 km of coastal roads requiring rehabilitation due specifically to storm damage; and (iv) Other road and 
drainage repairs arising from flooding, landslide and erosion damage.   
 
Page  2
 
 
The cyclone tested the emergency response procedures and the risk reduction measures implemented since the major 
cyclones Ofa and Val in 1990-91, and these mitigation measures are credited with very substantially reducing the 
impacts of TC Heta on the people, economy and infrastructure of the country.  The storm was equivalent to a 10-20-
year event, which is the design level adopted for new storm protection works.  Damages are therefore expected to be 
moderate where protection has been afforded but substantial in other areas at risk.  Without the previous 
investments, the infrastructure damage is likely to have been 5-8 times higher, in the order of about $200 million.  
The Government also performed well in its response to the emergency, prior to, during, and immediately after the 
event.  
 
The seawalls and other protective measures constructed under the Emergency Road Rehabilitation Project (ERRP) 
and the recent first phase of the Infrastructure Asset Management Program (IAMP-1) generally performed well and 
sustained relatively minor damage.  There has also been considerable construction of seawalls recently outside the 
ERRP and IAMP, supported under either Government budget or privately.  However, in many cases those walls, and 
some of older design, had disintegrated and the undersized boulders became an additional hazard as part of the 
debris washed inland.  Along the northern Savaii coast, there was substantial aggradation of beach sand in several 
areas, emphasizing the point that erosion is not the sole mechanism of damage and that alternative mitigation 
measures, e.g., soft non-structural options, need to be considered. 
 
Rationale for Bank Support:
   Reducing the vulnerability of small island states to economic and physical shocks is a 
focus of the Bank’s Pacific regional Strategy.  A program for managing the risk from natural disasters has already 
been commenced in Samoa, through the first phase of IAMP, to minimize long-term damage and recovery costs, and 
a second phase was approved in December, 2003 under IDA concessional lending.  Much of the approach to 
infrastructure recovery and standards required for implementation are thus already established under the IAM 
umbrella and so would be available to guide implementation of any proposed recovery assistance.  The 
environmental and social safeguard plans, technical standards and implementation arrangements of IAM-2 could be 
utilized for the proposed emergency assistance, thereby greatly expediting preparation and ensuring the quality of 
implementation.   
 
The US$30 million estimated cost of the recovery efforts is beyond the financial capacity of the Government at this 
time, being about a quarter of its annual budget,
 
with heavy current commitments.  The recovery works proposed by 
Government for damage due to TC Heta do not overlap with the scope of the IAM-2 project, and are additional to it. 
The majority of the proposed works are in districts where coastal management plans have already been developed 
under IAM-1.  These locally agreed frameworks can also be used as reference in cases where these plans are not yet 
in place.  With approximately 80 per cent of the crops damaged by the cyclone (agriculture accounts for 90 percent 
of exports), Bank assistance towards infrastructure costs would expedite the recovery of the economy and the 
government’s efforts to minimize impact on the affected population.   
 
2. Proposed 
objective(s) 
 
The resilience against natural hazards of the infrastructure assets and the livelihoods of inhabitants impacted by 
Cyclone Heta will be recovered and improved to sustainable levels with due safeguards for the fragile coastal 
environment. 
 
3. Preliminary 
description 
 
A core program of recovery measures, focused mainly on the restoration and improvement of coastal resilience 
(through protection structures and drainage) plus some restoration and rehabilitation of roads, appears justified.  The 
core program is estimated to cost about WST 22 million, covering about 40% of the Government’s estimate and 
providing for necessary technical assistance to ensure quality in the complex tradeoff between performance and 
environmental safeguards.  This is equivalent to potential assistance of about US$ 6 million, if disbursing 100% net 
of taxes.  The following components are proposed: 
 
(i)  
Repair, rehabilitation and improvement of storm and flooding protection structures in areas 
damaged or threatened by erosion (approx. 12 km); 
 
Page  3
 
 
(i)   
Road repairs, rehabilitation or reconstruction, including culvert and drainage replacements, repair 
and improvement in affected areas (approx. 12 km); 
 
(iii)  
Implementation support thro
ugh specialist consulting services for the investigation, design, 
justification and supervision of the recovery of coastal protection measures (approx. 18 p-mths). 
 
Initial Project Cost Estimate 
Category and Activities 
WST 
million 
WS
T
millio
n
USD 
million 
Civil Works 
 
18.0 
6.6 
- Road rehabilitation 
- Coastal protection repair and construction 
5.0 
13.0 
  
Consultant Services: 
 
2.0 
0.7 
- Design and supervision  
- Project management and accounting 
1.5 
0.5 
  
Contingencies (12%) 
2.0 
2.0 
0.7 
Total Recovery Progra
m
 22.0 
22.0 
8.0 
Note: WST 2.8 = USD 1.0 
 
4. 
Safeguard policies that might apply 
 
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01)
 – reference would be made to the EA prepared and disclosed on 
November 12, 2003 for the IAMP-2, and to the Environmental Impact Assessment guidelines implemented by 
Samoa’s Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment.  An Environmental Management Plan would be required 
as part of the works program.  During preparation, the specific sites where works are expected would need to be 
identified, preliminary screening for impact conducted under MNRE guidelines for those sites, and a draft EMP 
prepared for review. 
 
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)
 – As per previous projects, OD 4.20 would not apply as all peoples are indigenous. 
 
5. Tentative 
financing 
 
Source: 
($m.) 
Borrower/Recipient 
2 
IDA Grant For Natural Disasters 
6 
 
Total 8 
 
6. Contact 
point 
 
Contact: William D. O. Paterson 
Title: Lead Highway Engineer 
Tel: (202) 458-1334 
Fax: (202) 614-0172 
Email: Wpaterson@worldbank.org 
 
