                                   Document of
                                 The World Bank




                                                       Report No: ICR00001071




             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT

                 (CREDIT NO. 3885-WSO and GRANT NO. H083-WSO)




                                      ON A

                               CREDIT AND GRANT

                        IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 3.0 MILLION
                          (US$4.47 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                        TO

                          INDEPENDENT STATE OF SAMOA



                                      FOR A

                    CYCLONE EMERGENCY RECOVERY PROJECT




                                   March 29, 2009




Transport, Energy and Mining Unit
Sustainable Development Department
East Asia and Pacific Region

                         CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS


                   (Exchange Rate Effective October 31, 2008)


                       Currency Unit = Samoan tala (WST)

                               WST 1 = US$0.37

                               US$1 = WST 2.73

                               SDR 1 = US$1.47


                                FISCAL YEAR

                                July 1 ­ June 30



                    ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CERP    Cyclone Emergency Recovery Project
CIM     Coastal Infrastructure Management
COEPs   Codes of Environmental Practice
DFA     Development Financing Arrangement
EMP     Environmental Management Plan
ERRP    Emergency Road Rehabilitation Project
FMS     Financial Management System
GOS     Government of Samoa
IA      Implementing Agency
IAMP    Infrastructure Asset Management Program
IDA     International Development Association
IPSC    IAM Program Steering Committee
LARF    Land Acquisition and Resettlement Framework
MNRE    Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment
MOF     Ministry of Finance
MWTI    Ministry of Works, Transport, and Infrastructure
PMT     Project Management Team
PUMA    Planning and Urban Management Agency
SOE     Statement of Expenditures
US$     US dollar
WST     West Samoan tala

                             Vice President:        James W. Adams
                           Country Director:        Nigel Roberts
                            Sector Manager:         Junhui Wu
                       Project Team Leader:         Thakoor Persaud
                          ICR Team Leader:          Thakoor Persaud

                              INDEPENDENT STATE OF SAMOA
                 CYCLONE EMERGENCY RECOVERY PROJECT




                                                    CONTENTS


A. Basic Information 
B. Key Dates 
C. Ratings Summary 
D. Sector and Theme Codes 
E. Bank Staff 
F. Results Framework Analysis 
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs 
H. Restructuring 
I. Disbursement Profile 
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design............................................... 1
3. Assessment of Outcomes.......................................................................................... 11
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 14
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance. ................................................... 14
6. Lessons Learned. ...................................................................................................... 16
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners ......... 18
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 19
Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 21
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis................................................................. 31
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 32
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results........................................................................... 33
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 34
Annex 7. Full Copy of Borrower's ICR....................................................................... 35
Annex 8. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 39
Annex 9: Maps showing location of physical works on Upolu and Savai'i................. 40
Annex 10: Examples of Storm Damage and Completed Project Outputs.................... 44
Map............................................................................................................................... 48

A. Basic Information

                                                                     Cyclone Emergency
Country:                Samoa                  Project Name:
                                                                     Recovery Project
Project ID:             P088246                L/C/TF Number(s):     IDA-38850,IDA-H0830
ICR Date:               03/29/2009             ICR Type:             Core ICR
                                                                     INDEPENDENT
Lending Instrument:     ERL                    Borrower:
                                                                     STATE OF SAMOA
Original Total
                        XDR 3.0M               Disbursed Amount:     XDR 3.0M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
Ministry of Finance
Ministry of Works, Transport and Infrastructure
Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

     Process             Date              Process         Original Date   Revised / Actual
                                                                                Date(s)
Concept Review:        02/23/2004     Effectiveness:       06/28/2004         08/31/2004
Appraisal:             03/10/2004     Restructuring(s):
Approval:              04/29/2004     Mid-term Review:     05/15/2007         05/29/2007
                                      Closing:             12/31/2006         06/30/2008


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                      Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                   Low or Negligible
Bank Performance:                              Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                          Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings               Borrower               Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Highly Satisfactory    Government:           Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory           Implementing
                                               Agency/Agencies:      Highly Satisfactory

Overall Bank                                   Overall Borrower
Performance:            Satisfactory           Performance:          Satisfactory




                                               i

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                             QAG Assessments
      Performance               Indicators           (if any)                Rating

Potential Problem Project No                  Quality at Entry
                                                                    None
at any time (Yes/No):                         (QEA):
Problem Project at any                        Quality of
                          No                                        None
time (Yes/No):                                Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                          Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                             Original           Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                               5                  7
Flood protection                                               75                 79
Roads and highways                                             20                 14


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Natural disaster management                                   Primary           Primary
Other environment and natural resources management           Secondary         Secondary
Rural services and infrastructure                            Secondary         Secondary


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                     At ICR                         At Approval
Vice President:           James W. Adams                   Jemal-ud-din Kassum
Country Director:         Nigel Roberts                    Xian Zhu
Sector Manager:           Aurelio Menendez                 Jitendra N. Bajpai
Project Team Leader:      Thakoor Persaud                  William D. O. Paterson
ICR Team Leader:          Thakoor Persaud
ICR Primary Author:       Thakoor Persaud
                          Colleen Mary Gollach



F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The objectives are to assist the Borrower to recover from the damage caused by Cyclone
Heta and reduce the vulnerability of its people to prevailing natural hazards through:

  (a) Recovery of coastal resilience to erosion, flooding, and landslide hazards through
appropriate and sustainable use of structural and non-structural protection;


                                             ii

  (b) Nurturing the recovery of fragile coastal ecosystems through sustainable practices;
and

  (c) Rehabilitation of damaged land transport communications.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)




(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target     Formally         Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value          Values (from        Revised         Achieved at
                                               approval          Target         Completion or
                                              documents)         Values          Target Years
Indicator 1 :   Vulnerable coastline with improved resilience to natural disasters.
Value
quantitative or n/a km                     About 24 km                        24 km
Qualitative)
Date achieved 05/06/2004                   12/31/2007                         06/30/2008

Comments        Target value derived from subcomponents A.1+A.2+A.3. A.3 clarified at MTR

(incl. %        discussions w/ Gov't as representing actual lengths of improved sections, not

achievement)   entire shoreline as dunes were replaced at different locations. 100%
               achievement.
Indicator 2 :   Fragile coastal ecosystems recovered by the Project
Value
quantitative or 0                          33                                 58
Qualitative)
Date achieved 05/06/2004                   12/31/2007                         06/30/2008
Comments        Target value derived from A.4+A.5. Small grants increased at MTR in discussion
(incl. %        w/ Govt. By EOP, 50 small grants implmtd, of which 10 awaited final reports to
achievement)   Govt committee to issue of formal letter to community.176% achieved.
Indicator 3 :   Land transport river crossing rehabilitated
Value
quantitative or 0                          About 5                            4
Qualitative)
Date achieved 05/06/2004                   12/31/2007                         06/30/2008
Comments        Original target value was "about 5 bridges". MTR in consultation with Govt.,
(incl. %        funds were insufficient to reconstruct 5 crossing to an improved standard, so 4
achievement)   were done within estimate. 100% achievement.




                                               iii

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target      Formally      Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value         Values (from                       Achieved at
                                              approval           Revised     Completion or
                                             documents)      Target Values    Target Years
Indicator 1 :  A.1. Structural Rehabilitation
Value
(quantitative  0                          About 14 km                      10 km
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 05/06/2004                  12/31/2007                       06/30/2008
Comments
(incl. %       Fully funded by the Government in the immediate aftermath of the cyclone.

achievement)   100% achievement of Government's target set once implementation began.

Indicator 2 :  A2. Structural Upgrading
Value
(quantitative  0                          About 10 km                      12 km
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 05/06/2004                  12/31/2007                       06/30/2008
Comments
(incl. %       Exceeded target set at appraisal but 86% achievement of the increased target

achievement)   discussed with the Government at mid-term review.

Indicator 3 :  A3. Non-structural Rehabilitation
Value
(quantitative  0                          About 2.5 km                     1.97 km
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 05/06/2004                  12/31/2007                       06/30/2008

Comments       Nourishment of nearly 2km of beaches w 20,000 m3 sand for dune recon. Linear

(incl. %       tar. reduced MTR in discuss w Gov based on eng est, avail funds & dune

achievement)   dimensions to be impl. Subsequently amended target greatly exceed mid-term
               expectations within avail fund
Indicator 4 :  A.4. Small Resilience Subprojects completed
Value
(quantitative  0                          25                               50
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 05/06/2004                  12/31/2007                       06/30/2008
Comments       Target increased at mid-term review in discussion with Government as project
(incl. %       closing date was to be extended and this subcomponent was progressing well.
achievement)   Double orig. tar. achieved and revised target achieved by 143%.
Indicator 5 :  A.5 Ecosystem Recovery Plans prepared
Value
(quantitative  0                          8                                8
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 05/06/2004                  12/31/2007                       06/30/2008
Comments
(incl. %       100% target achieved. A number of small works indicated under the recovery

achievement)   plans were also implemented under subcomponent A.4.

Indicator 6 :  B2. River crossings completed.



                                               iv

Value
(quantitative  0                         5                              4
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 05/06/2004                 12/31/2007                     06/30/2008
Comments
(incl. %       80% achieved although Government is looking into making improvements to

achievement)   design of one of the completed crossings.

Indicator 7 :  C. Resilience projects prepared
Value
(quantitative  0                         100% of budget                 100% of budget
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 05/06/2004                 12/31/2007                     06/30/2008
Comments
(incl. %       100% achieved.
achievement)


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                            Actual
 No.     Date ISR
         Archived               DO                        IP            Disbursements
                                                                        (USD millions)
  1     06/22/2004          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                 0.00
  2     12/28/2004          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                 0.00
  3     06/20/2005          Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory            0.71
  4     02/07/2006          Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory            1.28
  5     04/03/2007          Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory            2.04
  6     08/23/2007          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                 2.34
  7     05/28/2008          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                 4.58
  8     03/09/2009          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                 4.61



H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




                                              v

I. Disbursement Profile




                           vi

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

1.1.1. Samoa comprises nine islands in one main cluster situated just south of the equator in an
area prone to tropical cyclones. The islands of Upolu and Savai'i make up 96 percent of Samoa's
land area of 2,842 square kilometers and account for 99 percent of its population. Since the early
1990s, Samoa has undertaken a number of tax, tariff, public sector and related economic reforms.
As a result, over the past 15 years, real per capita GDP has increased by over 3 percent per year
on average and external public debt has fallen below 40 percent of GDP. The external position
has benefited from the rapid growth of remittances from overseas and tourism receipts. Samoa
has now "graduated" above the LDC criteria set by the U.N. for the Human Assets Index and the
per capita Gross National Income Index, although its economic vulnerability remains high due to
its remoteness, small size and external dependency.


1.1.2. The country is also vulnerable to natural hazards, particularly cyclones. There were 12
events reported in the period 1950-2004 which, in disaster years, affected an average of 42
percent of the population and caused economic losses equivalent to about 50 percent of GDP. In
recent years, Cyclones Ofa (1990) and Val (1991) killed over a dozen people, displaced
thousands, damaged many key assets and washed away coastal lands, leaving monetary losses
estimated at about $140 million and $300 million respectively.

1.1.3.   On January 4-5, 2004, Tropical Cyclone Heta passed within 80 km of Samoa as it moved
southwest of the country. It was accompanied by sustained hurricane force winds of up to 100
knots (180 km/h), gusting up to 140 knots (250 km/h) at its peak, and torrential rain covered the
country. The cyclone caused significant damages estimated at about US$35 million (equivalent to
12 percent of Samoa's GDP), mainly in coastal and utilities infrastructure, trees and crops, and
coastal ecosystems. Power, water, transport, and other services were disrupted for periods up to a
week or more before being substantially restored. Although several houses were destroyed,
fortunately there were no fatalities.

1.1.4. The extent of damage was limited when compared with the major events of Cyclones Ofa
and Val. In part, Heta was of only moderate duration (around 36 hours) and in large part too,
protective structures built cyclones Ofa and Val proved durable. Nonetheless, along coastal areas,
mainly along the north and west coasts of Savai'i and the north coast of Upolu, strong wave
action overtopped seawalls and caused significant localized erosion of road shoulders, culverts
and seawalls, depositing substantial debris of boulders, sand and flotsam across roads and into
villages. Erosion and debris damage was worst on Savai'i from Sataua in the northwest to Faga in
the east. Electric power lines and some telephone services were cut, and water services were
disrupted by landslides or erosion in several areas. A few private houses were severely damaged
or destroyed by tornado winds in the Fagalii-Moata'a area. There was extensive wind damage to
trees, including about 80 percent of the breadfruit and banana trees and six large historic trees in
Apia were uprooted. There was also extensive damage to 50-70 percent of coral reefs and coastal
fishing grounds.

1.1.5. Limited recovery assistance was provided to the Government for the power and water
sectors through ongoing assistance from the European Union and the Asian Development Bank.
The Government requested International Development Association (IDA) assistance for recovery



                                                  1

works and implementation services for roads and coastal infrastructure as the extent of damage
was beyond the Government's own resources. Initial Government damage and loss assessment for
road and coastal infrastructure estimated the losses at about WST 90 million (US$35 million),
including WST 63 million for seawalls repair and construction and for road repairs and
restoration. A further WST 30 million was the estimated damage to trees, crops and buildings.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

1.2.1 The objectives of the project were to assist the Government to recover from the damage
caused by Cyclone Heta and reduce the vulnerability of its people to prevailing natural hazards
through:

   (a) Recovery of coastal resilience to erosion, flooding, and landslide hazards through
          appropriate and sustainable use of structural and non-structural protection;

   (b) Nurturing the recovery of fragile coastal ecosystems through sustainable practices; and

   (c) Rehabilitation of damaged land transport communications.

1.2.2     A Technical Annex, Memorandum and Recommendation of the President (MOP) and
Development Financing Agreement (DFA) were prepared for the project. Appendix 7 of the
Technical Annex listed the following activities and end-of-project targets: (a) 14 km structural
rehabilitation coastal works aimed at improved resilience to natural disasters; (b) 10 km structural
upgrading works aimed at improved coastal resilience to natural disasters; (c) 2.5 km non-
structural rehabilitation works aimed at coastal resilience; (d) completion of 25 small resilience
subprojects; (e) preparation of 8 ecosystem recovery plans; (f) completion of 5 river crossings;
and (g) 100 community based small-scale resilience subprojects prepared. Elsewhere in the
Annex, it was noted that these targets were approximate until more detailed design could be
undertaken.

1.3 Revised PDO and Key Indicators

1.2.3     While no revisions were made to the PDO, during the mid-term review, the Government
asked for several indicator target values to be amended, primarily because it had already carried
out some of the high-priority remedial works in the immediate aftermath of the cyclone, fully
funded from its own resources. This meant that IDA funds could then be applied to other
subcomponents and slight changes made to some of the targets. Given the emergency nature of
the works done, it was difficult at the time for the Government to disaggregate its own actual
expenditures from wider maintenance activities and so the planned retroactive financing for these
works could not be utilized. Another factor to note is that from the original appraisal targets, there
was some confusion regarding what was to be measured, for example, the actual length of the
entire seawall strengthened or the specific weak/damaged sections of the wall which were spot
rehabilitated. After reviewing the record and discussing the details with counterpart staff, it
became clear that the target was the entire length of coastline that was strengthened as a result of
improvements to various key sections along those lengths. For replacement bridges, the number
was reduced from "about 5" to 4 during the mid-term review because the engineering estimates
based on detailed design were significantly higher than appraisal estimates1. One bridge had to be
deleted from the works program at the time of bid preparation but the GoS is still planning to
construct it with its own funds. Finally, in some cases, (for example, completion of small


1 Although subsequently, actual bids submitted tended to be comparable to the original appraisal estimates and were
generally lower than the engineer's estimates. This issue is discussed in more detail in Annex 2 as well as Section 6.




                                                             2

resilience subprojects), the IDA project team agreed with the Government that the target values
would increase because the project was to be extended and so the small works, which had been
progressing well, were increased to continue over the remaining life of the project.

1.2.4    The project Closing Date was extended twice, for a total of 18 months. The first was for
twelve months to allow for some delays in finalizing consultant contracts and to adjust design of a
sea wall to respond to access concerns of residents. The second extension, for six months, was to
complete a section of a seawall where, because of strong tidal action and inclement weather,
workers had had difficulty in gaining access to and completing the structure (see Annex 2 for
details).

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

1.4.1.    The main direct beneficiaries comprised the high-risk population living along or near
coastal areas affected by the cyclone. These areas were physically rehabilitated and made more
resilient to withstand future natural hazards using both structural (seawalls, culverts, bridges, etc.)
and "soft" solutions (sand dunes, mangrove, reef planting, etc.). Due to the success of the project
activities along the coast, not only residents in affected coastal villages but subsequently, across
all villages in the entire country, , ultimately benefitted from awareness-raising and hazard-
management education campaigns carried out under Cyclone Emergency Recovery Project
(CERP) and another IDA-supported Infrastructure Asset Management Project (Phases 1 and 2).
Coastal village infrastructure management plans (CIMP) were prepared under IAMP1 and 2 using
participatory planning methods involving not only village leaders and traditional figures but also
all residents (in particular, targeted inclusion of women and youth). Many small priority works
identified in these CIM plans were financed by small grants to communities under CERP.

1.4.2.    In addition, Pulenu'u (Mayors) and villagers in eight cyclone affected villages received
training and awareness-raising in developing detailed coastal ecosystem recovery plans for their
villages as well as on the impacts of various coastal management and reclamation initiatives on
shoreline communities and ecosystems.

1.4.3.    Other beneficiaries include staff of implementing agencies Ministry of Natural
Resources, Environment and Meteorology (MNREM) and Ministry of Works, Transport and
Infrastructure (MWTI) who received on-the-job training and TA in design solutions, risk
management, and works procurement and contract management and training. In particular,
environmental and engineering staff of the two implementing Ministries are now working in a
more collaborative way to ensure that infrastructure, superstructure and other activities do not
impede natural processes such as flushing of ecosystems, beach accretion and protection of
mangrove areas. While these actions have had a positive beneficial effect, because most of the
land is communally owned under customary title, land use issues can take some time to be
resolved.

1.4.4.    The project also benefited a large number of locally hired, semi-skilled workers who
acquired on-the-job construction skills on the various works contracts. It also provided business
opportunities for local construction contractors who successfully won the competitive bids and
carried out the works contracts over the four years of the project.

1.4.5.    Finally, there were benefits from the conservation of marine resources and recovery of
the coastal ecosystems for the communities whose livelihoods largely depend on these resources.
Whilst hard to quantify, these encompass growing eco-tourism, healthy reef systems that dissipate
wave energy and encourage growth in fish stocks, shoreline vegetation that provides stabilization
of the land, and natural flushing of inlet ecosystems encouraging fish and crab breeding.




                                                   3

1.5 Original Components2. Because the Bank appraisal team was in Samoa within two weeks
    after the cyclone and there were several damage assessment and costing activities still
    underway, with several priorities slated to be done quickly by the Government, it was
    decided that the legal documents would refer to approximate target figures where these could
    not be easily finalized at appraisal, e.g. "about 14 kilometers" and "about five bridges".

A.      Coastal Resilience Recovery $3.65 million (61 percent of total costs).

Support under this component was for the restoration and improvement of coastal resilience in
three areas:

   (a) repair works to some existing seawalls to properly restore the armor layers;
   (b) complete removal, reconstruction of the inner-core material with appropriate overlying
        filter and structural layers and some extensions to selected seawalls; and
   (c) non-structural, "soft" solutions at selected sites to maintain the natural beach ecosystems
        and nurture the recovery of fragile coastal ecosystems through sustainable practices.

The project design was made up of five subcomponents, concentrated in particular on the
northern sides of the two main islands, Upolu and Savai'i (see maps in Annex 9), where cyclonic
damage had been the most severe. Detailed design of the exact location and scope of works to be
undertaken was included as a project activity.

A.1 Structural Rehabilitation (Savai'i and Upolu) (US$980,000, 16.3 percent total project
costs): Rehabilitation of about 14 km of shoreline protection structures (i.e. carrying out spot
maintenance).

A.2 Structural Reconstruction and Upgrading (Savai'i)(US$1.72 million, 28.6 percent of total
project costs). Reconstruction and upgrading of shoreline protection structures at selected
locations along a total coastal length of 10 km so that the structures could withstand prevailing
natural hazard risks in the future.

A.3 Non-Structural Rehabilitation (Savai'i and Upolu) (US$401,000, 6.7 percent of total
project costs). Restoring the natural resilience of about 2.5 km affected shorelines to withstand
prevailing natural hazard risks through non-structural measures (mainly beach nourishment for
dune reconstruction).

A.4 Small-Scale Resilience (Upolu and Savai'i) (US$133,000, 2.2 percent of total project costs).
Small subgrants (up to WST 15,000 each) were allocated to local community groups (Komiti/
women's groups and Komiti a le Pulenu'u/special members appointed by the villagers and
Pulenu'u/Mayor) under the leadership of the Pulenu'u to undertake various small-scale
subprojects aimed at accelerating eco-system restoration and enhancing the resilience of coastal
environments against future possible hazards, thereby improving protection of coastal resources
and communities. Eligible activities included coastal garden restoration works and establishing
plant nurseries, protection of communal fresh water pools, establishing mangroves for marine fish
and crab breeding and establishing and monitoring "no-catch" marine protection areas.

A.5 Coastal Ecosystem Recovery (Services and Works) (US$418,000, 7 percent of total project
costs). Recovery Plans, using consultative and participatory planning methodologies, to be
prepared for eight cyclone-affected villages and subsequently, Village Agreements and Recovery
Plan Agreements were drawn up and adopted. Priority recovery activities identified in the Plans
were then implemented as part of the coastal ecosystem rehabilitation. The recovery activities


2As at Project appraisal.




                                                   4

comprised (a) "soft solutions" such as construction of plant nurseries, replanting of coastal plants
and mangroves, coral replanting, banning of destructive fishing methods, controlling/managing
activities that affect coastal habitats and resources such as sand mining and reclamation, and (b)
small works, such as culvert crossings.

B.       Road Infrastructure Rehabilitation ($1.38 million, 23 percent of total project costs).

The activities funded under this component would help rehabilitate the damaged land transport
system and communications.

B.1 Road and Drainage (Savai'i and Upolu) (US$848,000). Clearing of debris, rehabilitation or
replacement as necessary of road pavements, drainage structures, slope stabilization and road
furniture damaged by the cyclone on both Upolu and Savai'i.

B.2 Bridge Replacement (Savai'i and Upolu) (US$528,000, 8.8 percent of total project costs).
Reconstruction and upgrading of about five bridges, allowing freer land transportation and also
facilitating the natural flushing and replenishment of upstream eco-systems which in turn allows
for more vigorous mangrove growth and improved fish and crab breeding grounds.

Implementation Support (US$977,000, 21 percent of total project costs).

The activities under this component were to support the implementation of the above two main
project components.

C.1 Technical assistance (US$812,000, 13.5 percent of total project costs). The main assistance
provided by the consultant was in coastal engineering for design and supervision of coastal
works, small and community based resilience structures, management of small grants and
supervision of road and bridge works.

C.2 Project management (US$113,000, 5 percent of total project costs). Management and
coordination of project activities, procurement, financial management and accounting, monitoring
of environmental safeguards requirements, auditing of project accounts, monitoring and reporting,
etc. over the life of the project.

C.3 Operating Costs (US$52,000, 0.9 percent of total project costs). The operating costs
expenditures were used to supplement the implementing agencies' own budgets on project related
expenditures such as advertising costs, local transport for supervision purposes, stakeholder
workshops and similar.

1.6 Revised Components

1.6.1     There were no formal revisions to the main Project components.

1.7 Other significant changes

1.7.1    Please see Annex 2 for a detailed description of subcomponents.

1.7.2    Project design had included a provision for retroactive financing for up to 20 percent of
the total IDA funds, for eligible expenditures incurred by the Government from the date of
appraisal until the project became effective. This was to support Government's own rapid
response activities under subcomponent A.1 (repair of strategic seawalls before the next cyclone
season) and subcomponent B.1 (clearing of debris and opening up main transport corridors).
However, at the time, MWTI was undergoing internal restructuring and to some extent, this, plus
the fact that the works had to be done on a fast-track basis, led to extensions of several ongoing
contracts which, in turn, affected MWTI's ability to disaggregate and certify Cyclone Heta-
related maintenance expenses from its national maintenance operations. The Government
therefore decided not to make use of the retroactive financing facility and instead, in joint



                                                   5

discussions between the Government and IDA, a decision was made to assign the IDA funds from
subcomponents A.1 and B.1 to subcomponents A.2 (reconstruction of seawalls) and B.2 (bridge
repairs). As these subcomponents are all within the same disbursement category (1-A) in the
Financing Agreement, a formal reallocation was not required. Fully funding the rehabilitation
works from its own account, the Government also decided to extend the road works it undertook
whilst decreasing the seawall repairs (leaving some works on these to undergo more complete
reconstruction under subcomponent A.2).

1.7.3   Risk-based methods for determining engineer's estimates were used in the detailed
design. However, no international contractors submitted bids for any of the works under the
project and the bid prices received, all from domestic contractors, were mostly lower (in some
cases by a factor of 3) than the engineer's estimates. The IDA task team and counterpart staff
subsequently did an evaluation of options and a modification of packaging arrangements to
promote greater use of funds. This re-advertisement, coupled with lack of familiarity of new
MWTI staff with large procurement, resulted in some of the first year delay in implementation
and the subsequent need to extend the project closing date.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

2.1.1   The overall quality at entry is rated as Highly Satisfactory. This assessment is based on
the following:

   (a) Consistency with Government priorities and Pacific Regional Strategy and timeliness of
        IDA's response. The primary project development objective was to assist the
        Government to recover from the damage caused by Cyclone Heta and reduce the
        vulnerability of its people to prevailing natural hazards. The project directly addressed a
        significant portion of the identified $35 million reconstruction needs which at the time,
        were beyond the financial ability of the Government. The Project clearly fell within the
        ambit of the Bank's broader development objectives for the region, namely to help reduce
        the vulnerability of small island states to economic and physical shocks -- a focus of the
        Bank's Pacific Regional Strategy (PRS) in 2002. The development objectives and target
        outcomes of the Project remain relevant under the more recently prepared PRS (2006-
        2009), notably to safeguard service delivery by improving resilience to natural hazards.
        In addition, IDA was timely both in its initial response (a mission visited Samoa within a
        few weeks of the cyclone), design (appraisal and negotiations took place within three
        months of the cyclone) and approval of the project (Board approval was within four
        months of the disaster).

   (b) Simplicity and focus of project design. The primary objectives of the project (recovery of
        coastal resilience to erosion, flooding and landslides, sustainable practices to nurture
        recovery of fragile ecosystems; and rehabilitation of damaged land transport systems)
        were few, clearly defined, well-focused and achievable, and as such, appropriate to the
        small country context. Immediate priority was given to physical reconstruction works to
        open up transportation links and to commence strengthening seawall structures before the
        on-set of the next cyclone season. The design included a provision for retroactive
        financing of up to SDR 0.6 million (20 percent of the proposed IDA funding) to assist the
        Government's own early responses (although this was not finally taken up by the
        Government). Additionally, by providing good structural design standards for
        Government implementing Ministries and by involving communities in planning and
        design of small-structures and non-structural solutions, the project provided Samoa with a
        comprehensive package of an appropriate range of approaches.



                                                  6

   (c) Lessons of earlier operations taken into account in project design. Relevant lessons for
        project design were drawn from previous international and Bank experience in disaster
        management and from ongoing infrastructure projects in Samoa. These included the
        importance of adopting a comprehensive approach to natural hazard risk management,
        including risk mitigation; the use of well-designed protective seawalls, protection of
        inland infrastructure, typically worth more than ten times the investment costs of the
        seawalls themselves; the need to make communities aware of, and willing to view soft
        protection measures as an alternative to hard structures which can lead to the loss of
        natural beaches; implementing sustainable practices aimed at nurturing recovery of
        ecosystems which otherwise can take many years to recover; and the use of private sector
        contractors who are able to function effectively in rapidly restoring road access.

   (d) Project Risks and Mitigations. Risks identified from recent experiences in Samoa and
        other tropical island countries were that coastal communities and authorities perceive
        structural treatments (such as rock walls) as durable and effective protection but that
        these measures alone can lead to a hardening of coastlines and loss of natural shoreline
        environments. The project included specific components (A.3 and A.5) to restore and
        thus demonstrate the value of non-structural measures and also to provide advisory
        services support to eight affected villages to identify, plan and implement a range of
        ecosystem recovery measures. A further risk identified was that under-designed structures
        can disintegrate and increase the cost of damages during an emergency event. The project
        included a specific component (A.2) to reconstruct a number of seawalls to a high and
        more durable design standard for future adoption by MWTI.

   (e) Adequacy of Participatory Processes. The investigation and design activities under CERP
        followed the provisions of the Consultation Framework successfully established under
        the ongoing Bank-supported Infrastructure Asset Management Project. The natural risk
        management approach was based on the development of district-level Coastal
        Infrastructure Management Plans (CIMP), which involved substantial participation and
        consultation among affected communities, led by MNRE. Within the Samoan culture of a
        Matai or village chief speaking on behalf of all the people, this initiative introduced a
        new dimension of "bottom-up" participatory community planning. It recently received an
        international award (from New Zealand) and is regarded as a best-practice case for the
        region. The high level of community in-kind contributions to the small grants component
        also confirms the widespread awareness and acceptance of this project subcomponent
        among the beneficiaries.

2.2 Implementation

2.2.1   The project was not restructured, nor was it at risk at any time. In mid-2004, a new team
assumed supervision responsibility under a new Sydney-based task manager. Although the larger
works subcomponents (A.2 and B.2) experienced some initial delays, project management
performance throughout the life of the project was rated as Satisfactory and Implementation
Progress was rated Satisfactory other than during 2005 when it was rated Moderately
Satisfactory, reflecting the time being taken to repackage the works, finalize contracts, etc. As
discussed below, all project outcomes were largely achieved and in some cases, exceeded.




                                                  7

2.2.2     Coastal Resilience Recovery Outcome (US$4.24 million; 69 percent of total cost3). This
core component was the most successful of the components from several perspectives. First,
within ten months after the cyclone, and to ensure that the country was not caught unprepared in
another cyclone season, the Government quickly used its own resources to fully clear all debris,
open up key affected main roads and repair the denuded armor layers of seawalls that had been
cyclone-damaged. By the end of the project, selected seawalls along a 14 km length of high-risk
coastline on both main islands (compared to an original project target of 10 km) had been
reconstructed and upgraded to a high design standard and 20,000m3 beach nourishment and dune
stabilization with protective fences and access ways had been implemented. Further non-
structural solutions also were achieved with active involvement and support from communities.
These include the completion of 50 (compared to an original target of 25) small grants for
replanting coastal coral gardens, establishing land plant nurseries, protecting communal fresh
water pools, re-establishing mangrove ecosystems with accompanying fish and crab breeding
grounds, and demarcating and enforcing "no catch" protection areas.

2.2.3     For the structural reconstruction and upgrading works, following project effectiveness,
site inspections were originally made of a long list of 50 sites on Upolu and Savai'i and specific
works to be undertaken by the Project were evaluated and selected according to agreed priority
criteria. The selected sites were then grouped into five packages for ease of bidding and contract
management. As noted above, there were some delays in finalizing the designs and the letting of
all of the larger works packages in line with original estimates. Also, since the MWTI was
undergoing internal restructuring at the time and initially did not have enough dedicated staff to
manage the project-related contracts, this highlighted some initial capacity constraints.
Administratively, the Attorney General's office was also apparently not clear about its role in
reviewing the contract documents and the task team had to clarify that with the Government's
signing of the project legal agreements, provisions governing use of Bank standard bidding
documents and other Safeguard measures were not subject to further review and adjustments by
the Attorney General's office on an individual basis..

2.2.4     Because Samoa's construction industry was not very large when the cyclone occurred
and it was just starting to expand in response to initiatives by the Government to promote greater
public-private-partnership (PPP) initiatives, the bidding process also showed several areas of
contractor-consultant weaknesses. For example, initial bids received were not properly prepared
in several respects (incomplete information, not enough liquid assets, equipment, history of past
activities, safeguards details, etc). As a result of joint reviews of options with the GoS and others,
the Government repackaged, phased and adjusted the packages and within a relatively short
period, bid prices, all from domestic contractors, became extremely competitive and responsive.

2.2.5     As a result of the combined efforts of counterpart staff, consultants and the project team,
implementation progress picked up and for the latter half of the (extended) project, progress was
Satisfactory. As the finally awarded contract prices on the three large works packages were
significantly lower than the engineer's estimates, in August 2007 the contract was amended to
reconstruct additional lengths of seawalls which were all completed to improved standards by
December 2007, falling slightly short of physical targets set at appraisal and the mid-term review.




3 Total project costs exclude the subcomponents A.1 and B.1 which were fully funded by the GoS. Project design had
included a provision for retroactive financing for eligible expenditures incurred by the Government on these
subcomponents. Because of the emergency, the GoS increased several ongoing maintenance contracts to do the works
quickly. MWTI was undergoing internal restructuring and to some extent this also affected its ability to disaggregate
and certify Cyclone Heta-related maintenance expenses from its national maintenance operations.




                                                             8

2.2.6    Strong stakeholder commitment and collaborative working arrangements between the
Government and participating communities were an important element in the implementation
process. In keeping with local tradition, communities provided significant contributions of
voluntary inputs to identify, plan and implement subprojects. Ex post site visits to a sample of the
subprojects confirmed that they are being well utilized, operated and maintained by the
community groups.

2.2.7    Road Infrastructure Rehabilitation Outcome (US$616,000; 10 percent of total cost).
Under subcomponent B.1, the Government used its own resources to replace or rehabilitate as
needed, road pavements, drainage structures, slope stabilization and road furniture damaged by
the cyclone. Main transportation corridors were opened on both islands within weeks of the
cyclone. A total of 9.06 km. spot maintenance (with a roughly estimated value of WST 6m) was
carried out along 17 km of affected shoreline (compared to an original target of 15 km of
shoreline) all within ten months of the cyclone's passage.

2.2.8    The original target was to reconstruct about five small river crossings but with the actual
cost coming in higher than originally anticipated, only four of these could be reconstructed. The
Government is planning to finance the fifth one with its own resources later on. As noted earlier,
during appraisal, approximate figures were used for several targets where key data was not
available or decisions were yet to be made. For these bridges, reconstructing four instead of
"about five" crossings falls within the original target as originally envisaged.

2.2.9    The design of the replacement bridges was not only to repair the transport links but also
to allow freer drainage, thus facilitating the natural flushing and replenishment of upstream
ecosystems. For these works, whilst the pace of construction and the quality of works were
acceptable, there were some special circumstances which should be noted.                    Extensive
consultation with the affected communities has already been mentioned as a positive element of
the project; however, such consultation also contributed to some delays arising from communities
seeking many design changes, enhancements and sometimes, even trying to relocate the
structures from locations determined to be technically appropriate and needed.

2.2.10 Subsequent to its completion, localized flooding at one of the bridges seemed to indicate
that its design may have been altered without appropriate documentation being made of the
necessary review and approvals being followed. The Government acted in a timely way, with the
MWTI taking over full supervision of the remaining works in the last six months of the project
and some remedial actions were taken. However, this case continues to be a matter of dispute
between the Government and the design and supervision consultants six month after the project
closed and it has since been taken to contract arbitration for resolution.

2.2.11 Works were also impeded by unseasonal and continuous heavy rains and flash floods.
Earlier lack of equipment and inadequate site monitoring and supervision at the some of the sites
on the part of the contractor and supervising engineers were addressed and while they led to some
delays, these were not substantial.

2.2.12 Implementation Support Outcome (US$1.27 million, 21 percent of total cost).

Overall the works were well investigated and designed, taking into account local topography and
wave conditions, and likely will be able to withstand future cyclones without unduly undermining
natural beach conditions. However, as discussed above, the pace of implementation especially in
the first year of the project was slower than planned, and in the last six months, MWTI assumed
full responsibility for supervision of the remaining works.

The management and coordination of project activities, procurement, financial management and
accounting, monitoring of environmental safeguards requirements, auditing of project accounts,
monitoring and reporting, etc. over the life of the project were all efficiently carried out. The total



                                                   9

cost of this support was understandably higher than originally appraised as the project was
extended twice by a total of 18 months.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

2.3.1   Since this was an emergency-response project to help reconstruct post-cyclone damage, it
was expected that upon completion, these works would revert to the entities with original
responsibility for their operation, maintenance and utilization. No provision was initially made to
formally evaluate the outcomes or impact of the project activities and the DFA sets out seven
Performance Indicators for outputs only. The new task team (which assumed supervision
responsibility in mid-2004) sought to sharpen the monitoring and evaluation framework by
linking these outputs to the overarching project development objectives. The result was a clearer
link between the various outputs and three agreed outcomes indicators.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

2.4.1   Environmental Assessment. The cyclone caused widespread damage to roads, seawalls,
dunes, trees and domestic structures. Project activities were designed to restore structures in their
existing positions as well as to assist ecosystem recovery and so had a beneficial impact. A set of
operating procedures was agreed for routine smaller works with minimal environmental impacts,
based on a set of Codes of Environmental Practice (COEPs). Larger subprojects, with potentially
higher environmental impacts and beyond the scope of the COEPs, were subject to
Environmental Management Plans (EMPs) being drawn up and approved by the Government's
Planning and Urban Management Authority in accordance with the approved Environmental
Policy Framework (EPF). Both an EPF and Land and Resettlement Framework (LARF) were
adopted and legally binding on the Government as one of the conditions of project effectiveness.
No safeguards were triggered throughout the life of the project. Both Bank and counterpart
safeguard experts monitored and ensured that all Safeguard conditions were being observed. All
Safeguards assessments carried out during implementation were Satisfactory.

2.4.2   Land tenure. Most of the activities under the project were restoration works or
community-based activities and did not require any new land acquisition from local land owners
or the alienation of customary land. Land ownership and related issues were not triggered in the
project works; to the degree that they may have been a factor (e.g., in some of the community
driven development tasks such as fresh water ponds, mangrove planting, roadside plantings, etc.,
they were addressed at the village chief and council level).

2.4.3   Financial Aspects. Financial Management and Financial Performance compliance is
rated Satisfactory. The project initially relied on GoS Treasury systems but due to a lack of
reporting capability within the GoS system, a parallel reporting system, using spreadsheets and
reconciled to Treasury accounts, was established and used by the PMT. The Financial
Management of the project accounts was consistently rated as Satisfactory throughout the life of
the project, as was the Financial Performance and subsequently, Counterpart Funding availability.
The project accounts were audited by the Government Auditor General throughout the life of the
project and audited financial statements were submitted on time or within a month of the due
date. No material issues of concern were raised in any of the audits. The closing date of the
project coincided with the close of the financial year June 30, 2008. As there were only a limited
number of transactions to be processed after the close of the project, IDA agreed to extend the
delivery date of the final audit (long period audit) for the year ended June 30, 2008 from
December 31, 2008 to April 30, 2009. For various reasons related to the way its own financial
system was set up, the GoS tended to make its payments directly and then claim reimbursement
of eligible expenditures through the designated account at a later date, sometimes with a lag of
several months. Towards the end of the project, the cumulative effect of this practice made it


                                                  10

difficult to accurately monitor available IDA funds (exacerbated at the time by both the declining
USD and the approval in November 2007 of a number of variation orders providing for additional
works under subcomponent A.2). As a result, the GoS ended up paying for several tasks costing
slightly more than (about WST 57,0004) project funds available for reimbursement The
Government agreed to fully finance this amount and the financial management rating of the
project remains Satisfactory.

2.4.4    Procurement. Procurement of works, goods and services was carried out in accordance
with Bank Guidelines. Bidding processes were conducted in a fair and transparent manner.
However, in the first year of the project, a modification to the packaging arrangements of the civil
works contracts (seawalls) and unfamiliarity of new MWTI staff with large procurement caused
occasional difficulties in ensuring timely implementation. Appropriate IDA feedback was
provided and upstream assistance offered to assist in a smooth contract-management process.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

2.5.1      Operation and Maintenance arrangements. Under the project, several small community-
based facilities (protected water springs, seedling nurseries, protected fish breeding grounds, etc.)
were constructed with a clear commitment for required maintenance to be provided by the
communities. Several supervision missions visited completed works and found the community
groups operating and in attendance at the facilities. The roads and public seawalls constructed
under the project have been incorporated into the asset management database of MWTI are being
maintained with annual budget provisions5. Except for periodic inspections and general
maintenance such as vegetation control, most of the culverts, crossings and other such structures
were designed with very little active maintenance requirements. From both mission site visits as
well as reports prepared by the counterparts, the responsible authorities appear to be doing the
needed monitoring and operation and maintenance tasks for the project works.

2.5.2      Sustaining reforms and institutional capacity. Sustaining institutional reforms made
under the project is very likely, given the clear recognition by both Government policy-makers
and staff as well as beneficiary communities of the positive impact of the well-constructed works.
While many residents naturally tend to seek the hard solutions, many also accept the soft ones
now that they have seen firsthand the resilience capabilities of sand dunes, mangrove areas, coral
reefs, etc.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

3.1.1    Relevance of Objectives. The objectives of the project remain relevant to the
Government's current medium-term Strategy for the Development of Samoa 2008-2012.
Specifically, Goal 7: Environmental Sustainability and Disaster Risk Reduction which, among
other things, calls for the "continuation of work on coastal management and adaptation programs
for vulnerable villages and other coastal locations". The Project objectives also are consistent
with the Bank's current Regional Engagement Framework FY2006-2009 for Pacific Islands
which states that "The Bank will continue its assistance in helping the Government to manage the
risks of Samoa's vulnerability to natural hazards".


4 According to PMU records as at November 20, 2008.

5 For example, MWTI's Road Asset Maintenance votes of WST17.3 million and WST 15.7 million in 2007/08 and
2008/09 respectively for supervising, monitoring and carrying out Road Routine Maintenance.



                                                          11

3.1.2   Design and Implementation. Project design was relevant to the needs of the Government
and people of Samoa in the aftermath of Cyclone Heta. Implementation, through the two central
Government Ministries tasked with disaster reduction and management (MNREM) and transport
and infrastructure services (MWTI), as well as by community-based groups for recovery of local
ecosystems also was appropriate and ensured that reconstruction efforts were coordinated and
undertaken at different levels across the country. The use of both structural and non-structural
interventions introduced communities to the value of strengthening the resilience of natural
ecosystems, and capacity building through on-the-job experience in design standards and contract
management was important for institutional strengthening at the central Government level,
resulting in central agencies being better prepared to respond in the event of future disasters.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

3.2.1      ICR rating: Overall achievement of Project Development Objectives is Satisfactory.

3.2.2      The objective of the project was to assist the Government in recovering resilience of
the natural and built environments damaged by the cyclone to a sustainable level so that the
vulnerability of the people and the economy to prevailing natural hazards is reduced.

3.2.3      The project component targets were all largely achieved and in some cases exceeded.
Works completed under the project not only repaired damaged roads and seawalls but also
reconstructed them to a more durable standard along several vulnerable coastal areas. Activities
under the project also provided the Government, local construction industry and communities
with models of both structural and non-structural protection devices (seawalls, sand dunes,
mangroves, beach nourishment, etc.), demonstrating the merits of this double-pronged approach
that feasibly can be replicated by the responsible agencies in the future. The use of these
structural and non-structural approaches by both the authorities and communities contributed to
the recovery of coastal resilience to natural hazards, to nurturing the recovery of fragile coastal
ecosystems and to rehabilitation of damaged land transport communications, i.e. to achievement
of the PDOs.

3.3 Efficiency

3.3.1   Economic Rate of Return and Cost Effectiveness Not applicable

        The project was an emergency response operation and no economic or financial analysis
was undertaken during appraisal. However, the Bank's 2006 Policy Note., "Not if, but When"
contains some germane cost-benefit and related analyses of Risk Management of Natural Hazards
(RMNH) measures in some Pacific and Caribbean Islands. For Samoa, where the project works
were carried out to higher standards than the existing ones, the study noted, "In 1991, cyclone Val
hit Samoa with maximum wind speeds of 140 knots causing massive damage ­ equivalent to 230
per cent of the country's real 2004 GDP. By contrast, the impact of cyclone Heta in 2004 (with
wind speeds of up to 170 knots) translated to just 9 per cent of Samoa's GDP. While the two
cyclones were not directly comparable, having different tracks and duration, the effects of
cyclone Heta would have been far worse if the country had not invested in risk management for
natural hazards through the 1990s. Shoreline protection systems designed to cyclone standards
performed well and sustained minor damage compared to adjacent areas with substandard
coastal protection systems."     Similar significant benefits were also estimated for the Cook
Islands, the Federated States of Micronesia and the Caribbean.

        The following is an assessment based on a Value for Money Assessment (VFMA)
approach to rate the extent to which the project operated efficiently and effectively with due
regard to economy and quality. The VFMA is based on a number of criteria (below), on all of
which the project rates positively:


                                                  12

   (a) Project investments met the objectives for which they were conceived ­ rated Positive
        (justification: see section 3.2 achievement of DOs);
   (b) The financial, human and physical resources consumed in realizing the investments made
        are consistent with acceptable norms ­ rated Positive (justification: see section 2.4.7
        procurement review; overall, actual costs (excluding additional works the Government
        chose to implement to its own account) were within 1 percent of the estimates provided at
        appraisal (justification: see Annex 1);
   (c) The process through which the investments were realized are consistent with accepted
        rules and regulations ­ rated Positive (justification: see section 2.2 implementation);
   (d) The quality of finished structural investments were constructed to the durable standard
        agreed upon and competitive bidding processes gave rise to acceptable and fairly priced
        unit rates ­ rated Positive (justification: see section 2.2); and
   (e) The impact and utilization of the investments is to the degree expected ­ rated Positive
        (justification: see section 3.2 achievement of DOs).

3.3.2   Financial rate of return

Not applicable.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
3.4.1   Rating: Satisfactory

3.4.2   The overall rating is based on

   (a) the ongoing relevance of the project to both the Government's national programs and the
        Bank's Regional Strategy (see Section 3.1);
   (b) a review of achievements of the main project objectives and positive assessment of the
        likelihood of long term sustainability of the outcomes (see Section 3.2);
   (c) compliance with safeguards (see Section 2.4); and
   (d) the efficiency assessment (see Section 3.3.1).

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts.

3.5.1. Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development. The project contributed to
poverty alleviation in Samoa in several ways. Firstly, access to affected rural settlements in
vulnerable coastal areas was reopened in a timely way after the cyclone struck, with only a brief
disruption in access to markets and social facilities. Secondly, the design solutions introduced in
the reconstruction of bridges as well as the eligible activities supported by the small grants, both
supported improvements to the natural environment and in particular to fish and crab breeding
areas, an important part of rural communities' food intake. Similarly, community-enforced "no
catch" areas in offshore fish breeding areas also have contributed to improvements in fish stock
levels. Anecdotal interviews with family heads in some of the affected areas confirmed these
findings.

3.5.2.  Other unintended outcomes. Importantly, the successful small grants program was
implemented by existing community-based groups. During the latter half of the project, the
subprojects to be funded were identified through the community-generated Coastal Management
Improvement Plans (CIM Plans) prepared under the SIAM2 project. In response to the
observation that the first generation plans were unduly focused upon the village matai (elders),
the range of consultation techniques and the method of consultation was amended to include a
wider range of village stakeholders, in particular women and untitled youths. This process finally
involved over 190 village and district meetings and workshops and involvement by over 5,000
people (2,100 matai, 1,200 women and 1,500 untitled youth), representing approximately 8


                                                    13

percent of Samoa's total resident and 15 percent of Samoa's adult/working age population. The
recent award from the New Zealand Planning Institute of this broad-based community approach
to land-use planning and development in Samoa confirms the significance of this achievement.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

Not carried out.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

4.1.     ICR rating: Overall assessment of Risk to Development Outcomes is Negligible. The risk
to development outcome at the time of the project closing is rated as Negligible, due to a number
of factors discussed below.

4.2.     Political and institutional risks are negligible. Important preconditions for a sustainable
natural hazard resilience management system are in place. For example, the national goal of
environmental sustainability and disaster risk reduction is clearly articulated in the current
national five-year development strategy (the Strategy for the Development of Samoa 2008-2012).
The Strategy also recognizes that vulnerability to natural disasters may increase in the future due
to the effects of climate change and pledges the Government to promoting the integration of
environmental sustainability in all its policies, programs and projects. At the grass-roots level,
activities related to planning and undertaking small works, coastal coral and mangrove replanting,
and beach nourishment for coastal resilience have been embraced by communities and assets
created under the project are being well maintained both by Government ministries and
community-based groups.

4.3.     Technical risks are negligible. Supervision of reconstruction works for a number of
seawalls and bridges was taken over by MWTI during the last six months of the project,
demonstrating the Ministry's commitment to ensuring the works were well supervised. All large
works contracts under the project were implemented by local construction contractors, thus
demonstrating a local capacity to implement such works to the high, durable design standards set
by the project. MNRE and MWTI staff report that they communicate well when planning new
works on Government programs which is helping to ensure that "soft solutions" and
environmental considerations introduced under the program are now being routinely included in
Government-funded ongoing construction and maintenance programs. In addition, the
reconstructed and repaired structures and roads are all captured in MWTI's asset maintenance
program which the counterpart staff has reported as being adequately funded for the past four
years.

4.4.     Natural disaster risks in Samoa as elsewhere in the Pacific are moderate. Due to its
location, Samoa faces high exposure to natural disasters of varying intensity. This may create
incentives for the authorities to be proactive in sustaining the protective structures developed.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Highly Satisfactory.

5.1.1. IDA was able to respond to the Government's request to provide supplementary
financing to address the cyclone damage in a timely way. Within a few weeks of the cyclone, an
identification mission had been fielded. Appraisal and negotiations took place simultaneously,
within three months of the cyclone, and Board approval was forthcoming within four months of


                                                   14

the cyclone. Activities designed under the project, also responded directly to the needs identified
by the Government as high priority and for which it had insufficient own-funds to adequately
respond.

5.1.2. Notwithstanding this degree of timeliness, the project team drew from lessons of
experience elsewhere and provided a well-balanced approach to include both structural and non-
structural solutions. As such, not only were visible, "hard" remedial works undertaken, but a
series of environmentally sensitive interventions were planned and implemented. This involved a
high degree participatory planning and implementation by community groups, thus ensuring a
degree of local "ownership" and sustainability of the solutions. New, high design standards for
the seawall structures and bridges also were introduced, making these investments relatively
durable against future natural hazards.

5.1.3. Finally, given the small size of Samoa and relatively small operations portfolio in the
country, project design was kept simple with only two project components (with the third being
for project support) and two implementing agencies. The size of the project and scope of
activities under it also meant that domestic contractors were able to successfully bid for the works
and local construction capabilities could be retained within Samoa.

(b)   Quality of Supervision
Rating: Satisfactory

5.1.4. IDA conducted regular supervision missions -- at least two per year, with additional
special visits made when needed. The supervision missions regularly met with various
stakeholders, periodically inspected physical works in the field and carried out rapid appraisal
interviews with community groups. In addition, at key junctures, the task team also had weekly
conference calls with counterpart staff to facilitate the process. Over the course of the project
there were only two task team leaders, thus providing a degree of continuity to the Borrower. In
late-2004, the headquarters-based task manager passed on responsibility to a Sydney-based task
manager and team which had an appropriate skills mix for the task.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory.

5.1.5. Through systematic supervision and the collaborative relations that were built up between
IDA's project team and Government counterpart officials, early implementation delays were
addressed and the project ended having successfully achieved its development objective.

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance
Rating: Satisfactory.

5.2.1. In the initial year of the project, the Government itself (through MWTI) undertook
immediate remedial clearing and repair operations. When the initial engineer's estimates for the
works indicated that the cost of components A.1 and B.1 in particular were higher than originally
estimated, the Government also chose to fully fund these components as well as meeting all
counterpart funding requirements in a timely way. After the initial rapid response was over, the
longer term design approvals and procurement for the larger works contracts under the project
took longer to effect, in part due to the need for more resources to be dedicated to these processes.
Once these issues were raised and discussed by the IDA project team, the Government responded



                                                   15

positively by both dedicating specific officers within MWTI to the project activities as well as
hiring new staff in the Attorney General's office to facilitate the clearance process and no further
delays were experienced. As a general policy, the importance of adaptation and natural hazard
risk reduction is now one of the core development goals of the Government and features
prominently in the national Strategy for the Development of Samoa 2008-2012.


(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Highly Satisfactory.

5.2.2. The Government created a Project Steering Committee (SC), comprising representatives
of each of the implementing agencies, associated Ministries and community and chaired by the
Chief Executive Officer of the Ministry of Finance (MOF). The SC provided overall guidance to
the project and monitored project implementation progress. A project management team (PMT)
was established under the SC, to provide overall project management, monitoring and
coordinating functions while MWTI and MNRE each implemented their respective components.

5.2.3. Other than the first year of the project, during which time MWTI was undergoing internal
restructuring and was challenged to dedicate sufficient staff time to the project to ensure agreed
implementation progress, MWTI carried out its implementation responsibilities in accordance
with procurement procedures and agreed work plans. It routinely insisted on a high quality of
works to be constructed and in the last six months of the project, chose not to extend the
supervision consultancy for the ongoing works but assumed that responsibility upon itself in order
to more closely supervise the quality of construction.

5.2.4. MNRE implemented its relevant components in accordance with agreed workplans and
procurement procedures. It provided exemplary leadership in building community awareness for
the small grants component and during subsequent implementation of this subcomponent. The
target number of small grants was thus doubled during the life of the project. Understanding of
the need for adaptation and maintenance of the assets created under this subcomponent is strong
in Samoa.

5.2.5. The Project Management Team provided strong management and coordination support to
both the Ministry of Finance and the implementing Ministries and at the end of the project, it had
met all targets and was able to do so within the original appraised estimate of costs, albeit that the
Government had chosen to fully fund some subcomponents and also extend some of the works to
its own account.


(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Satisfactory.
5.2.6. The Government's commitment and implementation in the early years of the project in
taking care of the physical works in the aftermath of the cyclone, were commendable. During the
first year after effectiveness, there were some unexpected challenges as all parties took some time
to orient themselves and also to address some capacity and related issues. While these led to some
delays in implementation, these were resolved and subsequently the Borrower and implementing
agencies demonstrated strong commitment to and ownership of the project and its outputs and
outcomes.

6. Lessons Learned

6.1.     Several lessons were learned from the project that would be relevant for future similar
operations both in Samoa and elsewhere, particularly in Small Island States.



                                                  16

6.2.      Firstly, whilst rapid recovery activities are fundamentally needed in the aftermath of an
emergency, there is often a preference by communities and Government agencies for familiar
hard structural solutions. These should be well-designed, taking account local topography and
wave conditions, if they are not to result in further loss of natural features such as beaches and if
they are to be durable against future hazards. Furthermore, soft protection measures (such as
beach nourishment, vegetation replanting and inland drainage) should be implemented in parallel
with construction of seawalls and similar structures in order to strengthen the ability of the natural
ecosystems themselves to withstand future hazards. The value of soft protection measures needs
to be thoroughly and carefully introduced to communities (and some agencies) to be acceptable
and thereafter maintained.

6.3.      Secondly, the size of community grants used for identifying, planning and undertaking
both structural and non-structural solutions need not be large. What is more important is the
participatory process by which appropriate solutions are identified, so that there is an ongoing
community commitment to provide its own additional resources and to ensure that assets are
maintained and well used after the "project" has closed. Central Government ministries have an
important role to play in this regard, either directly through their own structures or through NGOs
and community based systems (or both), such as building interest in and "marketing" the
availability and purpose of grants, ensuring that the grants are easily accessible by communities
for eligible activities, providing engineering/environmental and other technical inputs to
communities at key points, and in encouraging communities to take ownership of the eventual
assets. The Samoan CERP case provided an excellent example of partnership and mutual trust
between central Government and communities that made use of existing community-based
structures and procedures for planning and implementation of not only emergency reconstruction
activities but also of longer-term adaptation measures to offset some of the relentless effects of
climate change.

6.4.      Thirdly, the depreciation of the US dollar against the local currency towards the end of
the project, exacerbated by long periods between actual expenditure on the ground by the
Government and submission of withdrawal applications to IDA, was not foreseen at the start of
the project and so not fully appreciated by the implementing agencies. As a result, although the
final costs of the project in local currency (comprising the bulk of procurement) were consistent
with the appraisal estimates, the rate of drawdown from the foreign currency denominated grant
and credit were not fully factored in when additional works were approved in the last year of the
project (late 2007). In this case, the Government was willing and able to absorb the additional
cost; however, there is need to ensure that for future projects, the Government's system is geared
to careful monitoring of foreign exchange fluctuations so as to avoid such information gaps.

6.5.      Finally, in small countries with a relatively small construction sector, the methodology
for calculating contracts' estimates needs careful consideration. In some circumstances, where
estimates could be out by a significant factor, bids may need to be repackaged (in accordance
with the available budget) and re-advertised, resulting in implementation delays. In such
operating circumstances, project engineers need to carefully consider local variables (e.g.
outdated historical rates data or logistical challenges caused by remoteness) when developing
their estimates and also make better use of "slice and package" approaches6.


6 Slice and Package: A procedure whereby a large homogeneous project is sliced into smaller similar contracts that are
bid simultaneously so as to attract the interest of both small and large firms. Firms may offer bids on individual
contracts (slices) or on a group of similar contracts (packages) and award is made to the combination of bids offering
the lowest cost to the Employer.



                                                            17

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

The Borrower received a draft of the ICR and collaborated with the IDA project team in
finalizing the ICR. A separate Borrower's Contribution is attached at Annex 7.


(b) Cofinanciers

There were no co-financiers to the project.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders.

None received.




                                                18

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a)       Project Cost by Component (in US$ Million equivalent)

        Components                     Appraisal                Actual/Latest                 Percentage of
                                        Estimate                   Estimate7                   Appraisal

                                      US$ millions               US$ millions

                                    (WST millions)             (WST millions8)

COASTAL RESILIENCE                         3.25                       4.24                          116%
RECOVERY                                  (8.95)                     (11.57)

ROAD                                       1.23                       0.55                          40%
INFRASTRUCTURE
REHABILITATION                            (3.37)                      (1.5)

PROJECT                                    0.98                       1.27                          131%
IMPLEMENTATION
SUPPORT                                   (2.69)                     (3.46)

Total Baseline Cost                        5.46                       6.06                         111%

                                          (15.01)                   (16.53)

Physical Contingencies                     0.55
and                                        (1.5)

Price Contingencies

Total Project Costs                        6.01                       6.06                         101%

                                          (16.51)                   (16.53)

Project Preparation Fund                     0

Front-end fee IBRD                           0

Total IDA Financing                        4.47                       4.47
Required




7 As at October 31, 2008, when Project accounts were closed..


Total project costs exclude the subcomponents A.1 and B.1 which were fully funded by the GoS. Project design had
included a provision for retroactive financing for eligible expenditures incurred by the Government on these
subcomponents. Because of the emergency, the GoS increased several ongoing maintenance contracts to do the works
quickly. MWTI was undergoing internal restructuring and to some extent this also affected its ability to disaggregate
and certify Cyclone Heta-related maintenance expenses from its national maintenance operations.

8 Exchange rate as at October 31, 2008 of US$1 = WST2.7307




                                                         19

(b) Financing ($ `000)


                                       Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                       Estimate   Estimate    Percentage
        Source of Funds    Type of Co-
                            financing                            of
                                        (US$        (US$      Appraisal
                                       millions)  millions)

Borrower                                1.53        1.666       109%

International Development     Grant
Association (IDA)                       2.39        2.37       99.2%
                            (H-0830)

International Development     Credit
Association (IDA)                       2.08        2.01       99.7%
                           (IDA-3885)

TOTAL                                   6.00        6.05        101%




                                      20

Annex 2. Outputs by Component


A. Coastal Resilience Recovery ($3.65million PAD, $4.24 million actual). Overall performance
for the five subcomponents under this component is rated Highly Satisfactory.

1.    Cyclone Heta caused damage to existing coastal protection works around Samoa, in particular
on the northern sides of the two main islands, Upolu and Savai'i. Generally, the well-designed
works that had been constructed under the previous and ongoing World Bank supported Emergency
Road Rehabilitation Project (ERRP) and the Infrastructure Asset Management Project (Phase 1)
were able to withstand the effects of the cyclone. Much of the damage documented by MWTI in the
immediate aftermath of the storm was loss of riprap from the seawalls and washout of adjacent road
segments, with isolated failures over short segments. The immediate local emergency response was
to back-tip material into the eroded segments but oftentimes this was without adequate grading of
materials and without making use of structural and filter layers or appropriate toe and crest
detailing.

2.    In discussions with the Government, it was agreed that support for the restoration and
improvement of coastal resilience would be needed in three areas:

      (a)    seawalls where repair works were required to properly restore the armor layers;

      (b)    seawalls where the design solution entailed complete removal and then reconstruction
             of the inner-core material with appropriate overlying filter and structural layers, and

      (c)    non-structural, "soft" solutions at some sites to maintain the natural beach ecosystems.

3.    The project design was made up of five subcomponents, comprising:

      (a)    two structural subcomponents, namely, the repair and rehabilitation of shoreline
             structures in affected areas on Upolu and Savai'i and the reconstruction and upgrading
             of shoreline protection structures in affected areas on Savai'i; and

      (b)    three non-structural subcomponents, namely restoring the natural resilience of the
             shorelines in affected areas on Upolu and Savai'i; providing grants to improve the
             resilience of coastal environments and communities in affected areas on Upolu and
             Savai'i; and development and implementation of recovery plans in affected areas.


A.1 Structural Rehabilitation (Savai'i and Upolu)

            PAD:       $980,000 (WST 2,690,000)

            Actual:    $ WST 3,558,500 estimate)

4.    This subcomponent is rated as Satisfactory. In the immediate aftermath of the cyclone, the
Government, through MWTI, began early recovery operations on both Upolu and Savai'i by
repairing and rehabilitating the denuded armor layers of existing seawalls that had been damaged by
the Cyclone (and also cleared away debris and opened the affected main roads, see subcomponent
B.1).

5.    The preparation of designs and procurement of works contracts to implement the planned
structural rehabilitation was delayed by more than six months. The initial designs by the design
consultants recommended levels of five to six meters above the mean high water mark. The client
considered this too high and likely to be obstructive to community movement to and from the sea as



                                                     21

well as being imposing upon the village setting, hence the variations to have these lowered to three
meters. The rehabilitation could not wait for that long as land transportation especially along the
main arterial roads (west coast and east coast roads) needed immediate treatment.

6.    The Government program comprised repair and rehabilitation of short lengths (10-100m
strips) of riprap shoreline defense systems, including adding a toe and additional rocks to restore the
original design shape of the seawall.

7.    In all, it carried out a total of 7.1 km9 spot maintenance along 10 km length of shoreline (the
original assessment of damage was 14 km length affected shoreline but this was reviewed during
implementation and reduced by agreement between the IDA task team with the Government during
the Mid-Term Review).

8.         The works were fully completed within about 10 months of the Cyclone (largely
completed by December 2005). Project design had included a provision for retroactive financing for
up to 20 percent of the total IDA funds, for eligible expenditures incurred by the Government from
the date of appraisal until the project became effective. However, at the time, MWTI was
undergoing internal restructuring and to some extent, this affected its ability to disaggregate and
certify Cyclone Heta-related maintenance expenses from its national maintenance operations. In
addition, the Government was concerned that the bid prices of works proposed under other
subcomponents may be higher than originally estimated. It therefore decided not to make use of the
retroactive financing facility and instead, made an internal reallocation of the IDA funds from
subcomponents A.1 and B.1 to subcomponents A.2 (reconstruction of seawalls) and B.2 (bridge
repairs). As these subcomponents are all within the same disbursement category in Financing
Agreement, a formal reallocation was not undertaken. Fully funding the rehabilitation works from
its own account, the Government also decided to extend the works it undertook.

  A.2      Structural Reconstruction and Upgrading (Savai'i)

            PAD:          $1,718,000     (WST 4,717,000)

            Actual:       $1,964,835     (WST 5,365,375)

9.         This subcomponent is rated as Highly Satisfactory. The intent was to reconstruct and
upgrade about 2.22 km of shoreline protection structures at selected locations so that they could
withstand prevailing natural hazard risks along a coastal length of 10 km. The project design and
supervision consultant's contract became effective January 24, 2005. Site inspections were made of
a long list of 50 sites on Upolu and Savai'i and specific works to be undertaken by the Project were
evaluated and selected according to agreed criteria. The selected sites were then grouped into five
packages for ease of bidding and contract management.

10.   The main works under the subcomponent were:

Package A: Solosolo seawall at Vainamo Bay, Solosolo along the West Coast Road on Upolu.


10.1.    The works comprised reconstruction of 950 meters of seawall by addition of a toe,
modifying the existing crest and altering the slopes and armor layers. The Solosolo area is a high-
energy coastal area with no protective reef. The main coastal access road and other infrastructure,
homesteads and land along this area are in constant danger of storm damage and thus repair works
to a high standard were a priority before the next cyclone season commenced.



  9  Upolu: Salepouae (120m), Levi (400m), Tufulele (100m), Utualii (100m), Faleasiu (240m), Nofoalii (20m), Matautu
  Tai Vaiala (1,100m), Apia-Falefa (1,550m), Siumu (500m). Savai'i : Fagasa (279m), Sataua Hospital (333m),
  Faletagaloa-Sasina (1,000m), Asau (200m), Puleia (800m), Faga-Puapua (375m). Total: 7,117m



                                                          22

10.2.    The engineer's estimate for the contract was WST 4,508,690. Five bids were received on
the bid opening date of August 29, 2005. The contract award was in an amount of WST 1,722,192
and commenced on June 1, 2006 with a completion date of January 24, 2007. The evaluation of
bids and final award of the contract took a lengthy nine months to complete. Amongst the problems
faced were that MWTI did not initially have dedicated staff to manage the project-related contracts
and there also were delays in the Attorney General's office which wished to scrutinize the standard
bidding documents.

10.3.    During the course of the contract, progress was further impeded by unseasonally heavy
rainfall, high seas and insufficient supply of primary armor rocks until an alternative source had to
be found.

10.4.    The engineer's estimate for reconstruction costs for this and the other packages was risk-
based (Hong Kong) method in order to cater for the international competitive bidding process to be
followed. The bidding process turned out to be very competitive with five bids received, all from
domestic contractors. As the awarded contract price was significantly lower than the estimates, in
August 2007 the contract was varied by an additional amount of WST 948,400 to reconstruct an
additional length (650m) of the Solosolo seawall and also to reconstruct the Leusoali'i/ Luatuanuu
seawall. The extended contract was completed to a good standard on December 12, 2007.

Package C: Savai'i seawalls at Saleia, Fagasa, Sataua Village and Satatua Hospital. (Due to
budget constraints, seawall reconstruction at Manase west was not initially undertaken).

10.5.      The reconstruction works comprised addition of a toe, modifying the existing crest and
altering the slopes and armor layers on the seawalls. The works included the recovery and re-use of
existing rocks, supply and special placement of additional rock armor and under-layers, extension
of existing drainage culverts and associated minor works such as concrete steps. They entailed
reconstruction of 520m at Saleia seawall, 140m at Fagasa seawall, 265m at Sataua Hospital seawall
and 350m at Sataua Village seawall.

10.6.      The engineer's estimate for the contract was WST 5,170,290 (excluding beach
nourishment). Three bids were received on the bid opening date of October 31, 2005. Only one bid
was evaluated as substantially responsive and the price offered in this bid for one of the crossings
was not acceptable. In order to stay within the available budget, the Government therefore reduced
the scope of works and readvertised. New bids were opened on August 28, 2006, ten months after
the first bid opening date. The final contract award was in an amount of WST 3,708,330 (covering
both seawall reconstruction and beach nourishment) and commenced on November 23, 2006 with
an original completion date of June, 2007, which was one of the motivating factors from the
Government to request a project extension.

10.7.      During the course of the contract, progress was highly satisfactory and completed one
month ahead of schedule despite heavy rains at the start of the contract. The quality of works was
good.

10.8.      As the awarded contract price was significantly lower than the engineer's estimates, the
contract was varied by an additional amount of WST 1,378,330 to extend the Saliea seawall
eastwards by 150m, and provide additional seawall protection at Manase (200m) and Sasina
(300m). The final contract was completed on December 12, 2007.




                                                   23

Package D: Upolu seawall at Malua.

10.9.       The scope of work of the contract was the reconstruction of 1,250m of the seawall at
Malua. The works included the recovery and re-use of existing rocks, supply and special placement
of additional rock armor and under-layers, extension of existing drainage culverts and associated
minor works such as concrete steps.

10.10.      During the engineering design phase, works were proposed at Malua seawall
(reconstruction), Leusoali'l seawall (reconstruction), Luatuanu' U-point seawall (reconstruction),
Saleimoa seawall (reconstruction), Solosolo village seawall (reconstruction), Apia reclaimed area
(rehabilitation) and Beach Road, Apia (rehabilitation) for which the engineer's estimate was WST
9,548,130. This was nearly three times the available funds under the project. Nonetheless, the
works were advertised. Samoa's construction industry is not very large and the initial bids received
(on October 31, 2005) were of a low quality with several procurement conditions (e.g. liquid asset
requirements) not met. Only one substantially responsive bid was received and the bid price was
substantially higher than the original appraised estimates (and thus the funds available) for the
works, although less than the engineer's estimate. To meet the funding constraints, the Government
reduced the scope of works to Malua seawall reconstruction only and re-advertised the contract.
The resultant contract was awarded at a contract price was WST 2,124,500. Given these lengthy
delays, the contract commenced on November 21, 2006, some 30 months after the project became
effective and one month before the original project closing date. This was one of the motivating
factors by the Government to request a project extension.

10.11.      During the course of the contract, progress was further impeded by unseasonably heavy
rainfall. Also the contractor experienced frequent equipment breakdowns which further slowed the
works and a contract extension had to be provided.

10.12.      In August 2007, as the contract price in local currency was less than the funds originally
provided for this subcomponent, MWTI approved a Variation Order to the contract to extend the
reconstruction of the Malua seawall by a further 50m and to reconstruct a 820m section of the
Saleimoa seawall. The value of the Variation Order was WST 1,399,850, bringing the total contract
price to WST 3,524,350. The contract was completed on December 12, 2007.

Package E: Aleipata Marine Protected Area Center.

10.13.      Works proposed under this contract were to strengthen the Marine Protected Area at
Aleipata building by replacing support poles and re-roofing. Due to budgetary constraints, it could
not be financed under the project and responsibility for the improvements was transferred to
MNREM for implementation under the A4 for Small Scale Resilience projects. The required works
were procured and completed by the Ministry, on May 15, 2006.

10.14.      Overall, subcomponent A.1 was highly satisfactory in that within the available budget,
the physical targets set at appraisal were largely met or exceeded ­ a total of 12 km (of shoreline
was finally protected to a high standard, compared to the original target of 10 km.

10.15.      In the early years of the project, implementation of the works was delayed by a number
of factors which resulted in the project needing to be extended by 18 months. Several problems and
causes of delay can be attributed to shortages of key staff in MWTI to review contract
documentation in a timely way, delays within the Attorney General's Office in providing timely
legal clearances of bid documents within set bid validity periods; and redesign (lowering) of some




                                                    24

key seawall designs to meet beneficiaries' preferences and needs for coastal access. There were also
some delays caused by factors outside of the Government control, including unseasonably high
rainfall and high seas at certain times. For these reasons, Project Implementation was rated as
moderately satisfactory from late 2005 through early 2006.

10.16.     However, following the Mid-Term Review the Government took a number of steps to
overcome these constraints (including recruiting more staff in the Attorney General's office and
providing dedicated key staff in MWTI to the project). From there onwards, implementation
progress greatly improved and all works contracts were completed by December 12, 2007 (and are
currently in defects liability period). The quality of works too were of a high standard with close
monitoring by MWTI which took full responsibility (from the consulting engineering firm) for
supervision for the last six months of the project.

  A.3 Non-Structural Rehabilitation (Savai'i and Upolu)- beach nourishment and dune stabilization
  at Avata and Tufutafoe.

            PAD:      $401,000 (WST 1,101,000)

            Actual:   $1,797,244 (WST 327,777 )

10.17.     This subcomponent is rated as Highly Satisfactory. It aimed to restore the natural
resilience of affected shorelines to withstand prevailing natural hazard risks through non-structural
measures including beach nourishment, stabilization of dunes and avoidance measures.

10.18.     Works under this subcomponent comprised a part of Package C. The scope of work of
part of the contract entailed nourishment of beaches for 20,000m3 of dune reconstruction at Avata,
Tufutafoe I and Tufutafoe II. Beach nourishment involves the recovery of sand from land and sea-
based sources, shaping into dunes, planting of vegetation and construction of protective fences and
access ways.

10.19.     The engineer's estimate for the contract was WST 900,000 (excluding seawall
reconstruction). Three bids were received on the bid opening date of October 31, 2005. Only one
bid was evaluated as substantially responsive and the price offered in this bid for one of the
crossings was not acceptable. In order to stay within the available budget, the Government therefore
reduced the scope of works on the seawall reconstruction elements and readvertised. New bids were
opened on August 28, 2006, ten months after the first bid opening date. The final contract award
was in an amount of WST 3,708,330 (covering both seawall reconstruction and beach nourishment)
and commenced on November 23, 2006 with an original completion date of June, 2007, which was
one of the motivating factors from the Government to request a project extension.

10.20.     During the course of the contract, progress was highly satisfactory and the contract was
completed one month ahead of schedule despite heavy rains at the start of the contract. The quality
of works was good.

10.21.     As the awarded contract price was significantly lower than the engineer's estimates, the
contract was varied by an additional amount of WST 1,378,330 to extend the seawall protections
though no further extensions were made to the beach nourishment/dune stabilization activities. The
final contract was completed on December 12, 2007.


  A.4     Small-scale Resilience (Savai'i and Upolu)

           PAD:      $133,000 (WST 364,000)



                                                    25

           Actual:    $224,790 (WST 613,834)


10.22.      This subcomponent is rated as Highly Satisfactory. The project supported subgrants to
local community groups to undertake various small-scale subprojects aimed at accelerating eco-
system restoration and enhancing the resilience of coastal environments against future possible
hazards, thereby improving protection of coastal resources and communities. Eligible activities
would be linked to effects from Cyclone Heta.

10.23.      The original target was to fund 25 small-scale, community- based subprojects. The
MNRE's Small Grants Scheme Manager operating under the Planning and Urban Management
Agency (PUMA) was responsible for coordinating activities to promote public awareness of the
scheme, solicit proposals form interested groups, coordinate their evaluation with technical support
from MNREMMNRE, prepare evaluation reports and technical recommendations to the Small
Grants Operations Committee for approval, and monitor and report on progress. A strong
partnership was formed between central Government and the community groups through the
implementation of the small-scale projects. At the start of each subproject, a Memorandum of
Understanding was signed between the Minister of Natural Resources and Environment and the
Pulenu'u (Mayor) and leaders of the community and on the successful completion of each small
subproject, an exchange of formal letters of thanks between the two parties took place.

10.24.      Grants of up to WST 15,000 were provided to the approved community groups in two
tranches, at inception and after verified completion in the initial stages of the project before being
increased to WST 20,000 after the Mid-term Review. The small works were planned, coordinated
and subsequently maintained through existing village based structures such as Komiti (women's
groups), Komiti a le Pulunu'u (members chosen by villagers and the Pulenu'u for special projects)
and/or the matai (elders). The project funds were used to purchase the materials for the works and
in most cases the taulele'a (untitled men) of the villages provided significant contributions of
voluntary labor to construct the works. In keeping with Samoan cultural traditions, there is free and
open access to all completed works by all members of the villages.

10.25.      In the latter years of the project, an increasing number of small works grant applications
were made as a result of needs identified by the coastal ecosystem recovery plans (see A.5 below)
as well as the community-generated Coastal Management Improvement Plans (CIM Plans) initiated
under the parallel, Bank-supported Samoa Infrastructure Asset Management Project. Under the
second phase of this APL project (SIAM2), the community consultation techniques were amended
to include a wide-range of village stakeholders, from the matai to women and untitled youths and
the CIM Plans finally were prepared by all villages throughout the country. The process involved
190 village and district meetings and workshops meeting over 5,000 people, representing around 8
percent of Samoa's resident population and 15 percent of the adult population.

10.26.      When CERP was extended on December 30, 2006 to facilitate the completion of the
large works contracts (subcomponents A.2 and A.3 above), additional funds were reallocated to
increase the target number of small grants to 35. By the end of the project, 50 small-scale resilience
subprojects had been successfully completed. Around 60 percent of the subprojects were
concentrated on replanting activities such as coastal garden restoration works and establishing plant
nurseries, 31 percent were for the protection of communal fresh water pools and the remaining 9
percent were for mangrove establishment (important for fish and crab breeding grounds, stabilizing
effects and aerating the water) and for marine fish breeding and "no-catch" protection areas.




                                                      26

  A.5      Coastal Eco-system Recovery (Services and Works)

            Services PAD:         $251,000 (WST 689,000)

                       Actual:    $91,550 (WST 250,000)


            Works      PAD:        $167,000 (WST 459,000)

                       Actual:     $157,700 (WST 430,656)

10.27.      This subcomponent is rated as Highly Satisfactory. The subcomponent recognizes the
fundamental role that coastal and marine ecosystems play in supporting the livelihoods of the
majority of the Samoan population (who live on the coastal areas) and in providing habitat for the
country's marine biodiversity. The Recovery Plans, using consultative and participatory planning
methodologies, were prepared for eight cyclone affected villages and subsequently, Village
Agreements and Recovery Plan Agreements were drawn up and adopted. Priority recovery
activities identified in the Plans also would be implemented as part of the coastal ecosystem
rehabilitation.

10.28.      The Recovery Plans were facilitated by consultants by means of assessment surveys,
data analysis and mapping to highlight areas of high vulnerability and resilience. The survey results
and observations then led into activities for restoration of coastal ecosystems and developing site-
specific recovery plans in consultation with the communities. The completed Recovery Plans were
taken back to the Village Councils for approval, ensuring village support and participation in the
implementation phase.

10.29.      The recovery implementation phase activities comprised both "soft solutions" (such as
construction of plant nurseries, replanting of coastal plants and mangroves, coral replanting,
banning of destructive fishing methods, controlling/managing activities that affect coastal habitats
and resources such as sand mining and reclamation) and small works. The works consisted of
design and construction of new multi-cell culvert crossings at Vaovai, Faleapuna, Apolima-uta and
Taelefaga replacing the existing small diameter culverts to improve water movement. Single ­cell
culverts were also designed and constructed at Samatau and Safata.

10.30.      The works (culverts) contract was awarded at a contract price of WST 495,254 and
commenced on October, 2007. Progress was hindered by the water-logging of four of the six sites.
After an extension, the contract was completed in January 2008.

10.31.      In addition to preparing the Ecosystem Recovery Plans and constructing the culvert
crossings in the eight villages, a number of other outputs were achieved under this subcomponent,
namely: four community workshops were held; a 30-minute educational video program on sand
mining and coastal reclamation and their impacts on shoreline communities and coastal ecosystems
resilience was made; two pamphlets (one each in Samoan and English) on sand-mining and coastal
reclamation and their impacts on shoreline communities and coastal ecosystems resilience were
prepared, printed and published widely within local communities, schools and the general public;
Environment or Conservation Committees were established in the villages and local surveillance
programs were established. Public awareness for the CERP small grants also went hand in hand
with the community consultations for the preparation of Coastal Infrastructure Management Plans
(CIMPs) under the SIAM 2 project.




                                                    27

  B. Road Infrastructure Rehabilitation ($1.376million PAD, $2,743 million actual). Overall
  performance for the two tasks under this component (roads and drainage in affected areas on
  Upolu and Savai'i, and bride replacement in affected areas on Upolu and Savai'i) is rated
  Satisfactory.

  B.1       Road and Drainage (Savai'i and Upolu)

            PAD:       $848,000 (WST 2,327,000)

            Actual:    $2,195,340(WST 5,994,80010)

10.32.       This subcomponent is rated as Highly Satisfactory. It rehabilitated or replaced road
pavements, drainage structures, slope stabilization and road furniture damaged by the cyclone. The
main works under this subcomponent were carried out by MWTI shortly after the cyclone and was
fully funded by the Government as these were considered urgent for the associated roads to be
usable as they were littered with revetment rocks and boulders brought onto the road surfaces by the
high tidal waves during the cyclone. The works were fully completed by December 2005.
Retroactive financing equivalent to 20 percent of the total IDA funds was provided for in the
project design for eligible expenditures incurred from the date of appraisal until the project became
effective in order to cover the costs associated with project preparation activities and procurement
of the main contract. However, the Government found it was not able to meet the eligibility
requirements and also that once the early bids came in, costs were higher than originally estimated.
Therefore, GOS decided not to seek retroactive financing of these works.

10.33.       In the immediate aftermath of the cyclone, the Government, through MWTI, began early
recovery operations on both Upolu and Savai'i by clearing away debris and opening the affected
main roads. In all, it carried out a total of 9.059 km11 spot maintenance along 17 km length of
shoreline (as compared to the original target of 15 km length affected shoreline). The works were
fully completed within about 10 months of the Cyclone (largely completed by December 2005).

  B.2 Bridge Replacement (Savai'i and Upolu)

            PAD:                 $528,000 (WST 1,452,000)

            Actual:              $616,095 (WST 1,682,367)

10.34.       This subcomponent is rated as Moderately Satisfactory. The target was to reconstruct
approximately five small river crossings (four targeted at the Mid-term Review as a result of higher
than appraised costs of construction ­ see below) that had been damaged by the Cyclone and, whilst
doing so, upgrade two of them so as to allow for freer movement of water through them, thus
facilitating the natural flushing and replenishment of upstream eco-systems. This in turn allows for
more vigorous mangrove growth and improved fish and crab breeding grounds

10.35.       The works under this subcomponent comprised new 3-cell box culverts to replace the
vented causeways at Safai and Lano on the North Coast Road of Savai'i, a box culvert to replace the
existing vented causeway at Malaemalu, and a 5-cell box culvert to replace the existing vented



  10  As at December 2005 ­ Estimated roads and drainages improved immediately after cyclone 17,128 m at 2005 rate
  for sealed road/m at WST 350.

  11  Upolu: Fasitoo T&T (550m), Savaia Tai (89m), Tafagamanu (650m), Falsely (250m), Apia-Falefa (314m), Fagaloa
  Bay (138m); Savai'i : Saleia (75m), Fagasa (200m), Sataua Hospital (250m), Falelima (350m), Safotu (128m), Sasina
  (400m), Auala (150m), Satuiatua-Salailua (300m), Gataivai (500m), Gautavai (310m), Puleia (800m), Faga-Puapua
  (1,490m), Safai-Fagamolo (1,450m), Lelepa-Avao (665m); Total: 9,059m



                                                          28

causeway at Poutasi, both on the South Coast Road of Upolu. The works were tendered under a
single contract.

10.36.       The bids received when the works were first advertised were similar to the engineer's
estimate but higher than the PAD estimate and thus exceeded the funds available. The Government
therefore reduced the scope of works to four bridges and re-advertised. The engineer's estimate for
the revised contract was WST 2,089,300. Three bids were received on the bid opening date of
September 20, 2005. The final contract award was in an amount of WST 1,698,689 to commence
on January 20, 2006 with an original completion date of August 10, 2006.

10.37.       Both the pace of construction and quality of work on the sites had some initial problems.
Works were impeded by continuous heavy rains (at Malaemalu), flash floods (at Poutasi) and
requests by the community to relocate one of the culverts (at Lano). Lack of equipment and
inadequate initial site supervision at the various sites on the part of the contractor exacerbated the
delays as the contractor was unable to work on more than one site at a time, as had originally been
called for. As a result, the contract was twice extended. The crossings at Malaemalu and Poutasi
were completed in July 2006 and at Safai and Lano only in February 2007.

10.38.       Investigation of subsequent localized flooding at Lano indicated that the bridge design
may have been changed without copies of the record of the appropriate review and process being
authorized and followed. The Government acted in a timely way by MWTI taking over full
supervision of the remaining works in the last six months of the project and also engaging an
independent specialist to assess both the appropriateness and completeness of the designs and the
consistency of the works as constructed with the drawings and Bill of Quantities. After the project
closed, the issue was ongoing and the Government is investigating options for recovering the costs
of rectifying the works from the supervision consultant.

10.39.       Within 10 months of the project starting, the Government, through MWTI, had cleared
away debris and opened affected main roads on both Upolu and Savai'i. It also carried out a total of
9.059 km12 spot maintenance along 17 km length of shoreline, 13 percent more shoreline than the
original target. By the end of the project, four bridges has been reconstructed, within budget.
However, the number of bridges had to be reduced from "about five" to four owing to the high
engineer's estimates and the circumstances regarding design adjustment on one of the bridges
continues to be a matter of dispute between the Government and the design and supervision
consultants six month after the project closed.

C. Implementation Support ($977,000 PAD, $1.268 million actual). Overall combined
performance for the three tasks under this component was Satisfactory. Each of the subcomponents
-- technical assistance, project management and operating costs, varied in what was achieved.


            C.1 Technical assistance

           PAD:        $812,000 (WST 2,234,000)

           Actual:     $960,050 (WST 2,621,600)



  12  Upolu: Fasitoo T&T (550m), Savaia Tai (89m), Tafagamanu (650m), Falsely (250m), Apia-Falefa (314m), Fagaloa
  Bay (138m); Savai'i : Saleia (75m), Fagasa (200m), Sataua Hospital (250m), Falelima (350m), Safotu (128m), Sasina
  (400m), Auala (150m), Satuiatua-Salailua (300m), Gataivai (500m), Gautavai (310m), Puleia (800m), Faga-Puapua
  (1,490m), Safai-Fagamolo (1,450m), Lelepa-Avao (665m);
  Total: 9,059m



                                                          29

10.40.     This subcomponent is rated as Moderately Satisfactory. The subcomponent provided
technical assistance to the MWTI and MNREMMNRE to implement project activities.

10.41.     The consultant contract commenced at the beginning of 2005 and closed in 2007. The
main tasks completed by the consultant were: (a) coastal engineering to identify, design and
supervise selected structural and non-structural coastal resilience measures, (b) management of
subprojects and (c) design, preparation and supervision of upgrading the river crossings.

10.42.     Overall, the works were well investigated and designed, taking account of local
topography and wave conditions that will be able to withstand future cyclones without undermining
natural beach conditions. The use of risk-based methods for determining engineer's estimates was
prudent given that many of the works were procured using international competitive bidding.
However, the estimates might have been tempered by some insights into the regional and domestic
contractors' competitiveness (no regional contractors submitted bids for any of the works for this
project) and greater flexibility on the packaging of contracts. Much time was wasted in the
Government having to repackage and re-advertise bids and also to downsize contracts only to
discover once bids were received that prices were some three times higher than the estimates. Also,
during implementation of the works, there were periods when the consultant only had two (instead
of the three called for) supervisory engineers on site. As a result, the pace of implementation was
frequently slower than planned and the quality of works in the case of the bridges, was not fully
acceptable to the Government. MWTI finally, in the last six months of the project, took over all
supervision so as to exert tighter controls on the contractors.

         C.2 Project management

          PAD:       $113,000 (WST 312,000)

          Actual:    $290,180 (WST 792,397)

10.43.     This subcomponent is rated as Highly Satisfactory. It provided management and
implementation support to MOF and the implementing Ministries for project
implementation. The consultant's contract commenced in 2005 and was completed on June
30, 2008. It provided management and coordination of project activities, procurement,
financial management and accounting, monitoring of environmental safeguards
requirements, auditing of project accounts, monitoring and reporting, etc. over the life of
the project (which was extended twice by a total of 18 months).The project was in
compliance with legal covenants throughout its life and required technical and financial
monitoring and reporting was carried out in a timely way. Firm management of project
costs was maintained and finally, the project substantially met all targets and was able to do
so within the original appraised estimate.

         C.3 Operating Costs

         PAD:        $52,000 (WST 142,000)

         Actual:     $17,830 (WST 48,689)

10.44.     The operating costs expenditures were used to supplement the implementing
agencies' own budgets on project related expenditures such as advertising costs, local
transport for supervision purposes, stakeholder workshops and similar activities.




                                                     30

Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

1.      The project was an emergency response operation and no economic or financial
analysis was undertaken during appraisal. However, the Bank's 2006 Policy Note., "Not
if, but When" contains some germane cost-benefit and related analyses of Risk
Management of Natural Hazards (RMNH) measures in some Pacific and Caribbean
Islands. For Samoa, where the project works were carried out to higher standards than the
existing ones, the study noted, "In 1991, cyclone Val hit Samoa with maximum wind
speeds of 140 knots causing massive damage ­ equivalent to 230 per cent of the
country's real 2004 GDP. By contrast, the impact of cyclone Heta in 2004 (with
wind speeds of up to 170 knots) translated to just 9 per cent of Samoa's GDP.
While the two cyclones were not directly comparable, having different tracks and
duration, the effects of cyclone Heta would have been far worse if the country
had not invested in risk management for natural hazards through the 1990s.
Shoreline protection systems designed to cyclone standards performed well and
sustained minor damage compared to adjacent areas with substandard coastal
protection systems." Similar significant benefits were also estimated for the Cook
Islands and the Federated States of Micronesia and the Caribbean.

2.      The following is an assessment based on a Value For Money Assessment
(VFMA) approach to rate the extent to which the project operated efficiently and
effectively with due regard to economy and quality. The VFMA is based on a number of
criteria (below), on all of which the project rates positively:

        (a)   Project investments met the objectives for which they were conceived ­
              rated Positive (justification: see section 3.2 achievement of DOs);

        (b)   The financial, human and physical resources consumed in realizing the
              investments made are consistent with acceptable norms ­ rated Positive
              (justification: see section 2.4.7 procurement review; overall, actual costs
              (excluding additional works the Government chose to implement to its own
              account) were within 1 percent of the estimates provided at appraisal
              (justification: see Annex 1);

        (c)   The process through which the investments were realized are consistent with
              accepted rules and regulations ­ rated Positive (justification: see section 2.2
              implementation);

        (d)   The quality of finished structural investments were constructed to the
              durable standard agreed upon and competitive bidding processes gave rise to
              acceptable and fairly priced unit rates ­ rated Positive (justification: see
              section 2.2); and

        (e)   The impact and utilization of the investments is to the degree expected ­
              rated Positive (justification: see section 3.2 achievement of DOs).




                                                31

Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

  (a) Task Team members

             Names                              Title                  Unit    Responsibility/
                                                                                 Specialty
  Lending
  system generated from
  PAD
  Supervision/ICR system generated from archived ISRs
  Thakoor Persaud               Lead Economist                       EASTE Team Leader
  David Michael Chandler        Sr. Financial Management Specialist  EAPCO FMS
  Stephen Hartung               Financial Management Specialist      EAPCO FMS
  Cristiano Costa e Silva Nunes Procurement Specialist               EAPCO PS
  Colleen Gollach               Consultant                           EASTE Consultant
  Lawrence Leonard William
  Carlson                       Consultant                           EASTE Consultant

  Sudesh Ponnappa               Sr. Program Assistant                EACNF



  (b) Staff Time and Cost system generated
                                              Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
  Stage of Project Cycle
                                           No. of staff weeks      US$ Thousands (including
                                                                   travel and consultant costs)
  Lending
  FY04                                5.70                         40,174.83



                               Total:5.70                          40,174.83
  Supervision/ICR
  FY05                                4.19                         43,422.09
  FY06                                5.48                         45,195.81
  FY07                                2.92                         55,460.01
  FY08                                2.33                         33,613.05
  FY09                                4.19                         43,422.09

                               Total:19.11                         221,113.05




                                                 32

Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results


None undertaken.




                                    33

Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

None undertaken.




                                      34

Annex 7. Full Copy of Borrower's ICR

ASSESSMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES, DESIGN AND IMPLEMENTATION

1.     The Borrower feels that the project was well designed and acknowledges the
assistance of the Bank in helping to bring cohesion to such a diverse project with four
different implementing agencies. We have come to appreciate that good design and
preparation were crucial elements for the overall success of the project. The only concern
with the project preparation would be if the Government had more clearly understood
how it was to make use of retroactive funds and so overcome the inability of the
Government to claim against the project some of the rehabilitation works that happened
immediately after the cyclone.

2.     The objectives of the project were simply stated and provided a clear focus for the
overall purpose of the project which is to recover natural and built environment that were
damaged by Cyclone Heta, and enhance the resilience of those features to a sustainable
level so that the vulnerability of the Samoan people and the economy to prevailing
natural hazards is reduced.

3.     It was decided during appraisal that there would be more detailed technical and
other consultative reviews with project beneficiaries before specific features and sites
were selected. Nevertheless, the appraisal team identified three main areas.

    (a)  Part A ­ Coastal Resilience Recovery in selected areas affected by Cyclone
          Heta,
    (b)  Part B ­ Road Infrastructure Rehabilitation in selected areas affected by
          Cyclone Heta
    (c)  Part C ­ Project Implementation Support in selected areas affected by Cyclone
          Heta

4.     For the purposes of implementation, the objectives were broken down into 9
separate components. Specifically, each part of the project targeted the recovery and or
strengthening of resilience through the following components;

    (a)  A.1 - Repair and rehabilitation of about 1.25 kilometers of shoreline protection
          structures at selected locations.
    (b)  A.2 - Reconstruction and upgrading of about 2.22 kilometers of shoreline
          protection structures to withstand prevailing natural hazard risks.
    (c)  A.3 - Restoration of the natural resilience of about 20,000m³ of shoreline to
          withstand prevailing natural hazard risks through non-structural measures,
          including beach nourishment, stabilization, or avoidance measures.
    (d)  A.4 - Subgrants to improve the resilience of coastal environments and
          communities through various small-scale subprojects.
    (e)  A.5 - Support the recovery of marine and coastal fringe ecosystems through
          inter-alia, assessment surveys, mapping and analysis of vulnerable areas,
          community consultation and development and implementation of recovery
          plans.


                                             35

   (f)   B.1 - Rehabilitation or replacement of road pavements, drainage structures,
          slope stabilization, and road furniture damaged by the Cyclone.
   (g)   B.2 - Upgrading about five small river crossings, which were damaged by the
          Cyclone.
   (h)   C.1 - Supporting through Technical Assistance (TA) to provide advisory
          services to the Ministry of Works, Transport and Infrastructure (MWTI) and
          Ministry of Natural Resources, Environment (MNRE) to carry out:
           (i)   Coastal engineering to identify, design and supervise selected structural
                 and non-structural coastal resilience measures;
           (ii)  Small-scale natural hazard mitigation measures;
           (iii) Management of subprojects;
           (iv) Preparation and supervision of road rehabilitation activities mentioned in
                 B.1 above;
           (v)   Design, preparation and supervision of the river crossings upgrades as
                 per B.2 above.
   (i)   C.2 - Management and implementation of TA to Ministry of Finance (MOF)
          for project implementation.

ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES

4.     The Borrower is satisfied that the project has been successful in achieving its
objectives.

        (i)    A1 - 10 kilometers of shoreline protection structures repaired and
               rehabilitated. (100%)
        (ii)   A2 ­ 11.9 kilometers of shoreline protection structures reconstructed and
               upgraded to withstand prevailing natural hazard risks. (85%)
        (iii) A3 ­ 1.97 km of beach nourishment, coastal replanting and marine
               protected areas and avoidance measures implemented (78% of original
               target although the target was reduced during the project. The target
               volume of beach sand nourished was achieved.)
        (iv) A4 ­ 45 subgrants projects successfully completed which is 10 more than
               the revised target of 35 projects (plus five waiting for reporting to the
               Steering Committee). (128%)
        (v)    A5 ­ 8 ecosystem recovery plans successfully developed and implemented
               (100%)
        (vi) B1 ­ 17 kilometers of road pavements, drainage structures, slope
               stabilization, and road furniture that were damaged by Cyclone Heta
               replaced and rehabilitated. (113%)
        (vii) B2 ­ 4 river crossing completed (100%)
        (viii) C1 ­ All detailed technical designs completed as well as supervision of the
               original works contracts. The supervision of variations for packages A, C
               and D were undertaken by the MWTI. (78% budget spent, one payment
               pending.)
        (ix) C2 ­ All management services completed successfully. (100% budget
               spent)


                                              36

MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING IMPLEMENTATION AND OUTCOMES

      The major factors affecting implementation were as follows:

  (i)    Delay in the approval of designs.
  (ii)  Delay in completion of coastal protection constructions due to poor weather
        conditions and rock supply constraints. This meant that the outcome was
        affected as there were insufficient financial resources to implement the full
        scope of part B.
  (iii) Inadequate supervision of bridge construction and discontinuity of original
        personnel.
  (iv) Imbalances in the early consultation processes between the consultants and
        communities during construction.
  (v)   This led to a request for an extension of the loan period from 31 December 2006
        to 31 December 2007.
  (vi) Capacity constraints in the implementing agencies meant that counterparts could
        not always work alongside consultants. This was partly overcome by training
        workshops to build capacity but staff shortages are recognized as a threat to
        sustainability, particularly in the Ministry of Works Transport and
        Infrastructure.

BANK AND BORROWER PERFORMANCE

 (i)    The Borrower was highly satisfied with the performance of the Bank. It was
        particularly beneficial to have continuity of Bank personnel from the time of
        preparation through to completion. Clearances were for the most part were
        timely and supervision was enthusiastic and comprehensive. We were given
        considerable assistance by the Bank staff and found the approach to be helpful
        and flexible rather than critical and pedantic.
 (ii)   We consider the Borrower's performance to be highly satisfactory. Counterpart
        funds have always been made available to suit the implementation programme.
        The final contribution of the Borrower exceeded the original financing plan by
        about WST 57,000.
 (iii) Procurement was carried out reasonably effectively in a completely open and
        transparent manner as required by Bank guidelines and the Government of
        Samoa (GOS) procedures. It is acknowledged that there were some delays in
        obtaining legal clearances for contract award but this was partly due to a
        misunderstanding about the timing of the legal review, which has subsequently
        been rectified.
 (iv) The administration procedures for the project and the financial management
        system worked effectively and efficiently throughout. The Steering Committee
        met regularly and took prompt action to overcome any constraints that were
        impeding progress. The project management team also worked closely with the
        Borrower personnel and the Bank's technical team to resolve issues that have



                                             37

        arisen during the project through frequent virtual communications and
        teleconferences.

5.    LESSONS LEARNED

  (i)   The value of good project design and preparation.; the need for clear lines of
        communication between implementing agencies and consultants providing
        design or supervision services.
  (ii)  In the reformed agency for works, transport and infrastructure, the need to
        adequately empower the supervision consultants with sufficient authority to
        administer the construction contracts on behalf of the agency.
  (iii) The value of an overall PMT to co-ordinate activities and provide support to the
        implementing agencies in a project that has more than one implementing
        agency.
  (iv) The value of strong consultative procedures and the value of local involvement
        in the project.




                                           38

Annex 8. List of Supporting Documents

Aide Memoire, July 2004
Aide Memoire, Jan-Feb, 2005
Aide Memoire, August 2005
Aide Memoire, March 2006
Aide Memoire, August, 2006
Aide Memoire, November 2007
Aide Memoire, June 2008

Government of Samoa, Ministry of Natural Resources, Environment & Meteorology. 2007.
Coastal Ecosystems Recovery Plan ­ Vaovai.

Government of Samoa, National Disaster Council. 2006. Samoa's National Disaster Management
Plan 2006-2009.

International Bank for Reconstruction And Development/ International Development Association.
2005. Regional Engagement Framework Fy2006-2009 for Pacific Islands.

Project Management Team. 2007. Quarterly Progress Report No. 12. Period: July - September
2007.

World Bank. 2004. "Technical Annex for a Proposed Grant in the Amount of SDR 1.6 Million
and a Proposed Credit in the Amount of SDR 1.4 Million (Equivalent to US$4.47 Million) to the
Independent State of Samoa for a Cyclone Emergency Recovery Project." Report No. T­7622.
April 8, 2004. The World Bank, Washington, D.C.

World Bank, 2004. "Memorandum and Recommendation of the President to the Executive
Directors," April 8, 2004.

World Bank and Government of Independent Samoa. 2004. "Development Financing Agreement:
Cyclone Emergency Recovery Project." May 5, 2004.

World Bank. 2006. "Not If But When. Adapting to Natural Hazards in the Pacific Islands
Region." Policy Note - East Asia and Pacific Region Pacific Islands Country Management Unit.
Washington D.C.




                                              39

Annex 9: Maps showing type of physical works undertaken and their location (as at June 2007)




                                          40

41

42

43

Annex 10: Examples of Storm Damage and Completed Project Outputs

Storm damage caused by Cyclone Heta:




Structural solutions to natural hazards:

Inadequately sized culvert on Main South Coast Road ....
                                                  ... and reconstructed Lano culvert with cut out
                                                               channel to allow natural flushing.




                                              44

              Solosolo seawall under construction and completed.




Wave turbulence on toe of seawall.             Sand dune reconstruction at Falelupo




  Mangrove protection area.                   "No-catch" marine protection area,




                                      45

                                     Coastal replanting.




                   In-kind labor contribution for small-scale resilience works.




             Non-structural solutions to natural hazards:

Community planning workshop                        Coastal Infrastructure
with PUMA/MNRE staff.                              Management (CIM) Plans




                                          46

Example of a hazard map which feeds into the village Coastal Infrastructure Management
Plans.




"The Nancy Norcroft Award is the New Zealand Planning Institute's premier award for
excellence in planning practice. It is made annually for outstanding creativity and
innovation in one or a number of areas of report writing through policy preparation,
consultation and planning processes and systems.

This year's recipients include Beca International Consultants and the Planning and Urban
Management Agency (PUMA) of the Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment,
Government of Samoa for National Coastal Infrastructure Management Plans.

These bilingual Coastal Infrastructure Management Plans seek to implement earlier work
done for a Coastal Infrastructure Management Strategy 2001 and the current project seeks
to provide that management for Samoa's 303km coastline. The CIMP for this stage
covers 26 districts, 191 villages and some 5,000 people were directly consulted and
culminated in the development of 26 plans. The CIM Plans cover a description of the
existing environment, identify the existing infrastructure assets and their resilience,
against coastal hazards and provide potential solutions to reduce susceptibility to coastal
hazards. Actions are assigned to local government and villages to implement the CIMP."




                                           47

48

