Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 15364-IN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDIA
PRIVATE INFRASTRUCTURE FINANCE (IL&FS) PROJECT
MARCH 7, 1996
Energy and Infrastructure Operations Division
Country Department II
South Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of February 1996)
Currency Unit = India Rupees (Rs)
Rs 1.00 = US$0.03
US$1.00 = Rs 35.0
Guarantor's and Borrower's Financial Year
April I - March 31
MEASURES AND EQUIVALENTS
Metric                               British/US System
I meter (m)                  =       3.281 feet
I square meter (m2)          =       10.764 square feet
I cubic meter (m2)           =       35.3 15 cubit feet
I kilometer (km)             =       0.621 mile
I metric ton                 =       2,205 pounds
I tkm                        =       ton-kilometer (0.621 ton-mile)
I pkm                        =       passenger-kilometer(0.621 passenger-mile)
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
ADB    =   Asian Development Bank            IFP            Infrastructure financing project
BOT    =    Build, operate and transfer      IL&FS   =    Infrastructure Leasing and Financial Services
Limited
CARE  =   Credit Analysis and Research Ltd.  IPO       =    Initial public offering
CAS    =   Country assistance strategy       LIBOR   =    London interbank offered rate
CBI    =   Central Bank of India             MOST   =    Ministry of Surface Transport
CEM          Country economic memorandum    NBFC            Non-banking financial company
COD    =    Committee of directors           OD       =    Operational directive
CP      =   Commercial paper                 PRP       =    Performance-related pay
DEA    =    Department of Economic Affairs    PWD     =    Public works department
(Ministry of Finance)           R&R      =    Resettlement and rehabilitation
ED      =    Executive Director              RBI       =    Reserve Bank of India
ERR    =    Economic rate of return          RMG       =    Risk management group
FYB    =    First-year benefits              SEBI    =    Security Exchange Board of India
GDP    =   Gross domestic product            SEC       =    Securities and Exchange Commission
GOI    =   Government of India               SPV       =    Special purpose vehicle
HDFC  =    Housing Development Finance       USAID   =   US Agency for International Development
Corporation
IFC     =    International Finance Corporation   UTI  =    Unit Trust of India



INDIA
PRIVATE INFRASTRUCTURE FINANCE (IL&FS) PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
I - ECONOMIC  AND  SECTORAL  BACKGROUND   ........................                                              .......................     2
*    India's economic policies and  performance ...............................................................                            2
* Evolving a policy and an institutional framework for private investment in
infrastructure   ................................................................                                               3
*    The Bank's assistance strategy  in the infrastructure sector .......................................                                  4
11- INFRASTRUCTURE LEASING AND FINANCIAL SERVICES LIMITED
(IL&FS) ................................................................6
- The company ...............................................................                                                              6
*    Regulations and  operating  policies ................................................................9
*    IL&FS's current operations ...............................................................                                           10
*    Future strategy  and  financial perfonnance ...............................................................                          12
III - THE  PROJECT  ...............................................................                                                       16
*  Project objectives.                     ...................             ............................................    16
*    Project description ...............................................................                                                  16
*    Indicative pipeline of subprojects ....................................                         ...........................          17
*    Project cost and financing  plan ...............................................................                                     17
*    Project implementation  and monitoring    ...............................................................                            19
*    Procurement ...............................................................                                                         20
*    Security  arrangements ...............................................................                                              21
*    Onlending  and  disbursement ......................                            .........................................            22
*    Environmental and  social considerations ...............................................................                            24
The project was prepared bv a team composed of Mmes. Joelle Chassard (Task manager, SA2EI),
Susan Morse (Financial Consultant), Jelena Pantelic (SA2El), and E. Schaengold (ASTHR), and
Messrs. Syed Ahmed (LEGSA), Raul Auzmendi (Transport Consultant), Chandra Godavitarne
(SA2RS), Harald Hansen (SA2EI), P. Illangovan (ASTEN), and I. U.B. Reddy (SA2RS). Mmes. A.
Armstrong, V. Scott and 0. Valladolid assisted in the production of the report. The peer reviewers
were Messrs. Hoon Mok Chung (ASTDR), John Flora (TWUTD), and Michael Klein (PSD). The
report was endorsed by Messrs. Heinz Vergin, Director (SA2) and Jean-Fran,ois Bauer, Chief
(SA2EI).



IV  - PROJECT  JUSTIFICATION   .......................................                     .........................     26
*   Project sustainability ...............................................................                               26
*   Economic analysis ...............................................................                                    26
*   Benefits ...............................................................                                             27
*   Risks ...............................................................                                                27
V  - AGREEMENTS AND  RECOMMENDATION ..................................................                                   30
*   Agreements ...............................................................                                           30
*   Recommendation  ...............................................................                                      31
ANNEXES
2.1  IL&FS: composition of the Board of Directors .32
2.2 IL&FS: organization chart .33
2.3  Implementation of a cost accounting system .34
2.4       IL&FS: exposure limits for commercial infrastructure projects and limits to
investments in affiliates .35
2.5       IL&FS: income statements, cash flow  statements, balance sheets, and
selected financial ratios (1991/92 - 2000-01 .36-42
2.6  IL&FS's financial forecast: sensitivity analysis .43-44
3.1  Subproject eligibility criteria .45-47
3.2  Subproject pipeline and implementation schedule .48-55
3.3    IL&FS's proposed training and technical assistance activities (summary)                                            56-58
3.4 IL,&FS's project ccle .59-61
3.5  Subproject evaluation report .62-64
3.6  Performance monitoring indicators .65
3.7 Supervision plan .66-67
3.8  Selection of BOT operators .68-70
3.9  IL&FS's pari passu security structure .71-73
3.10   IL&FS: foreign exchange risk management and treasury operations                                                   74-75
3.11  Environmiient and social report (ESR) .76-90



INDIA
PRIVATE INFRASTRUCTURE FINANCE (IL&FS) PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrowers:               - India, acting by its President (for the IDA credit)
- Infrastructure Leasing and Financial Services Limited
(IL&FS) (for the IBRD loan)
Guarantor:               India, acting by its President (for the loan to IL&FS)
Beneficiaries:           Public sector agencies; special purpose entities established for
the construction and operation of commercial infrastructure
projects
Poverty:                 Not applicable
Amounts:                 - SDR3.4 million (US$5 million equivalent) (for the credit to
India)
- US$200 million (for the loan to IL&FS)
Terms:                   - For the credit to India: repayment over 35 years.
- For the loan to IL&FS: repayment over a 20-year period,
including 5 years of grace. Standard interest rate for LIBOR-
based single currency loans.
Commitment fee:          - For the credit to India: 0.50% on undisbursed balances,
beginning 60 days after signing, less any waiver.
- For the loan to IL&FS: 0.75% on undisbursed loan balances,
beginning 60 days after signing, less any waiver.
Onlending terms:         Proceeds of the Bank loan will be onlent either (i) in rupees at a
market-determined rate. In this case, IL&FS will bear the
foreign exchange risk; or (ii) in US dollars at a variable market-
determined rate. The tenor of the subloans will vary between
17 and 20 years.
Proceeds of the IDA credit will be onlent on the standard terms
and conditions for central assistance to the states applicable at
the time.
Financing plan:          See para. 3.06.
Net Present Value:       Not applicable



- 2 -
INDIA
PRIVATE INFRASTRUCTURE FINANCE (IL&FS) PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I - ECONOMIC AND SECTORAL BACKGROUND
India's economic policies and performance
1.01  In mid-1991 India's development strategy took a radical turn when, in response to a
severe macroeconomic crisis, the new government launched an ambitious program of
economic reforms. The program did not limit itself to restoring macroeconomic stability. It
also reoriented structural policies governing the investment regime, foreign trade, the
financial sector, taxation, and public enterprises. As a result, almost all areas of the economy
have been opened to domestic and foreign private investment. Import licensing restrictions
on intermediate and capital goods have been virtually eliminated. Tariffs have been
significantly reduced and full convertibility has been established for current account
transactions. In the financial sector, prudential regulations that meet international standards
have been introduced; banks now have significantly more discretion in their lending
decisions; financial markets have been liberalized; and entry restrictions have been
eliminated. The external accounts have strengthened considerably and, although still a major
obstacle to higher growth, central fiscal imbalances have been lowered. The result has been a
rebouncing of the economy, helped by an unprecedented sequence of good monsoons and a
strong industrial recovery. GDP growth has been steadily increasing, from 1% p.a. in 1991-
92 to an estimated 5.8% in the current financial year. The robust performance of the Indian
economy is thus a testimony to the continuing favorable impacts of the liberalization and
reform efforts.
1.02  There are daunting challenges ahead. Paramount among them is that of meeting the
needs of a rapidly-growing population while reducing the incidence of poverty, in a country
with limited land and water resources, limited capital, and enormous social needs. In the next
30 years, even taking into account ongoing family planning efforts, India's population is
expected to increase by another 450 million. This "third India" will put enormous additional
pressure on the country's natural resources, social programs, and already strained
infrastructure. With the pace of urbanization accelerating, the consequences of population
growth will be particularly serious in urban areas where the provision of sanitation and public
health services as well as infrastructure is already below standard, and the absolute number of
poor is increasing.
1.03  The structural reforms introduced over the last four years have gone a long way in
reorienting India's development strategy to meet these challenges. For example, the private



- 3 -
sector now plays a much more important role in India's development process, and an
incentive regime more conducive to a pattern of labor-intensive growth is being established.
However, there still remains a large "unfinished" reform agenda which will take several more
years to implement. Improving the fiscal situation, particularly with regard to states'
finances, is of critical importance. Equally important is the need to conclude the process of
structural reforms started in 1991 (e.g., in international trade, the financial system, the tax
regime, and public enterprises). Finally, reforms need to be extended to key sectors of the
economy, an issue where the participation of the states is critical because of their important
role in formulating and implementing sector policies. This is the case in agriculture, the
social sectors, and particularly infrastructure.
Evolving a policy and an institutionalframework/for private investment in infrastructure
1.04  The expansion and efficient use of infrastructure is fast becoming one of India's key
development issues. Of grave concern today is the risk that poor infrastructure will
undermine severely India's ability to achieve its medium- and long-term objectives of higher
and sustainable economic growth. At the root of the problem is a severe absorptive capacity
and implementation constraint which, combined with a financial constraint, has led to
chronic underinvestment in the sector and a less than optimal use of the funds available.
Implementation of public sector infrastructure projects has generally been slow, with frequent
cost overruns and inadequate construction quality. Addressing the situation requires, above
all, a redefinition of the role of the public sector in the provision of infrastructure and the
establishment of an appropriate legal, regulatory and administrative framework for private
investment so that the latter can assume a dynamic role in areas from which it has been
mostly excluded so far (telecommunications, power, ports, roads, urban infrastructure, water
supply). The impetus for change has to come primarily from the central and state
governments. A number of legislative steps and policy announcements have already been
made in that direction. In September 1991, the Electricity (Supply) Act of 1948 was
amended to permit private domestic and foreign investment in power. GOI's Telecom Policy
statement of May 1994 launched the liberalization of the telecommunications sector. Finally,
the May 1995 amendment to the National Highway Act, 1956 permits private sector
participation in the development and maintenance of national highways and expressways.
The removal offormal barriers to private investment must now be followed by the
establishment of policy and institutional frameworks fully supportive of such investment.
1.05  The existing regulatory framework was formulated with the public sector in mind and
is not appropriate to encourage the massive private investments India needs in these areas.
Regulations governing entry, pricing in monopolistic conditions, the conduct of regulatory
authorities, dispute resolution and arbitration are either aimed at preventing private
investment or, in cases where the private sector is allowed, lead to inefficient investment.
The lack of finance on terms commensurate with the typical long gestation and revenue-
earning capacity of infrastructure projects is also slowing down the pace of private
investment in the sector.



The Bank's assistance strategy in the infrastructure sector
1.06  Assistance on these policy issues has therefore received growing importance in the
Bank's work. The Bank group has pursued it through a variety of means. A substantial
amount of technical assistance has been provided in the context of loans or through the
administration of bilateral grants. In power for example, through the combination of project
preparation (e.g., proposed Orissa state power restructuring project, and similar operations in
Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and Rajasthan), bilaterally-funded technical assistance
programs, the ongoing technical assistance project for private power development, and the
preparation of a guarantee framework for private investments in power, considerable progress
has been achieved towards fundamental power sector reforms and the removal of essential
barriers to private investment. Similarly, in the telecoms sector, bilaterally-funded technical
assistance has enabled the Bank to assist in laying the ground for a regulatory framework
conducive to private sector entry. A port sector report provided the basis for our policy
dialogue in this area. In its sequel, the Bank has extended technical advice on the preparation
of international standard tender documents to induce private investment in new facilities and
in the management of existing facilities.
1.07   By contrast, our involvement in assisting in the establishment of an enabling
environment for private investment has been comparatively less intensive in the roads, water
supply and urban infrastructure sectors, partly because of the diversity of counterparts with
whom one needs to work (GOI, state governments, local governments, municipal
authorities). This is where the Bank's technical assistance is turning to now. A transport
sector report as well as the specific review, in the 1995 Country Economic Memorandum
(CEM), of bottlenecks to private investment in the roads sector have provided a valuable
opening for a dialogue on these issues. An urban infrastructure review is now under
preparation. Discussions are also underway for putting in place a program of assistance to
the Ministry of Surface Transport (MOST) to help develop a comprehensive regulatory and
administrative framework for private investment in the national highway sector and
providing technical advice to GOI for facilitating such private investment. In this sector,
however, as well as in water supply and urban infrastructure, much more needs to be done at
the state and local levels to enable efficient planning and implementation of private
investments.
1.08  In response to a request by Indian authorities, the Bank's latest country assistance
strategy (CAS) for FY96-98 proposes to increase the Bank's assistance in establishing an
environment conducive to efficient private investment in infrastructure. Direct lending
continues to be envisaged to power, roads and urban infrastructure but all loans in these areas
would be policy-based investment operations. At the Government's request, in those sectors
as well as in telecommunications and ports where there is already considerable private sector
willingness to invest, the Bank is considering providing private investors in infrastructure
with term financing through financial intermediaries. Such operations are designed to
support the establishment of policies and regulations conducive to efficient private
investment in infrastructure, using the intermediaries' interest in getting the framework right
(as tested in the telecoms sector). They are expected to play a catalytical role in mobilizing



- 5 -
finance for private investment in infrastructure with more appropriate maturities than those
currently available. They will also assist financial intermediaries in developing appraisal and
risk evaluation procedures for large private infrastructure projects -- an area in which India's
financial sector has limited experience.
1.09  In this context, the first step was taken in September 1995 by restructuring the
ongoing Tamil Nadu Urban Development Project (Cr. 1923-IN) and promoting the entry of a
private fund manager to commercially manage the mix of public and private sources of
finance provided to the Municipal Development Fund. This is the first attempt made in one
state to establish a joint public-private partnership in the municipal infrastructure area. This
project is expected to provide a replicable regulatory and administrative environment for
investment -- public, private or mixed -- in municipal infrastructure.
1.10   The proposed Project is the second initiative. It seizes upon a unique opportunity
provided by Infrastructure Leasing and Financial Services Ltd (IL&FS), a 51% privately-
owned finance company with strong ties to the public sector. By supporting IL&FS's
expansion in this area, the focus of the Bank is to assist first hand in the development of
prototype contractual arrangements for private investment in IL&FS's areas of involvement
(urban bypasses and bridges, water supply and sewerage, effluent treatment, and other
municipal infrastructure), thereby facilitating entry of the private sector on a much larger
scale in areas heretofore dominated by the public sector. It is a "process" operation whereby
the Bank uses IL&FS as a vehicle to build up India's capacity to attract private investment in
infrastructure, pilot-test institutional and contractual arrangements in a variety of subprojects
under various administrative and political conditions, and help establish a track record as a
pre-requisite for large-scale private investment in the sector. GOI has selected IL&FS as the
first financial intermediary to receive the Bank's support given the pioneering role it is
already playing in promoting private investment in infrastructure, its exceptional
understanding of the synergy required between public and private interests for successful
infrastructure development, its highly competent and innovative staff, and its high-quality
Board.
1.11   The third and much larger operation is the proposed Infrastructure Financing Project
(IFP) (FY98). With the removal of major policy and administrative barriers to private
investment in infrastructure through previous lending operations, sector work and TA
programs, financing on a much larger scale will then be possible. It is envisaged therefore to
expand the scope of the Bank's assistance significantly by involving several public financial
institutions and use the IFP as a vehicle to promote financial policy reforms aimed at
developing a domestic long-term debt market. The proposed agenda of reforms contains the
following key elements: (i) changing the investment guidelines applicable to, and increasing
competition among, contractual savings institutions; (ii) fostering the development of
benchmark interest rates; (iii) encouraging active management by institutions of their
securities portfolios; (iv) reducing transaction taxes; (v) rationalizing debt market regulations;
and (vi) establishing a secure clearing and settlement system for corporate debt services.
The sequencing and pace of the reforms will influence the speed at which the proposed
operation can be processed.



- 6 -
11- INFRASTRUCTRE LEASING AND FINANCIAL SERVICES LIMITED (IL&FS)
The company
2.01  Ownership. In 1983, the Banking Regulation Act of 1949 was amended to allow
Indian commercial banks to enter the leasing business through separate subsidiaries. Central
Bank of India (CBI), a major nationalized commercial bank, decided to promote its leasing
activities through a joint venture with Unit Trust of India (UTI), a public sector mutual fund
management, and Housing Development Finance Corporation Ltd. (HDFC), the country's
leading private housing finance institution. The result was the establishment of Infrastructure
Leasing and Financial Services Limited (IL&FS) in 1987. Actual operations began in 1988
with the owners contributing Rs.60 million (about US$2 million) in the following
proportions: CBI (50.5%), UTI (30.5%), and HDFC (19%).
2.02  IL&FS has since broadened its shareholder base not only to increase capital, but also
to strengthen business relationships and develop strategic alliances. For example, the
Intemational Finance Corporation (IFC) and, subsequently, ORIX Corporation, a Japanese
financial services company, were inducted as new shareholders in 1993 when the original
promoters diluted their equity stake in the company. More recently, in order to: (a) raise
capital, (b) broaden its name recognition in the public eye for further business development,
and (c) establish a "market" price for its shares, IL&FS decided to proceed with an initial
public offering (IPO) equivalent to 25% of its enlarged capital. Due to the poor performance
of the capital markets, this issue has been temporarily warehoused with UTI; its launching is
now expected to take place in mid-1996. Once the IPO is completed, the ownership structure
of IL&FS will be as shown in Figure 2. 1.
Figure 2.1 - IL&FS's ownership structure
(Shareholding of common stock)
HDFC       IFC    IL&FS
Orix      9%         9%    employees
IS%     _                    4%
Retail Investors
25%
UTI
18%              CBI
20%
2.03  Board of Directors. The Board of Directors was initially constituted solely by
representatives of the three promoting institutions. In 1990, it was broadened to include a
number of prominent individuals from both the private and public sectors. It was again



- 7 -
restructured in 1995 to create 4 executive directorships that were filled by senior management
of the company. Annex 2.1 provides the current composition of IL&FS's Board. The Board
meets every two months; it takes all policy decisions for the company and considers
approvals of business transactions of a significant value. It is well structured, with
representatives of all shareholders, government, private sector and employees. As IL&FS's
business expands into commercial infrastructure projects, and to enhance the Board's
oversight function in this area, it might soon be desirable to appoint to the Board one or two
individuals with a strong private sector background in infrastructure development, finance or
construction. As a complement, IL&FS may expand the practice of setting up panels of local
and international experts to assist Board members and senior management in decision-
making and implementation'. Given the significant role the Board plays in the conduct of
IL&FS's operations, it would be beneficial to the Bank to be kept informed of the Board's
agenda of deliberations. Agreement was reached at negotiations that IL&FS will provide to
the Bank, within 30 days after any meeting of its Board, the agenda of such meeting,
including all documents that were forwarded and considered at such meeting.
2.04   Management. Day-to-day management of the company, including major credit
investment and underwriting proposals subject to Board-established guidelines, is entrusted
to the Managing Director, who is assisted by four Executive Directors (EDs), who together
form the Committee of Directors (COD). Annex 2.2 provides a summary of the
organizational structure of the company. IL&FS is managed in a flexible manner such that
assignments are often handled by ad hoc, interdisciplinary task groups. Considerable effort
has gone into corporate planning and management philosophy resulting in a well thought-out
corporate business plan and well-executed strategic plans (para. 2.14). The management
team (which has virtually been intact since the founding of the company) is aware of the
strengths and weaknesses of the corporation and has formulated strategies to compete with
much larger organizations both for new business and for human resources. One pillar of
IL&FS's development strategy has been to forge relationships with a wide array of
international partners, either through joint ventures or cooperation agreements, so that the
company can position itself as a quality player in its mandated areas of operations and ensure
it has access to international technology and training2.
2.05    Staff and training. IL&FS is a relatively lean organization; it employs a total of 189
staff, of which 126 are professional. The company has tended to bring in professionals with
substantial experience and has refrained from campus-based recruitment. Professional
careers are managed to give individuals varied exposure to the company's activities; to
facilitate this, IL&FS has developed a modular organization structure with a high degree of
autonomy, and a work ethos which fosters independence and entrepreneurial behavior. To
Expert panels are already being established in the area of urban infrastructure and telecoms. Similar panels should be
considered for roads and water supply projects for example.
2   One example of such relationship has been the appointment of IL&FS as country advisor to Oppenheimer &
Company Inc. (USA) for their offshore country fund, the "India Fund Inc.". In that process, IL&FS has registered
with the US Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) as an "Investment Advisor", an impressive achievement
given the rigorous SEC filing criteria.



- 8 -
motivate and retain competent professionals in a highly-competitive job market, the company
has evolved a variety of forward-looking remuneration strategies such as stock options, a
performance-related pay (PRP) program involving an appropriation of 5% of yearly net
profits -- the first such program to be offered in India by a financial institution -- and career
growth through joint ventures. As the company recruits only experienced staff, it does not
have a systematic training program for new entrants. However, it does provide training on
an ad hoc basis. Until now, training expenditures have remained relatively low. As IL&FS
is embarking on a major move into the infrastructure business where little experience has yet
been gathered in India, it is building up its institutional capacity and plans to provide its
Projects staff with structured training programs to help them in the delivery of their
responsibilities, particularly in identification, evaluation, implementation monitoring, and
quality assurance functions (para. 3.07).
2.06   Systems and controls. financial reporting and audit. IL&FS has in place well-
developed, high-quality accounting systems and internal auditing arrangements. The
principal instrument for management control is a budget which is approved by the Board.
IL&FS uses a reputable firm of chartered accountants as external auditor. A formal system
has been in place since January 1993 to ensure compliance with: (i) the covenants and
investment agreements entered into with creditors and shareholders; (ii) the company's credit
policies and procedures, including those stipulated in its Operating Framework (para. 2.10);
and (iii) statutory and regulatory requirements. Following the establishment of regional
offices in Delhi and Bangalore, the company has further strengthened its accounting system
to better monitor the operations of its various profit centers from a geographical perspective.
It now needs to build up its capacity to carefully monitor the profitability of individual
products marketed by the company. This has clearly not been a problem until now: the
company has remained of a manageable size, thus enabling its senior management to keep
good track of the various business activities and their relative profitability. As the company
grows rapidly and the number of product lines multiplies -- as is currently anticipated -- such
monitoring will become increasingly difficult and therefore needs to be cast within a more
systematic framework. A comprehensive cost accounting system by product line thus needs
to be put in place (Annex 2.3 provides details on the general purpose of such a system).
During negotiations, agreement was reached that IL&FS will establish and implement a
comprehensive cost accounting system by product line no later than March 31, 1997.
2.07  IL&FS follows internationally accepted commercial accounting standards in
preparing its financial statements. The latter are presented in a format that meets the
requirements of the Indian Companies Act, 1956. These requirements, however, are better
suited for manufacturing companies than for financial institutions such as IL&FS and make it
more difficult to interpret the company's financial situation. The reports submitted to the
Board for the annual budget provide a more comprehensible picture of IL&FS's financial
performance. Agreement was reached at negotiations that IL&FS will submit to the Bank by
June 30 of each year its annual audited accounts in the format required by the Companies Act
as well as its financial statements presented in the budget format and duly certified by the
auditor.



9-
Regulations and operating policies
2.08   IL&FS is a non-banking financial company (NBFC) regulated by the Reserve Bank
of India (RBI) under its NBFC (Reserve Bank) Directions, 1977, as amended (the
Directions). In addition, it is a company incorporated under the Indian Companies Act, 1956.
IL&FS is recognized as a Category I Merchant Banker under the Security Exchange Board of
India (SEBI) Act. Its activities are monitored by the Department of Financial Companies of
the RBI, which performs inspections and reviews the portfolio and quarterly reports
submitted by IL&FS for capital adequacy, asset quality, etc. IL&FS is in general compliance
with all the applicable regulations.
2.09   Under the Directions, IL&FS has been historically classified as an equipment leasing
company. In November 1994 it applied to RBI seeking a new NBFC classification given its
unique positioning in the infrastructure sector. This initiative was taken by IL&FS as the
company is not currently meeting the RBI standards applicable to equipment leasing
companies3. In January 1996, RBI informed IL&FS of its decision to retain the existing
classification of the company as an equipment leasing company until March 31, 1997 while
acknowledging IL&FS's intention to make leasing and infrastructure finance its principal
business4. During negotiations, agreement was reached that any material modification to the
existing regulatory framework applicable to IL&FS, that adversely affects the operations of
the company, will be an event of default under the loan.
2.10   In addition to the guidelines contained in the above-mentioned regulations, IL&FS
has developed a comprehensive Operating Framework that spells out (i) the company's
operating policy, (ii) its risk management framework and policies, and (iii) guidelines and
framework of operations. The Framework was updated in July 1995 to reflect the company's
planned expanded involvement in commercial infrastructure projects. In particular, its risk
management framework and policies now set out in an extensive manner IL&FS's risk
management philosophy and process, provides a detailed analysis of the types of risks
associated with its various activities, and proposes an array of risk mitigation measures to be
carefully monitored internally through a well-defined allocation of responsibilities5. In
general, the Operating Framework sets sound management principles. However, in some
instances, investment exposure limits are presented more as guidelines than strict ceilings
beyond which no further exposure should be taken. In these cases, the language of the
3   Such companies are required to have at least 50% of their assets in equipment leasing and hire-purchase business
taken together and earn at least 50% of their income from such business activities. IL&FS does not wish to undertake
hire-purchase activities to meet the 50% requirement as the corporate sector (its main client base) is not amenable to
such activity. Given applicable fiscal and accounting norms, it is also not feasible ordinarily for an NBFC to have
leased assets equivalent to 50% of its portfolio.
4   As a result. leasing and infrastructure assets will be considered together in the calculation of the applicable standards.
5   Because of the increasing complexity of risk management. IL&FS is planning to institute a "Risk Management
System" that would be entrusted to a Risk Management Group (RMG). The responsibility of the RMG, inter alia,
would include assisting IL&FS's business managers in evaluating various risks in their business areas, initiate risk
mitigation steps. reporting risks to the various management levels for corrective actions, and ensuring compliance of
directives laid by the Board or the COD.



- 10-
Framework needs to be tightened accordingly. Furthermore, three specific aspects related to
the company's investment in commercial infrastructure projects need to be revised: (i)
because of the inherent risks associated with this type of projects, particularly with India's
and IL&FS's limited track record in this area, it is considered more prudent that IL&FS limit
its credit exposure to infrastructure projects to one third of the company's total credit
exposure (instead of the 40% of total assets currently provided for in the Framework). This
would ensure a careful balance between leaving enough room for IL&FS to develop its
infrastructure business and ensuring that, as a result, it does not take excessive risks that
could threaten its fundamentally sound financial position; (ii) it is important to preserve the
integrity of lending decisions in those cases where IL&FS may be both a significant equity
investor in and a lender to the same commercial infrastructure project entities; thus the sum
total of investments (including equity, loans and guarantees) in affiliates of the company
should not exceed 30% of IL&FS's net worth; and (iii) when considering IL&FS's total
equity investments -- which should not exceed its net worth -- all expenditures incurred by
IL&FS on commercial infrastructure projects prior to financial closure should be treated as
equity. In close consultation with IFC, the Bank discussed with IL&FS a proposal for
revising the related sections of the risk management framework that reflects the specific
conditions under which these projects will be implemented and the risks they will entail. The
agreed version is presented in Annex 2.4. During negotiations, agreement was reached that,
as a condition of loan effectiveness, IL&FS will revise its Operating Framework to (i) set
definite investment exposure limits instead of guidelines, (ii) limit to one third of its total
credit exposure, IL&FS's credit exposure to infrastructure projects, as calculated in
accordance with a methodology satisfactory to the Bank, (iii) limit to 30% of the company's
net worth its aggregate investments in entities in which its share in the paid-in capital is more
than 33 1/3%, and (iv) treat as equity all expenditures incurred by IL&FS on infrastructure
projects prior to financial closure. In addition, agreement was reached that (i) IL&FS will
continue to conduct its operations in accordance with the principles and procedures
enunciated in its revised Operating Framework, and (ii) any material modification to the
Operating Framework, without prior approval of the Bank, will be an event of default under
the loan.
IL&FS's current operations
2.11   Assets. IL&FS is engaged in lease and loan financing -- which constitutes its core
business -- as well as merchant banking and other financial activities. It is today one of the 5
largest and best regarded non-bank finance companies (NBFCs) in India; it is currently rated
"AAA" by Credit Analysis and Research Ltd. (CARE), one of the 3 Indian credit rating
agencies. Since the company was founded, revenues and net profit after tax have increased at
an average annual rate of 56% and 57%, respectively. Its assets have grown from Rs.734
million (US$44 million) in its first year of operation (FY88/89) to Rs. 13.2 billion (US$418
million) in FY94/95 -- an impressive growth rate of over 50% per year in local currency and
over 40% in US$ dollar terms. It has successfully built up its balance sheet with a safe, but
not overly profitable, lending and leasing business. As of March 31, 1995, loans and leases
accounted for 77% of the company's total assets and 76% of its income. The leasing
business is attractive to IL&FS as the company benefits from accelerated tax depreciation on



- Il -
its leased assets6. The core lending and leasing business is restricted to the country's top 60
corporate groups as well as creditworthy public sector agencies, which has meant that,
although risks are low, competition in this segment has limited profitability. IL&FS tries to
differentiate itself from its competitors by providing products which are customized to client
needs. The quality of the lease and loan portfolio is good and has seen a marked
improvement over the last three years; it reflects not only the large, high-quality client base,
but also the company's tight credit control and portfolio management.7 In parallel with the
core business of lending and leasing, an investment banking business has evolved since
IL&FS's inception. Asset-based investment banking activities are mainly securities
investment and trading, and property development. A growing area of business for IL&FS is
now its fee-based investment banking activities: asset management, corporate and project
advisory work, and underwriting and issue management. To date, the contribution of the
bottom line of these activities has been modest, but its growth is a key component of
IL&FS's business strategy (para. 2.15). IL&FS is also engaged in the development of
various new businesses -- through the establishment of joint ventures -- most of which are a
logical extension of current activities that will give rise to new financial products or will
increase investment banking services that IL&FS can offer. The breakdown of IL&FS's
assets as of March 31, 1995 is presented in Figure 2.2 below.
Figure 2.2 - Breakdown of IL&FS's assets
(as of March 31, 1995)
Investment    Infrast. devt   Joint
banking     & financing  ventures
assets         1%         4%     Others
16l                               7%
Leasing                              Loans &
25%                                debentures
47%
2.12   Funding. Historically, IL&FS has sourced its resource requirements through the
induction of new shareholders, and through its credit lines from commercial banks, Indian
financial institutions and multilateral agencies. Over the past few years, it has dramatically
changed its resource base. IL&FS began as a subsidiary of a bank (CBI), which, along with
6   The volume of leasing in each year is set in order to bring IL&FS's taxable income to zero.
7   As of March 3 I. 1995, arrears on leases over 90 days represented 0.3% of total lease receivables; arrears on loans
over 90 days accounted for 0. 1% of total loan receivables. Loans and leases affected by arrears over 90 days
represented 2.2% and 1.5% of total loan and leasing assets respectively.



- 12-
the company's other major shareholders, served as the main source of funds. The opening of
its capital to new strategic shareholders (IFC and ORIX) not only broadened its equity base
but also facilitated the company's access to a wider range of debt funds. At present, IL&FS
borrows from multilaterals8 (IFC and the Asian Development Bank), local banks (it has
obtained renewable credit lines from a consortium of 19 banks), domestic financial and
investmnent institutions and insurance companies (an important source of medium- to long-
term fimds9). IL&FS has also been successful in mobilizing funds through the placement of
commercial paper (CP) and issue of debentures to select corporate groups in an attempt to
diversify its resource base. Figure 2.3 presents IL&FS's liability profile as of March 31,
1995.
Figure 2.3 -- IL&FS's liability profile
(as of March 31, 1995)
Short-term              Others
Borrowings                5%
33%                           Equity Capital
5%
Reservs &
Surplus
16%
Long-term
Borrowings
41%
Future strategy andfinancial performance
2.13 One of IL&FS 's primary mandates was to establish itself as a premier institution to
structure and finance, both directly and through syndication, private infrastructure projects.
The fulfilment of this objective was deferred to allow the company to build up its balance
sheet to a size sufficient to enable it to take on the requisite risks associated with lumpy
infrastructure investments. With total assets estimated to reach Rs. 16,307 million (US$470
million) at the end of the current financial year and a net worth of Rs.3,732 million (US$110
million), it is now in a position to start financing infrastructure projects. To reinforce this
state of readiness is the strength derived from a unique combination of public and private
sector influences that have defined the company's development until now. IL&FS has
consistently built upon the special position it has enjoyed from having been promoted by
public-sector institutions and being overseen by an influential Board of Directors. At the
same time, its management and professional staff, having been recruited largely from the
8   The average tenor of these borrowings, which are mainly for lending towards import of capital assets, is 10 years.
9   The tenor of these facilities is typically between 5 and 8 years.



- 13 -
private sector rather than the promoting institutions, have left the company with a distinctly
private sector culture. This unique characteristic is seen as a key strength to enable IL&FS to
enter the commercial infrastructure business in a major way. It has started to position itself
as the leader in developing the concept for commercializing infrastructure projects, the
associated legal framework as well as financing alternatives. Over the last few years, IL&FS
has been actively engaged in creating and developing frameworks to enable such
commercialization, and has been in continuous dialogue with the relevant authorities in order
to develop policy as well as the recommended legislative changes that promote such intent.
The sectors chosen by IL&FS for initial development were power and telecommunications,
surface transport and transportation systems. As explained earlier (para. 1.06), power and
telecommunications are somewhat better positioned for commercial implementation;
IL&FS's initial focus in these sectors has therefore been towards providing investment
banking services. The surface transport sector has been far different in that IL&FS has had to
develop models which are sought to be replicable across the sector and structured to facilitate
market borrowings. Thus, in these areas, IL&FS has been required to undertake a
multiplicity of roles in a project, including initial conceptualization, development, financing,
implementation and management. Its record to date in this area is limited to the successful
implementation of a small toll road in Madhya Pradesh (the 11.5-km Rau-Pithampur bypass);
it has also advanced significantly the preparation of three additional projects, two of which
(Delhi-NOIDA bridge and Panvel bypass) are in the final stages of development.
2.14  Corporate business plan. IL&FS has developed a comprehensive corporate business
plan for the next five years to manage a successful move into infrastructure. The plan has
been conceived in the light of the prevailing economic environment in India, and IL&FS's
perception that the changes over the last few years would continue into the foreseeable future.
It reflects IL&FS's keen interest in preserving its position in the market as a prudently
managed, commercially oriented and profitable institution, and maintaining its track record
of innovation and delivery. A summary of IL&FS's projected financial performance is
presented in Table 2.1 below. Past and projected income statements, cash flow statements
and balance sheets are provided in Annex 2.5.



- 14-
Table 2.1 - Summary of IL&FS's projectedfinancial performance 1995/96-2000/01
(Rs. million, unless otherwise indicated)
1995-96    1996-97    1997-98    1998-99   1999-000   2000-01
Total Assets                            16,307     19,619     26,640     33,860     39,599      44,866
Infr. Project Assets                      275       1,331      3,108      6,239       8,313      9,863
of which: - debt                           51        980      2,383      5,135      6,935       8,207
- equity                        224        351        724       1,104      1,378      1,656
Long-tenn debt                           8,807     10,062     15,005     18,775     22,210      24,573
Net worth                                3,742      4,283      4,944      6,944       8,420     10,178
of which: - share capital                894         894        863        949        949        949
- reserves and surplus        2,848      3,389      4,081       5,995      7,471      9,229
Total Income                             2,439      3,191      4,063      5,417       6,668      7,593
of which: - interest income             1,344      1,474      2,028      2,965      3,746       4,333
- lease income                  946       1,315      1,528      1,805      2,144      2,378
- fee income                    125        230        278        333        400         488
Interest and finance charges             1,472      1,740      2,319      3,056       3,606      4,048
Ratios:
Project Assets as a % of total assets     1.69       6.78      11.67       18.43      20.99      21.98
Debt: equity ratio                        3.06       3.09       3.72       3.16        3.01       2.74
Debt service coverage ratio               1.47       2.14       2.00       2.10        2.24       2.45
Retumnonnetworth(%)                      12.71      18.18      19.08       19.55     21.91       21.12
Return on total assets (%)                3.09       3.99       3.74       4.10        4.54       4.61
2.15   The main thrust of IL&FS's growth over the next 5 years will be the dramatic
expansion of its commercial infrastructure project portfolio, which, for the moment, is
limited to the Rau-Pithampur toll road'". Commercial infrastructure assets are projected to
amount to about Rs.9.863 million (US$280 million) by the end of 2000/01 as compared to
Rs.275 million (US$8 million) as of March 31, 1995. To sustain this growth, IL&FS has
forecasted a robust expansion of its core loan and leasing business that would increase by
about 24% p.a. over the period, a pace considered achievable in light of the projected overall
economic and industrial growth in India. Another important feature of IL&FS's corporate
plan is the significant growth in non-fund based business derived from a conscious effort at
developing a wide range of advisory services". The impact of such development would be
0   The Rau-Pithampur toll road, being the first commercial infrastructure project arranged by IL&FS, was actually
implemented by the company acting as project developer; the total cost of the project appears therefore as an asset on
IL&FS's balance sheet. IL&FS has just received approval to domicile the asset into a special purpose vehicle in
which the Government of Madhya Pradesh will take a 20% stake. The SPV will then issue toll revenue bonds, a first
for India.
l  IL&FS plans to offer a range of advisory services encompassing: (i) corporate advisory services (structured finance,
capital markets, project financing), (ii) securities management, and (iii) infrastructure advisory services. For example,
with the experience gained as country advisor to the Oppenheimer "India Fund", is now spearheading the



- 15 -
reflected in a relatively rapid growth in fee income (28% p.a.). Finally, the plan assumes
that the existing fiscal regime applicable to leasing activities would be maintained. In the
event the prevailing incentives are either reduced or eliminated, IL&FS could, to a certain
extent, pass on the associated additional costs through an increase in its spread. However, it
would also likely face stiffer competition and see a slower growth in its leasing assets. To
evaluate the impact of possible events on IL&FS's financial performance, a sensitivity
analysis was carried out using different scenarios (Annex2..6). If IL&FS's growth in assets
were significantly curtailed as compared to the base case scenario presented above, and and if
there were no income from capital gains and no growth in fee income -- a worst case scenario
-- the company's return on net worth would basically remain at its present level (about 14-
15%), while its debt service capability, as measured by its debt service coverage ratio, would
actually improve as a result of lower funding requirements.
2.16   The company's move into the infrastructure sector means that the average maturity
of its assets will grow. In order to manage its liquidity risk, the average maturity of its
borrowings must also be increased. IL&FS is therefore looking to take up more medium-
and long-term debt. Although it is already raising medium-term funding from domestic
commercial banks, their capacity to provide longer maturity debt is limited. In the absence of
a well-functioning long-term debt market in India, IL&FS has no other option but tap foreign
sources for long-term funds. IFC is not in a position to provide additional funds with
maturities and on the substantially-increased scale that is now being sought by the company -
- IL&FS is already the largest exposure of IFC's Asia Capital Markets Department. The
Bank is thus considered to be the main source of funds to meet the pressing needs for long-
term financing. In addition to the Bank loan, USAID has approved a US$25 million line of
credit to IL&FS in support of one of the projects in the pipeline (Tirupur integrated area
development program). The company is discussing further non-rupee lines with other
foreign agencies (DEG of Germany, USEximbank, FMO of Holland) as well as a number of
international commercial banks interested in the Indian market (ING Bank, Bank of America,
Chase Manhattan, Societe Generale, Fuji Bank and Deutsche Bank). While the potential
sources of foreign funding are wide and numerous, a significant constraint may be the ability
to swap these funds into rupees.
2.17 The development of IL&FS's infrastructure business will modify the risk profile of
what is currently a very prudently managed enterprise. The prudential guidelines embedded
in RBI's Directions are certainly appropriate for IL&FS's current set of activities, essentially
low-risk lending and leasing to top Indian corporates, but they are insufficient for higher-risk
and lumpier infrastructure development and financing. IL&FS's risk management
framework addresses by and large this concern (para. 2. 10). As a complement, agreement
was reached during negotiations on the following two financial performance targets for
IL&FS: (i) maintain at all times a debt service coverage ratio of not less than 1.25; and (ii)
maintain at all times a debt to equity ratio of not more than 6:1.
development of specialty funds for the infrastructure sector, the first of which is being established with American
Insurance Group (AIG) (USA). The first tranche of US$70 million was closed on January 10, 1996 and included
anchor investors such as ADB, Orix and Tata Industries; the second, of US$80 million, is expected to close in April
1996.



- 16-
III - THE PROJECT
Project objectives
3.01   The Project aims to develop prototype contractual arrangements for private
investment in IL&FS's areas of involvement, thereby facilitating entry of the private sector
on a much larger scale in areas heretore dominated by the public sector. In the process, it
would build up India's capacity to attract private investment in infrastructure, pilot-test
institutional and contractual arrangements in a variety of subprojects under various
administrative and political conditions, and help establish a track record as a prerequisite for
large scale private investment in the sector. The Project would also meet the pressing needs
of commercial infrastructure project entities for long-term rupee financing. pending the
implementation of financial sector reforms for the development of a domestic long-term debt
market, currently under preparation. Equally important, it would foster efficiency in the
delivery and use of selected infrastructure services, encourage the establishment of more
efficient practices in the construction and operation of infrastructure project, and assist in
alleviating the severe financial and institutional constraints to the expansion of infrastructure
in India.
Project description
3.02   The Project will assist IL&FS in financing infrastructure subprojects such as major
bridges, urban bypasses, port facilities, water supply and effluent treatment schemes, and
integrated area development projects, to be implemented on a build-operate-and-transfer
(BOT) basis (or a variation thereof) and expected to be started within the next three years. It
consists of three interrelated components:
+  an investment component in the forn of a line of credit to IL&FS, the proceeds of which
will be used to provide long-term finance to special purpose entities established for the
construction and operation of commercial infrastructure projects in IL&FS's pipeline
(para. 3.04);
*  a subproject preparation component to cover specialized consultancy services to advise
the public authorities granting the subproject concessions or to assist project developers
in preparing their subprojects (para. 3.05); and
*  a training and technical assistance component to cover (i) IL&FS's staff development for
its staff, (ii) specific studies that IL&FS is undertaking to facilitate the evaluation and
implementation of commercial infrastructure projects (e.g., legal and regulatory
framework applicable to BOT projects in sectors of IL&FS's interest, innovative
financing for environmental infrastructure in medium-sized cities and townships, traffic
forecasting, willingness to pay and fixation of user charges for water supply and road
projects) (para. 3.07).



- 17-
Indicative pipeline of subprojects
3.03  IL&FS has identified a long list of subprojects which it may eventually consider for
financing and which provides valuable information on the potential size of the market.
However, it is clear that some of the projects in that list may either slip or not be executed at
all, while new subprojects may be incorporated at a later date. In the course of preparing the
Project, the Bank and IL&FS agreed that, to achieve the maximum results, it would be best to
focus on certain priority sectors and establish a track record in India, that would then
facilitate replicability in future. A set of eligibility criteria for the line of credit has thus been
developed and is presented in Annex 3.1. Agreement was reached at negotiations that these
eligibility criteria will be applicable to all subprojects to be funded under the line of credit
unless otherwise agreed by the Bank on a case-by-case basis.
3.04  Given the above criteria and after reviewing the state of preparedness of each
subproject, IL&FS has drawn up an indicative pipeline of subprojects (Annex 3.2)
tentatively considered for financing under the Project. It is a scaled-down version of the
above-mentioned list, bearing in mind that (i) commercial infrastructure projects take a
considerable time to develop, and (ii) IL&FS can only gradually build up its capacity to
handle the correspondingly large volume of appraisal work. The pipeline includes 18
geographically dispersed subprojects, distributed as follows: (i) 10 are in transport (urban
bypasses and bridges, roads and highways, railways), (ii) 6 are area development projects
(including a combination of water supply, effluent treatment, power supply and road
development schemes). (iii) one is a port facility, and (iv) the last one is a large area
development project to be developed in stages (Bay of Cambay). Some of the subprojects are
at a relatively advanced stage of preparation and have a high probability of being
implemented under the Project, they are expected to start construction within the next 18
months. By contrast, others are only at the preliminary development stage and the
probability that they will be ready for implementation within the next three years is, at the
moment, somewhat lower. Any slippage on these projects is expected to be made up by other
projects currently under development and not included in the pipeline.
Project cost and financing plan
3.05  The aggregate cost of the subprojects in the pipeline (including development costs) is
estimated at about Rs.58,000 million (US$1.6 billion). The figures indicated above provide
an order of magnitude of the investments envisaged. Out of this aggregate cost, development
expenses for projects still at their initial stage of development and envisaged to be financed
under the Project are estimated at about US$19 million, US$5 million of which would
correspond to the cost of advisory services (including computer hardware and software)
which public sector authorities (e.g., GOI, state governments, municipalities) could avail of
to select BOT operators and negotiate concession agreements. It is proposed to finance this
latter subcomponent through an IDA credit to GOI, the proceeds of which would be utilized
by the concerned GOI or state government agencies. Agreement was reached at negotiations
that the IDA credit will become effective only once the loan to IL&FS has been made



- 18-
effective. It is still too early to provide a reasonable estimate of the breakdown of costs
between local and direct or indirect foreign currrency expenditures; this will likely vary
considerably from subproject to subproject, depending on the nature of the subproject, the
BOT operator, and the extent to which the contractor imports construction equipment. Given
the experience gathered so far on the first two subprojects in the pipeline, the foreign cost
component is likely to be higher than for public sector projects as great emphasis is placed in
introducing best international practices through a careful selection of consortium members
for the special purpose entities. It has thus been assumed that about 40% of the subproject
costs would be in foreign currency.
3.06   The subprojects would be developed with a mix of financing comprising: equity from
project sponsors and other partners such as institutional investors (through specialty equity
funds), debt financing from contractors or suppliers, term financing from other domestic
financial institutions, banks and the domestic markets (e.g., through the offering of "toll
revenue bonds"), and long-term financing from multilateral agencies such as the proposed
Bank loan and bilateral funds such as the US$25 million line of credit from USAID. As part
of its review of each individual subproject (paras. 3.08 and 3.13), the Bank will also assess
whether a World Bank guarantee might be an appropriate vehicle for Bank support to the
subproject, either as a complement to or a substitute for a subloan from IL&FS. The amnount
of the Bank loan has been deliberately set at a relatively conservative level to reflect
uncertainties as to the pace of implementation of the subprojects and hence of disbursement
from the loan. However, should the subprojects materialize more rapidly than anticipated,
additional commitments could be envisaged through guarantees and/or a second line of credit
to IL&FS. Bringing the subprojects to financial closure will require a mix of project
development expertise and relatively novel and complex financial engineering. IL&FS is
expected to play a key catalytic role in the process. It will build on its proven record of
success in investment banking and financial services, and the strategic alliances it has
established with foreign institutional investors'2. For all subprojects in its pipeline, IL&FS is
also laying great emphasis on aligning the interests of the major stakeholders and the local
governments in the success of the projects. Table 3.1 below provides an indicative project
cost and financing plan.
12  For example, IL&FS will offer to the AIG equity fund all the infrastructure projects it is aware of. It has also been in
discussion with General Electric Capital Corporation (GECC) for a relationship for infrastructure deal referrals for
which IL&FS would receive a fee.



- 19 -
Table 3.1 - Indicative project cost andfinancing plan
(millions of US dollars)
Cost                     Foreign      Local        Total
Investment                 675         905         1,555
Subproject preparation      1 0          9           19
Training and tech. assist.    I         -             1
Total                686         914        1,600
Financing
IBRD                        200         -           200
IDA                          5          -             5
IL&FS                        -          44           44
Indian fin. institutions/banks  -      430          430
Capital markets                         150         150
State governments & agencies   -        100         100
Export credit agencies     200          -           200
Bilateral funds             75          -            75
Project sponsors & others  206          190         396
Total                686         914        1,600
Project implementation and monitoring
3.07  The Project will be implemented by IL&FS, acting as equity investor and lender to
the special purpose entities. During project preparation, the Bank reviewed in detail IL&FS's
project appraisal procedures and capabilities and suggested a number of adjustments to be
made in the company's organizational structure, staffing and processes so that it would be
better equipped to handle the anticipated large volume of infrastructure business. Key
reassignment and recruitment decisions were subsequently made by IL&FS's management,
internal processes and procedures have since been clearly formulated, and greater recourse is
being made to outside expertise to assist in project appraisal. In addition, a comprehensive
planning exercise has been carried out by IL&FS to assess the manpower requirements --
both internal and external -- of its infrastructure business, evaluate training needs and
estimate the cost of consultancy services. A summary of the training program and technical
assistance activities envisaged by IL&FS is provided in Annex 3.3.
3.08  IL&FS has designed a comprehensive system of steps and procedures to be followed
by its staff for appraising subprojects and evaluating subloan applications. The resulting
project cycle is an elaborate and well-thought out project evaluation system (Annx3.4).
However, for IL&FS, some of the subproject appraisal activities will be undertaken for the



- 20 -
first time in a structured format. Systems must therefore be in place that are of a standard
and quality that can withstand the scrutiny of all potential financiers. Because of the size,
relative complexity and novelty of the subprojects which the proposed loan will finance, it is
highly desirable that all subproject appraisal activities be carried out in close consultation
with the Bank. It has been agreed with IL&FS that, for the first two subprojects in each
sector category (e.g., roads, water supply, integrated area development)'3, there would be
close interaction with the Bank as appraisal of infrastructure projects is still an area where the
company has least experience and where the Bank can contribute most. In particular, the full
documentation on the contractual framework for the subprojects (e.g., concession agreement,
construction contract, O&M contract, lenders' agreement, shareholders' agreement) will be
reviewed in detail by the Bank for their risk mitigation aspects. This is critical as IL&FS is
breaking new grounds in India and is thereby setting precedents that may potentially become
government policies. For all subprojects, IL&FS will prepare a detailed subproject
evaluation report, an outline of which is provided in Annex 3.5. These arrangements were
confirmed during loan negotiations.
3.09   Performance monitoring indicators have been established that will provide tools for
monitoring progress of the Project and the extent to which it is meeting its development
objectives (Annex 3.6). A comprehensive management review of all aspects of the Project,
including IL&FS's operations, financial performance and annual budget, will be carried out
before April 30 of each year. In addition, a mid-term review of the Project will be held
before April 30, 1998 to take stock of the progress to date and identify any appropriate
measures to improve implementation of the Project, as the need may arise. These
arrangements were confirmed during loan negotiations. Given the Bank's expected intensive
involvement throughout the life of the Project, and especially in the first two years where
considerable efforts will be deployed to put in place an appropriate contractual framework
that would be replicated for subsequent projects, unusually large supervision resources will
be required to monitor project implementation. An indicative supervision plan is provided in
Annex 3.7; it may be reviewed and updated as appropriate during project implementation.
Procurement
3.10   In line with the Bank's revised procurement guidelines, two courses of action are
envisaged for the procurement of goods and services under the Project. Whenever possible,
and particularly for those subprojects in which IL&FS's involvement is identified at an early
stage, it is envisaged that BOT operators will be selected through international competitive
bidding, following which the selected operator will be free to procure goods, works and
services required for the facility using its own procedures. As part of the advisory services
IL&FS is providing to state and local governments for the preparation of subprojects, IL&FS
has sought consultants' advice to develop the basic documentation for selecting a BOT
operator. It is also looking to the Bank for assistance in developing acceptable procedures for
13 Namely, the Panvel bypass, the Delhi-NOIDA bridge, the Tirupur area development program and the Dewas water
supply scheme.



- 21 -
inviting and evaluating proposals. During project preparation, the Bank already provided
some inputs. General guidelines were discussed with IL&FS which, in some instances, is
acting as advisor to state governments or other public agencies that will eventually manage
the competitive bidding process (Annex 3.8). Given the diversity of subprojects, the lack of
experience with competitive selection of private infrastructure operators in India and the
limited availability of reference documents in the Bank to guide IL&FS in carrying out such
procurement, it is anticipated that extensive work will be required in this area in the early
stage of project implementation. In those cases where the BOT operator will not be selected
on a competitive basis, construction contracts or supply of construction materials and
equipment will be procured following normal World Bank ICB procedures, unless otherwise
agreed with the Bank on a case-by-case basis. During project preparation, the Bank reviewed
the procurement and contracting activities for two of such cases and suggested a number of
improvements to be made in the area of procurement procedures and bid documentation to
ensure that IL&FS adopts international best practices. Technical assistance and consultancy
services would be procured in accordance with the provisions of the Bank's guidelines for the
use of consultants. Table 3.2 below provides a summary of the procurement arrangements
envisaged under the project.
Table 3.2 - Summary of Procurement Arrangements'4
(indicative) (in millions of US dollars)
ICB          Others        Total
Subprojects                110            75          185
Technical assistance
- Implementation support    -             19           19
- Policy support            -              0.5          0.5
- Capacity building         -              0.5          0.5
Total               110             95         205
Security arrangements
3.11   The Bank loan will be a US$ LIBOR-based loan. It will be extended directly to
IL&FS and guaranteed by GOI. The provision of GOI guarantees in support of
infrastructure development in general is under active consideration by a high-powered
working group within the Ministry of Finance. Its recommendations are expected to be
submitted before the end of March 1996. At that time only will the detailed terms and
conditions of GOI's guarantee of the Bank loan to IL&FS be finalized. However, agreement
was reached at negotiations that GOI will levy a guarantee fee of not less than 1.2% on the
4  The amounts shown correspond to IBRD/IDA financing; as of the appraisal date the respective total cost of the
individual subprojects is not known and therefore not shown in the procurement table.



- 22 -
amounts outstanding and disbursed, a level considered appropriate considering the pioneering
role IL&FS is expected to play in establishing a track record for India in the area of private
investment in infrastructure. Agreement was also reached that, as a condition of loan
effectiveness, GOI and IL&FS will enter into an indemnity agreement on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank. In addition to the GOI guarantee, the Bank will take a
pari passu interest in the security structure currently in force in respect of the present lenders
to IL&FS (Annex 3.9). To complete the security package, an inter-creditor agreement needs
to be in place. IL&FS has finalized the agreement to the satisfaction of the Bank and will
circulate it shortly to all the other lenders for their comments. Agreement was reached at
negotiations that, as a condition of loan effectiveness, the security arrangements for the
World Bank loan will be completed, including the placement of the loan under the mortgage
shared equally with other lenders and the execution of the inter-creditor agreement.
Onlending and disbursement
3.12   The proposed loan to IL&FS is meant to meet the pressing needs of commercial
infrastructure project entities for long-term rupee financing, pending the implementation of
financial sector reforms for the development of a domestic long-term debt market (para.
1. 11). Furthermore, given the intrinsic risks of infrastructure projects and the fact that cost
recovery will, in most if not all cases, be in local currency, it is considered more prudent not
to pass on the foreign exchange risk to the final beneficiaries of the loan so as to preserve the
financial viability of the subprojects. Proceeds of the loan to IL&FS will therefore be onlent
to the subproject entities, mainly in the form of rupee term loans with maturities matching
that of the original loan to IL&FS as closely as possible (17-20 years) and a market-
determined rate'5. Only in exceptional cases will IL&FS onlend in US dollars in which case
it will charge a market-determined variable rate'6. These onlending arrangements were
confirmed at negotiations. For subloans made in rupees, IL&FS will bear the foreign
exchange risk. The company plans to hedge the currency risk by swapping the proceeds of
the Bank loan into back-to-back rupee-denominated loans with the same repayment
structures as the Bank loan. For this to be cost-effective in the absence of a swap market in
India, IL&FS will need to do it in amounts of at least US$25 million at the minimum. To
enable IL&FS to arrange these swap transactions, a Special Account, with an authorized
allocation of US$25 million, will be established in a commercial bank, on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank. The amounts deposited in the Special Account will be
used exclusively for executing the swap transactions, and the rupees obtained therefrom will
be deposited into a Swap Account, to be used for eligible expenditures. Annex 3.1 0 provides
further details on such arrangements. They were confirmed at negotiations. Depending on
the terms of the swap agreement, IL&FS may onlend the proceeds of the loan at a fixed or
variable rate. In either event IL&FS will not bear the interest rate risk. The IDA credit will
5  IL&FS estimates that, under prevailing conditions, it would onlend at a spread of 400 basis points over the lending
rate obtained from the swap counterparty.
16  Under present conditions and given the cost of the funds to IL&FS, the company reckons that it would onlend at a
spread of 400 basis points over LIBOR.



- 23 -
be onlent on the standard terms and conditions applicable to central assistance to the states at
the time.
3.13  As indicated earlier, subprojects financed by the line of credit will need to meet
specific eligibility criteria (para. 3.03). In particular, subprojects will need to comply with
the following financial performance benchmarks:
* a capital structure for the SPV of no more than 75% debt, with the promoter's
contribution representing at least 25% of the paid-in capital;
* a project debt service coverage ratio of no less than 1.25 on an annual cash-flow basis;
and
* the entire financing package to have been finalized (committed or raised) or promoter
guarantees of high quality to have been provided prior to the finalization of the financial
package.
These will need to be fully documented in the subproject evaluation report prepared by
IL&FS, which will form the basis for the Bank's review of individual subprojects.
Agreement was reached at negotiations that, as conditions of disbursement for the investment
component, (i) IL&FS will submit to the Bank, for its review and approval, the final project
evaluation report, including the environmental and social (EA/SA) assessment reports, and
(ii) the contracts for the financing of the subproject will have been executed together with all
the other contracts associated with the implementation of the subproject.
3.14  Drawdowns from each subloan will be contingent on the SPV meeting conditions
precedent relative to progress of construction. Such conditions would be specified in the
lender's agreement between IL&FS and the SPV and would be spelled out in the evaluation
report submitted by IL&FS to the Bank. Disbursements under the loan will be made for
100% of the amounts paid by IL&FS for expenditures incurred under eligible subloans;
disbursements for consultancy services and training will be for 100% of expenditures.
Disbursements under the credit will be for: (i) 100% of expenditures for consultancy services,
and (ii) for equipment and software, 100% of foreign expenditures, 100% of local
expenditures (ex-factory cost) and 80% of local expenditures for other items procured locally.
As indicated in the eligibility criteria, proceeds of the Bank loan would not cover more than
25% of the total cost of individual subprojects. The loan is expected to disburse over a five-
year period. An indicative schedule of disbursements has been assumed in the financial
projections for IL&FS (Annex 2.5). The cut-off date for new loan commitments to be
financed under the Project would be December 31, 1998. The Project would be completed
by March 31, 2001 and the closing date for the loan would be September 30, 2001.



- 24 -
Environmental and social considerations
3.15  IL&FS, with assistance from an NGO, has prepared an Environmental and Social
Report (ESR), the objective of which was to put in place an environmental and social
assessment process which adequately responds to GOI requirements and, for subprojects
involving Bank financing, the Bank's operational directives (ODs). Organized in 3
volumes'7, the ESR: (a) states the company's environmental and social goals; (b) provides
the contextual setting for the environmental and social assessment process; (c) identifies the
major issues in the priority sectors; (d) details the environmental assessment and social
assessment (EA/SA) process that IL&FS will follow when appraising suprojects; (e) outlines
methods to moderate risks and liabilities due to environmental and social factors; (f) specifies
the organizational arrangements in IL&FS to manage the environmental and social
assessment process; and (g) spells out the staff development plan. Relevant regulations,
guidelines (including the Bank's relevant operational directives), checklists and protocols are
provided as an attachment to the report. Land acquisition and resettlement procedures
described in the ESR will apply only to land acquired, whether by public or private sector
agencies, on or after June 15, 1995 (the date of commencement of preparation of the ESR).
During project preparation, the Bank "field-tested" the ESR approach in the context of one
subproject (para. 3.17) and met with various government officials and NGOs to assess their
concurrence with the approach proposed in the ESR. The Executive Summary of the ESR is
presented in Annex 3.1 1.
3.16  In the process of preparing the document, IL&FS's management has demonstrated a
strong commitment to implement the ESR and taken a proactive stand for tackling
environmental and social issues. IL&FS clearly sees the EA/SA process as an integral part of
its risk management framework: specific environmental and social risks are identified upfront
and mitigation measures fully integrated into the project design, thereby reducing the risks of
delays during contruction and operation that could threaten the project's financial viability.
It also enables IL&FS to screen projects and avoid financing investments for which, for
example, land acquisition may result in costly resettlement and rehabilitation (R&R). IL&FS
has brought a few innovative features into the environmental and social assessment process,
such as the establishment of neighbourhood committees or the preparation of annual
environmental and social audits for the company. It has set an example of best practice that
might well be considered for other operations supported by the Bank in India and elsewhere.
3.17  IL&FS, with the assistance of local consultants, prepared an environmental and social
assessment for the proposed Delhi-NOIDA link bridge subproject. The draft report was
reviewed by the Bank and the final version incorporates all the comments. The Delhi
Administration, NOIDA and the project SPV have all committed to implement the mitigation
actions. Air pollution and noise have emerged as the major environmental issues in certain
localities adjacent to the project location. A greenbelt, noise barriers and air quality
7  Volunie I is the Executive Summary; Volume 11 is the main report; and Volume 111 is a compilation of reference
documents.



- 25 -
monitoring are included in the project design. Five per cent of the total landfall area is under
dispute, the remaining is unencumbered land. A negotiated settlement with the affected
people is being pursued by the Delhi Administration. The compensation will be based on the
entitlement framework contained in the ESR.



- 26 -
IV - PROJECT JUSTIFICATION
Project sustainability
4.01  In this particular case, project sustainability must be looked at from three inter-related
angles: (i) from the point of the individual subprojects; (ii) from the institutional IL&FS
viewpoint; and (iii) from a broad sectoral perspective. The proposed project will support the
implementation of commercial infrastructure projects which IL&FS is and will continue to be
carefully screening for their financial, economic, technical, environmental and social merits.
Among the eligibility criteria agreed with the Bank, IL&FS has set a minimum real financial
rate of return of 14% which it considers to be the minimum for attracting private finance.
The subprojects are structured to generate sufficient revenues to recover capital as well as
operating and maintenance costs through the duration of the concessions. Particular attention
is also given by IL&FS for establishing an appropriate institutional framework for the
implementation of the individual projects, through a pro-active dialogue with GOI on
regulatory and legal issues and by encouraging public/private partnerships with state
governments and their agencies. Since the financial viability of the proposed investments
depends on the cost-effective design, implementation and operation of individual projects,
the incentives for sustainability are greater than in the case of similar investments
implemented by the public sector. The agreed procedures for Bank review of subprojects
(paras. 3.08, 3.09 and 3.13) should also enhance the likelihood of sustainability of the
subprojects.
4.02   With regard to IL&FS's sustainability, the company has developed an Operating
Framework which inter alia sets out a risk management framework and related policies as
well as the company's guidelines and framework of operations (para. 2. 10). To ensure that
IL&FS's expanded involvement in infrastructure is sustainable in the long run, the Project
includes the following safeguards: (i) IL&FS's risk management framework, as revised, will
set prudent limits to the company's exposure to infrastructure projects; (ii) financial
covenants will provide additional prudential guidelines for IL&FS's overall operations; and
(iii) the agreed financial eligibility criteria for onlending to individual subprojects are
expected to contain the credit risks of individual subprojects.
4.03   By supporting IL&FS' efforts in the development of private infrastructure
investments, in collaboration with the concerned agencies of GOI and individual states, the
project will assist in defining an improved regulatory and institutional framework for the
sector and hence establishing the sustainability of private infrastructure investments in India.
Economic analysis
4.04   The economic analysis of the Project will be carried out at the subproject level, on an
investment-by-investment basis. As indicated earlier, each subproject will be subject to both
a detailed financial analysis and a conventional economic evaluation by IL&FS, assisted, as
necessary, by specialized consultants. During project preparation, the Bank reviewed the
preliminary economic evaluations carried out by IL&FS for a sample of subprojects in the



- 27 -
transport and water supply sectors. While IL&FS's staff demonstrated extensive knowledge
of the principles of economic analysis of projects, some improvements were suggested to
enhance the coverage, thoroughness and rigor of the evaluations. The Bank agreed with
IL&FS a methodology to be followed for investments in each sector, including: (i) a clear
articulation of the underlying rationale for the choice of each subproject, (ii) the consistency
of the subproject within future sectoral development plans, (iii) the identification of the
expected beneficiary groups, (iv) the valuation of economic benefits and costs using
appropriate shadow prices, (vi) the identification of the risks of the subproject and the
associated mitigation measures, (vii) the establishment of a minimum economic rate of return
(ERR), (viii) the test of first-year benefits (FYB) to check appropriate timing of the
investment, and (ix) the use of incremental analysis in the context of a phased project.
During loan negotiations IL&FS confirmed that it will follow an acceptable methodology
when carrying out the economic evaluation of subprojects and that it will fully document
such analysis in the evaluation report to be submitted to the Bank for each subproject.
Benefits
4.05   At the subproject level, the project will achieve the benefits normally attributed to
specific infrastructure projects; these will be clearly identified and measured on a case-by-
case basis in the economic evaluation of individual subprojects. At the macroeconomic level,
the Project should be seen as a precursor for greater involvement of domestic financial
institutions and the capital markets in the infrastructure sector. It will help overcome one of
the major obstacles to a satisfactory market response to GOI's economic reform efforts and
promote increased capital availability for infrastructure, improved efficiency in the use of
these resources and overall faster economic growth. The Project will enable IL&FS to
promote commercially-viable infrastructure projects on a much wider scale than heretofore.
By giving such investments a clear commercial orientation, the concept adopted by IL&FS
for their implementation is expected to induce better cost recovery, faster construction, the
application of improved maintenance policies, the introduction of technological
improvements, better utilization of the infrastructure capacity, and better interaction between
users and providers of services. The project will also provide the company with the
appropriate institution-building and technical assistance support required to develop it into a
successful infrastructure company. IL&FS will thus have become a rare institution in the
developing world, achieving what it does as a purely indigenous enterprise.
Risks
4.06   The Project -- innovative in its concept and design -- entails certain risks which are
proposed to be mitigated in the following manner:
* first, the Project is breaking new grounds. The pioneering of commercial infrastructure
projects in India in itself constitutes a key risk, particularly in the absence of a well-
established administrative, legal and regulatory regime. To mitigate this risk, IL&FS is
using great care in selecting ("cherry-picking") only those projects which it considers



- 28 -
commercially viable, in establishing close partnerships with local authorities and other
stakeholders, and spending significant resources in developing appropriate contractual
frameworks (e.g., concession agreements) for these projects. The Project will also
ensure that the public contracting parties will have access, whenever required, to expert
advisory services to ensure that the subprojects supported under the operation are the
result of a fair and responsible contracting and negotiating process;
secondly, BOT-type infrastructure projects are still relatively new to IL&FS and raise
credit risk issues quite different from the more traditional corporate finance and
investment banking business in which IL&FS has so far excelled. IL&FS is building up a
core team of professional staff and has agreed to build into its appraisal process a greater
degree of reliance on outside consultants to complement its own resources. Systems are
being put in place to ensure careful and comprehensive appraisal of projects which will
be reinforced by a close interaction with the Bank and specific financial eligibility
criteria;
thirdly, there is a risk that IL&FS may have set excessively optimistic targets for
implementation of the subprojects in its pipeline. Thus, embedded in the project is also a
risk of delays in disbursing the proposed loan. This could in turn induce IL&FS to either
shift towards simpler and less productive projects or rush the procedures and deviate from
a proper contractual framework. A reasonable degree of conservatism has been built into
the financial projections discussed in Chapter 11. The close working relationship
between the Bank and IL&FS, the proposed covenants and onlending arrangements,
including milestone provisions for disbursements, and Bank reviews and approvals of
individual subprojects should also minimize the risk of IL&FS deviating from the priority
sector and project types as well as the agreed procedures. In addition, to secure an
effective role for the Bank in monitoring progress of implementation of the project, the
supervision plan provides for a significantly enhanced supervision effort by the Bank,
particularly during the first two years of project implementation. (para. 3.09);
fourthly, IL&FS's involvement in a number of large and relatively complex projects,
raises the risk of too rapid an expansion of its infrastructure operations. While it has
followed until now prudent management practices, it must continue to maintain a proper
balance between growth and sound investments. The financial covenants proposed for
this project should provide appropriate checks on IL&FS's growth in infrastructure assets
and future exposure to infrastructure projects;
finally, the loan to IL&FS includes a new feature whereby the company will be allowed
to use proceeds from the loan account and immediately swap them into Rupees in order
to protect itself from the foreign exchange risk on repayment of the loan. Appropriate
safeguards have been built into the terms and conditions of such Special Account and the
associated Swap Account so that the funds disbursed from the loan account are used
exclusively for the Project.



- 29 -
4.07  It is also worth noting that IL&FS itself, as a commercial entity, is well aware of the
issues related to risks and risk management; this has been extensively reflected in its
Operating Framework (para. 2.09). The risk management framework and policies set out in
detail (i) IL&FS' risk management philosophy; (ii) the objectives of risk management; (iii)
the company's risk management process; (iv) the internal allocation of responsibilities; and
(v) definition and types of risks incurred in IL&FS's various business activities.



- 30 -
V - AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
Agreements
5.01   Agreement has been reached with IL&FS that:
(i)  it will provide to the Bank, on a timely basis, all important documents and
information submitted to the Board for its consideration (para. 2.03);
(ii)  it will implement a comprehensive cost accounting system by product line to be
fully operational by March 31, 1997 (para. 2.06);
(iii)  it will submit its annual audited accounts to the Bank by June 30 of each year (para.
2.07);
(iv)  any material modification to the existing regulatory framework applicable to
IL&FS, that adversely affects the operations of the company, will be an event of
default under the loan (para. 2.09);
(v)  it will continue to conduct its operations in accordance with the principles and
procedures enunciated in its Operating Framework, as suitably revised, and that any
material modification to the Operating Framework, without prior approval of the
Bank, will be an event of default under the loan (para. 2.10);
(vi)  it will maintain at all times a debt service coverage ratio of not less than 1.25 (para.
2.17);
(vii) it will maintain at all times a debt to equity ratio of not more than 6:1 (para. 2.17);
(viii) it will apply eligibility criteria, acceptable to the Bank, to all subprojects to be
financed under the loan (para. 3.03);
(ix)  it will onlend the proceeds of the loan on terms and conditions acceptable to the
Bank (para. 3.12);
(x)  it will use the amounts deposited in the Special Account exclusively for executing
swap transactions, on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, and it will
deposit the rupees obtained thereby in a Swap Account, payments out of which will
be used exclusively for eligible expenditures under the Project (para. 3.12); and
(xi)  it will follow a methodology acceptable to the Bank for the economic analysis of
subprojects (para. 4.04).



- 31-
5.02  Agreement has been reached with GOI that it will guarantee the proposed loan to
IL&FS under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including the levy of a guarantee
fee of not less than 1.2% on amounts outstanding and disbursed (para. 3.11).
5.03  Agreement has been reached with GOI and IL&FS that annual management reviews
of the Project will be carried out by April 30 of each year and that a mid-term review of the
Project will be carried out no later than April 30, 1998 (para. 3.09).
5.04  Conditions of effectiveness of the loan to IL&FS will be that:
(i)  IL&FS's Operating Framework has been revised to (a) set definite investment
exposure limits instead of guidelines, (b) limit to one third of its total credit
exposure, IL&FS's credit exposure to infrastructure projects, as suitably defined, (c)
limit to 30% of the company's net worth its aggregate investments in affiliates, as
suitably defined, and (d) treat as equity all expenditures incurred by IL&FS on
infrastructure projects prior to their financial closure (para. 2.10);
(ii)  GOI and IL&FS have entered into an indemnity agreement on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank (para. 3.1 1); and
(iii) the security arrangements for the loan have been completed by IL&FS, including
the placement of the loan under the mortgage shared equally with other lenders and
the execution of the intercreditor agreement (para. 3.1 1).
5.05  A condition of effectiveness of the development credit will be that the loan to IL&FS
has been made effective (para. 3.05).
5.06  Conditions of disbursement for the investment component of the loan to IL&FS will
be, with respect to all subprojects, that the Bank will have reviewed and approved each
subproject and that all contracts associated with the implementation of the subproject will
have been executed (para. 3.13).
Recommendation
5.06  With the above assurances, agreements and conditions, the proposed Project would be
suitable for a Bank loan of US$200 million to IL&FS, to be repaid over a period of 20 years
(including 5 years of grace) at the Bank's standard interest rate for LIBOR-based single
currency loans, and an IDA credit of SDR3.4 million (US$5 million equivalent) to India, to
be repaid over 35 years.



-32-
ANNEX 2.1
INDIA
PRIVATE INFRASTRUCTURE FINANCE (IL&FS) PROJECT
IL&FS: Composition of the Board of Directors
The Board of Directors has 18 members comprising the Chairman, the Vice
Chairman and Managing Director, I I non-executive directors and 4 executive directors.
The present Chairman is also Chairman of HDFC. Other than the Chairman, 6 of the
non-executive directors are shareholder representatives including 2 from CBI, I from
UTI, 2 from ORIX Corporation, and I from IFC. Two other non-executive directors are
prominent Indian industrialists, including the chairman of the Mahindra group. The
remaining three are current or former GOI secretaries.
Current members of the board are:
Messrs. - Deepak Parekh        Chairman
Chairman, HDFC
- Yoshihiko Miyauchi    President, ORIX Corporation
- Yoshiaki Ishida      Managing Director, ORIX Corporation
- Irving Kuczynski     Director, IFC
- Keshub Mahindra      Chairman, Mahindra Group
- K.M. Birla           Chairman, Birla Group
- RK Bhargava          Secretary (Ret'd), GOI
- RC Bhargava          Chairman & Managing Director, Maruti
Udyog Ltd.
- K Padmanabhiah       Secretary, Ministry of Home Affairs
- C Ramachandran       Secretary, Ministry of Urban Affairs and
Employment
- DK Contractor        Executive Director (Ret'd) CBI
- KC Chowdhary         Executive Director, CBI
- BG Daga              Chief General Manager, UTI
- Ravi Parthasarathy   Vice Chairman & Managing Director,
IL&FS
- Vimal Bhandari       Executive Director
- Ashok Totlani        Executive Director - Infrastructure
- Arun K Saha          Executive Director & Company Secretary
- Gopal Rajagopalan    Executive Director - New Initiatives



INDIA
PRIVATE INFRASTRUCTURE FINANCE (IL&FS) PROJECT
IL&FS organization chart
C.d l- W.
M.,m''                                ,  m  .
I an |~~~~~~~~
;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~02                        $BMM MM  9" W3   X       ff



-34-
ANNEX 2.3
INDIA
PROPOSED PRIVATE INFRASTRUCTURE FINANCE (IL&FS) PROJECT
Implementation of a cost accounting system
1.   IL&FS has in place well-developed high-quality accounting systems and internal
auditing arrangements. Following the establishment of regional offices in Delhi and
Bangalore, the company has further strengthened its accounting system to better monitor
the operations of its various profit centers from a geographical perspective. What is
needed however is the capacity to carefully monitor the profitability of individual
products marketed by the company. This has clearly not been a problem until now as the
company has remained of a manageable size, thus enabling its senior management to
keep good track of the various business activities and their relative profitability, but not
yet in a systematic manner. As the company grows rapidly and the number of product
lines multiplies -- as is currently anticipated -- such monitoring will become increasingly
difficult. It is therefore necessary that, in anticipation of future growth, IL&FS start
implementing a comprehensive cost accounting system by product line so that it is fully
operational by 3/31/97.
2.    On an annual basis, the company's statutory auditor should certify to the Bank
that an adequate system of accounting for costs per product line is in place (to be certified
as of 3/31/97). Such system shall be throughout the company for all major product lines
and shall make available to senior management, division managers and the Board (as well
as the Bank) sufficient information to determine "gross" and "net" spreads per major
product line. Such a system shall take into account overhead costs, including marketing,
product and project development, finanncing costs and other administrative burdens and
shall require the development of a transfer pricing model or other formula for appropriate
allocations. The "gross" spreads shall be before the allocation of overhead expenditures.
If appropriate, IL&FS shall work with its statutory auditor or others to develop an
appropriate transfer pricing model to determine such spreads.



-35-
ANNEX 2.4
INDIA
PRIVATE INFRASTRUCTURE FINANCE (IL&FS) PROJECT
IL&FS: exposure limits for commercial infrastructure projects
and
limits to investments in affiliates
* With regard to infrastructure investments, credits extended to infrastructure projects
will not exceed one third (33 1/3%) of the Company's total credit exposure.
Infrastructure investments are those projects of a utility nature (e.g., power
generation, power distribution; water supply, water distribution, transport facilities
including roads, bridges, tunnels; airports, port facilities, water and air transport
operators or systems, passenger and freight handling facilities, rail systems and
railway operators; telecommunication operators, equipment and systems) which bear
a greenfield startup/major expansion risk or where the pricing of output or services is
subject to Government approval. Excluded from this list will be infrastructure
investments extended to creditworthy industrial houses where the infrastructure
investment constitutes no more than 25% of the assets of the industrial house, or for
which full and unconditional guarantees have been given by such industrial houses.
Total credit exposure will include all forms of investment which are made by means
of instruments (including loans', lease contracts, guarantees, debt underwritings and
other similar financial obligations) which are not counted as equity (as defined
elsewhere in the risk management framework). Appropriate adjustments to a credit
exposure will be made to reflect the proportion of debt service coverage met by a firm
offtake contract of a creditworthy industrial house. Compliance with this covenant
will be reviewed in its entirety annually.
* Aggregate investments (including total credit exposure and equity as referred to
above) in affiliates of IL&FS will not exceed 30% of IL&FS's paid-in share capital
and unimpaired reserves. For purposes of this section, an IL&FS affiliate is to be
defined as an entity where IL&FS's share of the paid in equity capital is more than 33
1/3%. Excluded from this limit are long-term strategic investments made by IL&FS
in developing its business activities2.
including subordinated loans.
2   These include investments in the share capital of its stock-broking venture, asset management venture, auto
finance venture, Kampsax India, Transroute.



-36-
ANNEX 2.5
Page 1 of 7
INDIA
PRIVATE INFRASTRUCTRE FINANCE (IL&FS) PROJECT
IL&FS: income statements, cash-flow statements,
balance sheets, and selected financial ratios
(1991/92-2000/01)



INDIA
PRIVATE INFRASTRUCTURE FINANCING (IL&FS) PROJECT
IL&FS: Income Statement
(Rs. Million)
1991-92    1992-94     1994-95     1995-96    1996-97     1997-98    1998-99    199910    200-01
L Income
Interest Income
Liquid Investments                         99          28          80         126         89          97         104         112         119
Current Maturities                        200         314         260         372        396         444         607         717        853
Corporate Bonds                           208         448         181        222         244         241         216         212        210
Loans & Advances
Infrastructure                            15         78          55         153         290        425         560         670         760
Others                                    53         81         371         414         344        413         574         741         888
Investment in Venture Capital               0           0           7          38         38          38          38          38          38
Dividend on Corp Investments                0           0           0          18         27          27          27          27          27
ifrastructureIncomeProject                  0           9           6           0         46         306         725       1,153       1,361
Bandra Kurla Complex                        0         138           0           0          0          39         113          76          76
Total Interest Income                     575       1,094         961       1,344       1,474      2,028       2,965       3,746       4,333
Lease Income
Lease Advance - Infrastructure
Interest                                  18         15          32         141         144         160        179         207         222
Lease Management Fee                       5          4           3           9          12          15         17          20          21
Lease Advance - Others
Interest                                  33         32           7          23          23          26         29          34          36
Lease Management Fee                      10          6           6           2           2           2          3           3           3
Lease Rentals                             411       1,120         721         730       1,055       1,226       1,396      1,618       1,793
Lease Rentals - Panvel                      0           0           0           0           0          0          61         122         122
Toll Income                                 0           2           3           2           3          3           4           4           4
OperatingAssets                             0           0           0          38          76         96         116         136         176
Total Lease Income                        477       1,179         771         946       1,315       1,528       1,805      2,144       2,378
Fee Income                                                                                                                                                 to
Advisory Fees                              84          90         113         125        230         278         333         400         488
Project Management Fees                     0           0           4           0           7          17         26          12           2           t 
Project Merchant Banking Fees               0           0           0           0           0          0          22          39           0
Total                                      84          90         118         125        237         295         380         450         490
Profit on Sale of Investments
Quoted Investments                        139         137         158           0         166        213         266         328         393
Liquid Investments                          0           0           0          24           0          0           0           0           0
Total Profit on Sale of Investments       139         137         158          24         166        213         266         328         393
Total Income                               1,275       2,499       2,008       2,439      3,191       4,063       5,417       6,668       7,593



IL&FS: Income Statement
1991-92    1992-94    1994-95    1995-96    1996-97    1997-98    1998-99    1999-00    2000-01
IL Expenses
Interest and Finance Charges
Existing Borrowings                      997       1,623      1,161      1,290       1,054        929        901        768         610
New Borrowings                             0           0          0        291        854       1,498       2,188      2,838       3,438
Less: Interest Capitalized               -96        -101        -73        -109       -168        -109        -32          0           0
Net Interest Expenses                    901       1,523      1,088       1,472      1,740       2,319      3,056       3,606      4,048
Administrative & General Expenses            54         119        154         167        195        234         281        337         404
Depreciation
Leased Assets                            234         577        345         303        469         566        669        798         922
Toll Road                                  0           0          1           1          1           1         62         123        123
Fixed Assets (Own)                        13         29          23          32         42         46          72         97          96
Operating Assets                           0           0          0          14         27         32          36         41          51
Total Depreciation                       247        606         369        350         539        646         840       1,059      1,193
Total Expenses                            1,202      2,247       1,611      1,988       2,474      3,199       4,177      5,002       5,645
Profit                                       73        251         397        451         717        865       1,240      1,666       1,948
H0



TINIAL
PRIVATE INFRASTRUCTURE FINANCE (IL&FS) PROJECT
HAFS: Cash Flow Statement                                                                       (Rs. Million)
1991-92     1992-94      1994-95      1995-96      199697. s:1.997-9"        1998-9q9    199IM00O 
Sources of Funds
Profit for the year-                            7 3        251           397         451          717          865        1,240        1,666         198      ~     3
Depreciation                                   247          606          369         350          539          6.46         840        1,059         1,193        4f
Lease Termunal A/C                               0           2 3          4 1          90         286          491          517          727           913
Lease Rent Suspense                           -152         -240           2 1          3 3        112           90          103          113            5 947
Increase in Share Capital                      102          217           98          176           0            0           86            0             0
Share Premiuum                                   0          600          980         510            0            0          863            0             0
New Borrowings                               4,069        2,867        3,257       4,998        4,179        7,198        6,276        6,800         6,092         $4
Repayment of Bridge Finance                    431        1,335        1,879        1,098       2,270        1,710        3,032        3,530         4,220       14762:
Repayment ofbLoanis &Advances                  350          774        2,056        1,894        1,054         965        1,371        2,1482,6
Sale of Corporate Bonds                          0          906         228          196          275          594          568          512           562:       Z$
Sale of hinvestmnents                            0           22        1,053         362            0            0            0            00
Panvel SPC Deposit                               0            0            0            0         388          500        1,184         -104          -104:::...165
Working Capital                                210          -82          169          168          139          -51        -367         -139           -23         -.44..
5,331       7,278       10,548       10,324        9,960       13,007       15,714       16,311        17,528
Application of Funds
Bridge Finance Disbursement                    141        1,706        2,369        2,050        1,500       2,960        3,530        4,220         5,000::::.'"
Loans & Advances Disbursement                  840        1,569        3,401        2,000        1,700       2,650        3,050        3,600         3,900       1,0
Marketable Securities                          HI1          136          242         236          210          235          260          285           285        1,7
Corporate Bonds                                913           93          870         300          350          400          450          500           500:.:,:,::
Lease Disbursemecnt                            859        1,178        1,078        1,200        1,400        1,600       1,800        2,100         2,200::.
Own Assets                                     171          154           45          336         264          296          133           92            75:.
Rau Piaiampur                                    0           68            0           1 7           0            0           0            0             0            (
Operating Assets                                 0            0           59          550            0         250            0          250           250:,
Repayment of Borrowings (Old)                1,828        1,681          586        3,003        1,849         393          694        1,027          1,016       47
Repayment of Borrowings (New)                    0            0            0            0         575         1,613       2,063        2,338         2,563
Redeinption of Preference Shares                 0           21            0            0            0          31            0            0             0_
hivestment in Projects                           0            0           6 1           0        1,056        1,777       3,131        2,074          1,550:'...
Investments                                    371          496        1,552          363            0            0           0            0             0.  0......
Institutional Complex                            0          191            0         261          260          129         -522         -359             0.42
Panvel Bypass                                    0            0            0            0         620          500          952            00
Dividend                                        26           27          132          132          176          176         173          19019
Cash                                            71          -41          152         -124            0           -3            0           -5             1 
5,331       7,278       10,548       10,324        9,960       13,007       15,714       16,311        17,528         4R



INDIA
PRIVATE INFRASTRUCTURE FINANCE (IL&FS) PROJECT
HL&FS: Balance Sheet
(Rs. Million)
1991-92    1992-94     1994-95     1995-96     19967                          . 1.99-98 1998-99    1l999-00 2000-1:
ASSETS
Fixed Assets
Fixed Assets (Own)                       311         465         603        939        1,203       1,499       1,632       1,724       1,799
LeasedAssets                           1,663       2,641       3,217       4,585       5,977       7,525       9,262      11,271      13,424
Leased WIP                               216         321         624        456        1,084       1,636        579         670         717
Operating Assets                           0           0           0         550         550        800         800        1,050       1,300
Project Assets                             0         259         299         577        837         966        2,517      2,157        2,157
Less: Accumulated Depreciation         -478         -989      -1,211      -1,561      -2,100      -2,746      -3,586     -4,644       -5,838
Total Fixed Assets                   1,713      2,697       3,532       5,546       7,551       9,681      11,204      12,228      13,560
Long Term Investments
Premises Deposits                         31          56         109         130         155         180        210         250         250
Deb/Bonds/Govt Securities              1,627         806       1,751       1,896       2,001       1,837       1,748       1,767       1,735
Unquoted Sbares                           41          16          16          16          16          16         16          16           161
.. ..... .. . ..~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
NewProjects-Debt                           0           0          51         51          980       2,383       5,135       6,935       8,207p
NewProjects-Equity                         3          11         224         224        351         724        1,104       1,378       1,656
Loans&LAdvances                        1,013       2,962       4,730       6,237       6,144       9,112      11,315      13,649      15,660
Venture Capital                            0         127         150         150         150         150        150         150          150
Total Long Term Investments         2,715       3,978       7,031       8,704       9,798      14,402      19,679      24,144      27,674
Short Tern Investments
Bills of Exchange                        786         425         354         281         250        218         191           0            0
Quoted Trade Investments                 152         298         337         500        650         825        1,025       1,250       1,475
Units of Mutual Fund                     303         344         509         179        209         239         269         299         329
Total Short Term Investments        1,241       1,067       1,199         961       1,109       1,282       1,486       1,549       1,804
Current Assets
Cash &      Bank Balances                 67          26         220          96          96          93         93          88           881,79
Trade Debtors                            192         230         216         206         358        440         574         691          781342
Interest Accrued                          86          24          63         254         279         398        580         761          880
AccruedRentalsnot due                    316         557         536         503         390         301         198         85           26
Advance Tax                              206         153          40          25          25          30          35         40           40
PrepaidExpenses                            2           2          133         13          13          13          13          13          13
Total Current Assets                  869         992       1,086       1,096       1,161       1,275       1,492       1,678       1,828
TOTAL ASSETS                        6,538       8,733      12,849      16,307      19,619      26,640      33,860      39,599      44,866



IL&FS: Balance Sheet
(Rs. Million)
1991-92    1992-94    1994-95    1995-96    1996-97    197-98    1998-9          19990    200041
LIABILITIES
Net Worth
Equity Shares                            222         588        686         863        863         863        949         949        949
Preference Shares                         52          31         31          31         31           0          0           0           0
P&L Surplus                              109         119        106         380        921       1,613       2,663      4,140       5,898
DebentureRedemptionReserve                 0           8          12         12          12         12          12         12          12
General Reserve                           51          41        200         200        200         200        200         200        200
Investment Allowance Reserve              36          36         36          36         36          36         36          36          36
Share Premium                             14         614       1,594      2,104       2,104      2,104       2,967      2,967       2,967
Contingency Reserve                        0          67        117         117         117        117         117        117         117
Total Net Worth                       484       1,503       2,781      3,742       4,283      4,944       6,944       8,420     10,178
Long Term Borrowings
Bank Term Loan                             0         250        900           0           0          0           0          0           0
Fl Term Loan                            1,942      2,098       2,432      1,633       1,282      1,868       2,253      2,405       2,547             I
Multilateral Agencies                    272         272       1,056      2,042       2,740      3,519       4,047      4,876       5,804             4
IBRD Borrowing                             0           0          0           0        929       2,332       4,208      6,008       7,000
OtherTermLoans                           138         260         135          0           0          0           0          0           0
Deferred Credit                          358         225         128         79          20          0           0          0           0
Fixed Deposits                            10           4          3         253        625        1,125      1,375       1,750      1,875
Bank Overdraft                           380         714       1,652      3,800       2,666      3,361       2,991       2,270      1,447
Floating Rate Bonds                        0           0          0         500         900        900       1,000       1,000      1,250
Deposit from SPC                           0           0          0           0         388        888       2,072       1,968      1,865
Total Long Term Borrowings           3,099      3,823       6,306      8,307       9,550      13,993     17,947      20,278     21,788
Current Liabilities
Short Term Loans                       2,511       1,868       1,506      1,000       1,500       1,750      1,500       1,500      1,650
Debentures                                 0       1,105       1,656      2,156       2,556      3,556       4,556       5,556      6,306
Provision for Interest                   111         129          88        395        477         607         772        902       1,012         IV
Sundry Creditors                         277          45         63         103         385        435         253        328         403
Misc. Liabilities                         18         107         193        304         568       1,059      1,576       2,302      3,216         H
Proposed Dividend                         27         123         132        176         176        173         190        190         190
Customer Advance                          10          24          56         56          56         56          56         56          56
Provision for Non Performing Assets        0           6          24         24          24         24          24         24          24
Provision for Investment Valuation         0           0          43         43          43         43          43         43          43
Total Current Liabilities            2,955      3,407       3,762       4,258      5,786       7,703      8,970      10,901      12,900
TOTAL LIABILITIES                    6,538       8,733     12,849      16,307      19,619     26,640     33,860      39,599      44,866



IL&FS selected financial ratios
_- - -- --
Debt:equity ratio
11.83     4.61      3.40      3.06      3.09      3.72      3.16       3.01       2.74
Debt service coverage
ratio           n.a.      n.a.      2.21      1.47      2.14      2.00      2.10       2.24       2.45
Return on net worth (%)
24.16     14.96     19.60     12.71     18.18     19.08     19.55     21.91       21.12
Return on total assets
1.40     3.29      3.68       3.9      3.99      3.74      4.10       4.54       4.61



-43-
ANNEX 2.6
Pikc   of 2
INDIA
PRIVATE INFRASTRUCTURE FINANCE (IL&FS) PROJECT
IL&FS's financial forecast: sensitivity analysis
A sensitivity analysis was carried out on IL&FS's financial forecast to assess the
impact of certain events on its future financial performance, as compared to the base case
scenario discussed in Chapter II and Annex 2.5. The following scenarios are presented
below. Their respective outcomes are summarized in Attachment 1.
Scenario A: (a)  commercial infrastructure assets grow at a slower pace to reach Rs.
7,923 million (US$226 million) by March 31, 2001; US$150 million,
instead of the projected US$200 million, is disbursed from the Bank
loan;
(b)  fee income increases by Rs. 150 million only over the 1995/96 figures;
(c)  no income provision is made for capital gains on the proprietary
portfolio, the size of which remains the same over the entire period;
(d)  leasing and investment banking assets are 20% lower than in the base
case through the entire period.
Scenario B: (a)  same as above;
(b)  fee income increases by Rs.65 million over 1995/96 (the establishment
of the AIG fund has already secured the receipt of such additional
income);
(c)  same as above;
(d)  leasing and investment banking assets are one third lower than in the
base case.
Scenario C: (a)  same as above;
(b)  no increase in fee income as compared to 1995/96 results;
(c)  same as above;
(d)  leasing and investment banking assets are 50% lower than in the base
case.



-44-
ANNEX 2.6
Attachment 1
Page 2 of 2
INDIA
PRIVATE INFRASTRUCTURE FINANCE (IL&FS) PROJECT
Sensitivity Analysis Summary Results
1995/96    1996/97    1997/98    1998/99   1999/2000   2000/01
Scenario A
Debt: equity ratio           3.06        2.86       3.33       2.80       2.77        2.66
Debtservicecoverageratio      1.47       2.01       2.19       2.18       2.44       2.66
Retumonnetworth(%/o)         12.71      15.94      15.87       15.52      17.00      16.10
Retumontotalassets(%/6)      3.09        3.60       3.32       3.51       3.71        3.58
Scenario B
Debt: equity ratio           3.06        2.76       3.22       2.72       2.71        2.64
Debt service coverage ratio   1.47       1.96       2.25       2.20       2.52        2.92
Retum onnetworth(%/o)        12.71      14.40       13.12      13.25      15.49      14.78
Retum on total assets (%/6)  3.09        3.29       2.80       3.05       3.41        3.28
Scenario C
Debt: equity ratio           3.06        2.64       3.00       2.45       2.40       2.33
Debt service coverage ratio   1.47       1.89       2.26       2.27       2.70        3.01
Retum on net worth (%/6)     12.71      12.02      11.40       12.57      15.07      14.17
Retum on total assets (%/o)  3.09        2.78       2.52       3.06       3.53        3.38



ANNEX 3.1
Page 1 of 3
INDIA
PRIVATE INFRASTRUCTURE FINANCE (IL&FS) PROJECT
Subproject eligibility criteria
1.    IL&FS, through a specialized group called Infrastructure Project Advisory Services, is
constantly developing a pipeline of projects, which constitutes the source of future business for
its investment banking activities. The identification of potential investments is made through
permanent contacts held by the company with major actors in the infrastructure field. Their
action could be characterized as follows: (i) the continuous infrastructure needs search
conducted, on a regular basis, by relevant agencies in GOI and State governments; (ii) the
identification work being carried out by regional and local organizations, private as well as
public, which also detect deficiencies and/or identify infrastructure requirements; and (iii)
proposals raised by private groups interested in developing a certain undertaking which already
has a tentative official approval. Upon receipt of the different ideas, IL&FS will screen the
identified projects, and start with the project appraisal cycle.
2.    For the proposed Bank loan, eligibility criteria (Attachment 1) have been developed to
sort out priorities for Bank lending and ensure replicability of subprojects. The latter will
simplify the processing of onlending requests, through obvious economies of scales that would
undoubtedly occur. The eligibility criteria will be applicable to all subprojects to be funded with
the assistance of the proposed line of credit to IL&FS, unless otherwise agreed by the Bank on a
case-by-case basis. These subprojects would involve private investments for capacity
augmentation and/or new facilities. The criteria specify, as an illustration, the priority sectors
and give examples of the types of subprojects in each sector. They also include essential
financial eligibility criteria for onlending.



-46-
ANNEX 3.1
Attachment 1
Page 2 of 3
ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA FOR BANK-FINANCED SUBPROJECTS
Priority Sectors     integrated urban infrastructure: (i) provision of urban
infrastructure facilities and services for municipalities
and similar authorities in an integrated manner; (ii)
provision of infrastructure services for industrial estates
and/or economic zones.
t transport sector: (i) toll bridges; (ii) toll urban bypases;
(iii) other toll roads where there is an alternative non-
tolled road.
*  water supply and sanitation sector: (i) water source
augmentation and distribution; (ii) sewerage works and
domestic sewage and industrial waste treatment and
disposal; (iii) utility management with augmentation and
rehabilitation; (iv) solid waste management.
* DSubprject Size     Maximum of US$200 million and minimum of US$1 0
million.
O  Capital Struture   No more than 75% debt (senior and subordinated).
eof he SPV         Promoter's contribution to represent at least 25% of the.
equity. Subproject debt service coverage ratio of no less
than 1.25 on an annual cash-flow basis.
* Development         Subprojects should have been developed within prudent
gidelines&         project development guidelines, including experienced
participants (e.g., construction consortium, O&M operator),
turnkey fixed price contract with specific performance and
adequate liquidated damage provisions, prudent contracts for
offtake sales or concession agreements, operating
agreements, linkage among the contracts to reduce risk,
adequate insurance, and adequate protection for minority
equity owners (such as IL&FS).
*  IBRD Financial     Maximum 25% of individual subproject cost. Proceeds of
Participation      the Bank loan would be onlent only to those projects in
which the entire financing package has been finalized
(committed or raised) or in which promoter guarantees of
high quality have been provided prior to the finalization of
C________________ ;the completion of the financial package.



-47-                 ~~~~ANNEX 3.1
Attachment 1
Page 3 of 3
*  Financial IRR      Minimum real FRR of 14% required for each subproject.
*  Econonic IRR       Minimum ERR of 12% required for each subproject, and
test of optimum investment time through first year
benefit/cost > 12%, or its equivalent maximum net present
value at i=12%.
*  Environmental and   Subprojects shall conforn to environmental and social
Social Requirements  (R&R) requirements of GOI and IBRD. Subproject
appraisal, approval, construction and operation consistent
with IL&FS environmental and social policy and
operational procedures.
*  Institutional &    The contractual agreements, in form and substance
Contractual        satisfactory to the Bank, should clearly lay down the mutual
Arrangements       rights and obligations of the various participants to the
subproject, and reflect a fair and reasonable allocation of
risks among them. In addition, there should be no explicit
or implicit government guarantee in support of the
subproject.
*  Implementation     For subprojects < US$60 million, a maximum
Period             implementation period of three years; else, a maximum of
five years.



-48-
ANNEX3.2
Page 1 of 8
INDIA
PRIVATE INFRASTRUCTURE FINANCE (IL&FS) PROJECT
Subproject pipeline and implementation schedule
1.    IL&FS has identified a long list of projects in transport, mass transit systems, power,
telecommunications, water supply, sewage and effluent treatment and integrated area
development1. Some of these projects are large, like the multi-purpose road bridge across the
Gulf of Cambay connecting the eastern and western regions of the State of Gujarat (total
estimated cost when all phases are completed: US$1.6 billion), or the Bangalore Mass Rapid
Transit System involving the construction of 90 km of light rail at a total estimated cost of
US$1.4 billion. However, the more typical IL&FS project ranges from about US$60 million
(Delhi-Noida bridge, Panvel bypass) to around US$200 million (Tirupur, Mangalore area
development projects). The projects vary also with respect to project preparation, with some
already reaching the final stages prior to start of construction (Panvel bypass and, to a lesser
extent, Delhi-Noida bridge), while others are still at a preliminary stage (Adityapur intra-city
link, Gujarat roads and Mangalore area development). Most of the projects are being
promoted by state governmnents. Some, for example, are promoted by a group of industries to
enhance the infrastructure facilities within and around their location; this is the case, for
example, of the Tirupur area development progran, which is promoted by the Tirupur
Exporters' Association (combined annual turnover: US$1 billion), or the Dewas water supply
project, promoted by a large pharmaceutical company.
2.    The company is aware that some of these projects may either slip or not be executed
at all, while new subprojects may be incorporated in the course of implementing the proposed
Project. The atttached indicative pipeline of subprojects form the core group of investments
identified for possible financing under the Project. It is a scaled down version of the above-
mentioned list, bearing in mind that (a) commercial infrastructure projects take a considerable
time to develop, and (b) IL&FS can only gradually build up its capacity to handle the
correspondingly large volume of appraisal work. This pipeline should be considered as
indicative as further changes may occur during the implementation of the Project.
3.    The attached tables show the individual projects with a brief description, the estimated
cost, the current status and the planned construction period. Each table includes projects to
be started in three successive IL&FS fiscal years, the first one covering the period April 1,
1996 to March 31, 1997. Subprojects in the 1996/97 group, for example, are quite advanced
in general and have a high probability of being implemented soon: this is the case, for
example, of the Panvel bypass and the Delhi-NOIDA bridge where IL&FS is acting as project
sponsor and setting up joint ventures with other parties (contractors, toll operators) for the
Normally, it means the development of an area to facilitate industrial growth. Typically, an integrated area
development program envisages the provision of several infrastructure services such as: surface transport,
power, telecom, water supply, drainage and effluent treatment, and commercial and/or housing
development.



-49-
A1NNEX 3.2
Page 2 of 8
implementation of the projects. Subprojects in the latter two groups vary in their degree of
complexity of preparation; hence the probability of their being started within the
implementation period of the Project varies significantly.



INDIA
PRIVATE INFRASTRUCTURE FINANCE (IL&FS) PROJECT
INDIATIY PROJECT PIPELINE
1996-97
No          Name                   Description             Cost                     Status                             Implementation
(Rs Mn)
Start        Commissioning
Panvel Bypass        - National Highway project       2072    - Feasibility studies completed            Q3 1996-97         Q4 1998-99
Maharash             - 10.135-km, four-lane bypass            - Executed final MoU
to Panvel town on National             - Detailed engineering studies completed
Highway 4 (NH4); includes              - Update traffic study to be completed by
one flyover, three river                February 1996
bridges, one ROB and seven             - Concession agreement to be executed
underpasses.                            between MoST, GoM and IL&FS by
March 1996                                                                    o
2    Delhi-Noida Bridge    - State project                 2309    - Feasibility studies completed             Q4 1996-97        Q4 1998-1999
UP/Delhi             - 550-m eight-lane bridge                - Detailed engineering completed
across river Yamuna; with              - PQ for turnkey contract issued
approx. 3.50 km. approach              - Shortlisting completed in November 1995
roads and grade-separated              - Bid document finalisation and issue by
interchanges                            February 1996
- Concession agreement between GoD,
GoUP and IL&FS to be executed by
April 1996
at



INDIA
PRIVATE INFRASTRUCTURE FINANCE (IL&FS) PROJECT
INDICATIVE PROJECT PIPELINE
1996-97
No         Name                   Description             Cost                    Status                            Implementation
(Rs Mn)
Start        Commissioning
3    Tirupur Area         - State project                 7782    - Initial feasibility studies completed  Q4 1996-97        QI 2000-2001
Develop. Programme   - An integrated area develop-           - SPV incorporated (NTADCL)
Tamil Nadu            ment scheme including water            - GoTN order issued authorising NTADCL
supply, drainage, effluent             to draw water to implement scheme on a
treatment, roads and telecom            commercial basis
- Detailed project studies, including
engineering, financial, economic, contrac-
tual agreements, bidding documents, etc.,
to be completed by July 1996
- Roads works to be awarded for cons-
truction by December 1996
- Water supply and related infrastructure
to be awarded by February 1997
4    Dewas Water Supply   - State project                 1579    - Feasibility studies completed          Q4 1996-97        QI 2000-2001
Scheme               - The project seeks to                  - Agreement on recommended com-
Madhya Pradesh        substantially augment the                mercial framework for implementation
water supply to Dewas                   reached in December 1995
industrial estate                     - Contractual agreements to be drafted by
March 1996
- PQ notice to be issued by April 1996
5    Borivali-Virar       - Indian Railway project        2800    - Engineering studies completed          Q4 1996-97        Q4 1999-2000
Quadrupling Project   - Project being implemented            - Commercial space development plan to
Maharashtra            on a commercial format                  be completed by April 1996
- 60 km of additional track             - Agreement with IR by April 1996
- 6 new stations                        - PPM to be completed by June 1996
- Commercial development                - Financial and technical close by
of space                                September 1996
xII



INDIA
PRIVATE INFRASTRUCTURE FINANCE (IL&FS) PROJECT
INDICATIVE PROJECT PIPELINE
1997-98
No            Name                       Description             Cost                       Status                             Implementation
(Rs Mn)
Start      Commissioning
Adityapur Bridge          - State project                    570    - Initial screening report completed            Q3 1997-98     Q3 1999-2000
Bihar                     - 500-m, 2-lane high level bridge         - TORs finalised
- 5-km approach roads                     - Appointment of consultants to be completed
by March 1996
- Project documentation to be completed by
September 1996
- Financial and technical close by June 1997
2    Elevated Highway          - National Highway project         1000    - Initial engineering studies completed        Q3 1997-98      Q3 1999-2000
Panipat                   - 5-km elevated highway on                - TORs for additional studies to be finalised
Haryana                    National Highway I (NH I)                  by March 1996
- Project documentation to be completed by
September 1996
- Financial and technical close by June 1997
3    Bubaneshwar-Cuttack       - State project                    1472    - Feasibility study completed in December 1995  Q4 1997-98     Q4 1999-2000
Bypass                    - Bypass to National Highway 5            - Additional project documentation to be
Orissa                      (NH5)                                     completed by June 1996
- Includes roads & bridges                - Financial and technical close targeted for
Q4 1997-98
4    Gujarat Roads Project     - State project                    1500    - Initial screening report completed           Q4 1997-98      Q4 2000-2001
Gujarat                   - Widening and strengthening of            - Preliminary Report to be completed by
existing two-lane state high-             February 1996
ways                                    - Detailed project documentation to be
completed by November 1996
- Financial and technical close by Q3 1997-98
0I



INDIA
PRIVATE INFRASTRUCTURE FINANCE (IL&FS) PROJECT
INDICATIVE PROJECT PIPELINE
1997-98
No  Name                       Description                      Cost      Status                                    Implementation
(Rs Mn)
Start          Commissioning
5    Moradabad Area            - National Highway & Ministry              - Projects promoted by local exporters'    Q4 1997-98        Q4 2000-2001
Development Programme       of Commerce project                       association
Uttar Pradesh             - The programe envisages two              - Land has been acquired
distinct schemes:                       - TORs completed in Nov. '95
(a) Implementation of a 2-lane    600    - Project documentation to be completed by
bypass of 20 km on                       Q3 1996-97
National Highway 24 (NH24)             - Financial & technical close by Q3 1997
(b) Provision of captive power    1000                                                                                    w
facility for Moradabad export
units
6    Mangalore Area            - State project                    7225    - Scheme has been approved by Govt. of     Q4 1997-98        Q4 2000-2001
Development Programme    - Water supply scheme for                    Karnataka
Karnataka                   Mangalore industry and town             - Cabinet approval for commercial
implementation of project expected by
December 1995
- Project documentation to be completed
byQ3 1996
- Financial and technical close by Q4
1997-98                                 ___
Standby Project for FY 1997-98:
No            Name                      Description             Cost                      Status                              Implementation
(Rs Mn)
Start        Commissioning
Worli-Bandra Link Bridge   - State project                 6331    - Feasibility studies completed              Q4 1997-98        Q4 2000-2001
Maharashtra               - 1 2-km, 6-lane, partially cable-       - Approval of MoEF for EIA awaited
stayed bridge                          - Financial and technical close targeted for Q4
- 5.8-km approach roads                    1997-98



INDIA
PRIVATE INFRASTRUCTURE FINANCE (IL&FS) PROJECT
INDICATIVE PROJECT PIPELINE
1998-99
No            Name                      Description             Cost                      Status                             Implementation
(Rs Mn)
Start        Commissioning
I    Vasai-Virar Area          - State project                  12000   -Initial concept has been proposed for Govt.  Q4 1998-99       Q4 2003-04
Development Programme    - Provision of water, transport            of Maharashtra (GoM) approval
Maharashtra                and related infrastructure to           -GoM approval expected Q1 1996-97
rapidly developing region              -Preparation of project documentation to
north of Bombay                         commence in Q2 1996-97
2    lndore-Bhopal Highway     - State project                  2000    -GoMP to tender for BOT operators            Q1 1998-99         Q1 2003-04
Madhya Pradesh            - 200-km state highway linking           -Selection of BOT operators targeted for Q3
Indore, commercial capital of           1996-97                                                                         n
Madhya Pradesh to Bhopal               -IL&FS review to appraisal targeted for Q4
administrative capital of MP            1996-97
3    Tuticorin Port            - National Port project          7000    -MOST tender selection to be completed       Q1 1998-99         Q3 2001-02
Tamil Nadu                - Upgrading, modernisation and            by Q2 1996-97
expansion of existing port on
a commercial format
4    Vizag Area Development    - State project                  5000    -Vizag municipality and industry would       Q2 1998-99         Q3 2001-02
Andhra Pradesh            - 50 MGD water supply scheme              be the sponsors
to industry to household               -Preparation of project documentation to
- Effluent treatment scheme              commence in Q2 1996-97
5    Outer Ring Road           - State project                  3000    -Proposal for implementation of outer        Ql 1998-99         Q3 2001-02
Tamil Nadu                - 60-km 2-lane highway                    ring road on a commercial format has
been accepted by GoTN
-Initial screening report to be completed
by December 1995
-TORs to be finalised by February 1996
-Preparation of project documentation to
commence from April 1996
-3Z



INDIA
PRIVATE INFRASTRUCTURE FINANCE (IL&FS) PROJECT
INDICATIVE PROJECT PIPELINE
Standby Project for FY 1998-99:
No             Name                       Description              Cost                       Status                               Implementation
(Rs Mn)
Start         Commissioning
Gulf of Cambay             - State project                   50000   - Initial screening report completed           Q4 1997-98          Q3 2002-03
Gujarat                    - Multi-facility bridge, includ-           - MoU entered into between GIIC and IL&FS
ing road, rail, water, gas and           - Project documentation to be completed by
oil pipelines                              Q2 1997-98
- Approach roads
- Area development
Qn
0J
ac



-56-
-56-                  ~~~~ANNEX 3.3
Page 1 of 3
INDIA
PRIVATE INFRASTRUCTURE FINANCE (IL&FS) PROJECT
IL&FS proposed training and technical assistance activities
(summary)
Training
The development of infrastructure projects typically involves three distinct phases: (i)
project identification and platning, (ii) detailed design and execution, and (iii) operation and
maintenance. Given the range of activities, IL&FS needs to deliver from within its ranks a
diverse range of skills across infrastructure development and project management, including inter
alia, financial engineering, economic, legal and support functions. IL&FS has formulated a
comprehensive staff development program, the details of which are contained in the project files.
In order to provide the appropriate skills to its personnel, the company proposes to have a
three-tier staff development program aimed at providing specialized training based on the
functional responsibilities of the staff. The method of achieving skill upgradation at various
levels are as elaborated below:
* Junior level: IL&FS personnel would attend structured training courses, generally for a
duration of 2-3 weeks, to familiarize themselves with techniques of project development and
commercialization of infrastructure projects, mainly as a public/private partnership. Courses
would consist of classroom training and case study presentations;
* Middle level: IL&FS personnel need to attend advanced courses on the formulation of
infrastructure projects as well as develop expertise in designing innovative debt instruments
and securitisation. The training program for such personnel would mainly be through
providing avenues for interaction with experienced practitioners at workshops/seminars.
Additionally, specially designed advanced courses would be delivered;
*  Senior level: IL&FS personnel would be provided with an opportunity to visit projects
implemented on a commercial format and interact with major bankers, suppliers, contractors,
consultants, operators and concessionaires. Such interactions would expose them to the latest
thinking on the nature and form of agreements reached, for implementation and operation of
such projects.
Additionally, it is proposed that international experts be invited to work along with
IL&FS personnel on a focused basis in areas like risk assessment and allocation, bid evaluation,
contracts and performance monitoring.



ANNEX3.
Page 2 of 3
Technical assistance
IL&FS has identified a number of areas where detailed studies or focussed advisory
services would be required to facilitate the evaluation and implementation of commercial
infrastructure projects. These are, for example, legal and regulatory framework applicable to
BOT projects in sectors of IL&FS's interest, innovative financing for environmental
infrastructure in medium-sized cities and townships, traffic forecasting, willingness to pay and
fixation of user charges for water supply and road projects. A brief description of the proposed
studies is provided below. The results of these studies would be used by IL&FS and would be
available to others on a selective basis.
Specific Studies:
* Contractual and legal documents: The main objective would be to examine the legal and
regulatory framework applicable to sectors of IL&FS interest. Additionally the assignment
would include preparation of an outline bid document to invite BOT operators. As a part of
this document, evaluation criteria for selection of BOT operator in the sectors where IL&FS
is actively involved would also be included.
* Financing environmental infrastructure in industrial townships: The main objective would be
to examine innovative approaches to financing water supply, wastewater treatment and
garbage disposal as an integrated package. IL&FS has initiated some work as part of the
preparatory activities of the Tirupur integrated area development project, but this needs to be
significantly enhanced. The resulting model could be replicated in other industrial
townships. IL&FS will draw extensively from international experience, as there is none
comparable locally. The scope of the assignment would include: (a) literature review and
study of international experiences; (b) researching financial and regulatory instruments such
as municipal bonds, water tariffs, effluent charges, tradable pollution permits and self-
enforcement; (c) applying these in two suprojects -- Tirupur and Mangalore; (d) negotiateing
with the Government to mainstream these instruments as an integral part of municipal
financing; and (e) preparing the commercial documents for the two suprojects.
* Traffic forecasting: The principal objective of this study is to establish an appropriate
method for forecasting traffic on the road network by relating it to population and socio-
economic characteristics in its catchment area. It should be based either on a travel demand
model, or other suitable method, that allows the analysis of the relationship between traffic
volume for each type of vehicles and specific economic variables. The study would include
analysis of traffic and other information on two typical road stretches, where MOST has
already undertaken traffic counts. The study should evolve a methodology using data bases
as are generally available in the country, collection of specific primary information, and
verify its consistency on the sample stretches.



-58-                         ANNEX 3.3
Page 3 of 3
* User charge estimation - Willingness to Pay: The main objective is to determine viable user
charges based on a willingness-to-pay assessment of users. The study would cover two
sectors - water supply and roads. The consultant would be required to undertake user surveys
and relate willingness to pay with service levels and income in the case of water supply and
with respect to perceived congestion and trip purpose in the case of road users. The study
would take into account the past literature and studies conducted abroad, and suggest an
appropriate methodology for the conduct of such studies in India. It would be desirable if the
study results in the construction of willingness-to-pay curves similar to indifference curves.



INDIA
PRIVATE INFRASTRUCTURE FINANCE (IL&FS) PROJECT
IL&FS PROJECT CYCLE
MILESTONES             J                 GOAL                             PROCESS STEPS                 RESPONSIBILITY               DECISION/PRODUCT
Screening                         - Assessment of initial feasibility       a. Desk review                    IL&FS                     - Initial screening report
- Identification of critical issues       b. Field investigations           IL&FS/SPV/Sponsor           Decision to proceed or otherwise
- Examination of project eligibility with  c. Interactions:                IL&FS/SPV/Sponsor/           with the project
respect to IL&FS project selection criteria  - Project sponsor/SPV       Government
- Delineation of IL&FS Role                 - Government
- Initial risk assessment                   - Users
Scoping                           Consensus on:                             a. Interactions between IL&FS,    IL&FS/SPV/ Sponsor/        - Memorandum of Understanding
- Extent, scope and nature of project      sponsors, SPV, government,       Government                  (MOU)
preparation                              public, users, etc.                                          Finalisation of Channels of
- Allocation of responsibility                                                                          Consultation
- Methodology of study
- Time frame                                                                                                                                   '.
- Sharing of costs
- Channels of Consultation
Finalisation of terms of reference  - TOR to be finalised with respect to all  a. Preparation of TOR          SPV/Sponsor/Consultant    - Terms of reference (TOR) for
(TOR) for project preparation       tasks to be undertaken during project     - findings from screening and                               appointment of consultants
studies                             preparation phase                           scoping
- technical components
- execution arrangements
b. Verification of TOR and       IL&FS
consistency check with IL&FS
business practices
Appointment of consultants        - Selection of suitable consultants       a. Selection of suitable consultants   SPV/Sponsor           - Consultants appointed
b. Consistency checks with IL&FS
business practices              IL&FS
iir



MILESTONES                               GOAL                            PROCESS STEPS                RESPONSIBILITY               DECISION/PRODUCT
Project preparation              - Establish technical, economic, financial,    a. Field                    SPV/Sponsor/Consultant    - Detailed feasibility and
environment and social viability         - investigation                                             investment banking report
- Evolve a suitable procedure for the      - surveys                                                   (DFIBR)
commercial implementation of the project  - interactions                                           - Environmental and social
- Establish the contractual framework for  - sector studies                                            assessment report (ESAR)
the project including preparation of draft   b. Technical and engineering  SPV/Sponsor/Consultant    - Contractual framework
contractual agreements                  studies                                                      documentation (CFD)
- Identify, assess and allocate risks    c. Environmental and social studies  SPV/Sponsor/Consultant    - Detailed process of
associated with the project during     d. Market demand studies                                      implementation, including
construction, operation and maintenance    e. Economic analysis          SPV/Sponsor/Consultant      request for proposal/bidding
phases                                 f. Financial analysis             SPV/Sponsor/Consultant      documents and evaluation
g. Resource mobilisation plan    Sl'V/Sponsor/Consultant     criteria for selection of operator
h. Institutional and legal       SPV/Sponsor/Consultant      (DPI)
framework                      SPV/Sponsor/Consultant    - Risk identification. assessment
i. Development of contractual                                and management plan (RMP)
framework                      Sl'V/Sponsor/Consultant
j. Documentation for BOT operator
selection                      SPV/Sponsor/Consultant                                            T
- Performance standards
- Execution arrangements
- Evaluation framework
k. Risk analysis and allocation  SPV/Sponsor/Consultant
Initial project evaluation       - Review of draft project documentation by    a. IL&FS verification        IL&FS/Consultants         - Initial project evaluation report
IL&FS                                   b. Clearance/concurrence                                    - Agreement on:
- Clearances/approvals by government       - State govemment clearance     SPV/Sponsor                - DFIBR
- GO[ clearance                SPV/Sponsor                 - EAR/SAMP
- MA concurrence               IL&FS                       - CFD
-DPI
- RMP
Selection of Operator             Selection of a suitable Operator         a. Issue of PQ Notice            SPV/Consultant            - Award recommendation
b. Shortlisting of Operators     SPV/Consultant
c. Bid document release          SPV/Consultant
d. Evaluation and selection of   SPV/Consultant
operator
e. Consistency check with IL&FS    IL&FS
business practices



MILESTONES             |                 GOAL                   |        PROCESS STEPS                RESPONSIBILITY               DECISIONIPRODUCT
Project financial close          -Translation of agreement into legally   a. Negotiation of contractual     IL&FS, SPV/Sponsor,       - Final Project Evaluation Report
binding instruments                       documentation between SPV,      Govemment. Operator,      - Signed:
- Finalisation of financial consortia for the  government and Operator       SPV/Merchant Banker       a. Concession agreement
project                                 b. Preparation of private                                     b. Shareholders agreement
placement memorandum. and                                  c. Construction agreement
negotiation with lenders and                               d. O&M contract agreement
other shareholders                                         Finalisation of project I
consortium
- I.enders' agreement
Project Monitoring and Audit     - Ensuring conformity to standards and    a. Periodic progress report      SPV/IL&FS                 - Compliance report
agreements during construction.        b. Field visits                  IL&FS/Lenders              - Annual audit
operation, and maintenance             c. Interactions with             IL&FS/SPV
- Ensuring compliance with respect to      Govemment, SPV. Operator,
disbursement procedures                  lender. MA. local
user groups, etc.
H



-62-
ANNEX 3.5
Page 1 of 3
INDIA
PRIVATE INFRASTRUCTURE FINANCE (IL&FS) PROJECT
Subproject evaluation report
1.    The development and financing of commercial infrastructure projects are highly complex
operations. IL&FS is expanding not only onto new grounds, but also into a demanding line of
activities, where no experience is available in India. Because of its early involvement in the
design of some projects, its extensive role in bringing them to financial close and their inherent
complexity, IL&FS is compelled to set for itself high standards of project appraisal.
2.    A project report will be the document that includes all necessary supporting data, analysis
and recommendations for a proposed onlending operation to become a subproject of the
proposed Bank loan. It will be the basic document that IL&FS submits to the Bank for review
and. if applicable. for issuance of the Bank's no objection for the operation to become a
subproject. To avoid duplications and possible misunderstandings, the project reports will
resemble to a large extent what IL&FS will submit to its Board for project approval.
3.    Attachment I shows, schematically, the agreed content of a typical project report. With
respect to the section on "Sectoral Framework", IL&FS may have a problem in covering this
area, in a comprehensive manner, in those cases where there is no official sectoral plan or
strategy, as its staff is not mandated, nor has the capacity to undertake this type of background
study. In such cases, IL&FS would strive to collect as much sectoral information as possible
through meetings with government officials and lending agencies, and review of relevant
documents, and would take the results as a framework to check the overall economic viability of
the sub-projects.
4.    IL&FS is adequately getting organized to prepare project reports for each case. Most of
the contents of such reports are already being covered by the company, although not in a
systematic way. As indicated elsewhere in this SAR, IL&FS currently has an advanced input in
individual projects by providing advisory services to public agencies extending the concessions.
These public agencies do not yet have the capabilities, nor the financial means to develop
projects on their own in India. Thus, IL&FS is temporarily filling a vacuum, but at the same
time is getting valuable experience in project appraisal. The project report, in most cases, will be
the culmination of a lot of works that IL&FS will have been involved in through those advisory
services.



-63-
ANNEX 3.5
Attachment 1
Page 2 of 3
CONTENT OF A PROJECT EVALUATION REPORT
* ...IL&FS'9s Role inTProject  Brief history of IL&FS's involvement in project
Preparation            preparation, other groups involved, coordination, details
on who prepared the report.
* Sectoral Framework      Available plans in relevant and related sectors,
consistency of proposed subproject with future sectoral
plans, risk evaluation, proposal by promoter to improve
some sectoral issues.
* S*uproWect Technical    Location, size, capacity, general configuration and layout,
Description  . .       alternative designs, basis for selecting the design,
technical data, construction procedure, timetable,
proposed management.
*  Subproject Cost| Break-down of cost estimate, base data, physical and price
Estimate               contingencies, interest during construction, fees.
.   Resource Availability    Availability and estimated cost of construction materials,
water, power, human resources, social infrastructure, as
needed.
* Procurement             Detailed description of procurement process, compliance
with Bank guidelines, expected subcontracts, sample
bidding documents.
*  Sponsor                Members of consortium, previous experience,
organization, management, staffing, legal constitution,
technical/financial capabilities, assets/liabilities.
' Institutional &          Details of all contractual agreements required for the
Contractual Framework  commnercial implementation of subprojects.
* Implementation          Timeframe.
Framework
* Market Assessment       Willingness to pay surveys for relevant income groups,
representative samples, rejection criteria for inconsistency,
forecasted users' behavior; existing, diverted and
generated demand, its mix, forecasted demand, scenarios
on variations of relevant economic variables, including
different toll rates and structure; optimum tariff/price to
maximize revenues, recommended value, comparison with
users' perceived benefits and willingness to pay.



-64-
ANNEX3.
Attachment 1 (cont'd)
Page 3 of 3
*  Economic Analysis    Underlying rationale for the choice of each subproject,
expected beneficiary groups, economic benefits and costs,
each increment of investment to be feasible (marginal
analysis), staged construction, shadow prices, optimum
timing, economic indexes (ERR, NPV, B/C) if relevant.
+  Environment &        In accordance with IL&FS policy.
Social Assessment
f  Financing Plan       Identification of sources of funding, the nature of the
financing instruments, their terms and conditions, the status
of financing commitments already received or to be received,
the proposed security package and associated interereditor
arrangements. Details of IL&FS financial involvement:
amount and description of securities to be acquired
(senior/subordinated/deep discount), including coupon
ondebt, any equity kickers, repayment schedule, security
package, major lending terms or conditions for funding.
*  Financial Analysis   Detailed cash flow analysis, calculation of FRR. Base case
proformas of revenues and costs by major categories; major
assumptions, including taxes, interest and operating costs
(fuel and O&M, escalation rates, currency rates). Indication
of the next actions involved for reaching financial closure,
clearances/approvals to be received from DEAIRBI, etc.
Audit arrangements for the project presentation of the
financing plan for the project, with distinction between
"during construction" and "after commissioning", if required.
*  Risk Analysis;       Risk due to uncertainties on cost, financing shortage,
Sensitivity          demand, Government policies, tariff/price levels, users'
behavior, actions to be taken by other parties, competing
projects, and currency fluctuations. Sensitivities.
*  Required Clearances   detailed list of official authorizations/clearances obtained and
to be obtained, estimated required timing.



-65-                             ANNEX 3.6
INDIA
PRIVATE INFRASTRUCTURE FINANCE (IL&FS) PROJECT
Performance monitoring indicators
INPUT INDICATORS                      4   Overall loan disbursement (cumulative, computed
annually)
4 Technical assistance to IL&FS (consultants' inputs
in staff-weeks/ training of IL&FS staff in staff-
days)
4   Technical assistance to public. authorities
(consultants' inputs in staff-weeks)
PROCESS INDICATORS                      4   Financial closure of subprojects (# of projects
closed per year)
* Magnitude of private sector funds leveraged
4 Start of construction of subprojects (# of projects
started per year)
*   Subproject commissioning   of projects
commissioned per year)
OUTPUT INDICATORS                     4*   Kilometers of roads constructed/improved
4   Liters/day of water delivered
*   Cubic meters of waste water/effluentrteated
* Kilometers of sewers built
*:  Number of houses built
OUTCOME INDICATORS                       4:  Vehicle usage (traffic eounts on roads/bridgeail
link built)
D Daily water consumption (domestic, Industial)
4   Ratio of final cost vs. closure estimate by :
subproject
4 Ratio of actual vs. projected construction period
IMPACT INDICATORS                      4   Growth in industrial output in subproject area
4   Reduced transportation costs
*   Improved water quality
4* User satisfaction (% of surveyed)



INDIA
PRIVATE INFRASTRUCTURE FINANCE (IL&FS) PROJECT
Supervision Plan
Total Estimated number of subprojects in the pipeline           18
of which:   transport                                           10
integrated area development (IAD)                    6
others                                               2
P = Preparation                C = Construction                  0 = Operations
Y                 Subproject Development Lifeline                             Supervision Requirements (in staff weeks)
Task Manager/ Environmental   Social   BOT Expert Economist  Technical    Annual
_  Transport      I TAD      Others   Financial Analyst   Specialist    Specialist                          Experts       Total
95/96       P         5           3                         7 7             6            6           4           4           10
C        --          --           --            --              --           --          --          --           --         3
96/97       P        7            4           2             12              6            6           8            8          10
C        3           2            --2                           2            2           -                       6
O         -    --          --            --             --             --          --                 --          --         62
97/98       p        3           2            2             8               4            4                        6           4
C        7           4            --            2               2            2                       --          10
mid term review
5              5             5                       3           6           66
98/99       P         I           --         -.             3               1             1                       4           2
C        7           6           2              4               3            3                        -10
O        2           --          --             3               1             1                                  2           38
9/2000     P         1          --          --             --              I            I           --          --
C        4           6           2              3               3            3           -                        8
O        5           --          --             5               2            2                       4            4          36
000/01    P         I           --          --             --                           1                                    --
C        4           2            2             3               2            2                                    4
O        6           4            0             5               2            2                        4           4          30
_ II]                                                                     X "          7 4 1 .  12    I    33   80         269



-67-
ANNEX 3.7
Page 2 of 2
Notes:
The plan is prepared on a rolling basis with subprojects moving from one phase to
another -- preparation, construction and operation -- over the successive years. A
further 9 projects are expected to enter the preparation phase in FY96/97.
Tasks in subproject preparation will include the review of initial screening report,
terms of reference for studies, study outputs (e.g., detailed feasibility reports, EA/SA,
EMP, RAP, IPDP), project agreements and other legal instruments. During
subproject construction and operation, execution of construction contracts,
implementation of EMP, RAP and IPDP will be monitored.
The Bank review function will progressively reduce as IL&FS develops in-house
expertise. As regards environmental and social considerations, an in-depth review of
the ESR and IL&FS organizational arrangements will be reexamined during the mid-
term review of the Project. Following the review, the supervision plan may need to
be modified.



-68-
ANNEX 3.8
Page I of 3
INDIA
PRIVATE INFRASTRUCTURE FINANCE (IL&FS) PROJECT
Selection of BOT operators
1.    In several cases, it is proposed that the BOT operator for the subprojects to be financed
under the loan will be selected competitively, following which the selected entrepreneur will be
free to procure the goods. works and services required for the facility, from eligible sources,
using its own procedures. It is essential then that, to enable IL&FS to use the proceeds of the
Bank loan to onlend to the subprojects, transparent and explicit procedures be followed in the
selection of the BOT operator. Below is an outline of the general guidelines applicable to what
should be an open and competitive process for selecting BOT operators. Naturally, the specifics
of individual subproject specifics would bear heavily on the actual application of these
guidelines.
2.     Selection of operators would normally be on the basis of price'. As such selection
involves operational and financial issues not usually faced in the procurement of goods and
therefore requires considerable effort from the operators as well as the entity in charge of
managing the competitive bidding process, it is recommended that a two-stage process be
followed that involves prequalification and selection from the prequalified bidders.
3.     Stage I -- Prequalification. This involves the solicitation of interested private operators to
construct, own and operate the subproject. Solicitation should be made through an
announcement published in the international and Indian press and also distributed to the
embassies of member countries of the Bank. Interested firms would submit prequalification
statements based on a prequalification document (Request for qualification -- RFQ) which sets
out the information required from the developers and the evaluation criteria which are based on
the operators': (a) ability to raise equity and implement the subproject; (b) the operator's
financial condition, capacity to borrow and experience in raising equity; (c) technical
qualifications, including key personnel and experience with similar technology; and (d) project
development experience, which includes development of projects of a similar nature and
experience with private sector projects in developing countries. In their response, firms would
outline their experience and qualifications as they relate to implementing the proposed
subproject. The prequalification statements would then be evaluated using a "pass-fail criteria"
approach based on the criteria set out, enabling the establishment of a short list of prequalified
bidders.
This would typically be the case for water distribution systems, waste disposal, effluent treatment plants, power plants. etc.
Variations thereon could also he used for tolls charged on road or bridge projects.



-69-
ANNEX 3.8
Page 2 of 3
4.    Stage II -- Selection. The prequalified operators would be required to respond to a
Request for Proposals (RFP) (bidding documents). The list of prequalified applicants could also
be published in the international press to ensure that qualified manufacturers are aware of the
subproject. The RFP would be broadly structured under the following headings:
* Invitation to prequalified applicants
* Information for applicants
*  Instructions to applicants
*  Security package and financing structure
*  Proposal evaluation and criteria for evaluation
*  Applicants' proposal and supporting data
*  Mandatory performance requirements and drawings
5.    The RFP should also contain drafts of the contractual framework (e.g., concession
agreement and other relevant documents), feasibility and investment banking report, risk
identification, environmental and social assessment reports, and management plans. The RFP
should clearly define operating requirements, evaluation methodology, technical requirements,
capital structure conditions for obtaining resources from IL&FS under the proposed World Bank
loan, etc. The operators would submit their bid to develop the subproject based on the RFP. A
pre-bid meeting of the prequalified applicants could be held to elicit their comments on the RFP.
Clarifications based on the issues raised during the pre-bid meeting would then be issued to all
prequalified applicants. Bids for the subproject would be evaluated and ranked based on the
price quoted for the service to be rendered. The responsive proposal with the lowest evaluated
tariff would be selected and given an exclusive right -- for a limited time -- to develop the
project. The selected operator would be required to finalize the subproject agreements with
concerned parties (Government. lenders, etc). The second and third ranked candidates would,
however, be requested to keep their bids valid in the event the selected candidate does not fulfill
an agreement satisfactorily. The RFP would stipulate a project implementation schedule which
the selected operator would be required to adhere to and would be enforced through liquidated
damages contained in the subproject agreements. A minimum level of equity financing from the
operators could be required.
6.    Evaluation Methodology. The evaluation methodology would of course vary with the
type of subproject and service to be provided. In general, the price of the service required (e.g.,
price of water delivered) is a function of the operating efficiency and cost of the infrastructure
facility, as well as financing terms and operating regime. The concession agreement and
accompanying documents define the operating regime. The operators, in response to the RFP,
are required to quote for each year of the concession, the price for the service to be rendered,
based on prices for equipment, goods and services, as of 30 days prior to bid opening for
example. and other prices that might have already been furnished in the RFP. Based on the



-70-
ANNEX 3.8
Page 3 of 3
quantity of service that will have been specified in the bidding documents (e.g., quantity of water
to be supplied to the distribution system, traffic volume, plant capacity and annual energy to be
generated) and the bidder's quoted prices, the revenue stream is computed for each year over the
life of the concession. The revenue streams are then discounted using a discounting rate
specified in the bidding documents to arrive at the "averaged discounted price or levelized tariff'
which forms the basis of selection. The investors are also required, in their proposal, to furnish:
(a) details of the cost of the investment; (b); construction schedule; (c) financing plan; (d) terms
of financing; and (e) details of the calculation of the price of the service to be rendered. The loan
proceeds will be disbursed against construction costs. The developer is therefore required to
provide details of the construction cost, i.e., cost of supply, civil works and installation, and the
calculation for arriving at the quoted price. Moreover, as a condition for obtaining finance from
IL&FS, the operator should be required to submit a construction contract satisfactory to IL&FS.



-71-
ANNEX 3.9
Page 1 of 3
INDIA
PROPOSED PRIVATE INFRASTRUCTURE FINANCE (IL&FS) PROJECT
IL&FS pari passu security structure
1.    Security offered to the initial lenders to IL&FS was in the nature of a negative lien on the
company's assets. With effect from November 30, 1993, security in the nature of a negative lien
was substituted by way of a pari passu security structure. The structure envisages that all the
present and future assets (except those specifically exempted) of the company stand
hypothecated/mortgaged to Central Bank of India (CBI) acting as trustee to the present and
future senior lenders. It is illustrated in the figure below.
Security structure
IL&FS               Hypothecation/Mortgage     Central Bank of India
3(8rrower)             & Power Attorney             (trustee)
Responsibility to
ABC
(Lenders)



-72-
ANNEX 3.9
Page 2 of 3
2.    The responsibilities of the trustee are as follows:
*     Effective and valid creation of the security on the movable assets by IL&FS
by way of registration of the charge with the Registrar of Companies (ROC) (other than the
assets specifically excluded).
+     To ensure that the security coverage of 1.33 times the outstanding mortgage debt
thereby secured is maintained throughout the currency of trust security.
*     Effective and valid insurance cover for normal risk and for assignment of
assurance policies or registration of bank clause thereon in favour of the trustee/ existing and
future lenders.
*     Safe custody of all original documents of title, lease agreements, invoices,
registration books and other documents of title, to ensure the due recognition of the interest of
the Agent and Trustee and the existing and future senior lenders in respect of the leased assets by
the lessees and hirers and the due noting of the creation and registration of security created in
favour of the trustee and various other matters as may be provided.
*     Issue of periodical statements and certificates by the Agent and Trustee after
due verification and various other matters as may be provided therein.
3.    Under the security structure the company is required to maintain an asset cover of 1.33
times the borrowings. IL&FS has to submit to the trustee each quarter an auditors' certificate
confirming that the asset cover is being maintained.



ANNEX 3.9
Page 3 of 3
Documents that covers the pari passu security structure
Document                                  Features
Memorandum of hypothecation of movable    This document provides for creation of first
assets by IL&FS in favour of CBI (Trustees)  charge on all the movable assets of IL&FS
in favour of Central Bank of India (CBI).
Power of attorney in favour of CBI as Agent   This document authorizes CBI to receive all
and Trustee for collection of lease rentals  the amounts due to I1&FS by way of lease
and/or hire charges in respect of movable  rentals and initiate legal proceedings, if
leased assets                             necessary, in respect of lease agreements
between IL&FS and its lessees.
Power of attorney in favour of CBI as Agent   This document authorizes to execute
and Trustee for senior lenders for creation of  mortgages in a form acceptable to senior
first mortgage and charge on immovable    lenders over all the immovable properties
assets                                    and assets of IL&FS.
Power of attorney regarding assignment and   This power of attorney authorizes CBI to
charge of book debts and lease receivables    recover all book debts of IL&FS, including
lease receivables.
Deed of covenant and undertaking from     This is an undertaking from IL&FS to CBI
IL&FS in favour of CBI as Agent and       to furnish periodic statements containing
Trustee for senior lenders to furnish     description of the new leased assets along
periodical statement of new assets/excluded    with relevant documents.
assets
Trusteeship letter by senior lenders to CBI to   Authorization by senior lenders to CBI to
act as agent & Trustee for and on behalf of    act as Agent & Trustee on behalf of the
the senior lenders                        senior lenders and to accept and hold the
mortgages, charges and securities created by
IL&FS in trust and for the benefit of the
senior lenders.
Acceptance letter by CBI consenting to act as  Acceptance by CBI to act as Agent &
Agent and Trustee for and on behalf of the  Trustee on behalf of the senior lenders and
senior lenders                            to accept and hold the mortgages, charges
and securities created by IL&FS in trust and
for the benefit of the senior lenders.
New common loan agreement with new        The new loan agreement between IL&FS
senior lenders                            and the proposed/new senior lenders
provides for creation of security on a pari
passu basis with the existing senior lenders.



-74-
ANNEX 3.10
Page 1 of 2
INDIA
PRIVATE INFRASTRUCTURE FINANCE (IL&FS) PROJECT
IL&FS: foreign exchange risk management and treasury operations
Until now, IL&FS has hedged against foreign exchange (F/X) risk incurred in
borrowing long term in foreign exchange (from IFC and ADB) by arranging with local
counterparties back-to-back loan swaps. In these transactions, the company exchanges a
F/X liability for a rupee-denominated liability with repayment structures identical to the
original foreign exchange loan. In this fashion, the swap counterparty agrees, in a
commercial sense, to take over the F/X obligations of IL&FS and directly services the
lender. However, IL&FS remains the borrower on record and is liable for the loan and all
other obligations and covenants.
So far, IL&FS has successfully executed three such swaps: one with IFCI and two
with the Export-Import Bank of India for F/X loans bearing maturities of 10 or 15 years.
It is currently finalizing a fourth one with Bank of India for a USAID-guaranteed 30-year
US$-denominated borrowing. Because there is no market in India for such hedging
mechanisms, loan swaps are strictly negotiated transactions subject to exchange rules and
regulations imposed by both the Ministry of Finance (MOF) and the Reserve Bank of
India (RBI). Arranging a swap is a relatively time-consuming process as a creditworthy
swap counterparty needs to be identified, the terns of the swap negotiated on a
transaction-by-transaction basis, and approval of the proposed swap obtained from MOF
and RBI,. Therefore, two basic conditions need to be met for these swaps to be cost-
effective: (i) there must be a minimum size to the transaction, in the order of US$20-25
million; and (ii) there must be predictability in the timing of the F/X liability so that
IL&FS can manage the transaction as efficiently as possible and avoid finding itself in a
supplier's market.
IL&FS will use the same mechanism for managing its foreign exchange risk under
the Project. To facilitate the execution of swap transactions, a Special Account, with an
authorized allocation of US$25 million, will be established by IL&FS in a commercial
bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. Amounts deposited into the
Special Account will be withdrawn exclusively for the purpose of executing swap
transactions; the rupees obtained thereby will be deposited in a Swap Account, payments
out of which will be used exclusively for eligible expenditures under the Project.
For the first deposit into the Special Account, IL&FS will submit to the Bank
copy of the draft negotiated swap agreement as documentation for the withdrawal of the
authorized allocation from the loan account. Within seven working days of disbursement



-75-                        ANNEX31D
Page 2 of 2
by the Bank, the swap transaction will have to be executed and the rupees thus obtained
by IL&FS deposited in the Swap Account. If the swap is not executed within seven
working days, IL&FS will have to refund the deposit.
For replenishment of the Special Account, IL&FS will submit, not only copy of
the associated negotiated swap agreement, but also evidence of payments for eligible
expenditures made out of the proceeds of the previous deposit in the Swap Account.
Any unutilized portion of a deposit in the Swap Account, or such portion required
to be refunded under certain circumstances, will have to be refunded to the Special
Account for immediate refunding to the Bank in US dollars, using the exchange rate in
force at the time of the executed swap transaction.
It can be noted that ADB recently negotiated a loan with the Housing
Development Finance Corporation (HDFC) whereby arrangements similar to the ones
described above have been agreed and the use of the Special Account for swaps has been
permitted.



ANNEX 3.11
-76-                             Page 1 of15
INDIA
PRIVATE INFRASTRUCTURE FINANCE (IL&FS) PROJECT
Environmental and social report (ESR)
The objective of the environmental and social report (ESR) is to put in place an
environmental and social assessment process in IL&FS which adequately responds to GOI
requirements and, for subprojects involving Bank financing, the Bank's operational directives
(ODs), namely OD 4.01 on Environmental Assessment, OD 4.30 on Involuntary
Resettlement, and OD 4.20 on Indigenous People, as well as Bank Procedures (BP) 17.50 on
Public Disclosure.
The process followed by IL&FS for preparing the ESR is summarized below:
(a)   drafting of the ESR began in July 1995, as a recommendation of the Bank
preparation mission. The effort was led by IL&FS with the assistance of the
NGO/Consultant -- Development Alternatives -- and guided by terms of
reference agreed with the Bank;
(b)   preparation followed a consultative process involving independent experts,
senior managers and Projects staff of IL&FS;
(c)   IL&FS shared interim outputs with the Bank for its comments. The Bank's
environment, social and legal divisions (ASTEN, ASTHR, LEGSA) and the
Departmental staff (SA2EI, SA2RS) reviewed these outputs. Additionally,
IL&FS managers visited Washington in September and October 1995 for
consultation on the ESR;
(d)   the final draft version of the ESR was discussed with the Secretary and
officials of the Ministry of Environment and Forests (MOEF) to obtain GOI
concurrence. IL&FS also consulted with NGOs;
(e)   the ESR was formally approved by IL&FS's Board of Directors on November
27, 1995; and
(f)   responding to the advice given by Bank management to field-test the
application of the ESR approach, IL&FS also prepared the detailed
environment and social assessment report for the proposed Delhi-NOIDA
Link Bridge subproject. The report built on the previous initial environmental
examination of the project and was prepared by National Environmental
Engineering Research Institute (NEERI) and AIMS Research.



ANNEX 3.11
-77-                               Page2 of 15
The ESR, as a document, is in 3 volumes: Volume I -- Executive Summary, Volume
II -- ESR, and Volume III -- Attachments. It: (a) states the company's environment and
social goals; (b) provides the contextual setting for the environmental and social assessment
process. (c) identifies the major issues in the priority sectors; (d) details the environmental
assessment and social assessment (EA/SA) process (operational procedures) that IL&FS will
follow when appraising subprojects; (e) outlines methods to moderate risks and liabilities due
to environmental and social factors; (f) specifies the organizational arrangements in IL&FS to
manage the environmental and social assessment process; and (g) spells out the staff
development plan. Relevant regulations, guidelines, checklists and protocols are provided as
an attachment to the report.
The EA/SA process framework is intrinsically linked to the company's project cycle
and involves the following iterative stages: (a) screening; (b) scoping, including public
consultation; (c) drafting terms of reference for the preparation of the EA/SA report; (d)
preparation of EA/SA study by subproject proponents; (e) EA/SA review, institutional
interface and public consultation; (f) translation into legal instruments of agreements on the
Environrnental Management Plan (EMP), the Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) and the
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan (IPDP); (g) implementation monitoring; and (h)
annual environmental and social audit. The latter is a novel feature, and for the first time, it
is being employed by a financial institution in India.
The executive summary of the ESR is provided below.



ANNEX 3.11
-78-               Page 3 of 15
INFRASTRUCTURE LEASING & FINANCIAL SERVICES LIMITED
ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL REPORT
VOLUME I:  EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
November 1995



ANNEX 3.11
-79-                              Page 4 of 15
LIST OF ACRONYMS
ADR    -       Alternative Dispute Resolution
BOO    -       Build Own Operate
BOOT   -       Build Own Operate Transfer
BOT    -       Build Operate Transfer
CBO    -       Community Based Organisation
CC      -      Corporate Consultant
CFD    -       Contractual Framework Documentation
COD    -       Committee of Directors
CPCB   -       Central Pollution Control Board
CRZ    -       Coastal Regulation Zone
DFIBR  -       Detailed Feasibility and Investment Banking Report
DPI    -       Detailed Process of Implementation
EA      -      Environmental Assessment
EAP    -       Environmental Assessment Process
EAR    -       Environmental Assessment Report
ED      -      Executive Director
EIA     -      Environmental Impact Assessment
EMP    -       Environmental Mitigation Plan
ESMG   -       Environmental and Social Management Group
ESR    -       Environmental and Social Report
FRI    -       Forest Research Institute
GOI    -       Government of India
IL&FS  -       Infrastructure Leasing and Financial Services Limited
IPDP    -      Indigenous People Development Plan
ISR     -      Initial Screening Report
ITRC    -      Indian Toxicology Research Centre
LA      -      Local Authority
LAA    -       Land Acquisition Assessment
MA      -      Multilateral Agencies
MoEF   -       Ministry of Environment and Forests
MOU    -       Memorandum of Understanding
NEERI -        National Environment Engineering Research Institute
NGO    -       Non Governmental Organisation
O&M    -       Operation & Maintenance
OD      -      Operational Directive
PAP    -       Project Affected Person
PRA    -       Participatory Rural Appraisal
R&R    -       Resettlement and Rehabilitation
RAP    -       Rehabilitation Action Plan
REP    -       Risk Evaluation Process



ANNEX 3.11
-80-                                  Page 5 of 15
RMG    -       Risk Management Group
RMP    -       Risk Mitigation Plan
SA      -      Social Assessment
SAMP   -       Social Assessment and Management Plan
SAP     -      Social Assessment Process
SAR     -      Social Assessment Report
SDP     -      Staff Development Plan
SIA     -      Social Impact Assessment
SPCB    -      State Pollution Control Board
SPV     -      Special Purpose Vehicle
TOR    -       Terms of Reference
UMTS  -        Urban Mass Transit System
WB      -      World Bank
Wll     -      Wildlife Institute of India



ANNEX 3.11
-81-                              Page 6 of 15
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
PURPOSE
(1)   Infrastructure Leasing and Financial Services Limited (IL&FS) is pioneering and
promoting innovative approaches to infrastructure development in India. It is developing
a pipeline of commercially viable projects which includes urban by-passes, mass transit
systems, water and sanitation infrastructure and integrated area development.  The
projects are to be developed as Build-Own-Operate-Transfer (BOOT) or Build-Operate-
Transfer (BOT) schemes
(2)    The environmental and social framework for IL&FS has been designed to be consistent,
inter alia, with the BOOT/BOT framework. The ESR outlines the various policies,
procedures and assessments that will enable IL&FS as a financial intermediary to ensure
that a project is developed in consonance with the ESR and is adequately protected from
attendant risks
(3)    Thus, the purpose and aim of the ESR is to provide the Institution an overall framework
to guide it in the identification, assessment and management of environmental and social
concerns at the organisational and at the project level
(4)    The ESR has been prepared by IL&FS with the assistance of Consultants - Development
Alternatives - specialised in the field of environment and social issues. The process of
preparing this report has included desk research on the legal and institutional framework,
analysis of priority issues in the infrastructure sector, consistency checks with
operational directives of the World Bank and other multilateral agencies. There have
also been a series of discussions within and outside IL&FS for the preparation of the
Report
(5)   The ESR has been formally approved by the Board of Directors of IL&FS
ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL STATEMENT OF IL&FS
(6)   The Environmental and Social Statement of the Institution commits each project to three
cardinal principles:
(a)    Enhance the quality of life and environment in and around the project location
(b)    Prevent adverse environmental and social situations
(c)    Mitigate possible adverse environmental and social impacts
While enhancement is the first priority, incorporation of prevention and mitigation
measures will ensure minimal adverse impacts



ANNEX 3.1
-82-                            Page 7 of 15
(7)   IL&FS is internalising this Environmental and Social statement into its business
operations through detailed operational procedures including systems for continuous
performance evaluation and self regulation. The highlights of an Annual Environmental
and Social Audit will be made public alongwith the Annual Balance Sheet
LEGAL AND INSTITUTIONAL SETTING
(8)   The legal and constitutional setting provides the context in which the environment and
social statement and operational procedures of IL&FS is framed. Fundamental national
commitments are enshrined in the Constitution of India, while the Acts, Notifications,
policies, rules and other documents issued by Central and State Governments provide
operational details. India also has obligations on environmental and social issues
through its participation in international conventions and treaties
(9)   A number of specific regulatory instruments for environmental protection have been
developed by both Central and State Governments. Many of these have a bearing on
IL&FS infrastructure projects. (India's contributions to and learnings from negotiations
for international treaties have also helped immensely in sharpening the focus of the
regulatory instruments currently in place). Most States and Central Government have
either Ministries or departments of environment and forests as agencies dealing with
environmental issues
(10)  With its basic commitment to address environmental concerns in infrastructure projects,
IL&FS has attempted to capture the essence of the regulatory framework in India and the
experience of the World Bank as embodied in its Operational Directives. It has
incorporated the strengths of both the World Bank operational directives and the Indian
legislation and policies in the ESR
(I1)  Compared to the more specific legal instruments on environmental issues, the
legislations, notifications, rules and policies on social issues are relatively less definitive.
While Constitutional provisions provide several guarantees to project-affected persons,
international agreements on social and cultural issues have only limited application
(12)  Given its concern for social issues associated with infrastructure projects, IL&FS has
developed its policy and operational procedures based on the legal and policy framework
in India and the operational directives of the World Bank
(13)  In order to provide a benchmark for the discussion of possible entitlements in the R&R
process, the ESR provides a menu of typical impacts that project affected households and
individuals may experience. Against these impacts, the corresponding beneficiary
designation and the possible entitlement options have been developed based on the
operational directives of the World Bank



ANNEX 3.11
-83-                                Page 8 of 15
(14)   The actual combination of types of impact, beneficiaries and entitlement options will
depend on the specificities of a sub-project itself. It would, thus, be up to the Special
Purpose Vehicle (SPV) and its sub-project consultants team to develop a coherent
rehabilitation action plan. IL&FS will remain responsible for appraising it within the
proposed operational framework
MAJOR ISSUES IN PRIORITY SECTORS
(15)   While infrastructure projects deliver major benefits, the construction and operation of
each type of project involves certain activities that could have adverse environmental and
social impacts
(16)   Presently, IL&FS focus in the infrastructure sector includes the following:
(a)    Integrated Area Development
(b)    Water Supply and Sanitation
(c)    Transportation
(d)    Power
(17)   Specific environmental impacts during the construction and operation phase of the
project will be identified, assessed and a suitable mitigation plan evolved. The exercise
begins with the identification of issues in the alternative project sites. The degree and
magnitude of these issues are captured in the subsequent investigations (EA and SA
process). Resolution of these issues are incorporated in the project design
(18)  Infrastructure projects are also often confronted with a range of socio-economic issues.
The socio-economic impacts will vary considerably depending on the specifics of the
project location and the resettlement area. IL&FS is committed to:
(a)    Fulfilling the legitimate needs of the project affected groups, and
(b)    Adopting a transparent process acceptable to the concerned stakeholders.
(19)   The salient social issues related to infrastructure projects include:
(a)   Involuntary Resettlement
(b)    Protection of Marginalised and Vulnerable Groups
(c)    Public Consultation and Consensus Building
(20)   While IL&FS will aim to avoid involuntary resettlement, it may become inevitable in
some of the projects. In such cases, the attempt will be to atleast restore, if not improve,
the standard of living of the affected persons. IL&FS will ensure proper valuation of
land and assets, on entitlement policy for each category of impact, minimisation of
cumbersome procedures and a well developed compensation package



ANNEX 3.11
-84-                                       Page 9 of 15
(21)   In  some  of the  infrastructure  projects, there  may  be  specific  issues  relating  to
marginalised and vulnerable groups like the economically and socially disadvantaged;
the elderly; women and children; the physically handicapped; and indigenous people. As
a general principle Il,&FS will aim at enhancing their opportunities
(22)    In each project, IL&FS will attempt to establish an effective local mechanism  sensitive
to socio-economic issues and capable of co-ordinating implementation of. various project
components including RAP and IPDP.  Non-Government Organisations (NGOs) and
Community Based Organisations (CBOs) will play a critical role in this process which
will also redress the grievances of the affected groups
OPERATIONAL PROCEDURES
(23)   The environmental and social assessment process will dovetail with the IL&FS project
cycle. It is envisaged that at each stage of the project cycle, environmental and social
assessment issues would be addressed concurrently. Based on the foregoing principles, a
summary of the IL&FS project cycle is provided in the table below
IL&FS PROJECT CYCLE SUMMARY
MILESTONE                   I RESPONSIBILITY             ::PRODUCT
Screening                    IL&FS/SPV/Sponsor/            Initial Screening Report
Government
Scoping                      IL&FS/SPV/Sponsor/               Memorandum of Understanding
Government                       (MoU)
Finalisation  of Channels of
Consultation
Finalisation   of  Terms  of    L&FS,SPVSponsor/           Terms of Reference (ToR) for 
Reference    for     project  Consultant                   appointment of consultants
preparation studies
AppointIent of consultants   IL&FS SPV/Sponsor             Cons-utants Ap oi ned
Project Preparation          SPV/Sponsor/Consultant        Draft final documentation prepared
.acording to agreed formats
.................................................................................................. ........................................................................
Initial Project Evaluation   IL&FS/ Consultants,           -   Initial   Project  Evaluation
' SPV/Sponsor                      Report
Agreements   on    project
documentation
Selection of Operator        IL&FS;SPV/Consultant              Award of Recommendation
Project Financial Close      IL&FS;SPV/Sponsor,                Final   Project   Evaiuation
Government, Operator,            Report
Merchant Banker                  Signing of Agreements
Finalisation of project finance
consortium
Project Monitoring and Audit   IL&FS/SPV/Lenders               Compliance Report
Annual Audit



ANNEX 3.11
-85-                                                      Page 10 of 15
(24) Based on the IL&FS project cycle, IL&FS has developed an Environmental & Social
Assessment process. IL&FS is committed to ensure that each project will rigorously
follow a detailed Environment and Social Assessment Process as summarised in the table
below:
EA/SA PROCESS SUMMARY
MILESTONE                                RESPONSIBILITY    PRODUCT
Environmental/Social Screening  IIL&FS,  SPV/Sponsor.  IL&FS    -    Environmental  screening  and
with SPV/Sponsor                              social  screening  as  part  of
Project    Initial       Screening
Report
Decision    to    proceed    or
otherwise
i ..................................... ............. ................................................................... ..........................................................................
Environmental/Social Scoping    I SPV/Sponsor/LA                                ' Scope and coverage of EAR/SAR
li .............................................................. ....................................I.............................. .............................I...........................................
Finalisation    of   Terms    of   IL&FS,SPV/LA/Consultant                        Terms  of  Reference   (ToR)  for
Reference   for  EA    and   SA                                                   appointment of consultant
studies
A ppointment of consultants              IL&FS /SPV/Sponsor                       Consultants Appointed
l EA/.SAStudy                            SPV/Sponsor                 through    Draft EAR/SAR including:
Consultant                               -    EMP
-  RAP
IPDP
-    Implementing Monitoring Plan
-    Institutional       Responsibility
Framework
Risk Allocation Framework
Review of EAR/SAR               .        IL&FS/SPV/Sponsor                             Clearance    by    Government
agencies
Concurrence by MA
Agreement  on   EAR/SAR
actions
.....................         .......... ..............................................................   ........................................................................ 
Translation of Agreements into   IL&FS/SPV/Operator/                                    Concession Agreement
Legal Instruments                        Contractor, SPV & Government                   Shareholders Agreement
Construction Agreement
O&M Agreement
Lenders Agreement
..... .......................................................................................................................;... .........................................................................
Project Monitoring                       IL&FS/SPV/Lenders                      I Periodic Monitoring Reports
Annual    Environmental    and I Corporate Consultant                             Environment and social audit report
Social Audit



ANNEX 3.11
-86-                            Page 11 of 15
(25)  The Environmental Assessment Process (EAP) will identify likely environmental
impacts and evolve relevant mitigation measures. While the project will attempt to
enhance environmental quality, it will at a minimum prevent or set in place appropriate
mitigation measures. The EAP will be undertaken by a multi-disciplinary team of
consultants with support from NGOs, CBOs, Government Agencies and due processes of
consultation
(26)  IL&FS is committed to ensure that the legitimate needs of the project affected groups are
fulfilled through a transparent process acceptable to the concerned stakeholders. The
Social Assessment Process (SAP) adopted will restore the quality of life, if not improve
it, when compared to the situation before the infrastructure project. The SAP will be
undertaken by a composite team drawn from among specialists like anthropologists,
sociologists, community development experts; and others from non-governmental
organizations (NGOs), community based organizations (CBOs), project affected persons
and appropriate public institutions
ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT
(27)  IL&FS shall establish structures that will serve to minimise many of the normal
infrastructure project risks. Nevertheless, IL&FS will remain exposed to several other
risks, especially relating to environmental and social concerns
(28)  Major environment and social problems could adversely affect project operations,
earnings  and hence loan servicing obligations.  Consequently IL&FS will place
significant emphasis on a rigorous Environment and Social Risk Assessment, Analysis
and Management at the project level
(29)  In order to effectively manage the environmental and social risks attendant to
infrastructure projects, IL&FS will incorporate a risk evaluation process at each stage of
the EA/SA process
(30)  In essence, the risk evaluation process shall enable the Institution to develop appropriate
mechanisms to manage and monitor risks on an on-going basis. Within IL&FS the risk
evaluation process shall be implemented by the project team and the Risk Management
Group
(31)  The risk evaluation process shall thus comprise of the following sequence of steps
* Risk Identification
* Risk Assessment
* Allocation of Risks
* Risk Management including mitigation measures
(32)  After the appropriate risk management systems are set in place, IL&FS will ensure the
appropriate allocation of risk and the associated liabilities, through a contractual
framework and, if feasible, insurance coverage



ANNEX 3.11
-87-                               Page 12 of 15
(33)   Each project will have a responsibility framework outlining the extent of risk and
associated liability to be shared between each of the project stakeholders.  The
instruments through which this will be implemented, include:
(a)    Risks/responsibilities of Government      Concession Agreement
(b)    Risks/responsibilities of SPV             Concession Agreement,
Lenders' Agreement, O&M
Agreement, Construction
Agreement
(c)    Risks/responsibilities to be borne by     Shareholders' agreement
Shareholders
(d)    Risks/responsibilities to be borne        O&M Contract
by Operator
(e)    Risks/responsibilities to be borne        Construction Agreement
by Contractor
ORGANISATIONAL SUPPORT
(34)  IL&FS shall establish an organisational structure with the requisite expertise to facilitate
compliance with the ESR. It will inculcate and develop the requisite skills within the
Institution, and access complementary and specialised skills through the appointment of
External Consultants on an assignment basis
(35)   The table below  summarises the responsibility for each task within IL&FS. This
allocation framework assigns departmental responsibilities with a view to integrating the
environment and social assessment process with the overall project cycle. The process
flow in terms of preparation, review and authorisation is geared towards ensuring that
sufficient independent cross-checks exist within the system to ensure effective process
and management control



ANNEX 3.11
-88-                                      Page 13 of 15
SUMMARY OF IL&FS DEPARTMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY ALLOCATION
MILESTONE               | PREPARATION             |_REVIEW              APPROVAL
Screening                Project team               Executive Director    Committec   Of
ESMG *                     (Infrastructure)   Directors
Corporate Consultant **
Finalisation    of   TOR  Consultants               ESMG                Executive
consistency check                                                       Director
(Infrastructure)
Appointment of consultant                           Project team        ESMG
Review of EAISA          Project team               Credit               Committee    of
ESMG                      Legal               Directors
Corporate Consultant      RMG
ED (Infrastructure)
Translation ol agreements  Legal                    ESMG                ED
into Legal Instruments                              Project Team        (Infrastructure)
RMG
Credit
Monitoring               Project team               ESMG                Committee    of
Corporate Consultants                         Directors
Environmental and Social  Independent Consultants   Committee       of  Board         of
Audit                                               Directors           Directors
*       ESMG                             Environmental and Social Management Group
**      Corporate Consultant             IL&FS Corporate Consultant for
Environmental and Social Issues
(36)   At the Corporate level, IL&FS will
(a)     Create an Environmental and Social Management Group (ESMG) as a part of the
Projects Department
(b)     Appoint a Corporate Consultant for Environmental and Social issues
(c)     Clearly  delineate  functions/across concerned  Departments and  provide  the
necessary training required to ensure that the requisite levels of skills and
awareness are developed within each of the concerned Departments



ANNEX 3.11
-89-                                     Page 14 of 15
\ (37)  At the project level, IL&FS will ensure that the SPV/Project Sponsor appoints Project
Consultants to undertake assignments on environmental and social issues in conformity
with its business practices. Project Consultants for social issues will be selected from
among non-governmental organisations (NGOs), community based organisations (CBOs)
or public agencies
STAFF DEVELOPMENT PLAN
(38)   In order to position the organisation to achieve the objectives as set in the ESR, IL&FS
will implement a staff development plan. The Staff Development Plan (SDP) is oriented
to facilitate the implementation of the environmental and social assessment process as an
intrinsic part of the project cycle
(39)   A  number of Departments in IL&FS would be routinely involved in the preparation,
review and approval of the various outputs emanating from the environmental and social
assessment process. At the present juncture, IL&FS staff have not been formally trained
with respect to environmental and social issues. Thus, all concerned staff will initially
undergo an orientation  programme on the ESR and its application to project specific
environmental and social issues. Subsequently, each Department will undergo training
specific to their responsibilities in the EA/SA process
(40)   Training modules will include a combination of workshops, seminars, site visits and
interactions with project authorities. The responsibility for implementing the SDP in
IL&FS will vest withi the Personnel Department
IL&FS - MULTILATERAL AGENCY INTERFACE
(41)   As a financial intermediary, IL&FS will access funding from  a variety of lenders
including multilateral agencies such as the World Bank
(42)   In  order to  ensure  that the projects are  in  conformity  with  World  Bank's OD
requirements and business practices, IL&FS shall submit the following documents for
the review of the Bank. The table below provides the institutional interface matrix
INTERFACE MATRIX
EA/SA MILESTONE                   OUTPUT TO BE SUBMITTED TO THE
WORLD BANK
Screening                                  Initial screening report
Finalisation of terms ofl reference tor EA and SA  Terms of reference
studies
.4 ....... .... .... .... ... ........ ..... . ............. .......... .... ............ ....... ....   ........................................................... ................................................
Reviexw of EA and SA studies and mitigation  Draft EAR and SAR according to agreed formats
plans
Translation of agreements into instruments  e nders Agreement alongwith other Agreements
onitoring                                   Compliance report
Environmental and Social Audit           . Audit compliance report



ANNEX 3.11
-90-                            Page 15 of 15
43)   It is envisaged that World Bank concurrence to the output generated at each milestone
will be obtained prior to progressing to the next stage. However, when the capacity of
IL&FS is in place, it is expected that World Bank and other multilateral agency
concurrence will be required only for the EAR and SAP Summary Reports and the
agreements, prior to approving finances for sub-projects. This capacity building is
expected to take two years






IMAGING
Report No:       15364 IN
Type: SAR



