Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 23507
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-28380; SCL-39920)
ON A
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$200 MILLION
TO INFRASTRUCTURE LEASING AND FINANCIAL SERVICES LIMITED
AND A
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR3.4 MILLION
TO INDIA
FOR A
PRIVATE INFRASTRUCTURE FINANCE (IL&FS) PROJECT
May 10, 2002
nergy and Infrastructure Unit
outh Asia Region
Mhis document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
)fficial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective September 30, 2001)
Currency Unit = Indian Rupee
INR 1 = US$ 0.021
US$ 1 = INR47.855
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB          Asian Development Bank       IFCI         Industrial Finance Corporation of India
AMTRL        Ahmedabad Mehsana Toll       IL&FS        Infrastructure Leasing and Financial
Road Limited                              Services Ltd.
BOT          Build, Operate and Transfer  IPP          Independent Power Producer
bp           basis point (100 bp = 1%)    LIBOR        London Interbank Offered Rate
CAS          Country Assistance Strategy  NHAI         National Highway Authority of India
CBI          Central Bank of India        NPV          Net Present Value
DEG          German Investment &          NTBCL        Noida Toll Bridge Company Limited
Development Company
EA           Environmental Assessment     O&M          Operation and Maintenance
EMP          Environmental Management     PAP          Project Affected Person
Plan
EIRR         Economic Internal Rate of    PLR          Prime Lending Rate
Retum
ES           Environment and Social       QAG          Quality Assurance Group
ESR          Environment and Social       R&R          Resettlement and Rehabilitation
Report
FIRR         Financial Intemal Rate of    RAP          Resettlement Action Plan
Return
FMO          Netherlands Development      RBI          Reserve Bank Of India
Finance Company
GOG          Government of Gujarat        SAR          Staff Appraisal Report
GOI          Govemment of India           SPV          Special Purpose Vehicle
IDA          Intemational Development     UTI          Unit Trust Of India
Association
IDBI         Industrial Development Bank  VHTRL        Vadodora Halol Toll Road Limited
of India
IFC          Intemational Finance
Corporation
Vice President:  Mieko Nishimizu
Country Director:  Edwin R. Lim
Sector Director:  Vincent Gouame
Task Manager:    Julia M. Fraser



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDIA
PRIVATE INFRASTRUCTURE FINANCE (EL&FS) PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                   1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                  1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry        2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                           4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            12
6. Sustainability                                                                16
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 18
8. Lessons Learned                                                               22
9. Partner Comments                                                              25
10. Additional Information                                                      29
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             35
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             36
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             38
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             39
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             41
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                42
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            43
Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results                                              45
Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Results                                            53
Annex 10. Review of Subprojects Financed under Bank Loan                         56
Annex 11. Studies Financed under the IDA Credit                                  78
Annex 12. Environment and Social Safeguards                                      83
Annex 13. Borrower's Contribution                                                87
This ICR was prepared based on the findings of an ICR mission that visited India during December
3-14, 2001 as well as various contributions from the Borrower and other documents, such as the report on
"India Financial Market Assessment for Private Infrastructure Investments", PriceWaterhouseCoopers,
September 2000, which was commissioned by the Bank. The ICR mission was led by Julie Fraser
(SASEI) and included Stephan von Klaudy (PSAPP), Bill Denning (consultant), and Manoj Jain
(SARFM). The environment and social safeguard team, comprised of P. Illangovan (EASES) and I.U.B.
Reddy (SASES), followed with a mission two weeks later. The main report was authored by Julie Fraser
and Stephan von Klaudy; Bill Denning contributed Annexes 10 and I 1; and Jack Williams, the statistical
annexes and editing. Jose Luis Irigoyen (LCSFT) was the peer reviewer.
Phis document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
)erformance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID P039935                                       Project Name: ILFS-Private Infrastructure Finance
Team Leader: Julia M. Fraser                             TL Unit: SASEI
ICR Type: Intensive Learning Model (ILM) of ICR          Report Date: May 10, 2002
1. Project Data
Name: ILFS-Private Infrastructure Finance           L/C/TFNumber: IDA-28380;
SCL-39920
Country/Department: INDIA                                               Region: South Asia Regional
Office
Sector/subsector: DI - Private Infrastructure
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:   05/15/1995                             Effective:                   11/22/1996
Appraisal:  00/00/0000                               MTR: 04/30/1998            12/09/1998
Approval:  03/28/1996                              Closing: 09/30/2001         09/30/2001
Borrower/lImplementing Agency: IL&FS/IL&FS
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice President:      Mieko Nishimizu                           D. Joseph Wood
Country Manager:     Edwin R. Lim                              Heinz Vergin
Sector Manager:      Vincent Gouarne                           Jean-Francois Bauer
Team Leader at ICR:  Julia M. Fraser                           Joelle Chassard
ICR Primary Author:  Julia M. Fraser; Stephan K.L.
von Klaudy
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: H
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry: S                      S
Project at Risk at Any Time. Yes



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
3.1.1  As stated in the Staff Appraisal Report, the objectives of the Private Infrastructure Finance
(IL&FS) Project were to: (a) build up India's capacity to attract private investment in infrastructure; (b)
pilot-test institutional and contractual arrangements in a variety of subprojects under various administrative
and political conditions; (c) help establish a track record as a prerequisite for large-scale private investment
in the sector; (d) meet the pressing needs of commercial infrastructure project entities for long-term rupee
financing, pending the implementation of financial sector reforms for the development of a domestic
long-term debt market; (e) foster efficiency in the delivery and use of selected infrastructure services; (f)
encourage the establishment of more efficient practices in the construction and operation of infrastructure
projects; and (g) assist in alleviating the severe financial and institutional constraints to the expansion of
infrastructure in India.
3.1.2  These objectives, while clear, were ambitious and somewhat overlapping. The Project was rather
high risk, given the absence of well-established administrative, legal, policy and regulatory frameworks in
the country, the relative inexperience of IL&FS and state governments with executing complex
infrastructure project finance structures, and the ambitious pipeline of projects to be implemented by
IL&FS over the Project period. In addition, the objectives stated in the Staff Appraisal Report omitted one
of the critical institutional development objectives, i.e., creating institutional capacity within IL&FS for
project appraisal, risk analysis, formulation of contractual frameworks, evaluation of bids, etc. In this
sense, the objectives as summarized in the Loan Agreement were more straightforward and simplified the
more detailed objectives described in the SAR:
*   to promote the participation of the private sector in infrastructure development;
*   to foster efficiency in the delivery and use of selected infrastructure services; and
*   to assist in the institutional development of the Borrower as will facilitate the financing of such
infrastructure.
3.1.3 Late in the appraisal process, it was decided to add an IDA Credit equivalent to US$5 million to
finance the cost of advisory services which public sector authorities (e.g. GOI, state governments,
municipalities) could utilize to select BOT operators and negotiate concession agreements. Although the
IDA Credit objectives were not explicitly stated in the SAR, the Credit Agreement defined the objective
assisting the Government and its agencies, constituent States, Union Territories and their agencies in
developing capabilities for structuring commercial infrastructure projects to be financed by the private
sector. Overall, the objectives were consistent with the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy which proposed
to increase the Bank's assistance in establishing an environment conducive to efficient private investment in
infrastructure.
3.1.4  The objectives and design of the Project need to be assessed in the context of the evolving policy
and institutional framework for private investment in infrastructure existing at the time of appraisal and
which continues today. The expansion and efficient use of infrastructure remains one of India's key
development issues. Attracting private investment in infrastructure has been a feature of government policy
in India since the early 1990s when the Government took a number of legislative steps to remove formal
barriers to private investment in power, telecommunications, highways, etc. The next step was to establish
policy and institutional frameworks to fully support such investment and address the lack of finance
commensurate with the typical long gestation and revenue-earning capacity of infrastructure projects. The
Government selected IL&FS, a majority private, non-banking financial institution established in 1987, as
the first financial intermediary to receive the Bank's support, given the pioneering role it was playing in
- 2 -



promoting private investment in infrastructure. The Project was designed as a "process" operation
whereby IL&FS was used as a vehicle to build up India's capacity to attract private investment in
infrastructure, and the Bank focused on assisting IL&FS first-hand in developing prototype contractual
arrangements for private investment in its areas of involvement.
3.1.5  This Project constituted the second Bank initiative to offer private investors in infrastructure term
financing with more appropriate maturities than those available. (The first initiative was the restructuring
of the then ongoing Tamil Nadu Urban Development Project (Cr. 1923-IN) in September 1995 to promote
the entry of a private fund manager to commercially manage the mix of public and private sources of
finance provided to the Municipal Development Fund.) The third initiative, which envisaged a much larger
scale operation involving a project with several public financial institutions as a vehicle to promote
financial policy refonns aimed at developing a domestic long-term debt market, never materialized.
3.2 Revised Objective:
3.2.1  There were no revisions to the project objectives.
3.3 Original Components:
3.3.1  The Project was designed to assist IL&FS in financing infrastructure subprojects such as major
bridges, urban bypasses, port facilities, water supply and effluent treatment schemes, and integrated area
development projects, to be implemented on a build-operate-transfer (BOT) basis, or variation thereof, and
expected to be started within three years of appraisal. It provided IL&FS with a US$200 million line of
credit for investment and technical assistance and GOI with an IDA credit of US$5 million equivalent for
subproject preparation. It consisted of three interrelated components:
An investment component (US$ 185 million) in the form of a line of credit to nL&FS, the proceeds of
which were used to provide long-term finance to special purpose entities established for the
construction and operation of commercial infrastructure projects in IL&FS's pipeline.
A subproject preparation component (US$19 million, including US$5 million equivalent from the IDA
Credit) to cover specialized consultancy services to advise the public authorities granting the subproject
concessions or to assist project developers in preparing their subprojects.
A training and technical assistance component (US$I million) to cover (i) IL&FS's staff development
for its staff and (ii) specific studies that IL&FS were undertaking to facilitate the evaluation and
implementation of commercial infrastructure projects.
3.3.2  The components were clearly related to achieving the development objectives. In recognition that
the project would be pioneering frameworks for BOT-type transactions in India where there was little
experience in the core sectors of transport, urban and water, significant funds were allocated for subproject
preparation and the institutional capacity building of IL&FS and government. In reality, however, IL&FS
did not draw on the Bank loan for its training needs, instead relying on its own funds since this was less
expensive. In addition, only the IDA Credit (and not the IBRD Loan) was utilized to hire consultants to
prepare some of the subprojects, including feasibility and willingness to pay studies, while the remaining
preparation work was financed by IL&FS using its own and other resources. Consequently, the major part
of the Bank loan category allocated to project preparation was not utilized.
3.4 Revised Components:
3.4.1  There were no revisions to the components.
- 3 -



3.5 Quality at Entry:
3.5.1  The Quality Assurance Group (QAG) made a post approval Quality at Entry assessment of the
IL&FS Project in mid-1997, about six months after Loan effectiveness, as part of the QAG review of
South Asia Private Sector Infrastructure Development Operations. QAG rated the Project as fully
satisfactory citing (i) strong Borrower and Guarantor ownership; (ii) IL&FS, a privately owned,
commercial, non-banking financing institution, was viewed in India as being a professionally run
institution; (iii) the significant impact in capacity building within IL&FS, especially in the area of
environment and social analysis where previously IL&FS had no stated policies or procedures; and (iv) the
strong partnership between the Bank and IL&FS's project team.
3.5.2  Some of the project weaknesses identified by QAG included: (i) for the size of the Bank Loan, the
pipeline of subprojects ready for financing at project approval stage was weak in terms of their state of
preparedness, risking a significant delay in commitments and disbursements when compared to appraisal
estimates; (ii) inadequate policy framework and weak capacity of local and state governments; and (iii) the
multiplicity of, and possibly conflicting, roles assumed by IL&FS. These weaknesses were also highlighted
in the peer reviewers comments received during the preparation and appraisal stage.
3.5.3  In light of the implementation experience of the Project in which each of the above weaknesses
became apparent, the quality at entry is rated as only marginally satisfactory at the time of this completion
report. Both the Bank and IL&FS underestimated the time it took to prepare projects and related
documentation to the standards acceptable to the Bank and intemational investors, and to negotiate and
reach agreement. It was expected that all subprojects, to be supported under the Bank line of credit, would
be ready for financing within two and half years as evidenced by the December 31, 1998 deadline for
subproject applications in the Loan Agreement. Virtually all of the subprojects were still in the project
development phase, and none of the key project documentation (e.g. concession agreement, construction
agreement, O&M agreement, service agreement, etc.) had been drafted. Evaluation of experience in project
finance transactions in other parts of the world would have revealed these expectations to be unrealistic, in
particular since it was explicitly recognized that there was little experience with complex BOT project
structures in India. The design may have also benefited from having experienced project finance and legal
advisors to the state governments in place at the time of effectiveness for the most advanced projects, and
focused institutional development and capacity building should have been included in the Project's design.
However in retrospect, while additional preparation could have possibly strengthened the sub-project
pipeline, the quality at entry needs to be judged in light of an operation which was designed to support a
pioneering private sector-driven process, with all the ensuing uncertainties.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
4.1.1  Overall Outcome. Achievement of objectives and outputs under the Project was satisfactory,
despite the low level of disbursement. The Project contributed effectively to promoting private sector
participation in infrastructure, thereby fostering efficiency in delivery and use of infrastructure services,
and enhancing institutional development. However, pipeline development progressed more slowly than
expected, and completed projects remained limited to transport (roads). In the other target sectors (water
and urban development), contractual frameworks have been developed, but no subprojects were
commissioned. At Loan/Credit closing, two subprojects had started operations (Vadodara-Halol toll road
and Delhi-Noida toll bridge), two were under construction (Ahmedabad-Mehsana and East Coast toll
roads), one had a committed financing package (Tirupur Water), and 20 were at different stages of
preparation (See Table in Section 10). Disbursements, totaling US$31 million, also remained far below
initial expectations. While the Project thus fell short of reaching its key numerical goals (number of
-4 -



subprojects, disbursements), it clearly set in motion a process of reform in the target sectors which greatly
facilitates private involvement. The following paragraphs describe the achievement of each objective, as
defined in the SAR.
4.1.2 Develop prototype contractual arrangementsforprivate investment in IL&FS areas of
involvement, pilot-test institutional and contractual arrangements in a variety of subprojects under
various administrative and polidcal conditions, help establish a track record as prerequisitefor
large-scale private investment in the sector (Satisfactory). In absence of detailed frameworks at the
national or state level for private participation in the target sectors, IL&FS developed, with support under
the Project, arrangements at the subproject level as a basis for broader applications. This approach served
in the Indian context as an accelerator for the reform process needed to attract more private capital and
skills. The essential elements of the contractual and institutional arrangements applied by IL&FS to the
development of subprojects consist of well-known building blocks for public-private partnerships. Detailed
concession agreements govem the relationships between all relevant parties involved, i.e. fund providers,
contractors and public authorities, and stipulate their rights, obligations, events of default, remedies etc.
They are complemented by other key documents, primarily the financing agreements, construction contract,
operating contract and articles of the concession company. The design of such contractual frameworks with
various inter-linked agreements, and in particular the creation of concession structures and multiple lender
arrangements for long-term project financing, represented a novelty in the target infrastructure sectors. In
order to achieve this objective, nine legislative instruments were approved for implementation of private
concession projects by different states. At the time of Loan/Credit closing, complete contractual
frameworks had been developed and financial close reached for four transport subprojects, while the
framework and financing for the first private water project had been virtually finalized.
4.1.3  The four road subprojects brought to financial close by IL&FS during the Project implementation
period ranged between US$11 and US$85 million and totaled about US$200 million. Of those, the smallest
one (East Coast toll road) was not financed under the Loan. A further transaction reached financial close
in December 2001 (Tirupur Water) at total cost of US$214 million, also without financing from the Bank
Loan. The subprojects implemented so far, and those under active preparation, have created a track record,
based on which other transactions in the target sectors are being designed and which serves to further
develop and fine-tune the underlying contractual and institutional arrangements and basic project
structures.
4.1.4  Facilitate entry of private sector on a much larger scale in areas sofar dominated by the
public sector (Pardally Satisfactory). The Project has been successful in facilitating some of the first
private infrastructure investments in the target sectors in India in a number of different states. These
subprojects have had a positive impact as demonstration projects and have thus set examples on the basis
of which private sector involvement is likely to be expanded along the lines of the appraisal expectations.
However, the Project's achievements to date are essentially confned to the roads sector, in which four
subprojects have reached financial close and are at different stages between construction and operations.
The first water project has long been delayed, but has now reached financial close. Subprojects in other
sectors have not progressed beyond preparation.
4.1.5  In the emerging contractual and institutional environment, the transactions initiated under the
Project have attracted a total of 26 equity and 39 debt investors (Annex 1). However, they remained
essentially inter-Indian deals, with only limited foreign participation on the part of two specialized equity
investment funds, and one toll road operator. Even though more than 30 private corporations invested in
infrastructure projects in India, key foreign or local corporate players were virtually absent in the target
sectors. IL&FS' role as principal subproject promoter and sponsor proved therefore essential for private
- 5 -



sector involvement to materialize. By playing this catalytic function, IL&FS was able to bring together the
variety of partners (financial institutions, international equity funds, construction companies, toll road
operators) required for the successful structuring, financing and implementation of the subprojects.
However, the contractual and institutional arrangements developed by IL&FS under the Project are still
evolving and the existing track record in the target sectors is limited. It is therefore expected that, as the
framework and structure of subprojects is adapted to international standards, private sector participation in
the target sectors will become more attractive to foreign participants.
4.1.6  As a result of the predominance of Indian fund providers, the genuine private sector involvement in
the subprojects is only partial. Most of the large Indian banks and financial institutions are fully or majority
Government-owned and dominated (at union or state level). From the ownership point of view, it might thus
be argued that despite the sophisticated contractual arrangements designed by IL&FS under the Project, a
large portion of the financial risk remains ultimately with the state. This was one of the issues raised at the
time of the Project's initial review. However, it was also clear during appraisal that a fully private funding
environment could not realistically be expected in the medium term, given the policy framework of the
Indian financial sector. Considering the starting position and existing constraints, the Project successfully
enhanced the provision of genuine private capital, by mobilizing, for each subproject, equity originating
primarily from private sources, and raising substantial amounts of private debt through the domestic capital
markets.
4.1.7  In addition, the funding provided by public sector banks and financial institutions was based on a
changing risk profile during the Project implementation period, as deregulation and reform in the financial
sector progressed. Competition between commercial banks increased with the entry of new private sector
banks and the permission to foreign banks to increase their number of branches. Following amendments in
the Banking Companies Act, public sector banks were allowed to access the capital markets to raise funds,
and have in many cases considerably diluted the Government's ownership, even though it remains above 51
percent In the light of these developments, the funding decisions have become more commercial and the
shift towards private financing has been more substantial than expected at appraisal.
4.1.8  Meet the pressing needs of commercial infrastructure project entitiesfor long-term rupee
financing (Satisfactory). At the time of appraisal, long-term commercial financing for subprojects in the
target sectors was difficult to arrange. Foreign fund providers would have required far-reaching public
guarantees and assurances (similar to those obtained in the power sector), and protection against exchange
rate and currency conversion risks. Availability of long-term domestic debt funding was constrained by a
financial system that was still heavily regulated, inflexible, public-sector dominated, and not set up for
market-based assessment and management of long-term credit risks. The length of debt maturities initially
offered was in the range of 5-8 years post-construction, which was insufficient for the type of investments
envisaged.
4.1.9 While IL&FS had adopted a more flexible and market-based approach to credit risk management
than most other financial institutions, its long-term financing resources were not sufficient for the company
to play a significant role in the projected pipeline of investments and to catalyze additional funding from the
markets. Availability of the Bank loan was therefore instrumental as a long-term financing source for
IL&FS, specifically in the initial period after effectiveness. It underpinned the institution's financial
commitment to the first subprojects it arranged, and enabled it to mobilize complete financing packages on
a long-term rupee basis (by successfully swapping the disbursed amounts of the Bank Loan into local
currency).
4.1.10 Continuing reforms in India's financial system, and the success by IL&FS in structuring
- 6 -



transactions and arranging financing, increased the availability of appropriate domestic funding for
investments in the target sectors. More institutions participated, and tenors offered lengthened rapidly over
the implementation period to ten years and beyond, as the markets gathered first experience with
infrastructure subprojects. Deep discount bonds introduced specifically for the first three subprojects
reached maturities of 16 years. These developments, combined with the slower than expected take-up of
subprojects, substantially reduced the expected use of the Bank Loan as an instrument to alleviate
long-term financing constraints. Even though in the end only 16% of the Bank loan had been drawn, the
Project nevertheless contributed directly to the alleviation of long-term financing constraints at a critical
juncture and facilitated the initiation of the first demonstration projects in the target sectors. It also
supported IL&FS efforts to successfully tap into the domestic financial markets and develop the potential
for additional long-term rupee financing which, to an extent, substituted for the direct use of the Bank loan.
4.1.11 Assist in alleviating severefinancial constraints to expansion of infrastructure (Satisfactory).
Over the Project implementation period, IL&FS developed a number of initiatives which aimed at
addressing deficiencies of the Indian financial system, which were of particular relevance to the
development of infrastructure. They included: (i) introduction of deep discount bonds, which provided
cost-effective financing tailored to the back-ended cash flows of infrastructure investments; (ii) take-out
financing to support the placement of deep discount bonds; it provided a guaranteed exit to the primary
investor through the sale of the bond at an agreed price at a predetermined time to a AAA rated financial
institution; (iii) risk participation agreements, which syndicated long-term resources otherwise not
accessible to Indian commercial banks on a risk-sharing basis, and which were designed similarly to the
IFC B Loan structure, whereby IL&FS acts as lender of record; (iv) introduction through IL&FS of the
Special Purpose Vehicle (SPV) as a conduit for project financing of infrastructure; (v) granting of specific
fiscal concessions for special purpose vehicles; (vi) approval of sinking fund method of depreciation by the
Department of Company Affairs for BOT/BOOT; coupled with a back-ended depreciation structure, this
method allowed payment of dividends to investors in the SPV earlier than would normally be the case and
accumulates to the cost of the investment at the time the asset is transferred back to the Government; and
(vii) permission to use Section 208 of the Company's Act, which provides for interest to be paid on equity
in capital-intensive projects with heavily back-ended profit generation patterns.
4.1.12 Fosterefficiencyin deliveryand useofselected infrastructureservices, encourage
establishment of more efficient practices in construcfion and operation of infrastructure projects
(Partially Satisfactory). It is too early to judge the achievement of these longer-term objectives at the end
of the Project's implementation period. Experiences with the first few subprojects promoted by IL&FS,
including those that received funding from the Bank Loan, demonstrates that they were implemented
efficiently, construction costs were well within established norms, realized construction costs were within
budget forecasts, and maintenance and operating systems have been put in place which are designed to
assure good condition of the assets over the concession periods. The fact that these are subprojects with
private funding, and specifically the injection of equity financing, provide incentives for appropriate
maintenance and operation.
4.1.13 Under the terms of the concessions concluded under the Project, a specified rate of return (20%),
not taking into account the financing structure, is assured for the subproject over the lifetime of the private
sector involvement, even if the concession has to be extended to achieve that goal. Under this structure, the
owners of the concession company do not, in principle, assume traffic-related risk. The rate of return on
equity, while not guaranteed as such, is then expected to range within a narrow band around the assured
project rate of return, and is largely based on financial and treasury management over time. The exception
to the assured project rate of return is an event of default caused by the concession company, which can
result in early termination of the concession without compensation of the equity holders. Incentives for
- 7-



good performance of maintenance and operations thus exist even though they are not as strong as in other
concession models. They are based on the rationale for investors to avoid a reduction of equity returns
through events of default caused by them, or unnecessary extensions of the period needed to achieve the
overall project return.
4.1.14 Overall, subprojects could have been designed (and could be designed in the future) with greater
incentives for efficiency improvement. Options for achieving this goal were discussed during Project
supervision, and specifically in the context of the water projects, which had not yet achieved financial close.
As the market matures, one structure to achieve this objective would be to bid concessions on the basis of
price/tariff and without assured project rate of return, in the interest of increasing risk transfer to the
private sector within the concession agreement. This structure, in line with international good practice,
would provide additional productivity incentives and would help in deriving improved efficiencies. The
productivity gains obtained during the contract period would be passed on to consumers after the end of the
contract.
4.2 Outputs by components
4.2.1  Investment component (US$1,580 milion SAR, US$200 million actual). This component is
rated partially satisfactory. It was designed as a line of credit to IL&FS, the proceeds of which would be
used to provide long-term financing to special purpose entities established for the construction and
operation of commercial infrastructure subprojects in the IL&FS pipeline. At the time of appraisal, the
pipeline included 16 projects that were scheduled to be launched over three years, with two standby
projects. While the appraisal report recognized the fluidity of such forecasts, it was assumed that
subprojects would overall take off approximately at the projected speed, and that pipeline subprojects
which did not materialize would be replaced by other opportunities. In reality, only four subprojects
(Vadodara Halol toll road, Delhi Noida toll bridge, East Coast road, and Ahmedabad Mehsana toll road)
reached financial closing, and one further project (Tirupur Water) was at a very advanced stage of
documentation at Loan/Credit closing. The Bank loan was used to finance three of these projects, namely
Delhi Noida toll bridge, Vadodara Halol toll road, and Ahmedabad Mehsana toll road.
4.2.2  Total cost of the investment component was projected at US$1,580 million at appraisal. The actual
investment realized or committed (measured by financial close of subprojects) amounted to US$200
million, of which the Bank financed US$31 million. If the US$214 million Tirupur project now proceeds, it
could arguably be counted as Project output, in which case total costs of the investment component would
amount to US$414 million. At 13% or 26% respectively of the appraisal estimate, the physical outputs of
the investment component thus lagged far behind the original projections. The disbursements under the
Bank loan (exclusively used for the investment component) stood at 16% of the original amount at Loan
closing.
4.2.3  Physical implementation of the four projects has been satisfactory. Of those, three have been
completed on time and within budget, and the fourth one (Ahmedabad Mehsana) is progressing
satisfactorily on its construction and cost schedule. However, the first year's operating results of the
Vadodara Halol toll road and the Delhi Noida toll bridge showed a substantially lower traffic volume
resulting in correspondingly lower revenues than forecast This development is likely to require some
restructuring of the subprojects in the near term, probably resulting in some rescheduling of debt repayment
schedules and an initiation of additional revenue-generating activities (use of land for commercial
development). However, the need for new injection of public funding is not anticipated.
4.2.4 Training and technical assistance component (UlS$1 million SAR). This component is rated
satisfactory. It was intended for IL&FS staff development and technical assistance related to private
- 8 -



infrastructure policy matters and subproject design. The actual amount disbursed from the Bank Loan was
US$134,303, the bulk of it for subproject design and virtually nothing for training. The low disbursement
for technical assistance is partially a result of the slow pipeline development, and partially due to the use of
other funding sources, including IL&FS own sources, to finance these activities. The training record of
IL&FS is excellent with about 1,670 staff trained between 1996 and 2000. However, the company was
able to finance training out of its own operating funds and did not consider it financially justified to use the
Bank loan for this purpose.
4.2.5 Subproject preparation component (US$19 million SAR). This component is rated partially
satisfactory. One part of the component was intended to finance IL&FS project development studies. An
amount of US$15 million had been allocated from the US$200 million loan for these purposes. Even
though IL&FS did not draw on the Loan for this purpose, it was able to finance all the relevant studies for
subproject preparation out of other sources. Another part of the component was to finance advisory
services (including computer hardware and software) for public sector authorities to select BOT operators
and negotiate concession agreements. An IDA Credit of SDR 3.4 million had been made available for this
sub-component. Eight contracts were approved by DEA under the Credit amounting to a total value of
approximately US$3.2 million. Of these contracts, six were managed by IL&FS, and two by state
authorities. At the time of closing, only US$0.6 million had been disbursed against five IL&FS-managed
contracts.
4.2.6 Project design. The design of the project remained unchanged until project completion. However,
the Bank and IL&FS were in discussions from late 1999 until March 2001 to extend the Loan for two
years and restructure the Project to address some of the design restrictions which emerged during
implementation. These included IL&FS's desire to add more flexibility in the use of the line of credit for
(i) instruments other than senior terms loans and (ii) in sectors other than transport and urban/water.
4.2.7 The Bank and IL&FS explored the possibility of using the Bank Loan beyond senior term loans for
a broader range of financing instruments, such as subordinated loans, deep discount bonds or quasi-equity
instruments, in an effort to give greater flexibility to match debt service repayments to the subproject's cash
flow requirements. Detailed discussions were begun to ascertain the impact of the greater risk exposure of
these instruments on the IL&FS balance sheet Diversifying the types of financial instruments would have
introduced substantial prudential complexities in view of the Bank Loan's relatively rigid repayment
schedule and would have required significant changes in the legal agreement. Moreover, even if part of the
Bank Loan had been used in this way, it might have increased Loan disbursement slightly, but would have
hardly accelerated the development of IL&FS's subproject pipeline.
4.2.8  Given the slow take-up of subprojects, IL&FS was also keen to open up the use of Bank funding to
other infrastructure areas, in particular the more active power and telecommunications sectors. This would
have provided IL&FS with a broader range of opportunities for the Bank Loan and may have increased
disbursements substantially. However, the Bank did not consider it justified to change the sectoral focus of
the Project simply to reach a higher disbursement ratio. The issue of expanding sector coverage was
therefore a source of disagreement between the Bank and the Borrower for much of the implementation
period, and the Bank insisted that IL&FS keep its focus on the original target sectors which were detailed
in the Loan Agreement. While such flexibility may have been more compatible with the Borrower's
operational approach, it would have shifted the focus of Bank support from developmental to commercial
as other market sources of financing were readily available for these sectors. The Bank did agree to
consider potential investments in the power sector in reforming states which was consistent with the Bank's
power sector policy strategy; however, the power projects identified by IL&FS did not meet this criteria.
Upon reflection, IL&FS was well served by staying out of the power business, as other Indian financial
- 9 -



institutions now have substantial credit risk exposure to this problematic sector.
4.2.9 During the mid-term review in December 1998, the Bank had urged IL&FS to cancel a substantial
portion of the line of credit as it was evident that, even with an extension, not all of $200 million could be
utilized given the subproject pipeline. By March 2001, IL&FS decided to cancel the bulk of the remaining
line of credit (about US$169 million) and close the Project as per the original Closing Date which was fully
supported by the Bank. This decision was based foremost on their reasoning that the development
objectives had been met and also on the realization that the financial target of project disbursement at
US$200 million was set too high, given the rudimentary regulatory environment for private infrastructure
and the lack of project finance experience in infrastructure at the time of appraisal. Moreover, IL&FS no
longer saw the need to pursue restructuring the Bank Project since it now had access to, or was negotiating
with, other multi- and bi-lateral institutions (e.g. IFC, ADB, FMO) for additional lines of credit and
guarantee facilities which gave them more flexibility in tenis of eligible sectors and financial instruments
than the Bank Loan, and since more funding with long tenors had become available in the Indian market.
4.2.10 Therefore, while the original design may have been appropriate at the start given the prevailing
conditions, IL&FS felt constrained by the Loan Agreement during the Project's implementation. However,
additional flexibility in terms of financial instruments would not have resulted in more subprojects being
closed during the Project's implementation period as financing proved not to be the key constraint.
Exogenous factors were largely responsible for low disbursement, such as a poor enabling environment for
private sector participation in infrastructure which required IL&FS to play multiple roles to bring projects
to close, including that of project sponsor. More time could have been spent upfront prior to project
effectiveness to mobilize experienced international finance and legal advisors to government on concession
design and project structure which would have placed less burden on IL&FS, which could have then
focused more on financial structuring which is their strength, and on the Bank, which in effect was being
used as a "free" source of technical assistance by IL&FS above and beyond the Bank's normal supervisory
role.
4.2.11 Performance monitoring. The Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) defined a detailed framework for
monitoring performance although specific targets were not defined. The lack of subprojects had adversely
affected the ability of the project to meet some of the output indicators developed during Project
preparation which were based largely on the number of infrastructure transactions closed and the facilities
built. However, the level of disbursements was not reflective of the development impact of the project, and
therefore, additional indicators were introduced (e.g. number of legislative instruments approved for
implementation of BOT projects by state/regulatory bodies) and other dropped (e.g. the input indicator on
overall loan disbursement) at the time of the mid-term review to monitor the progress in developing
institutional and contractual arrangements. The re-defined criteria were adequate for judging the
achievements of objectives and outputs and were monitored on a continuous basis. (See Annex 1.)
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
4.3.1  The Project was, to a large extent, designed as an onlending operation for subprojects to be defined
during Project implementation. Therefore, it was envisaged that the economic evaluation would be carried
out at the subproject level. At the subproject level, the analysis pertained to the three investments that
received financing from the Bank loan. For the Noida toll bridge and the Vadodara Halol toll road, final
construction costs and the results of one year of operations were taken into account in generating revised
forecasts of costs and benefits. For the Ahmedabad Mehsana toll road, the information provided in the
subproject information memorandum was taken as a basis for the evaluation, under the assumption that
construction costs would not be exceeded and construction remained on schedule. The results of the
- 1 0 -



analysis are presented in Annex 10 and summarized below.
4.3.2  For the Delhi-Noida toll bridge, at the time the project was assessed for feasibility, the economic
NPV over 27 years was estimated at Rs 283 million (using a 15% discount rate). The EIRR was estimated
as 27.9% with travel time savings included and as 25.4% with these savings excluded. Economic NPV and
EIRR were not estimated at the time of project appraisal. At completion, and including the benefit of travel
time savings, the economic NPV is estimated at Rs -484 million (over 27 years at 15%, to remain
consistent with the feasibility study estimate) and the EIRR as 12.9 percent. With travel time savings
excluded, the economic NPV is estimated at Rs -1,416 and the EIRR as 7.6%. The main reason for the
difference in economic return between the initial project concept and completion is due to the substantially
lower traffic volumes in the first several years of the project than were assumed at concept. Traffic
reached only 28% of expected volume and 21% of expected revenue in an estimated first year of operation.
The source data are of poor quality, however, benefits from travel time savings are much more important
than was assumed at concept.
4.3.3  For the Vadodara-Halol toll road, the economic NPV in the feasibility study was shown as Rs
1,618 million over 20 years and Rs 1,902 million over 30 years using a 12% discount rate. The EIRR was
estimated at 31.4% over 20 years and 31.6% over 30 years. At completion the EIRR is estimated at 23.2%
over 20 years and 24.1% over 30 years. The economic NPV (using 12% discount to match the feasibility
study) is Rs 352 million over 20 years and Rs 531 million over 30 years. As there is insufficient
information available at completion to allow post-project economic savings per trip to be calculated, these
estimates are based on a conservative assumption of the value of benefits achieved. The main reason for
the difference in economic return between the initial project concept and completion is due to the lower
traffic volumes in the first several years of the project than were assumed at concept. Traffic reached only
58% of expected volume and 47% of expected revenue in the first year of operation.
4.3.4  For the Ahmedabad-Mehsana toll road, at the time the project was first assessed for feasibility, the
economic NPV was estimated at Rs 19,208 million (using a 12% discount rate) including the benefit travel
time savings and Rs 10,022 excluding these benefits. The EIRR was estimated as 86.3% with travel time
savings included and as 50.5% with these savings excluded. No economic analysis was presented at
appraisal. With the project still under construction, no economic re-evaluation has been calculated.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
4.4.1  Similar to the economic evaluation, the financial rate of return has been estimated at the subproject
level. Here again, the realized construction costs and the first year's results of operating costs and revenues
were taken into account for the Noida bridge and the Vadodara Halol toll road, while the assumption of the
information memorandum were maintained for the Ahmedabad Mehsana toll road. The results of the
analysis are presented in Annex 10 and summarized below.
4.4.2  For the Delhi-Noida toll bridge, at the time the project was assessed for feasibility, the financial
NPV over 22 years was estimated at Rs -7 million (using a 16% discount rate) and at Rs 438 (using a
20% discount rate). The FIRR was estimated as 15.95 percent. At appraisal a financial NPV was not
calculated however the FIRR was estimated as 23.0% over a 26 year period. At completion using the
Borrower's model of financial flows and estimates of future traffic and revenue growth, the FIRR is 17.1
percent. These figures include an assumed income from the proceeds of land development. If this income
is excluded the FIRR falls to 13.1 percent. No NPV was calculated in this financial model. At completion
using the Bank's estimates of future traffic and revenue growth the FIRR is 16.4% with land development
income and 12.3% without land development income. The financial NPV (over 26 years and using a 16%
discount rate) was estimated as Rs 112 million with land development income included and Rs -1,056
-11 -



million with such income excluded. Using a 20% discount rate yielded an NPV of Rs -740 with land
income and Rs -1,591 million without. As with the economic re-evaluation, the financial returns have been
affected by the lower than expected traffic volumes in the initial years of the project.
4.4.3 For the Vadodara-Halol toll road, the project at conception was estimated to yield a financial NPV
of Rs -115 million over 20 years and Rs 69 million over 30 years (at a 21% discount rate). The FIRR was
estimated at 19.1 % over 20 years and 21.8% over 30 years. At appraisal no NPV was calculated but the
FIRR was essentially unchanged from feasibility at 19.1% over 20 years and 21.5% over 30 years. At
completion the NPV (also using a 21% discount rate to match the feasibility study) is estimated to be Rs -
493 million over 20 years and Rs -322 million over 30 years. The FIRR is estimated at 15.2% over 20
years and 18.2% over 30 years.
4.4.4  For the Ahmedabad-Mehsana toll road, at the time the project was first assessed for feasibility, the
financial NPV over 20 years was estimated at Rs 149 million (using a 20% discount rate). The FIRR was
estimated as 20.8%. The financial analysis was unchanged at appraisal. With the project still under
construction, no financial re-evaluation has been calculated.
4.S Institutional development impact:
4.5.1  Overall The Project was instrumental in building up the required capacity for private sector
involvement on three fronts. First, it supported the Borrower, IL&FS, in its efforts to create and increase its
resources and skills in this area and to develop its role as one of the foremost players in private
infrastructure promotion, structuring and financing. Second, through its support of IL&FS, the Project
contributed to an increasingly active participation of Indian banks and financial institutions and other
private investors and thus to a build-up of relevant skills in the Indian market. As an example, eleven
Indian financial institutions participated in the Noida toll bridge, the largest subproject financed. Third,
specifically through the support of IL&FS in its development function and the use of a portion of the IDA
Credit for financing of related activities, the Project enhanced the capacity of public sector institutions in
selected states and jurisdictions to understand private infrastructure concepts. Over the Project
implementation period, fifteen state governments and nineteen public authorities became involved in
subprojects now under implementation or at different levels of preparation.
4.5.2 IL&FS. The institutional development impact was most significant for IL&FS. The Borrower has
strengthened its capacity in various stages of the project development cycle, including technical feasibility
and assessment, financial documentation, project structuring and syndication, legal agreements, regulations
and documentation. There has been significant progress in terms of institutional development of IL&FS
through the creation of its infrastructure strategic business unit, SPVs created around subprojects, and the
building of partnerships at the state and local authority level to support business development. In 1997,
IL&FS undertook a major reorganization, creating Strategic Business Units for closer monitoring of
performance. At the same time, a comprehensive cost accounting system was introduced in accordance with
the requirements of the Loan Agreement, in order to monitor and evaluate the relative profitability of its
major product lines. Furthermore, the company established a detailed operating framework designed to
manage risks effectively, and built up its functional expertise in technical, legal, financial, environmental
and social matters. One of the most significant areas of institutional capacity has been IL&FS's success in
internalizing environment and social management practices in the project development process (see Annex
12 for more details).
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
5.1.1  Effects offinancial andpolitical crises. External events negatively impacted the Project's
- 12 -



environment and slowed down the expected pace of implementation. The financial crises of 1997 in Asia
and 1998 in Russia, and subsequent economic instability in different regions and countries had a
detrimental effect on infrastructure project finance in emerging markets, and specifically in Asia. According
to Project Finance International statistics, new committnents for project finance debt decreased sharply
during the initial implementation years of the Project, from a peak of US$ 38.3 billion in 1997 to US$ 17.6
billion in 1999, followed by a recovery, which barely exceeded the previous peak in 2000, and ended at a
slightly lower level of US$37.1 billion in 2001. The overall trend line for emerging market project debt thus
shows a barely positive coefficient, with substantial variations by region. The international developments
had a particularly severe effect on Asia. The statistics show a precipitous decline for the East Asia and
Pacific Region from US$ 10.9 billion in 1997 to US$ 1.7 billion in 1999 followed by a modest recovery to
only US$ 5.9 billion in 2001. For the South Asia Region, the same data source shows a decline of project
finance commitments for US$ 1.6 billion in 1996 to US$ 0.5 billion in 2001, albeit with considerable
fluctuations. The implications of these external factors for the Project environment were both a reduced
availability of international financing and increased risk aversion of private investors vis-a-vis
infrastructure projects.
5.1.2 Economic sanctions imposed on India following the nuclear testing in May 1998 had substantial
consequences for India's economic situation and prospects, the viability of private investments in general,
and in infrastructure in particular, and the risk perception of potential investors, particularly international
ones. The sanctions thus resulted in the financing for the first sub-project, the Delhi-Noida Bridge, which
included IFC and ADB, unraveling. As a result, IL&FS had to start from scratch and line up Indian banks
and financial institutions which delayed the Project by about one year and contributed to a slower than
anticipated development of the subproject pipeline.
5.1.3  Reladve significance and cost of Bank Loan to sub-borrowers. In absence of a well-functioning
long-term debt market in India, it was deemed critical at appraisal that IL&FS tap foreign sources to
expand infrastructure finance. IFC's capacity to provide suitable funding was limited at that point, and
other sources under discussion (DEG, USEximbank, FMO and commercial banks) were still uncertain. The
Bank Loan was therefore considered the main source of funds for IL&FS to meet the pressing needs of
infrastructure investmnents for long-term financing, and was expected to provide competitive terms to the
ultimate borrowers. However, as indicated earlier, the requirements for long-term funding were much lower
than predicted due to slow pipeline development. Moreover, the availability of such funding from Indian
financial institutions increased during the Project implementation period, maturities lengthened, interest
rates overall decreased, and IL&FS was able to tap the domestic capital market for long-term financing.
These factors combined to reduce the importance of the Bank Loan as a funding source on the long end,
and made its on-lending terms less attractive than initially assumed.
5.1.4 The swap terms agreed between IL&FS and its counterpart, Canara Bank, for the Bank Loan put
the resulting long-term Rupee lending on the basis of the prime lending rate (PLR). The Bank's spread
(approximately 30 bp), the guarantee fee charged by the Government (120 bp), and IL&FS's spread (250
bp) were then added to determine the lending rate to the sub-borrower. Other loans extended from financial
institutions, which constituted a large part of the debt portion of the first sub-projects, were provided at
their respective prime lending rates, which all ranged around similar levels as that of Canara Bank. They
carried spreads comparable to that of IL&FS, but without a GOI guarantee fee or Bank spread. This
resulted in an overall margin for the on-lent Bank Loan of about 400 bp at 15 years maturity, while the
direct loans of the financial institutions carried margins of 200-300 bp at maturities up to 12 years, with
some of them carrying a fixed rate of 16% per annum (p.a.). At PLRs of approximately 13%, the ultimate
on-lending rate for the Bank Loan to the first sub-projects was thus as high as 17% p.a., a distinctive
disadvantage despite the longer maturity. By comparison, the deep discount bond for the Delhi-Noida toll
- 13 -



bridge was issued at a fixed rate of 14.72% p.a. for a 16-year maturity. Although PLRs subsequently came
down and are now at 1 1%-12% p.a., Bank funds remained at a relative disadvantage. This, and the
materialization of other long-term financing arrangements (ADB, and guarantee facilities from USAID,
IFC and FMO) substantially contributed to IL&FS's decision to cancel its March 2000 request for an
extension of the Project.
5.1.5  The issue of relative costs of Bank loans in on-lending arrangements is certainly not new, given the
Bank's history of extending credit lines to intermediaries for domestic loan operations. In many cases in the
past, the domestic development finance institutions were the only long-term fund providers, and Bank loans
(or IDA credits) were on-lent at rates that emulated market conditions, in absence of genuine benchmarks.
Moreover, the foreign exchange risk, if not transferred to the ultimate borrower, was often assumed by the
respective Government. In a sophisticated, albeit still state-domninated, financial market such as India, the
relative position of on-lent Bank funds is much more complex and will to an extent be subject to genuine
market forces. If the Bank had (theoretically) had a broad financing base in India, it might have provided
IL&FS with a loan at terms closer to Indian treasury rates, i.e. below the PLR, which would have
maintained its relative advantage even at the given guarantee fee. However, with Bank funds being US$
based, the underlying conversion effect, and the Government guarantee fee and IL&FS' required spread,
this advantage disappeared over time. In other countries, similar situations can arise if a Bank loan is
on-lent into a sophisticated financial market with long-term funding potential. Comparable issues have been
discussed in recent years, for example with South Africa, even though there the question was more focused
on whether the Bank could find an effective way to lend competitively in Rand to a Government which has
a long and stable track record of borrowing in multiple instruments and up to 30 years from a sophisticated
domestic market. However, if the issue were hard-currency borrowing (e.g. for the Government or
hard-currency-earning project), the competitiveness of a Bank loans would be quite obvious. Where
sovereign margins for US$-based borrowing are, for example, in the range of 200-300 bp or higher, which
is typical for many developing countries, a Bank loan with a Government guarantee fee of 120 bp would be
very competitive for the ultimate borrower.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
5.2.1  Inadequateframeworkfor private infrastructure development. The origin of recent trends in
private participation in infrastructure can be traced back to policy shifts in the early 1990s aimed at
liberalization of infrastructure service delivery. However, the new policies took time to be implemented,
particularly in the target sectors. At the time of appraisal, private participation in infrastructure in India
was therefore still in its infancy. A specific regulatory and legal framework for private sector involvement
did not exist, and the prototype arrangements to be developed under the Project had not been implemented
and tried yet in the country. The initial infrastructure transactions had taken place in 1994-95, primarily in
the power generation and telecommunications sectors, in which a substantial number of active international
players emerged that are pursuing business opportunities globally. Over the following three-year period,
20 deals in power and telecommunications were concluded (PriceWaterhouseCoopers: Report on India
Financial Market Assessment for Private Infrastructure Investments, September 2000). Subprojects in the
former were financed principally on the back of off-take agreements and assurances by state electricity
boards (with union or state government guarantees) in the form of IPPs, while telecommunications
transactions were substantially supported by sponsor undertakings.
5.2.2 Virtually no private involvement existed in the project's target sectors (transport, water and urban
development), with the exception of facilities that were part of larger industrial projects. Consequently,
specific rules and regulations had not been worked out at the union or state levels, and the public sector
capacity to understand and negotiate private concessions for public services was basically absent.
Moreover, it is generally more difficult to generate investors' interest and meaningful competition in the
- 14 -



Project's target sectors than in the energy and telecommunications sectors, which were not eligible for Bank
financing under the Project. In absence of these key ingredients, the development of prototype contractual
and institutional arrangements, and the mobilization of sponsors and financiers for infrastructure took
much longer than expected at appraisal and resulted in a considerably truncated deal flow compared to
initial ambitious goals. The slow pace and repeated set-backs of private involvement in India's power
sector (e.g. the Enron Dahbol Power project), even though not directly linked to the target sectors, may
have further reduced the private sector's willingness to invest in India's infrastructure altogether. Initial
projects in the target sectors emerged in 1997/98, and over the subsequent four year period, nine
road/bypass/bridge projects and one small sanitation project reached financial close. Of these, IL&FS
developed four of the road/bridge projects. These data show that in relative terms the Project had a positive
impact on development of private participation in the target sectors, and that all the achievements under the
Project in terms of deal flow and duration of subproject preparation are consistent with the few experiences
of other developers in these sectors during the implementation period.
5.2.3  Inadequate development of thefinancial sector constrained the availability of appropriate
long-term financing for infrastructure investments. Specific issues have been the absence of suitable
benchmarks, lack of dependable and broad inter-bank markets, limited long-term instruments, insufficiently
developed secondary markets, weak risk assessment and pricing capabilities, poor credit portfolios,
operational inefficiencies, and high spread requirements. While the impact of these constraints on financing
available for specific types of credit risk, such as infrastructure, is difficult to assess, the effect on lending
terms is quite obvious when compared to developed markets. Appropriate maturities are hard to come by
and interest rates charged to ultimate borrowers include hefty premiums for an elevated cost structure and
perceived risks. While in intemational project financing the credit risk premium is levied on widely
accepted benchmarks, such as LIBOR for revolving debt or US treasuries for long-term fixed rate debt,
project debt in the Indian market is arranged on the basis of prime lending rates with their in-built spreads,
and there is no use of treasuries as benchmark for long-term debt. On top of the prime lending rate,
institutions then charge a margin of 200-300 bp, while intemationally a 200 bp risk premium over
benchmark would be rather high. On the long end, the differential between treasuries and the deep discount
bonds has even been 5-6 percentage points. These features of the financial markets make it not only
difficult, but also expensive for private infrastructure projects to go ahead. However, as noted before,
financial sector reforms started in 1991 and have been slowly progressing since then. On the positive side
therefore, the low disbursements under the Bank Loan, while partially due to slow pipeline development,
have also been a result of increasing capacity of the Indian financial markets to provide suitable financing
for infrastructure investments, as a consequence of continuing financial sector reforms.
5.2.4  IDA on-lending. The protracted and convoluted funds flow arrangement between GOI, the state
governments and the line agencies implementing the consultant contracts resulted in the IDA Credit not
being fully utilized. The sub-component for the preparation of sub-projects did therefore not perform
satisfactorily. The procedures for channeling IDA funding through the GOI to different states proved too
complicated for the relatively small amount involved and the need for a flexible, demand-based allocation
between states. The excessive bureaucratic and procedural requirements proved a major obstacle for
implementation of this sub-component and disbursement of funds despite attempts by IL&FS to facilitate
the administrative side of implementing the IDA Credit
5.2.5 Resettlement and Environment. The implementation of the resettlement action plan for
Delhi-Noida sub-project could not be completed by loan losing date due to inordinate delays on the part of
Government of Delhi in allotting the land for resettlement and payment of balance 20% of compensation for
those who have lost the lands. The borrower (IL&FS) has submitted a revised time frame for completing
these actions and the Bank will monitor until they are completed to the satisfaction of the Bank. This was
- 15 -



beyond the control of IL&FS and the SPV, despite their willingness to spend money and resources. This
shortcoming is attributable to government's general indifference towards resettlement, which is increasingly
seen by the private sector as a major commercial and political risk in infrastructure projects.
Environmental management plans (especially air and noise control measures) were based on standards
mandated by the national and state governments.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
5.3.1  Sub-project viability assessment. Detailed surveys were carried out to determine future traffic
flows. Experience after the first year of operations on the Vadodara-Halol toll road and the Noida toll
bridge show that these surveys did not explore in sufficient depth the user behavior under tolling and the
willingness to pay, but took a more traditional traffic engineering approach. They also did not try to
sufficiently disaggregate the travel behavior of different types of vehicles, in particular trucks and buses.
The results of the road surveys were thus substantially more optimistic than the actual first year's operating
results. In light of these early results, still to be confirmed by a longer operating period, the design of the
road user surveys might have contributed to an initial oversizing of capacity and thus higher costs and
financing requirements than necessary. The Bank suggested at different times during supervision that
demand analyses be used, which are more appropriate for forecasting traffic on tolled facilities, and
consistent with international practice in privately financed toll road projects. In the end, the missing
ingredient in this emerging infrastructure finance environment was a stricter due diligence approach
normally taken by the more experienced private lenders and insurance agencies.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
5.4.1  The cost of the investment component (97% of total project cost estimated at appraisal) amounted
to about US$200 million, of which US$31 million was financed from the Bank Loan (see Annex 2). The
reasons for the considerably lower costs than projected at appraisal have been explained in more detail in
section 4.2 above. Financing was provided, in line with the appraisal estimates, from a variety of sources,
including IL&FS, Indian financial institutions and banks, capital markets, state governments and agencies,
and project sponsors. No export credits or bilateral funds were used in the sub-projects. The overall costs
of the sub-project preparation component have not been determined. Project preparation activities carried
out by IL&FS on its own account are either part of the projects implemented under the investment
component, or were undertaken as part of IL&FS's development activities financed out of its operating
resources or other sponsors' funding. Total costs of the public sector project preparation activities is
estimated at US$3.2 million based on the contracts concluded. Of this amount, IDA financed about US$0.6
million. While IL&FS implemented a substantial training program for its staff, this was not specifically
broken down in project and non-project related elements.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationalefor sustainability rating:
6.1.1  IL&FS's capacity to continue to develop andfinance the implementation ofprivate sector
infrastructure projects (Highly Likely). IL&FS has spent considerable time and resources to establish an
Infrastructure Business Unit, staffed with well-trained finance and technical experts, together with a
first-rate Environment and Social Management Unit. To monitor the status of its financial assets, including
the rupee loans to the infrastructure subprojects, IL&FS has established a corporate-wide risk monitoring
system. Recognizing the importance of the public-private partnership aspect of most infrastructure
projects, IL&FS has also invested time and resources into developing partnerships with state government to
enhance project development and advise government, through a variety of mechanisms, on infrastructure
policy to improve the enabling environment for private infrastructure investment. As described in the
following section, IL&FS also continues to evolve its institutional arrangements to achieve its goals in the
- 16 -



area of commercial infrastructure.
6.1.2  For the implementation of the first four demonstration projects, comprehensive legal and financial
frameworks were developed, legislative measures taken, appropriate accounting rules introduced, and
cooperative processes established which achieved a coordinated processing of necessary documentation
between lenders, equity holders and public authorities. These measures created a suitable and sustainable
operating environment for further development of private infrastructure operation and finance. The
contribution of the Project to infrastructure development during the implementation period has not been
deternined with precision. Based on a recent Bank-commissioned report on infrastructure finance, ten
private projects in the target sectors reached financial close since 1997/98. Of those, four road projects
were developed, structured, and successfully taken to financial close by IL&FS as principal sponsor. The
three important factors outlined (i.e. IL&FS capacity, creation of a conducive environment, and IL&FS's
important position in the emerging target sectors) provide the basis for the hihgly likely sustainability
assessment.
6.1.3 Sustainability of Subprojects (Likely). It is still too early to predict the sustainability of the four
road projects, with only two in commercial operation, one just beyond completion of construction, and one
still under construction. The first year's results of the two subprojects in operation, both of which are
experiencing more than 50% traffic shortfalls from appraisal estimates, might raise doubts with respect to
their sustainability and thus the sustainability of further subprojects. However, concrete measures
considered or already implemented include more demand-oriented tariff policies, development of ancillary
property, and rescheduling of existing debt. Overall, it is likely that the subprojects are sustainable given
the robustness of the contractual structure, and the often-observed lag in toll acceptance in an untried
environment. But a more definitive conclusion would require a review of the subprojects in about five
years. Since the Project was designed to support a process (Chapter 3), sustainability will also need to be
judged by the structure of future infrastructure financings in India that are led by IL&FS or follow the
approach developed under the Project. In order to ensure their sustainability from the outset, experiences
from implemented subprojects will have to be taken into account. In particular, traffic and/or willingness to
pay studies will need to be refined, lenders' due diligence increased and adapted to international standards,
and possibly more flexibility introduced into the financing structures to deal with the inevitable start-up
uncertainties.
6.1.4  A further aspect of sustainability is the level and durability of the investor's stake in the
subprojects under operation. For these existing investments, the concession contracts provide a particularly
strong incentive for the equity holders not to pull out because of the ensuing losses (in this case the project
rate of return and thus equity return is not assured). Moreover, the fact that at least some important lenders
are also equity holders (e.g. IL&FS and IDBI) should prevent a hasty step-in by the lenders in case of
payment delays. Finally, while the lenders' repayment is fully assured under the concession agreements, the
actual process of handing a subproject back to the public sector is likely to be complex and drawn out, and
would thus appear likely only if the subproject's viability is in question for the long term. However, despite
the first year's below-target results of the two operating road concessions, the recent financial close of the
Ahmedabad-Mehsana toll road and the Tirupur Water project indicates that the finance providers consider
the project structures sustainable.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
6.2.1  L&FS is continuing to evolve its business framework in the infrastructure sector. They have
presently domiciled their infrastructure activities within IL&FS and across several legal entities:
Consolidated Toll Network Limited (CTNL): a holding company for the surface transportation sector.
- 17 -



The company will undertake development, investment, operation and management of all IL&FS surface
transport projects. It is expected that CTNL, with diversified assets and cash flows, would provide an
attractive vehicle for mobilizing equity for private transport projects.
IL&FS Project Development Company Limited (IPDC): to work in partnership with government and
develop state level capacity for project development across a range of sectors. IL&FS established
IPDC to leverage on its experience in the project development cycle for other urban infrastructure
projects. Its activities would be supported by the Infrastructure Project Development Fund (IPDF)
which has a capital base of Rs. 910 million (about US$19 million) to partly finance project
development activities.
Ecosmart India Limited: to undertake the development of comprehensive environment urban master
plans in partnership with state and municipal governments in order to catalyze urban infrastructure
projects at the level of the local authority.
6.2.2 In addition, IL&FS has taken several steps over the last 18 months to leverage its resources as
follows:
Infrastructure Project Development Fund (IPDF): IL&FS established the IPDF over one year ago
with contributions totaling Rs. 910 million (about US$19 million) from domestic investment
institutions, commercial banks, and domestic and intemational private corporations.
Infrastructure Guarantee Facilities: IL&FS has obtained guarantee facilities totaling US$65 million
from IFC and FMO (the Netherlands) which permits IL&FS to double its exposure in subprojects by
taking recourse to credit guarantees from IFC and FMO for 50 percent of the outstanding exposure.
IL&FS has also structured a contingent swap facility so as to insulate the subprojects from foreign
exchange risk in the event that the guarantees are called.
Line of Credit: IL&FS has been in discussions with the Asian Development Bank and KfW of
Germany and has secured from ADB, jointly with IDBI, a line of credit equivalent to US$200 million
for the infrastructure sector. In structuring this new line of credit, IL&FS has attempted to build in
flexibility in terms of eligible sector and financial instruments, which were restricted under the Bank
line of credit. In addition, it is interesting to note that iL&FS negotiated a 0.6% guarantee fee payable
to GOI which is half that payable under the Bank line of credit.
6.2.3 The different steps outlined above point to strategy which would more sharply focus the multiple
roles that IL&FS has played in infrastructure development to date, and facilitate the management of
inherent conflicts of interest. This is expected to bring to the forefront either the project development,
advisory, sponsor or debt provider function, depending on the subproject.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
7.1.1 The Bank's performance during the lending phase is mixed although rated overall as satisfactory.
On the one hand, the Bank did an exceptional job of responding to the Client's request and preparing a
complex and innovative project, with a first-time, private sector borrower, in less than one year. The first
preparation mission was fielded in March/April 1995 and the Board approved the Project on March 28,
1996. The Bank's due diligence in terms of structuring appropriate financial safeguards was satisfactory
- 18 -



as reflected in the Loan Agreement, including (i) financial covenants to set prudent guidelines for the
company's exposure to infrastructure projects and overall operations; and (ii) financial eligibility criteria
for onlending to individual subprojects to contain the credit risks of individual subprojects. In addition, the
Bank's safeguard team is to be commended for the quality of their assistance to the Borrower throughout
the project cycle in building capacity and transferring knowledge to IL&FS in developing an overall
framework to identify, assess and manage environmental and social concerns at both the organizational and
project level.
7.1.2  The caliber of the peer reviewers was high, and the process elicited a valuable discussion on the
Project's risks. However, not all of the issues raised during the review process were adequately addressed
at appraisal, in particular the weakness of local and state governments to formulate policy and develop,
review and negotiate concession agreements. Although the size of the loan was scaled down from US$250
million to US$200 million, a more appropriate amount would have been US$100 million given the
circumstances at appraisal. In fact, IL&FS only drew US$31 million from the Bank line of credit
Although not available at the time, a more appropriate lending instrument may have been an adaptable
lending program which could have provided the Project with additional flexibility.
7.2 Supervision:
7.2.1  Due to the size, relative complexity and novelty of the Project, it was agreed that the appraisal
activities for the first two subprojects in each sector would be carried out by IL&FS in close consultation
with the Bank. In particular, the full documentation on the contractual framework for the subprojects (e.g.
concession agreement, construction contract, O&M contract, lenders' agreements and shareholders'
agreements) were to be reviewed in detail by the Bank for their risk mitigation aspects. As a result, the
Staff Appraisal Report acknowledged that "unusually large supervision resources" would be required to
monitor implementation, especially in the first two years where considerable efforts were to be deployed to
put in place an appropriate contractual framework that would be replicated for subsequent projects. The
Minutes of the Regional Loan Committee Meeting specified a budget of US$200,000 in 1996 dollars as the
minimum required for an adequate supervision of the project.
7.2.2  The supervision by the Bank is rated to be generally satisfactory although the budget amount
almost never came close to the amount agreed by management at the time of Project approval, partially as a
result of region-wide budget constraints. Therefore, available budgets did not support multiple field trips
per year and hence the team visited India about once each fiscal year, including site visits to the various
subprojects. Extensive desk reviews were carried out of the various technical feasibility, investment
banking reports and contractual documents. The Region also brought in specialized consultants in project
finance as well as sector specialists with experience in private infrastructure transactions to bolster the
team's ability to effectively supervise the Project and advise IL&FS and government.
7.2.3  IL&FS made several visits to Washington at key stages of subproject development to finalize either
procurement or financing decisions which, together with regular email correspondence, facilitated
supervision. The task leadership of the project changed no less than three times in five years although there
was continuity in other team members from appraisal, including legal counsel, environment specialist and
social development specialist. In each of these three areas, Bank staff provided extensive support to their
IL&FS counterparts and substantially contributed to building institutional capacity. The IL&FS project
has been cited by the Bank as "good practice" in dealing with environmental and social issues. In response
to IL&FS's request to have more decision-making authority in the Delhi office, the Bank added a
field-based staff member to co-task manage the Project However, this arrangement was made relatively
late in the implementation phase and fell through just over a year later when the staff member took a leave
of absence.
19-



7.2.4 The Project was highly supervision intensive, and the Bank had difficulty responding quickly with
detailed comments on the voluminous documents coming from IL&FS's various sub-project teams. In
general, the Bank is not well placed to turn around documents at a pace suitable for private sector. The
Bank invested significant time in working with IL&FS to develop a procurement package for the two
Gujarat toll roads, with key support from the Operations Procurement Review Committee and the Regional
Procurement Advisor. For the first toll road (Vadodara-Halol), the process proved lengthy as the package,
which included the concession agreement, construction contract and O&M agreement, was tailor-made to
fit the Indian context of public-private partnerships. In addition, the package was developed while IL&FS
was still deciding on the project structure and required several iterations between the Bank and IL&FS.
However, once this contractual framework was in place, the procurement process for the second Gujarat
toll road, Ahmedabad Mehsana, went much faster.
7.2.5 The Bank's performance during supervision and in assisting IL&FS through the subproject
appraisal process was satisfactory, though onerous in terms of the signficant resources required. In other
private infrastructure fund-type projects under implementation in the Region, the Bank was able to rely
extensively on both the legal and financial due diligence carried out by experienced, intemational firms
which was not the case here. This placed more of a burden on Bank staff and consultants to perform
detailed technical reviews of feasibility studies, subproject appraisal documents (including the engineering,
demand forecasts, financial structure, environment and social aspects) as well as the various contractual
documents and consequently slowed response time.
7.3 Overall Bankperformance:
7.3.1  The overall rating for Bank performance is satisfactory. IL&FS itself has stated that it gained
more through its relationship with Bank in terms of leamning and credibility than it did through the
monetary benefits from the line of credit. The Bank provided a substantial amount of technical advice,
especially during the first years of implementation through extensive comments on feasibility and
investment banking reports by various experts. Perhaps more importantly, the Bank provided IL&FS with
the necessary credibility to approach state governments, domestic financial institutions, and especially
intemational companies in structuring infrastructure projects on a BOT-type framework.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
7.4.1  The Borrower's performance in lending is assessed as satisfactory. Both IL&FS and GOI, through
the Department of Extemal Affairs (DEA), showed a high level of commitment to the Project In addition,
there was close cooperation during preparation between IL&FS and the Bank. The IL&FS team was
headed by the Managing Director and a dedicated core team which greatly facilitated the ability to prepare
the Project quickly. However, as mentioned earlier, IL&FS was optimistic in the timeframe and its ability
to implement the large pipeline of subprojects.
7.4.2  Since most subprojects were expected to earn local currency revenue, IL&FS developed an
innovative approach to address the foreign exchange risk through a swap arrangement. As there is not a
large or developed currency swap market in India, IL&FS identified a swap counterpart in Canara Bank
which held an initial US$25 million drawdown from the Bank's line of credit in dollars in their London
branch and made available an equivalent amount of rupees to IL&FS which was held in what was referred
to as a Swap Account (which functioned similar to a Special Account). In this way, IL&FS, while
managing the foreign exchange risk at the corporate level, was able to onlend in rupees and shield the
subprojects from foreign exchange risk.
- 20 -



7.S Government implementation performance:
7.5.1 The Government's implementation performance, in terms of the IDA Credit, is rated as marginally
satisfactory. While the state level agencies developed effective partnerships with IL&FS in procuring and
managing the consultant contracts, the bureaucratic and burdensome process for payment (referred to in
para 5.2.4) reduced the effective use of the IDA Credit. In addition, while timely audit reports in respect of
the Special Account were received, the Bank never received the audited project accounts from the state
govemments despite reminders by the Bank and follow-up by DEA and IL&FS. The Govemment's
perfornance also has to be seen in terms of its policy development for private participation in
infrastructure, which is equally rated as marginally satisfactory. The Union and State Govemments, to
varying degrees, supported increased private participation and cooperated effectively with IL&FS on the
implementation of specific concession frameworks and of policy changes. However, as the implementation
performance of the IDA Credit shows, coordination between various Govemment levels has not been
effective, a coherent policy approach has not been developed yet, and institutional weaknesses and capacity
constraints, hampering the promotion of private participation on the Government's side, have hardly been
addressed.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
7.6.1  IL&FS's performance is assessed as satisfactory. IL&FS strengthened its capacity in various
stages of the project development cycle, including technical feasibility and assessment, financial
documentation, and project structuring and syndication. IL&FS successfully internalized the Bank's
environment and social safeguard guidelines and created a separate Environment and Social Management
Unit to integrate these issues early on in subproject design. The capacity building technical assistance
component under the Loan was not utilized as IL&FS largely relied on the IDA Credit for subproject
development and its own funds for training. Although IL&FS did not meet its original expectations in
terms of disbursement under the Bank line of credit, IL&FS was successful in developing contractual
frameworks for private infrastructure projects with several state governments.
7.6.2  Given the nascent development of private sector participation in infrastructure when the Project
was prepared, IL&FS was required to play a multiplicity of roles to encourage development of
infrastructure projects. This led to an inherent conflict of interest between its roles as advisor to
government, project developer, sponsor, and lender - the mitigation of which formed a constant theme in
the Bank's supervision of the Project. The Bank struggled to gain comfort that IL&FS's lending decisions
were not overshadowed by their project development/sponsor role. In this regard, IL&FS did accept the
Bank's advice on prudent lending practices and, for example, agreed to the need for separate legal counsel
for lenders, sponsors and government, and an independent audit of the financial model. In addition, all
lending decisions were submitted to IL&FS's credit committee which was independent of the Infrastructure
Strategic Business Unit. However, the process of creating a joint lenders' basis for due diligence was not as
smooth as would be desirable, even given the relatively small size of the first subprojects. This pertains in
particular to coordinating the lenders' position on the legal opinion of the lenders' counsel, the banking case
financial model, and appropriate procedures for the model's audit. The structuring/arranging/syndication
process will therefore need to be further streamlined, to ensure effective lenders' coordination in the due
diligence, decision, and implementation process, particularly in larger, more complex syndications in the
future. The Bank at times differed with IL&FS on the assessment of some of the commercial risks of a
transaction and cautioned IL&FS to take a more conservative approach. In particular, the Bank expressed
concem about traffic forecasts for the Vadodara-Halol toll road and the lack of robustness in the financial
ratios when sensitivity was taken below the 15% variance calculated by IL&FS. However, the Bank
agreed that lending decisions were the fiduciary responsibility of the IL&FS Board of Directors and of the
respective Boards of the other lenders which had to make an informed decision, based on the information
available and the individual institution's due diligence.
- 21 -



7.6.3  IL&FS maintained compliance with the financial covenants and submitted the required accounts
and audits in a timely manner. The submission of comprehensive, quarterly progress reports, however, was
not achieved and the Bank instead had to rely on ad hoc requests for information as necessary.
7 7 Overall Borrower performance:
7.7.1  Overall, Borrower performance is rated as satisfactory. IL&FS demonstrated a sustained
commitment to implementing the Project and achieving the objectives. The Government was fully
supportive of the Project and cooperated effectively with IL&FS in its implementation, although slow
progress was made on institutional and policy measures necessary to enable private participation in
infrastructure in the target sectors.
8. Lessons Learned
8.1    Publicprivatepartnership structure. The Project has demonstrated that the public private
partnership (PPP) framework can be used in India successfully to shift construction and operating risks to
the private sector and to create infrastructure capacity at competitive cost, where a willingness to pay for
improved services can be established. The framework was achieved through comprehensive concession
arrangements, developed and agreed upon for the first subprojects, based by and large on international
practice. They addressed the inherent risks of an infrastructure investment and allocated these risks
broadly along the following lines: (i) political risks with government, for example, compensation in the
event of nationalization, freedom for the concession company to collect tolls; (ii) commercial risks with the
concession company and government, but assured project return even at low traffic volumes and revenues,
if needed through contract extension; and (iii) financing risks with financiers, for example, guarantee to
meet cost overruns, debt service reserve. However, the Project's outputs were limited to the road sector,
and proof of replicability of the PPP in the other target sectors (water and urban development) is still
pending.
8.2    Another lesson is that a proactive PPP approach with defined objectives and outcomes can be an
important factor in accelerating reforms that in principle have been decided at the political level. Under the
Project, this approach was largely driven forward by IL&FS. Under the given circumstances, there was
probably no viable altemative to achieve this objective. However, the implementation of the PPP approach
would have benefited from adequate capacity in the public sector to understand, design, negotiate, and
monitor PPP projects and to initiate the necessary policy measures. Enhancement of the public sector
capacity, both at union and at state level, is thus an urgent requirement for expanding private infrastructure
involvement in a major way.
8.3    Risk allocation. Under the Indian conditions of an emerging framework for private participation,
and reflecting experiences in other parts of the world, the commercial risks were only partially assumed by
the private sector (to be more precise: by the sponsors and financing institutions, which also included
entities with Government ownership). In order to enable financing to be arranged, the state governments
had to provide far-reaching comfort to the debt providers, essentially assuring full debt repayment upon
termination of the concession. Relatively high comfort was also required on the equity side. An assured
project financial return assures an equity return that can be approximately predicted and is subject
essentially to variations of financing costs over time, except if an event of default is caused by the
concession company. Moreover, in the target sectors under an emerging framework, the number of
sponsors and operators was insufficient to get subprojects off the ground. Therefore financial institutions,
such as IL&FS or IDBI, as well as construction companies, were required to step into the role of principal
sponsors and equity providers, in addition to participating in the debt financing. This multiplicity created
- 22 -



conflicts of interest (in the case of IL&FS, magnified by its promoter function), which was inevitable under
the circumstances but needed to be carefully managed.
8.4    Whether the Indian market is ready to accept different risk allocations still needs to be explored. A
step towards farther transfer of commercial risk to the private sector would be concessions bid out on the
basis of fixed tolls/tariffs without assured project returns. However, the achievement of a balanced risk
allocation will only be possible if the public sector capacity exists to define the desirable level and to
effectively negotiate an appropriate balance. This would, as indicated before, accelerate implementation of
policy reform and initiation of projects, and advance private sector involvement and risk assumption. A
clarification of the public sector policies and improvement of its capacity in private infrastructure could
also enhance the interest from non-financial sponsors, which in the case of toll roads are typically
construction companies, and thus mitigate the risk of conflicts of interest between equity and debt holders.
8.5    Pace of subprojectpreparadon. The subproject development cycle is much longer than originally
envisaged. The appraisal report was based on a 12 month preparation period per subproject, while the first
subprojects developed under the Project took more than five years each to reach financial close. In light of
this experience, the Project's objectives proved ambitious and the Loan amount provided too large. Even
though IL&FS estimates that it can now bring down the preparation time for future subprojects to 30
months or less, the upfront costs of infrastructure investments will remain high. As a consequence, they will
either have to be fully reflected in the costs of the subprojects and recovered from the users, or partially
bom by the govemment as general infrastructure development expense. Based on the experience with the
development of private infrastructure under the Project, there seems to be growing interest from private
sector promoters to take projects forward to financial close and implementation. However, every project
requires a certain amount of upfront design and promotion from the public sector as well. While some
shortening of the preparation cycle might still be expected from the private sector side, it will be important
to complement enhanced human capacity in the public sector with appropriate funding for the public sector
share of initial project design and promotion, which would also include the bidding cycle.
8.6    Financing not the binding constraint. One of the main justifications of the Project was that it
would meet the pressing needs of commercial infrastructure project entities for long-term rupee financing,
pending implementation of financial sector reforms for the development of a long-term debt market.
During Project implementation, while IL&FS structured the first subprojects, it became clear that financing
constraints, which existed at the time of appraisal, were no longer the primary factor impeding private
sector involvement. This was also confirmed, independently of the Project, by a consultant study
commissioned by the Bank and prepared in 2000, which showed that despite the continuing need for
reform, Indian financial markets provided sufficient sophistication and depth to meet the needs of the
growing private infrastructure business. For the first subprojects, IL&FS was therefore able to raise
sufficient domestic financing, including from the capital markets, at appropriate terms. The Bank Loan
facilitated the structuring, but financed only 13% of the costs of three subprojects, as compared to the
ceiling of 25% agreed at appraisal. In the end, the slow pace of infrastructure sector reform, the need to
create project-specific frameworks for private sector participation and the challenges of structuring
commercially viable projects in the difficult target sectors proved to be more important bottlenecks than the
lack of appropriate financing. More emphasis should thus be given by the Bank to support the acceleration
of reforms and the creation of conducive operating conditions and concession frameworks.
8.7    Supervision requirements. The design of the Project required the Bank to carry out a far-reaching
review, essentially an appraisal, for each subproject. It implied technical analysis of the feasibility studies,
as well as careful review of the legal agreements, including concession contracts, and financing agreements.
Given the fact that infrastructure financing in the target sectors was just evolving, the input sought and
- 23 -



required from the Bank for each subproject was substantial. In addition, since the subprojects were
structured as private sector deals, the Bank's involvement had to cover contractual, legal and risk aspects
which are not typically part of its operational focus. The supervision effort required was thus at the very
edge of what the Bank could reasonably have provided in terns of available skills and budget funding, but
would have far exceeded feasible levels if the subproject pipeline had developed as expected. The Project
was thus not comparable to more traditional on-lending operations. The use of independent, experienced
legal and financial advisors by the government in its role as promoter would have alleviated the burden on
the Bank as would have the participation of intemational lenders who would have brought to bear high due
diligence and appraisal standards. Although a similar project of this type is not planned, IFC is
comparatively better suited to support this type of operation in terms of staff skills mix, hands-on
experience in project finance, and ability to lend without the need for sovereign guarantees.
8.8    Traffic and revenue projections. The first, albeit very preliminary, results of operational
performance of two subprojects have revealed a number of weaknesses in the initial traffic and revenue
projections. If these weaknesses are addressed in the preparation of future road projects, the chances to
minimize divergence between projected and realized traffic and revenues will be much higher.
Consequently, the risk of oversizing subprojects, with the resulting impact on construction costs and
financing requirements, will be considerably lowered. The main lessons emerging the first experiences are
as follows:
(i) Willingness-to-pay must be evaluated more carefully than through opinion surveys of stated
preferences. More sophisticated stated preference approaches, such as conjoint analysis, are needed to
evaluate unconscious trade-offs, particularly in introducing a completely new product.
(ii) Willingness-to-pay must be explicitly assessed for truckers (individual owners and operators as
well as corporate and fleet owners and operators) and for bus operators, which are expected to
contribute a substantial share of toll revenues.
(iii) Traffic forecasts, as carried out under the Project, provide the "trending line" of future levels of
traffic. This approach has generally proven adequate for traffic engineering requirements. However a
toll facility explicitly enters the realm of commercial products and consumer behavior. A
product-launch or ramp-up period therefore needs to be introduced into the forecasts of the first few
years of traffic levels. A marketing strategy needs to be introduced and higher or better expenditures on
marketing during the ramp-up period could be reflected in improved initial traffic growth.
(iv) Traffic forecasting needs to be more realistic in modeling travel behavior under congestion. The
use of an upper capacity limit per lane based on a fixed standard (set at a level below observed traffic
levels) rather than a limiting function makes projected traffic diversion between facilities more volatile
than is actually the case.
(v) Population forecasts based on centrally planned allocations of population are risky. People often
don't live in locations of plan projections, and housing development can be more invasive and of higher
density than planned for.
(vi) More care needs to be taken in comparing facilities of different scale. For example, in the 3 lane vs.
4 lane analysis of the Noida bridge, the procedures showed simply a 20% cost decrease accompanied
by a 20% traffic decrease and thus was rejected. However, the cost reduction was available
immediately while the traffic reduction occurred only in the later years. Similarly, congestion was
deemed to limit future traffic to an arbitrary fixed value when in reality traffic tapers off under
- 24 -



congestion.
8.9    These lessons should be of relevance for the future approach of IL&FS to due diligence and project
appraisal in its prime role as lender. The measures outlined above would mitigate overall project risks, and
would facilitate the creation of a structure, from which also experienced intemational infastructure lenders
could draw sufficient comfort to participate, without having to rely ultimately on Govemment undertakings
for much of the commercial risk.
8.10   Environment and Social Management. IL&FS experience has demonstrated that upfront
integration of environment and social aspects and their continuous monitoring increased the public
acceptability of subprojects and reduced their implementation risks. The role of a citizens committee to
monitor and provide feed back to SPV on environmental impacts during the construction phase and
establishing a rehabilitation cell for counseling and advising project affected persons (in the case of
NTBCL), extensive consultation with PAPs on determining the replace cost of assets (in the case of
VHTRL and AMTRL), and adaptive designs minimized land acquisition and resettlement (in the case of
NTBCL) improved project's acceptability and also generated good will among the project affected persons.
Further, periodic stakeholder consultations, regular supervision by IL&FS and annual environment and
social audits have helped IL&FS to be more proactive in addressing the changing needs of enviromnent and
social aspects even during project implementation. The costs of implementing the EMP and RAP were fully
reflected in the final design costs, and averaged around 3% for the three subprojects.
8.11   Special account/Swap account. Given that the cost recovery for most infrastructure projects was
to be in local currency, it was considered prudent not to pass on the foreign exchange risk to the final
beneficiaries of the Loan so as to preserve the financial viability of the subprojects. As such, IL&FS
planned to hedge the currency risk by swapping the proceeds of the Bank loan into back-to-back
rupee-denominated loans with the same repayment structures as the Bank loan. At the start of the Project,
the Bank advanced IL&FS US$25 million which was swapped into rupees and deposited in a Swap
Account and used exclusively for eligible expenditures for subprojects. Although the advance was made in
March 1997, the account was not adjusted by the Bank until January 2002. This was largely due to the
delay in subprojects reaching financial close (as detailed earlier in the report) and a legal covenant which
required 80% of the swap account to be utilized before submitting an application for replenishment of the
special account. IL&FS did not reach the 80% threshhold until the third and final subproject was approved,
toward the end of the implementation period, and never required a replenishment. For future projects that
may replicate this swap account feature, it is recommended that legal agreements follow a time-based
replenishment application, for example 12 months or 80% of the advance whichever is earlier, to avoid
having a dormant special account outstanding in the Bank's books for a long period of time.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
9.1    The comments as provided by IL&FS on the draft ICR appear in their entirety in Annex 7 as an
electronic copy. The following are excerpts and does not include the factual corrections or other comments
which were incorporated in the final ICR. IL&FS's comments have been given on respective sections of the
draft ICR sent by the Bank which have either been referred to or reproduced in italics below. The views of
IL&FS are also represented separately in the Borrower Evaluation Report (Annex 13) of the main
document.
(1)    Reference: Section 2. Principal Performance Ratines
- 25 -



*   It is our submission that the Sustainability of the Project be rated as 'Highly Likely' (against
'Likely') which is more in line with the contents of Section 6.
*   The basis for 'Project to be at Risk at any Time' is not clear and needs to be elaborated by the
Bank. We reserve our views till then.
(2)    Reference: Sections 3.5.3. 7.6.2 and 8.3
The following sections have been included by the Bank in the Draft ICR:
'Another design weakness was the inherent conflict of interest in the various role played by
IL&FS, and in particular, their advisory capacity (informal or otherwise) to state governments
with whom they were developing and negotiating concession agreements'
'IL&FS was required to play a multiplicity of roles to encourage development of infrastructure
projects. This led to an inherent conflict of interest between its roles as advisor to government,
project developer, sponsor, and lender - the mitigation of whichformed a constant theme in the
Bank's supervision of the Project. The Bank struggled to gain comfort that IL&FS's lending
decisions were and not overshadowed by their project development/sponsor role'
'This multiplicity created inherent conflicts of interest (in the case of IL&FS, magnified by its
promoter function), which needed to be carefully managed'
Comments
(a)    IL&FS considers its multiple roles more as a design strength than as a design weakness.
In fact, as brought out in the Appraisal Report, one of the reasons for the GoI to select
IL&FS as the beneficiary of the Loan was the pioneering roles of IL&FS in creating
synergy between public and private interests. Over the years, ILFS has achieved and
sustained this position necessarily by playing multiple roles.
(b)    Given the rudimentary stage of the market for commercialized infrastructure in India, a
single agency that can provide an integrated set of services and support is imperative to
kick start the process. In the end, the commitment shown and confluence of interests
created by IL&FS for the ultimate success of the project through a realistic distribution of
risks was far more important than concerns about conflicts of interests arising from its
multiple roles. To lose this would be to ignore an important lesson of this project.
(c)    The relationships and credibility built by IL&FS with the State Govenmments are in fact a
strong and integral part of the project development efforts taken up by IL&FS. This has
helped create several opportunities for private sector participation in infrastructure
projects and appropriate policy and legal frameworks in the states. Thus, the long term
sustainability of the Project has been enhanced.
(d)    The Bank should also note that at a meeting of it's Board, the Directors recommended that
IL&FS continue to maintain its sponsorship and developer roles since there was no other
Institution willing to undertake this critical role. The Bank has itself stated in its earlier
Aide Memoirs that IL&FS has done an admirable job of managing its inherent conflicts of
- 26 -



interests. As also acknowledged by the Bank, IL&FS has consciously built an operating
framework to specifically manage the related issues.
(e)    Lastly, IL&FS believes that there has been no negative impact on the Project arising out
of the risks of conflict of interest In fact, IL&FS would recommend that such a design
feature should be an important part of the Bank preparation for future Loans in developing
countries, so as to ensure sustainable congruence of interests by stakeholders in specific
projects.
(3)    Reference: Section 3.5.3
While this section brings about the weaknesses of the Project which, based on implementation
experience have led to a marginally unsatisfactory Quality rating at the time of completion, we feel
that this should be preceded by a corresponding section that, post implementation, acknowledges
the strengths of the Project as cited by the the QAG (as brought out in Section 3.5.1 of the ICR).
The issue of conflict of interest in the design of the Project as referred to in this section of the ICR
should be reviewed by the Bank in the light of our earlier comments.
(4)    Reference: Section 4.1.4
(a)    The first section may be updated to include that the first water project has achieved
financial close.
(b)    'Facilitate entry of private sector on a much larger scale in areas so far dominated by
the public sector (Partially Satisfactory)'
Comment
While, admittedly, the Project has not been as successful in terms of number of sub-projects
commissioned, clearly the quality and replicable nature of the sub-projects commissioned as well
as the contractual documentation developed serve adequately to facilitate the entry of private
sector. It is suggested to the Bank to modify the rating to 'Satisfactory'. This would also be more
reflective of the content of sections 4.1.4 through 4.1.7 of the ICR.
(5)    Reference : Section 4.1.12
'Foster efficiency in delivery and use of selected infrastructure services, encourage establishment
of more efficient practices in construction and operation of infrastructure projects (Partially
Satisfactory).
Comment
It is our submission that given the content of the section itself, the achievement of this objective
warrants a 'Satisfactory' rating.
(6)    Reference: Section 4.2.10
'However, additionalflexibility in terms offinancial instruments and eligible sectors would not
- 27 -



have contributed significantly to meeting the project's-objectives although it may have
increased disbursement.
Comment:
This remark appears to indicate a conflict of interest in the goals of the Project It would be better
to instead merely accept the possibility of sector and instrument flexibility contributing to the
higher achievement of the disbursements/investments related outcomes and outputs - given that the
achievement of these has been rated lower than of the development objectives. Since only a small
part of the line was used, such flexibility need not have reduced the development impact in the
other sectors: this was not a zero sum game.
If flexibility in terms of financial instruments or sectors had been provided to IL&FS over the 5
year period of the loan, IL&FS would have been able to disburse a substantial portion of the line of
credit. IL&FS exposure to the existing sub-projects, stands at $ 31 million as against an
entitlement of about $ 47 million. If we were to add Tirupur and also other infrastructure sectors
over the same period, it would amount to close to $ 200 million. Accordingly, the Bank may wish
to revisit the statement in Section 4.2.10.
(7)    Reference: Annex 5
The ratings given to achievements under the project need to reflect the extremely difficult enabling
environment the project was implemented under. The ICR has in several places captured the
challenges imposed by the inadequate preparation in the enviromment. The ICR has also correctly
rated the Quality at Entry at completion as marginally Unsatisfactory. But this then should serve as
the bench mark against which the project performance is measured - just as, in the light of
implementation experience, the project outcomes and outputs were modified during the mid-term
appraisal of the project.
It is our submission that the ratings provided by the Bank for achievement of certain outputs be
upgraded as follows. This is based on our overall assessment and put up to the Bank for suitable
consideration:
Physical                   :      Substantial (from Modest)
Financial                  :      High (from Modest)
Institutional Development  :      High (from Substantial)
Land acq./resettlement     :      High (from Substantial)
Private sector development  :     High (from Substantial)
(a)    In terms of physical performance, it is acknowledged that only 5 sub-projects have been
completed or are at an advanced stage out of the 18 sub-projects envisaged at the time of appraisal.
The Bank has itself acknowledged that out of ten private projects in the target sectors which
reached financial close since 1997-98, four road projects were taken to financial close by IL&FS.
If we also include the bulk water supply Tirupur sub-project, the results are highly encouraging
given that IL&FS had to put up with several handicaps. In addition, the Bank has not been able to
accommodate financing of sub-projects across different sectors and States as requested by IL&FS.
The time taken to receive Bank approval also added to the delay.
IL&FS has substantially cut down on the time taken to complete project development work
- 28 -



as demonstrated in the subsequent sub-projects. The current pipeline of sub-projects
reflects a healthy portfolio at different stages of project preparation. It is expected that
several of these will see completion over the next 2-3 years. Thus, the physical success of
the Project would have been much higher over an extended tenor. The profile of the current
portfolio is also different from the original one and reflects the changing market
environment for sub-projects amenable to private financing.
(b)    In terms of financial performance, the utilization has been low at 15%. This under
performance has to be considered from two angles.
While in retrospect, it may appear that the original amount of $200 million was oversized,
it was however justified at the time of appraisal. IL&FS could pursue project development
work simultaneously on several sub-projects given the corpus of $200 million. The fact
that only 5 projects could substantially materialize only reemphasizes the lack of an
enabling environment was underestimated both by the Bank and IL&FS.
Had Tirupur been included the utilisation would have increased to a modest figure of more
than 40%. This would also have increased substantially had there been an extended
closing date, flexibility in use of Bank Loan across financial instruments and sectors.
(c)    The upgradation of the ratings of the other components as suggested above is in line with
the contents given in the draft report itself and takes into account the significant achievements by
IL&FS under the Project.
(b) Cofinanciers:
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
10. Additional Information
10.1   The following provides a summary overview of IL&FS sub-projects in three categories: (i) those
commissioned or under construction; (ii) those in the pipeline; and (iii) those dropped from the original
pipeline provided in the Staff Appraisal Report.
- 29 -



A. Sub-Projects Commissioned or under Construction
Sub-Project      Description           Cost (Rs.     Status
Million)
1   Delhi-Noida      550-m eight-lane        4,080       Project completed and
Bridge           new bridge across    (Bank Loan:    commissioned in Feb 2001;
UP/Delhi         river Yamuna;            600)       Ashram Chowk fly-over
completed in Oct 2001.
2   Vadodara Halol   Widening and            1,608       Project completed and
Toll Road        strengthening of 32  (Bank Loan:    commissioned in October
IGuiarat          km existing highway      100)       2000
3   East Coast Road  Improvement/             610        Substantially completed in
Tamil Nadu       maintenance of                      December 2001, to be
Chennai-                            commissioned shortly
Pondicherry
_                highway
4   Ahmedabad        Widening and            3,230       Under construction;
Mehsana Toll    strengthening of 52   (Bank Loan:    completion scheduled Oct
Road             km existing highway      500)       2002
Guiarat
B. Sub-Project Pipeline
I   Tirupur Area    Integrated area          10,230      GOTN's approval obtained
Development      development scheme                  for proceeding with the
Program          including water                     project and financial closure
Tamil Nadu       supply, drainage,                   achieved.
effluent treatment,
roads and telecom
2   Dewas Water      The project seeks to    2,500       RFP Documentation for the
Supply          substantially                        selection of Operator being
Madhya Pradesh   augment the water                   prepared by the
supply to Dewas                     Consultants.
industrial estate.
3   Mhow                                     1,260       Being implemented by
Ghatabillod Toll                                     GoMP as O&M project
Road
Madhva Pradesh
4   Bhubaneshwar     Bypass to National       1,472      Detailed Feasibility Studies
Integrated Road  Highway 5 (NH5);                    are in progress
Network          includes roads &
Enhancememt      bridges
Project
Orissa
5   Ennore Manali                            1,400       Consultation with NHAI
Road Project
Tamil Nadu
6   Vizag Area       420 MLD water           5,865       Request for Qualification
Development      supply scheme to the                for the selection of Operator
Project          industry                            issued in December 2001
Andhra Pradesh                                       and RFP likely to be issued
in April 2002.
- 30 -



7   Integrated Area  Development of an       2,000      Procurement of Consultants
Development      integrated area                    for project preparation is
Project          development                        under way
Rajasthan        scheme, consisting
of both industrial
and social
infrastructure, for
Bhiwadi Industrial
Area. It is proposed
to develop the area
as a Special
Economic Zone.
8   Dry Port         Development of a        1,500      Detailed Feasibility Studies
Kotaquasin      multi-modal                         are in progress
(Alwar)         logistics centre to
Rajasthan        facilitate the
management of
container and
export-import cargo
in the northern India.
9   Adityapur Bridge  500-m, 2-lane high      570       New State Government
Jharkhand        level bridge; 5-km                 pursuing the legal
approach roads                      amendments. Subsequently,
RFP would be issued to the
shortlisted parties.
10  Jal Mahal        A state tourism         1200        Project bidding in process
Tourism         project to restore the
Infrastructure  ecological balance
Project          of Mansagar Lake
Rajasthan       along with the
archaeological
conservation of Jal
Mahal monument
located within the
lake.
11  Integrated       Implementation of        400        Project studies have been
Parking         multi-storied parking               completed. Request for
Infrastructure  complexes for four                  Proposal documents to be
Project         wheelers and two                    issued to the shortlisted
Rajasthan       wheelers in the                     parties
walled city area of
Jaipur
12  Bhiwadi Waste    Rehabilitation/          1500       Request for Qualification
Water Treatment  augmentation of the                for the selection of Operator
Project         Common Effluent                     (Rehabilitation of existing
Rajasthan       Treatment Plant for                 system) to be issued soon.
industries and
township in Bhiwadi
Industrial Area
- 31 -



13   Beach           The Project envisages        150     Miramar Beach stretch, near
Management       management of beaches at            the state capital has been
Project - Panaji  three selected locations in         selected as a model project.
Goa              Goa namely Miramar,                  Bidding in process
Colva and Calangaute.
14   Multi-storey Car  Development of             200     Parking Study for the
Parking Project  mechanized multi-storey              project area has been
in Panjim        off-street parking facility for      completed. Bidding
Goa              four wheelers, in the City           Documents being prepared.
Centre of Panjim.
15  Integrated       Development of Plenary Hal  5,000    Project bidding is in process
Convention       with hospitality centre,
centre Project   parking place, exhibition
Andhra Pradesh   facilities, cafeteria,
restaurants, etc. Also
includes Golf Course with.
Club House and
accommodation.
16   Town Gas        Provision of piped natural   750     Project studies are in
Project          gas for 10 towns in East and         progress. Institutional
Andhra Pradesh   West Godavari districts.             structure for project
implementation being
decided.
17   Gangavaram Port Development of minor port            Feasibility Studies are in
Andhra Pradesh   12km south of                        progress.
Visakhapatnam Port (VPT)
and adjacent to Steel Plant
(VSP).
18   Hyderabad       Development of a suburban            Project Studies to be
Suburban Mass   railway system for                   initiated
Rapid Transit    Hyderabad by augmenting
System           the existing infrastructure
Andhra Pradesh   through signaling, tracks
and rolling stocks &
locomotives.
19   Special         A SEZ is proposed about 30  18,700    SEZ policy framework is
Economic Zone    km away from                         being developed.
(SEZ)            Visakhapatnam to establish           Preliminary financial
Andhra Pradesh   a delineated duty-free               viability studies with special
enclave. Target industries           industrial focus are
include medium & light               complete. Institutional
engineering and information          framework, such as
technology.                          incorporation of Project JV,
being finalised.
- 32 -



20   Sangli-Miraj-   Involves phased    Phase 1 - 250    Memorandum of
Kupwad (SMK)     operations,        Phase II - 2,500  Agreement to be signed
Water supply and rehabilitation and                 with Sangli Municipal
sewerage project  augmentation of the               Corporation and GOM.
Maharashtra     existing water                      Prequalification process has
supply and sewerage                 been initiated. Request for
system for the                      Proposals expected to be
municipalities of                   issued by March 2002.
Snagli, Miraj and
Kupwad
C. Sub-Projects Dropped from Original Pipeline at Appraisal
I   Panvel Bypass      -National Highway        2,072     Not being pursued by
Maharashtra        project                            IL&FS.
- 10.1 35-km, four-lane
bypass to Panvel town
on Highway 4 (NH4);
includes one flyover,
three river bridges, one
ROB and seven
underpasses.
2   Borivili-Virar     - Indian Railway         2,800     Not being pursued by
Quadrupling Project project                            IL&FS.
Maharashtra        - Project being
implemented on a
commercial format
- 60 km of additional
track
- 6 new stations
- Commercial
development of space
3   Elevated Highway   - National Highway       1,000     Not being pursued by
Panipat            project                             IL&FS.
Haryana            - 5-km elevated
highway on National
Highway 1 (NHI)
4   Moradabad Area     - National Highway &               Not being pursued by
Development        Ministry of Commerce               IL&FS.
Program            project
Uttar Pradesh      - The program             600
envisages two distinct
schemes:                 1,000
(a) Implementation of a
2-lane bypass of 20 km
on National Highway
24 (NH24)
(b) Provision of captive
power facility for
Moradabad export
units.
- 33 -



5   Mangalore Area     - State project          7,225     Not being pursued by
Development        - Water supply scheme              IL&FS.
Program            for Mangalore industry
Karnataka          and town
6   Worli-Bandra Link  -State project           6,331    Implemented by the
Bridge.            1.2-km 6-lane, partially           government; under
Maharashtra        cable-stayed bridge                construction.
5.8-km approach roads
7   Vasai-Virar Area  -State project           12,000
Development        - Provision of water,
Program            transport and related
Maharashtra        infrastructure to rapidly
developing region north
of Bombay
8   Indore-Bhopal     -State project            2,000
Highway            - 200-km state highway
Madhva Pradesh     linking Indore,
commercial capital of
Madhya Pradesh to
Bhopal administrative
capital of MP
9   Tuticorin Port    -National port project    7,000
Tamil Nadu         - Upgrading,
modernization and
expansion of existing
port on a commercial
format.
10  Outer Ring Road    - State project          3,000
Tamil Nadu         - 60-km 2-lane highway
I I  Gulf of Cambay    -State project           50,000
Gujarat            -Multi-facility bridge,
including road, rail,
water, gas and oil
pipeline
- Approach roads
- Area development
- 34 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome/Impact Indicators
Indicator/Matrix               P3rpjectied At Mid-Term HRei,            .      ct     atest     smate
Number of financial institutions and  Equity Investors: 10                        Equity Investors: 26
banks committed to project financdn  Debt Investors: 20                           Debt Investors: 39
Number of intematonal firms         4 firms                                       3 firms
commitled to project finance in water
and tbnsport sectors
Number of legislatve Instruments     6 (Induding Instruments inItated)             9 (including Instruments Initated)
approved for implementaton of BOT
projects by state/regulatory bodies                                                31
Number of private corporatlons investng  7 (plus 4, which plan equity investments)
in privately financed infastructure
Ratio of final cost vs closure estimate  nla                                      Vadodam Halol Road Projea  I
by subproject                                                                     Delhi NOIDA ToU Bridge: I
Output Indicators
Indicator/Matrix               Projected At Mid-Term Review          ''       ACti/LSt,st Estimate
Number of subprojects reaching     1 (using revised Indicators fromn mId-term     5 sub-projects
financia closure                   review)                                         1998 - Delhi Noida Toll Bridge
199 - Vadodara Habl Road
2000 - East Coast Road
2000 - Ahmedabad Mehsana Toll
Road
2001 - Tirupur Water Project
Magnitude of private sector funds   Debt Rs. 3,882.6 miUNin                        Debt Rs. 11,793.6 million
averaged (exd. IL&FS)               Equity: Rs. 1,014 milLon                       Equity: Rs. 4,193.0 mIlion
Number of subprojects commissioned  0                                             2 sub-projects
Number of concession contracts      2                                             6 contrects
signed with locaVstate govemment
entities
Kilometers o roads constructed      0                                              240 km of ane lngth
Utretday of water distribution      0                                              0
Projections taken from mission following revision of indicators during mid-term review, dated December 22, 1998
See Annex 7, List of Supporting Documents, item 7, for more details.
-35-



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Exchange rate:
INR I =         US$0.021
US$1    =       INR 47.855
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Project Cost By Component                Appraisal          Actual/Latest         Percentage of
Estimate             Estimate              Appraisal
US$ million          US$ million
Investment                                         1580.0                199.1              13%
Delhi Noida Toll Bridge    2                                          85.3
Vadodara Halol Toll Road2                                             33.6
Ahmedabad Mahsena Toll Road 3                                         67.5
East Coast Road 4                                                      12.7
Subproject Preparation5                              19.0                   0.6              3%
Training & Technical Assistance"                       1.0                  0.1             10%
Total            1600.0                199.8              12%
l Total amount for the EPC contract was Rs. 2,120 million (US$44.3 million equivalent), of which the Bank financed
Rs. 600 mllion (US$12.5 million equivalent). Total landed project cost was Rs. 4,080 million (US$85.3 mullion
equivalent).
2/ Total amount for the EPC contract was Rs. 1,190 million (US$24.9 million equivalent), of which the Bank financed
Rs. 100 million (US$2.1 million). Total landed project cost was Rs. 1,608 million (US$33.6 million equivalent).
3/ Total amount for the EPC contract was Rs. 5,115.29 million (US$106.9 million equivalent), of which the Bank
financed Rs. 500 million (US$10.4 million equivalent). Total landed project cost was Rs. 3,230 million (US$67.5
million equivalent).
v' Total landed project cost was Rs. 610 million (US$12.7 million). Although not financed by the Bank, this subproject
is included in the overall Project since it is in one of the target sectors and was implemented during the Project period.
5' Appraisal estimate includes IDA Credit of US$5 million equivalent Actual includes amount disbursed under the
IDA Credit only.
4 Actual/latest estimate reflects the amount disbursed under the Bank Loan. However, no information is available on
the amount spent from IL&FS's own resources.
Project Cost by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimatel)
(US$ million equival nt)
Expenditure                                      Procurement Method
Category
ICB              NCB           Other        NBF        Total Cost
Subprojects                  110.0                               75.0                     185.0
Technical Assistance
Implementation                                               19.0                      19.0
Support
Policy Support                                                0.5                       0.5
Capacity                                                      0.5                       0.5
Building
Total                    110.0                               95.0                     205.0
As provided in SAR, which only includes Bank-financed portion.
- 36 -



Project Costs By Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) "2
(US$ million equival nt)
Expenditure                        Procurement Method                      Total Cost
Category
ICB         NCB         Other        NBF
Subprojects_                                      31.0                      31.0
Technical Assistance  _
Implementation                                  0.6                      0.6
Support                                    (IDA Credit)             (IDA Credit)
Policy Support    _
Capacity                                        0.13                     0.13
Building                                       3_L7_=
ID A                  _  _  _  _  _  _   _  _  _  _  _  _  _   _  _  _  _  _   _  _  _
Total                                          31.7                     31.7
'l Figures are the amounts financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2V Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of
contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental
operating costs related to (i) managing the project and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by Source (in US$ million e uivalent)
Component                      Appraisal      Actual/Latest       Percentage of
Estimate         Estimate            Appraisal
IBRD                             200.0             31.1              13%
IDA                                5.0              0.6              12%
IL&FS                            44.0             28.7              65%
Indian Fin Inst/banks"           430.0             84.3              20%
Capital Markets                  150.0             29.4              20%
State Govts. & Agencies          100.0             13.6              14%
Export Credit Agencies           200.0              0.0               0%
Bilateral Funds                   75.0              0.0               0%
Project Sponsors & Others        396.0             18.2               5%
Total '               1600.0            205.9              13%
3' Includes both debt and equity contributions.
9/ This includes deep discount bonds both issued in the market and privately placed.
I0/ Total does not match total in Project Cost by Component table due to use of different exchange
rates. For this table, the IBRD amounts are converted using different exchange rates over time as
shown in the Bank's accounts. The remaining financing components are converted at the exchange
rate quoted in the ICR.
- 37 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
See Annex 10 which includes analysis of the economic costs and benefits for each of the three road
sub-projects financed under the Loan.
- 38 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty             Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
Month/Year'    Count           Specialty                      Progress      Objective
Identification/Preparation
March/April                  I    Fin. Analyst
1995                         1    Finance Specialist
I   Transport Economist
I    Environmental Eng.
I   Social Dev. Spec.
Pre-Appraisal                2    Fin. Analyst
June 1995                    1    Municipal Engr.
I   Transport Economist
I   Env. Engr.
I    Social Dev. Specialist
I   Transport Specialist
Appraisal/Negotiation
Appraisal                    I    Fin. Analyst
November 1995                1    Finance Specialist
I   Urban Dev. Specialist
2    Social Dev. Specialist
I   Lawyer
I   Municipal Engr.
I   Transport Economist
I   Urban Transport Spec.
I   Env. Engr.
I   Transport Economist
Supervidon
July 1997                     1   Transport Economist                 S             S
I   Fin. Analyst
I Transport Specialist
I   Proj. Fin. Specialist
I   Env. Engr.
July 1998                     1   PSD Specialist                     U              U
I   Transport Spec.
I   Env. Eng.
I   Financial Analyst
I   PSD Advisor
I   Economist
I   FMS
December 1998                 1   PSD Specialist                      S             S
I   Transport Specialist
I   Fin. Analyst
I   Engineer
I   Lawyer
- 39 -



I   Project Fin. Consultant
December 1999                1  Transport Specialist               S            S
I   Fin. Analyst
I   Finance Specialist
I   Hwy. Engr.
I   Engineer
I   Water Sector Spec.
I   Priv. Sector Infr. Spec.
I   FMS
I   Env. Engr.
I   Social Dev. Specialist (separate
mission--10/1999)
March 2001                   1  Fin. Analyst                       S            S
I   PSD Specialist
I   Hwy. Engr.
I   Transport Economist
I   Social Dev. Spec.
I   Env. Spec.
I   FMS
ICR
December 2001               1    Fin. Analyst
I    PSD Specialist
I    Hwy. Engr.
I    Transport Economist
I    Social Dev. Spec.
I    Env. Engr.
I    FMS
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks              US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation              49.4                        204
Appraisal/Negotiation           included with               included with
identification/            identification/
preparation figure          preparation figure
above                       above
Supervision                            237.1                        930
ICR                                     16.6                         68
Total                                  303.1                       1,202
-40-



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
El Macro policies                       O H  OSUOM      O N   * NA
O Sector Policies                       O H  OSUOM      O N   * NA
E Physical                              OH   OSU-M      ON    ONA
Z Financial                             OH   OSUOM      ON    ONA
F Institutional Development             * H  O SU O M   O N   0 NA
Z Environmental                         * H  OSUOM      O N   O NA
Social
O Poverty Reduction               O H  OSUOM      O N   * NA
E Gender                          OH OSUOM ON *NA
3 Other (Please specify)          O H  *SUOM      O N   o NA
Land acquisition and resettlement
* Private sector development            0 H  * SU O M   0 N   0 NA
L Public sector management              0 H  O SU O M   0 N   0 NA
El Other (Please specify)               O H  OSUOM      O N   * NA
- 41 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperformance                                 Rating
I Lending                                           OHSOS        OU    OHU
I Supervision                                       OHS OS       O U   O HU
ER Overall                                          OHS OS       O U   O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                             Rating
0 Preparation                                       OHS OS       OU    O HU
3 Government implementation performance             O HS O S     C U   C HU
3 Implementation agency performance                 OHS OS       C U   C HU
0 Overall                                           OHS OS       C U   O HU
- 42 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
1. Aide Memoire, Implementation Completion Report Mission, December 2001
2. 1996-1999 - Three Formative Years, prepared by IL&FS
3. Application from IL&FS for extension of loan closing date and a "Brief Report on the Project
to accompany the Proposal for Extension of the Loan Closing Date" (March 15, 2000)
4. The Development Perspective, Volume I, prepared by IL&FS (March 2001)
5. The Development Perspective, Volume It (Annexes), prepared by IL&FS (March 2001)
6. Ahmedabad Mahsena Toll Road Subproject - Credit Report from Duff & Phelps
7. IL&FS Performance Monitoring Indicators
perf mon indicators-annex 7.doc
8. Draft Borrower Evaluation Report
IL&FS-ICR contribution.d
9. Annexes to Draft Borrower Evaluation Report
IL8FS-ICR contribution-annexes.
Additional details for sub-projects.
DELHI-NOIDA TOLL BRIDGE
From World Bank
D-N_costs.xis D-N_traffic.xIE D-N-re-eval.xls D-N-benefits.xl. D-N_VehInc-CP1.xI
11                IN
D-N_other_bridges.x D-N_population0l.xl
From Borrower
Revenue Model.xh ntb-408_denning.xl
VADODARA-HALOL TOLL ROAD
From World Bank
V-H_costs01.xN V-H-traffic.xAs V-H-re-eval.xIe V-H_benefits.xlh V-H_serviceroad02.x
-43 -



V-H-early-fcsts.xi
From Borrower
FCloseFinal.xl: MPR-Nov'01-Source Data.
AHMEDABAD-MEHSANA TOLL ROAD
From World Bank
A-M_costsO1 .xic
From Borrower
AMTRL - Model.xl:
- 44 -



Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results
The beneficiary survey covered essentially the stakeholders invited to the workshop during the ICR
mission. The survey was carried out during the ICR mission and, while not fully evaluated at that time, its
responses provided a basis for the discussions at the stakeholder workshop. The survey included the
banking and construction industries, state development institutions, concession companies, and the union
government The institutions surveyed and represented at the Stakeholder Workshop comprised IL&FS,
Industrial Development Bank of India (IDBI), State Bank of India (SBI), Mitsui-Marubeni Corp., Punj
Lloyd Limited, Intertoll, Noida Toll Bridge Company Ltd., Vadodara Halol Toll Road Ltd, Ahmedabad
Mehsana Toll Road Ltd, Consolidated Toll Network Ltd., Noida Authority, Andhra Pradesh Industrial
Infrastructure Corporation Ltd (APIIC), New Tirupur Area Development Corporation Ltd., Dewas
Industrial Water Supply Company, and Department of Economic Affairs (DEA) of Ministry of Finance.
The feedback from the surveys and the workshop is incorporated in the main text, and the main results and
ratings have been substantially influenced by this process. There was a clear consensus that the overall
outcome of the Project was positive in terms of concrete subproject initiation and implementation, and
achievement of concrete policy measures needed to facilitate private sector involvement. It was also
concluded that these positive results were achieved against the backdrop of a much slower development of
the subproject pipeline than expected at appraisal, and of only a rudimentary framework for private sector
involvement at the start of the Project. For the way forward, the participants thought that increasing
emphasis should be put on project development through further public-private partnerships, and enhancing
the capacity of the public sector to understand and facilitate private infrastructure projects.
-45 -



1. What have been the major improvements you have seen over the last five years in
developing and closing private infrastructure projects?
Regulatory/Technical
* Land acquisition process streamlined
* Resettlement issues relatively stabilized
*  Project development cycle truncated from 7 (Delhi Noida Bridge) to about 2 years
(Vadodar Halol and Ahrmedabad Mehsana Toll Road)
* Establishment of transparent processes
* Standardized documentation
* Innovative bid documents on whole life costing cycle.
* More detailed feasibility studies
* Redefined approach to tackle feasibilities in future projects.
* Established replicable legal framework for implementation of road projects.
Lenders
* Concession Agreement made acceptable to lenders
* Concession Agreement provides comfort against shortfall from force majeure
* Banks and financial institutions more accepting of projects
* Better understanding of legal and commercial structure of projects by lenders
* Longer repayment periods offered by lenders
* Guarantees against non-payment on account of revenue shortfall in several cases
* Availability of longer tenor funds and structured instruments
Timeliness/Administrative Processes
* Closure of a large number of privately initiated projects
* Projects being completed largely on time and within stipulated budgets
* Quicker financial closures
* Truncate timelines by studying only up to the required levels, which receive
developer confidence to bid-leave freedom to developer to develop the details
* Work with end-game of closing project in mind
* Establish dialogue with stakeholders during process-especially with prospective
consultants, developers, and government from scoping and terms of reference
itself-brings in perspectives from other international projects to the table
- 46 -



2. What have been the forces that have most contributed to these improvements?
* Mindset change of all players on need for such facilities
Private
*  Lenders understand and appreciate the need for longer tenure for infrastructure
projects
*  Private sector and multilateral interest
*  Capacity within the APIIC and its partners IL&FS
*  Competing investment opportunities for developers in world market and between
Indian states to receive investments in infrastructure
Government
*  Simplified land acquisition processes
*  Favorable Government policy
*  Recognition of PPP in infrastructure as an important growth component in Vision
2020 for State
* For road projects, due diligence has been done on the consultants involved,
resulting in reputable and qualifed work
* Establishment of project recourse lending
*  Policy framework in State through AP-IDEA which emphasizes project
development and procurement structures
* Increasing awareness of Government authorities on the privatization process
coupled with successful delivery of the other IL&FS projects
*  Corporate objective IL&FS to establish and prove that infrastructure projects can
be implemented in commercial format.
* Fiscal regimen at central level
Bank/Others
* World Bank participation and handholding
* Strong support from counterpart governments
* Continuity in counterpart personnel
-47-



3. From your point of view, what are the major factors you think constrain private
infrastructure projects from being implemented?
Government
* Need for more Government commitment
*  Streamlined government clearances, especially involving interstate projects
*  Better regulatory authority for tolling of roads
*  Policy Framework for Private Investment in Express Highway Developments,
e.g., non-compliance with and non-enforcement of maintenance standards and
overloading of trucks
* Delay in clearances for shifting of existing facilities
* Lack of consistent government approach towards encouraging private sector
participation
*  Lack of understanding of PPP within all quarters of State and Centre
administration
*  Suspicion, apprehension and skepticism on the part of bureaucracy for private
sector participation-possibly an element of threat to their role/authority
* Government's unwillingness to play proactive facilitator role and wrong
perception on private sector participation
Technical
*  Better traffic studies (traffic numbers below projections)
*  Willingness of users to get used to paying for services
*  Cumbersome land acquisition that does not bring in landowner as stakeholder
*  Delays in land acquisition (for the relevant sector)
* Lack of cogent environmental and social rehabilitation planning
*  Improper estimation of demand and cash flows
Finance
* Lack of project development funds, with streamlined approval and disbursement
schedules
* Risk profile of transport sector projects
* Compounded by high cost of borrowing
Private Sector
*  Precedence of many exits of developers from PPP projects in Power sector,
impacting perception on Indian investments
*  Projects not being offered to private sector in format that can be commercially
implemented. Project development inadequate resulting in non-mitigation of risks
which the private sector cannot assume
*  Government's selection/positioning of projects to private sector
*  Mindset on cost of project
*  Mismatch in project objectives from amongst stakeholders
*  Concept of speed between public vs. private sector
-48 -



4. (a) Which sectors do you think are easiest to finance in the private sector and
why? (e.g., electric power, oil and gas, telecom, rail, road, water supply and
sanitation, ports, urban transport, other urban)? (b) Which was the hardest and
why?
* Depends on payment mechanisms - whether direct from user or otherwise
* Electric power:
o non-availability of escrow cover, poor state of SEBs, no proper support
from government, tariff issues
o Issues concerning fuel supply
o State Government related issues
o PSP already underway
o Success dependent on degree of monopoly and users who are willing and
able to pay
o Enabling framework in place
* Oil and gas:
o major hindrance is reluctance of oil majors to sign offtake contract with
take-or-pay clause
* Telecom:
o technological obsolescence, frequent disputes between DoT and TRAI and
cellular and basic promoter companies, tariff policies, and licensing are
major issues
o Investor appetite owing to attractive return profile
o Demonstrated success
o Existence of a replicable model for projects
o PSP already underway
o Most legal/regulatory constraints removed, sector reforms at an advanced
stage and being carried out as scheduled.
o Main project risks confined to commercial and technical risks which can
be objectively evaluated by investors
* Road sector:
o One of easiest sectors, partly because of standardization of concession
agreement, known technology, etc.
o Investor appetite owing to attractive return profile
o Demonstrated success
o Existence of a replicable model for projects
o Just starting
o Potential users/beneficiaries easily identifiable, thus, revenue generation
more predictible
o Difficult especially where private developer is required to assume the
traffic risk. Security available to the lenders is not enforceable, e.g., other
projects can be salvaged by selling off equipment if project becomes
unviable, whereas roads usually involve civil structures not available to be
sold to mitigate losses.
-49 -



5. What do you consider has been the degree of  Average Participant Rating
impact of the Project in the following areas?
Project Objectives                         Impact
1 (Neglible)44 (Substantial)
Build up India's capacity to attract private               3.5
investment in infrastructure
Pilot-test institutional and contractual arrangements      3.4
in a variety of subprojects under various
administrative and political conditions
Help establish a track record as a prerequisite for a      3.1
large-scale private investment in the sector
Meet the pressing needs of commercial                      3.3
infrastructure project entities for long-term rupee
financing (pending development of a long-term debt
market)
Foster efficiency in the delivery and use of selected      3.1
infrastructure service
Practices in the construction and operation of             3.5
infrastructure projects
Assist in alleviating the severe financial and             3.3
institutional constraints to the expansion of
infrastructure in India
6. What do you view as the World            Average Participant Rating
Bank's impact in the following areas?
Bank Role                               Impact
1 (Neglible)+4 (Substantial)
Technical advice                                       3.0
Facilitator/catalyst                                   3.0
Honest broker                                          2.5
Financier                                              2.8
Other (explain)                                        n/a
- 50 -



7. What has been the impact of IL&FS       Average Participant Rating
in the following areas?
Bank Role                             Impact
1 (Neglible)44 (Substantial)
Advising government on public-private                 3.4
partnership opportunities in infrastructure
Project development (technical feasibility            3.4
studies, etc.)
Project structuring
Concession design                                  3.5
Risk mitigation                                    3.3
Environment/resettlement                           3.6
Financial structuring                                 3.3
8. (a) How could the design (by the Bank and/or IL&FS) of the Project been
improved?
* Traffic counts could have been more conservative (ILFS)
* Willingness-to-pay study could have been more realistic (ILFS)
* Some alternate routes have caused projects to underperform, and could have been
considered more realistically. (Bank)
* Consider that users used to free service and that mindset takes long time to change
* Relax some of the stringent conditionalities
*  Chang or relax procurement norms which often result in dissuading potential
players from participating
* A more apparent linkage between the two at the delivery end
* Structure financing to (i) contain the financing/interest cost at sustainable level
(11-12% p.a.) and (ii) minimize the debit service during the construction period
and initial operation period.
* Reduced project development cycle
- 51 -



9. In your view, what aspect(s) should the World Bank concentrate on in the future
in order to facilitate private infrastructure projects in India?
75%   sector reform
38%   regulation
38%   financing (term loans)
75%   guarantee (partial risk guarantee for commercial lenders and/or equity)
13%   advisory services to government agencies
other (explain)
training of government agencies
project development (funding and marketing of projects)
review of specialist studies supporting private infrastructure projects to
ensure greater pragmatism and success
greater selectivity of projects - Bank should be more conservative in
identifying projects
- 52 -



Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Results
1. Purpose
During the ICR mission, a stakeholders' workshop was organized on December 13, 2002 in New
Delhi. The purpose of this workshop was to:
(i) Solicit broad ranging inputs from a variety of stakeholders to the relevant aspects of the ICR, namely:
* achievement of project objectives
* achievement of specific outputs
* factors affecting implementation
* problems encountered
* lessons learned
(ii) Provide an opportunity to IL&FS, the Borrower, and the representative of the Ministry of Finance,
Department of Economic Affairs, for sharing experience and exchanging views with the other stakeholders
and the Bank on the Project and the lessons deriving from it.
2. Participants
About 30 participants attended the workshop and took active part in discussions. Senior managers
from the banking and construction industries, state development institutions, concession companies, and a
representative from the central government were present. The institutions represented comprised IL&FS,
Industrial Development Bank of India (IDBI), State Bank of India (SBI), Mitsui-Marubeni Corp., Punj
Lloyd Limited, Intertoll, Noida Toll Bridge Company Ltd., Vadodara Halol Toll Road Ltd, Ahmedabad
Mehsana Toll Road Ltd, Consolidated Toll Network Ltd., Noida Authority, Andhra Pradesh Industrial
Infrastructure Corporation Ltd (APIIC), New Tirupur Area Development Corporation Ltd., Dewas
Industrial Water Supply Company, and Department of Economic Affairs (DEA) of Ministry of Finance.
Thus the audience represented a wide cross-section of the Project's stakeholders.
On the Bank's side the following persons participated: Julia Fraser, Aduthurai Swaminathan
(SASEI), Stephan von Klaudy (PSAPP), William Denning (ECSIE), I.U.B. Reddy (SASES).
3. Proceedings
The focus of discussion in the workshop was the experience of IL&FS, financial institutions,
sponsors, development corporations and state agencies with the promotion, financing and implementation of
private infrastructure projects, specifically in the target sectors transport, water, sanitation, and urban.
IL&FS, Noida Toll Bridge Corporation, Consolidated Toll Network, and Andhra Pradesh Industrial
Infrastructure Corporation gave fonnal presentations in which presenters gave their own evaluation on the
following:
1. The Bank Loan's role in financing of subprojects, cooperation with the Bank, and the Bank's
overall contribution to private infrastructure development through the Project;
2. Strategy for acceleration of development in the target sectors (transport, urban, water and
sanitation) through increased emphasis on project development;
3. Role of the Project in supporting policy measures necessary to enhance private involvement in
infrastructure;
4. Implementation experience with the first three road/bridge sub-projects (planning, construction,
- 53 -



traffic forecasts, tariff structure, first year's results, ancillary property developments);
5. Experience of APIIC in the preparation of the Vizag water project.
A lively discussion ensued on the above topics, in which most participants engaged actively. It was
acknowledged that the Project performance has to be viewed against several constraining backdrops. For
instance, at the time of initiation of the Project, privatization of infrastructure was at its infancy in terms of
acceptance at all levels, establishing frameworks and availability of financing options. Viewed against this,
some participants emphasized the advances made in the creation of capacity, a policy framework, legal
structures, contract documentation and a supportive fiscal regime as a result of the Project. This was
achieved despite the fact that only three sub-projects have been financed under the Loan and a substantial
portion of the Loan had to be cancelled. IL&FS also stated that the utilisation of the Loan could have been
much higher had there been more flexibility in terms of eligible sectors and financial instruments that could
be used under the Loan.
In terms of sectors, there has been significant progress in roads in terms of number of projects,
enabling framework, reduced gestation periods and a more responsive private sector. The water sector has
been a relatively difficult sector. In terms of direction, there is an impelling need to take up the urban
agenda and IL&FS has built up several niches to accomplish this. It plans to take this forward and may
seek multilateral support in this respect.
There was consensus that the Bank's contribution to the Project has been substantial and that it
partnered IL&FS in several ways. Special mention was made of the Bank's contribution in terms of
technical issues, environment and social aspects and procurement process. It was also noted that IL&FS
benefited as much from leveraging the credibility gained from the association with the Bank as from the use
of the Bank funds. Cooperation with the Bank and its supervision efforts was acknowledged as very
positive. It was also pointed out that during the Project's implementation period, the Delhi office was
increasingly involved in supervision and started serving as easily accessible contact point for the Project, a
trend which was felt should be continued.
A major topic of the discussion, with partially diverging views, was the rationale for a Bank Loan
to a private entity for on-lending to commercially structured projects. On the public sector side, doubts
were held whether it was justified to provide funds with central govemment guarantees in an environment in
which private, or at least commercial, financiers are prepared to step in and financing as such does not
seem to be the issue. Definition of appropriate on-lending terms for such a guaranteed loan was deemed a
difficult practical question related to this issue. Against this, the view was held that, at the time the Loan
was approved, the environment was not conducive yet for private involvement and consequently
commercial funding was not sufficiently available. From that angle, not only was the Bank's funding
considered essential to facilitate the financial close of the first subprojects, but the Bank's participation also
ensured a strong focus on enhancing policy reform, and thus the framework for private sector entry. This
again was contrasted with the question whether it would not have made more sense to go for an adjustment
operation first, based on Bank involvement, and subsequently to rely entirely on the private sector and
commercial sources to initiate subprojects. It was, however, broadly felt that adjustment measures without
accompanying concrete project actions would not be effective as they would not create the needed track
record. In this context, it was also felt that the promotional function should be taken up by other institutions
besides IL&FS.
Some doubts were voiced from the banking community whether sufficient long-term financing was
actually now available to the target sectors. The first experience with operating toll roads indicated strong
reluctance of users to pay tolls, state or local governments were not particularly supportive in resolving this
- 54 -



issue, too much assistance for the developmental function was expected from the banks, and the proper
implementation of securities was seen as a potential problem. [As a side remark, it should be stressed that
the workshop was held just shortly after Enron had decided to pull out of the Dabhol power project, and
Indian financial institutions were starting to face the risk of major losses and the burden of a major
restructuring of large lending volumes].
The issue of insufficient support to the public for capacity building and project
preparation/promotion was also discussed. While substantial funds were available through the parallel IDA
Credit, both the Bank's procurement procedures, and the Government's complex system of channeling
these funds to the states was made responsible for the relatively minor contribution of the Credit. Solutions
suggested aimed at re-thinking the money flow and considering direct payments to consultants where
possible.
4. Stakeholders' Feedback
The feedback from the workshop is incorporated in the main text and given in Beneficiary Survey
(see Annex 8).
5. Conclusions
The Stakeholder Workshop provided an opportunity for the financial institutions, companies and
agencies participating in the Project to share their views on the Project's outcomes, lessons learned, and
forward actions. There was a clear consensus that the overall outcome of the Project was positive in terms
of concrete subproject initiation and implementation, and achievement of concrete policy measures needed
to facilitate private sector involvement. It was also concluded that these positive results were achieved
against the backdrop of a much slower development of the subproject pipeline than expected at appraisal,
and of only a-rudimentary framework for private sector involvement at the start of the Project. For the way
forward, the participants thought that increasing emphasis should be put on project development through
public-private partnerships, and enhancing the capacity of the public sector to understand and facilitate
private infrastructure projects.
- 55 -



Additional Annex 10. Subprojects Financed Under the Bank Line of Credit
This annex provides details on the three subprojects financed under the World Bank Line of Credit:
A. Delhi-Noida Toll Bridge
B. Vadodara-Halol Toll Road
C. Ahmedabad-Mehsana Toll Road
A. DELHI - NOIDA TOLL BRIDGE
Description of the Sub-prolect
The New Okhla Industrial Development Authority (NOIDA) was created in the State of Uttar Pradesh
(UP), adjoining the Delhi National Capital Territory, in 1976. The growth of the industrial estate, its
residential areas, and the adjacent Greater Noida residential district lead to additional congestion on
existing road facilities and so to the desire for a bridge linking the new areas with Delhi. A Feasibility
Report for this subproject was completed for IL&FS by Indian consultants Kamnpsax International in
January 1994. The traffic and revenue forecasts were updated in March 1998 by Kampsax. The traffic
and revenue forecasts were reviewed by consultants Louis Berger in August 1998. An Information
Memorandum for investors was finalized in November 1998.
The Feasibility Report (January 1994) reviewed the existing land use and traffic situation and examined six
different alignments for a new bridge. The examination made use of a network simulation traffic model,
the first time such a model had been applied in Delhi. The first and second ranked alternatives were very
close in design, cost, and desirability. The second ranked alignment (Scheme IA) eventually became the
route of the present bridge and approach roads. The Information Memorandum (November 1998)
presented only the final routing.
The DeLhi - Noida toll bridge was inaugurated on 24 January 2001. Construction of the bridge was
completed four months ahead of schedule (in 25 months) and within budget Commercial operations began
on 7 February 2001. The project consists of an eight lane link across the Yamuna River, with a 552 metre
long main bridge, 3 minor bridges, and eight lane approach roads on embankments, for a total road length
of 7.5 km. There is a 27 lane computerized toll plaza equipped with latest toll collection technology
including electronic toll collection. The project also included grade-separated ("cloverleaf') interchanges at
each end of the facility, river training works, and a flyover at Ashram Crossing (no toll).
The Delhi - Noida link is being marketed as the "DND Flyway". The landed cost of the project is Rs 4,080
million. NOIDA Toll Bridge was implemented on a BOOT format through a Special Purpose Vehicle
(SPV), the NOIDA Toll Bridge Company Limited (NTBCL). Shareholders include the NOIDA Authority,
IL&FS, IFCI, and Intertoll. A Concession Agreement was signed on 12 November 1997 between NOIDA,
NTBCL and IL&FS, based on predetermined post tax returns of 20 percent.
The project was completed as described in the Information Memorandum.
- 56 -



Proiect Costs and Financine
The following table sumnarizes the projects costs as they were presented in the Information Memorandum
and as completed.
Delhi-Noida Project Cost
(Rs millions)                      Original    Revised
EPC cost                                          1935.0
Guard Rail, Landscaping etc.           2120.0       63.0
O&M Equipment Cost                                 112.0
Shahadra Bridge/Approach Road           200.0       48.7
Ashram Flyover                             .       143.6
Works Contract Tax                        0.0       17.7
Bonus to EPC Contractor                   0.0       69.0
sub-total Construction Cost           2,320.0     2,389.0
Land Acquisition/PAP                    100.0      115.1
Prelim / Preoperative Expenses          122.4      168.2
Financing Charges & Kampsax Fees        253.3      319.4
Contingencies
- Price Escalation                           193.7
- Forex Fluctuation              396.3       186.8
- Physical Contingency                        10.4
Interest During Construction            701.7      517.2
Investment for Senior Debt Service       80.0       80.0
Depreciation Fund                       108.0      101.7
Landed Project Cost                   4,081.7     4,081.5
Delhi-Noida Financing Plan
(Rs millions)                      Original    Revised
Equity
IL&FS                                 360.0      360.0
NOIDA                                 100.0       100.0
IFCI                                   50.0       50.0
O&M Contractor                        106.2      106.2
FCDs                                  207.8      207.8
Private Infrastructure Funds          400.0      400.0
Total Equity                          1,224.0    1,224.0
Debt
IL&FS World Bank Line                 600.0      600.0
Banks/Institutions                   1,757.7    1,757.7
Deep Discount Bonds (DDBs)            500.0      500.0
Total Debt                            2,857.7    2,857.7
Grand Total                           4,081.7    4,081.7
-57 -



The costing approach in the Information Memorandum was comprehensive and well done. The project has
been built on budget, with no significant cost overruns. More detailed information and notes are provided
in the spreadsheet "D-N_costs.xls" as attached to the electronic version of the ICR in Annex 7 - List of
Supporting Documents, and in the project files.
Proiect Benefits
The project provides the following benefits:
*  Saving in travel time between Delhi and Noida
*  Saving in fuel and other vehicle operating cost to the users
*  Reduction in fuel consumption and reduction in pollution
*  Direct employment during construction and operation
*  Reduced congestion on existing bridges
*  Improved linkage between Noida and Delhi with stimulus to overall economic activity in the region.
Traffic
Traffic forecasts were prepared in the Feasibility Report based on an aggregate-level network simulation
model, apparently the first application of this type of modelling in Delhi.
Traffic on the bridge has been much lower than anticipated. Using figures from the ninth full month since
commissioning (November 2001) and expanding this latest month figure to an annual total shows that the
equivalent annual traffic is only 28% of the projected annual traffic for the year 2001-02 and that revenue
is only 21% of the projected annual value. Traffic is low across all vehicle types. In particular commercial
traffic (i.e. trucks) is negligible resulting in lower average revenue per vehicle. Bus traffic, which had been
expected to contribute 33% of revenue, is contributing less than 1% of revenue. The table below illustrates
these results.
- 58 -



Delhi-Noida Traffic Forecasts
(comparison of traffic forecast to initial actual traffic)
Two         Cars       Trucks      Buses       Total
wheelers
I           II     III, IV, VI     V          All
Information Memorandum, November 1998 - forecast for 2001-2002
annual vehicles        15.64        11.3        4.00       4.49       35.43
(million trips)
% distribution          44%         32%         11%        13%        100%
toll rate (Rs)           7.0        14.0        27.0       41.0
annual revenue           109         158        108         184         559
(Rs million)            I_I                                     I
% distribution          20%         28%         19%        33%        100%
November 2001 actuals
(aovoeras)ge veh/day  T  7.8        18.9         0.9       0.06        27.7
equivalent annual
vehicles                2.83        6.90        0.34       0.02       10.09
(million trips)
% distribution          28%         68%         3%          0%        100%
Comparison, actual and equivalent to forecast
equivalent veh as       18%         61%         9%          0%         28%
% of forecast
actual average           6.5        13.1        25.3       32.8         11.7
rev/veh (Rs)
estimated annual        18.5        90.1         8.6        0.7       118.4
revenue (smn)
% distribution          16%         77%         7% /1%                100%
estimated revenue       17%         57%         8%          0%         21%
as % of forecast
More detailed information and notes are provided in the spreadsheet "D-N_traffic.xls" as attached to the
electronic version of the ICR in Annex 7 - List of Supporting Documents, and in the project files.
Reasons for the lower than expected traffic, particularly initially, include:
*  delayed opening of the Ashram Flyover,
*  unanticipated effect of the Delhi truck traffic ban,
*  recent substantial expansions of competing bridges,
* overestimation of population growth shift from central and old suburbs of Delhi to new suburbs in the
near term,
*  feasibility analysis was inadequate for a toll project, including the examination of willingness-to-pay
for tolls.
Ashram Flyover
- 59 -



One reason for the initially low traffic has been the delay in completion of the Ashram Flyover Project that
was essential for the efficient dispersal of the traffic using the Toll Bridge. After completion of the Flyover
in October 2001, the daily traffic has increased by about 50% and is expected to grow at a high rate in the
coming months as the other flyovers in the vicinity of the project that are under construction get completed.
Efforts are also being made to effect network improvements around the facility so as to attract more traffic
particularly the commercial segment
Truck Traffic Ban
Contributing to the low level of truck traffic is the Delhi daytime truck ban. It was mentioned in the 1998
Feasibility Report as an influence on travel demand but was not followed up on. This law prohibits all
heavy commercial vehicles from entering or operating within the boundaries of the Delhi Municipal Council
between 08:00 and 21:00. Light commercial vehicles are subject to the same restriction with a mid-day
exception period from 11:00 to 17:00. This leaves only the Okhla Bridge, the southernmost, as the legal
truck route between points south of Delhi and points east of Delhi. The ban precludes truck traffic from
using the Delhi-Noida bridge because its westem end is within Delhi.
Expansion of Other Bridges
The Nizamuddin Bridge, the next bridge over the Yamuna to the north of Delhi-Noida, was expanded from
four lane to eight lanes in 1998. Similarly the next bridge north (ITO Bridge) was expanded from four lane
to eight lanes, also opening in 1998. These expansions were anticipated in the traffic forecasting work.
However the traffic "assignment" of flows to bridges was not explicitly sensitive to the presence of tolls on
the Dehli-Noida bridge and may well have underestimated the attractiveness of the now uncongested
Nizamuddin Bridge only a short distance away. This effect will diminish as overall growth again pushes
up traffic use of the other bridges, however it contributes substantially to the initial resistance to paying for
a trip which is not appreciable faster for many drivers. More information on traffic levels on other bridges
is provided in the spreadsheet "D-N_otherbridges.xls" as attached to the electronic version of the ICR in
Annex 7 - List of Supporting Documents, and in the project files.
Population Forecasts
The population forecasts which were used to derive the traffic forecasts have tumed out to have been
"optimistic" in ways which emphasized an early increase in suburb-to-suburb trips. The table below
compares the earlier population forecasts with more recent demographic work.
- 60 -



Delhi Noida, and Regional Population Forecasts
(showing compound annual percent change for comparable time periods)
Original forecasts         Actual and revised forecasts
Area               Feasibility     Feasibility      Census          NCRBP
Report          Report
1993 to 2001    2001 to 2017    1991 to 2001    2001 to 2016
Delhi                 1.15           2.21            3.88            2.63
Noida traffic        12.36           8.33
zone
Noida                                                3.10            5.23
Other external       4.87            3.21
zones
Other external                                       3.94            3.61
Total Region         2.21            2.76            3.85             3.08
The Feasibility Report stressed differential population growth rates (1993-2001) according to planned
population allocations within narrowly defined traffic zones. Delhi itself is the one unambiguous
geographic area as the sum of the traffic zones and the municipal definition used in the census are the same.
Noida was expected to grow rapidly because Delhi would not be able to accommodate all the expected
growth. In practice Delhi's population of 13.8 million is now about 3 million larger than forecast in the
Feasibility Report. Other external zones were also expected to grow much faster than Delhi (at 4.87%
instead of 1.15% for Delhi). In practice these have grown at about the same rate (3.94% and 3.88%
respectively).
New forecasts of demographics in the Delhi region have been prepared for the "Feasibility Study on the
Construction of Expressways in the National Capital Region in India" (National Capital Region Planning
Board - NCRPB, Government of India, Japan International Development Agency, March 2000). These
suggest that the shift in population growth from Delhi to Noida and other external municipalities will occur
over the next 15 years - a much slower and more gradual shift than assumed.
In retrospect it seems the Feasibility Report forecasts were too optimistic by about 5 - 10 years on the
"filling up" of the territory of Delhi and the subsequent shift in most growth to the suburbs. The continuing
high overall growth rates make higher future traffic demand very likely. The population growth rate of
Noida municipality is expected to jump from 3.10% (1991-2001) to 5.23% (2001-2016). More detailed
information and notes on population are provided in the spreadsheet "D-N_-population.xls" as attached to
the electronic version of the ICR in Annex 7 - List of Supporting Documents, and in the project files.
Inadeguate Feasibility
The feasibility studies correctly used an overall systemic approach to distribute traffic flows. The reports
indicate that this was the first use of a "modem" traffic simulation model in Delhi. However traffic levels
were calculated using sirnple elasticities of vehicle use with respect to a forecast level of national income.
This approach is adequate for inter-city roads or where data and analysis resources are primitive but was
not adequate in this case. On the request of potential investors the original feasibility work was assessed by
an outside reviewer. However the outside reviewer, although a well respected major international
- 61 -



consulting firm, was also a traditional engineering-based consultancy which did not undertake any
substantial testing of the customer behaviour assumptions underlying the earlier work. Both the original
work and the review were done from a traditional traffic engineering base appropriate to zero-charge
facilities with minimal consideration of user behaviour and price response.
The effect of the toll was considered in a simplistic way. After testing willingness to pay by means of an
opinion survey the resulting toll figure was applied to the estimated traffic flow with the assumption that
the traffic flow would remain the same, i.e. a zero elasticity of demand with respect to price. There was no
survey of willingness to pay on part of truckers nor bus operators. There was no analysis of travel
behaviour where passenger and freight flows were dissaggregated. Traffic on the ITO bridge moves with
3,500 PCUs/hour/lane. The engineering standard flow is 1,500 PCUs/hour/lane. Therefore in all traffic
modelling the maximum volume allowed across the bridge was set to 2,000 PCUs/hour/lane.
There is no legislative authority to collect tolls in Delhi itself, so all bridge designs were prepared and costs
estimated with the requirement that the toll plaza be within UP territory. This added a constraint to the
civil engineering design and is an example of an institutional constraint driving design and cost.
Proiect Returns
The economic and financial re-evaluations are based on the following assumptions.
*   update first year traffic, toll revenue, and revenue per vehicle assumptions using actual figures from
first 10 months of operations, including two months after the Ashram flyover was opened
*   project from this revised base into future years using the percent change assumptions of the
Information Memorandum with respect to traffic and toll levels.
- 62 -



Summary of Economic Re-Evaluation Results - Delhi-Noida Toll Bridge
(Indian Rs millions)   -
At concept        "appraisal"               At completion
Source       Feasibility Report,  Information    Borrower               ICR
Jan. 1994       Memorandum,     Dec. 2001            Jan. 2002
(Scheme IA)        Nov. 1998
(Scenario IVI
NPV            over 27 years                                  including travel time savings
(at 15%)       (1995-2021)       not included   not included   over 20 years (1998-2017)
(at 15-1.)     not included   not included           ~~~~- 792
including travel time                              over 27 years (1998-2024)
savings                                               - 484
excluding travel time savings
283                                           over 20 years 1,586
over27years 1,416
EIRR           over 27 years
(1995-2021)                                   including travel time savings
including travel time  not included  not included  over 20 years (1998-2017)
savings 27.9%                                            10.5%
excluding travel time                              over 27 years (1998-2024)
savings 25.4%                                            12.9%
including travel time                             excluding travel time savings
savings but initially                                over 20 years 4.4%
construct only 6 lanes:                               over 27 years 7.6%
30.7%
- 63 -



Summary of Financial Re-Evaluation Results - Delhi-Noida Toll Bridge
(Indian Rs millions)
At concept       "appraisal"                    At completion
Source        Feasibility Report  Information
Jan. Report,   Memorandum,          Borrower                   ICR
Jan. 1994        Nov. 1998          Dec. 2001               Jan. 2002
(Scheme 1IA)     (Scenario IV)
at 16%                                              over 26 years (1998-2023)
over 17 years                                                  at 16%
Financial       (1996-2012)                                             with land development
Financial- 273                                                            income
NPV             o     22e        not included       not included                 112
over 22 years                                                     112 
(1996-2017)                                              without land income
- 7                                                       - 1,056
at 20%                                        .             at 20%
over 17 years                                              with land income
- 573                                                       - 740
over 22 years                                             without land income
- 438                                                       - 1,591
over 26 years           over 26 years
over 22 years    over 26 years(19-03(9822)
(1996-2017)       (FY1 999-         (1998-2023)             (1998-2023)
FY024)       with land development   with land development
income                  income
FIRR              15.95%         r                 pre-tax, 17.1%           pre-tax, 16.4%
(target was 20%)  pre-tax, 23.0%    post-tax, 9.7%
without land income    without land income
I___  pre-tax, 13.1%         pre-tax, 12.3%
More detailed information and major assumptions for the economic and financial analysis are documented
in the spreadsheets "D-N_benefits.xls" and "D-N_re-eval.xls" as attached to the electronic version of the
ICR in Annex 7 - List of Supporting Documents, and in the project files.
Factors Affecting the Subproiect
Factors outside the control of the government or implementing agency included the depreciation of the
Rupee from Rs. 36/US$ to Rs. 46/US$ at the end of implementation, and from Rs. 0.30/Yen to almost Rs.
0.44/Yen during implementation
Factors generally subject to government control included: (1) nuclear tests in May 1998, the Pokharan-Il
phenomenon resulted in complete restructuring of the Financing Consortium resulting in higher cost of
financing and delay in financial closure, (2) delays in awarding various governmental and other statutory
approvals. The total time required to start construction was almost 7 years from the date the Memorandum
- 64 -



of Understanding was signed for the Project between Noida, Delhi Government and IL&FS. This delay
resulted in higher construction, establishment and other costs.
Factors generally subject to implementing agency control included: (1) timely approval of designs,
specifications etc., (2) timely payments to the contractor, (3) other assistance to the contractors/consultants
to expedite construction. These factors resulted in completion of the project in 25 months as against 32
months bid by the contractor and subsequently reduced to 29 months during negotiations.
Although the project cost was severely adversely effected due to the above factors, the actual cost has been
kept within the budget mainly due to strict project supervision, value and financial engineering, and time
saving.
NTBCL has responded to weak demand by revising its price structure in August 2001 to encourage greater
use of the bridge. This has caused average revenue per vehicle to fall from Rs 12.84 (as measured over
February 2001 to July 2001) to Rs 11.58 (as measured over August to November 2001).
Sustainabilitv and Future Operations
The project is likely to be sustainable based on expected growth of suburban residential and economic
activity and thus growth in traffic and toll revenues. To meet the temporary short fall in revenue the
NTBCL has initiated:
*  additional market research on pricing
*  ongoing marketing activities
*  restructured financing
*  actively pursue short and long run land development opportunities (commercial development of surplus
land available on the vicinity of the project to increase traffic and also to generate up-front liquidity
through license fees/lease premium etc.)
*  evaluating possible link road to the NE (additional road and bridge connection to provide another
access point into Noida).
Lessons Learned
There is now an example of an major toll bridge in a major urban area in India, where previously there was
no such example. This will allow future similar proposals to be evaluated with greater certainty in cost
estimates, benefit estimates, and user response to paying tolls.
Willingness-to-pay must be evaluated more carefully than an opinion survey of stated preferences. More
sophisticated stated preference approaches, such as conjoint analysis, are needed to evaluate unconscious
trade-offs, particularly in introducing a completely new product. Such simple techniques as randomly
splitting the sample into two or three sub-groups and using different "test values" for the willingness-to-pay
survey can reduce the bias introduced by the phrasing of the survey question.
Willingness-to-pay must be explicitly assessed for truckers (individual owners and operators as well as
corporate and fleet owners and operators) and for bus operators.
- 65 -



Traffic forecasts provide the "trending line" of future levels of traffic. This approach has generally proven
adequate for traffic engineering requirements. However a toll facility explicitly enters the realm of
commercial products and consumer behaviour. A product-launch or ramp-up period needs to be introduced
into the forecasts of the first few years of traffic levels. For example, with a linear ramp-up in the first
month out of a 24 month start up period traffic would be set at only 1/24th of the projected level. Each
month would increase the expected traffic amount by another 1/24th of the projected total. Higher or better
expenditures on marketing during the ramp-up period could be reflected in improved initial traffic growth.
Population forecasts based on centrally planned allocations of population are risky, people often don't take
up residence where they have been told, housing development can be more opportunistic, invasive, and at
higher density than officially planned for.
Traffic forecasting needs to be more realistic in modelling travel behaviour under congestion. In the
Delhi-Noida analysis the upper capacity limit per lane was based on a fixed standard (which in this case
was set at a level below traffic levels actually observed on other bridges) rather than an asymtotic or
limiting function. This makes projected traffic diversions between facilities more volatile than is actually
the case. Similarly the assumption that a facility has reached its overall capacity when capacity is reached
during the peak one hour time period does not match observed behaviour. In reality travellers elongate the
peak period and the total capacity is greater than assumed.
More care needs to be taken in comparing facilities of different size and timing. At feasibility the option
was considered of building a 4+4 lane facility from the start versus a facility of 3+3 lanes with 1+1 lane
added later. The analysis showed a 20% cost decrease accompanied by a 20% traffic decrease and thus was
rejected. However the cost reduction was available immediately and was well understood, while the traffic
reduction occurred only in later years and depended on the accuracy of the traffic forecast. The difference
between the two ERRs (27.9% with 4+4 lanes from the outset, 30.7% with an initial 3+3 lanes) was
deemed too small to be worth the effort of doing the project in two stages. Such a casual approach to cost
sensitivity may be acceptable in a traditional publicly funded non-toll facility but it is too weak for a
privately financed facility. Also following on the point above, congestion was assumed to limit future
traffic capacity to an arbitrary fixed value so that the "need" for additional capacity, and thus a bias for
4+4 lanes, was built in to the analysis.
The project should perhaps have retained non-motorized access. Non-motor transport is extensively used
in Delhi and its surroundings.
The successful implementation of the Project has demonstrated that the Public Private Partnership
framework can be used to create infrastructure capacity at minimal cost to Government
A robust concession agreement was developed and agreed upon that addressed the inherent risks of an
infrastructure project and allocated these risks clearly:
- political risks with government -- e.g. compensation in the event of nationalization, freedom for NTBCL
to collect tolls
- commercial risks with operator (NTBCL) -- e.g. low traffic volumes
- financing risks with financiers (IL&FS/NTBCL) -- e.g. guarantee to meet 10% cost overun, debt
service reserve
The final concession agreement required considerable effort and will on the part of all parties to develop.
The result of successfully completing this first concession agreement was that the subsequent concessions
(Vadodara-Halol and Ahmenadab-Mesana) could build on the work and were developed and agreed upon
- 66 -



more quickly, and more easily.
B. VADODARA - HALOL TOLL ROAD
Description of the Subproiect
The Vadodara-Halol Toll Road Project envisaged the widening and strengthening of 32 km of an existing
State Highway (SH 87) from a two-lane facility to a four-lane facility, along with service roads on both
sides. Other project features include three major bridges, three minor bridges, two main toll plazas, and
one intermediate toll plaza.
The Toll Road starts at km 8/300, at its intersection with Vadodara bypass (National Highway 8 bypass to
Vadodara City) and ends at km 40 at the start of Halol bypass. Vadodara is the third largest city in
Gujarat with an estimated population of over 1.2 million and is an important industrial centre. Halol,
because of "backward area" industrial incentives, has become an important industrial hub to Vadodara.
The project road caters to industrial and goods traffic movement and passenger work trips to and from
Vadodara to Halol.
The project road provides the shortest link for long distance industrial and goods traffic moving from
Mumbai and other parts of Westem India to parts of Northem and Central India. The SH87 with one end
on the Vadodara Bypass of NH-8 and the other at Shamlaji (on the NH8) 100 km northeast of Ahmedabad
provides, to long distance traffic, an altemate corridor to the NH8, shorter by almost 90 km.
A Detailed Feasibility Report (DFR) was prepared by Kirloskar Consultants in November 1997. It
covered project engineering and design altematives, traffic forecast, costing, environment and social
assessments (including resettlement and rehabilitation), risk assessment, financial and economic rate of
return and an Environment and Social Assessment (ESA). IL&FS prepared an Investment Appraisal
Memorandum in December 1999. The report outlines the returns on the project, debt instruments required
for enabling the project to meet lender covenants, and the risks associated with investing in the project on a
project recourse basis.
The project is structured on a public private partnership format where the implementation is done through a
special purpose vehicle (SPV), namely the Vadodara Halol Toll Road Company Limited (VHTRL). A
concession agreement was signed on 17 October 1998 between the Govenmment of Gujarat (GOG) and
VHTRL based on predetermined post tax return of 20 percent. The recovery of investment is through
imposing user charges for a concession period of 30 years. Commercial operation began on 24 October
2000.
Proiect Costs and Financine Plan
-67-



Vadodara Halol Toll Road
Cost Summary
(Indian Rupees millions unless noted)
Item                      Investment
Appraisal       Vadodara-Halol Toll Road Co.
Memorandum              December 2001
December 1999
Budgeted (revised     Actual
construction budget  (Project final as
as approved 29  of 23 Oct. 2001)
_______ ______ Aug. 2000)
Construction Cost              1,195.27          1,195.30        1,195.20
Social & Environ                 41.35             44.90           47.46
Preliminary &
Preoperative Expenses
Preliminary Expense            49.05             32.70          32.61
Establishment Cost             19.41             20.10          21.76
Indep. Eng., Id.                5.73              5.70            6.16
Auditor__                _ _  _  _ _
Construction                   13.53             13.50           12.06
Supervision
Insurance charges               2.35              2.40           2.99
Sub Total                      90.07             74.40          75.58
Interest During                 119.15            121.00          138.04
Construction
Fees
Project Management             35.00             35.00           35.00
Fees                                 _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Mobilisation charges           36.78             14.00           15.38
Other financial charges         4.30             22.80           27.81
Sub Total                      76.08             71.80           78.19
Sinking Fund                     39.43             39.90           50.00
Debt Service Reserve            100.00            135.10            0.00
Contingency Provision            88.65             67.60           23.83
Landed Project Cost            1,750.00          1,750.00        1,608.30
- 68 -



Vadodara-Halol Toll Road
Financing Plan
Investment
Appraisal       Vadodara-Halol Toil Road Co.
Memorandum               December 2001
December 1999
Budgeted           Actual
Equity
Government of Gujarat              150               150              150
IL&FS                              150               150              150
Contractor Consortium              150               150              150
Financial Investors                100               100              100
Total Equity                         550               550              550
Debt
IFCI                               250              184.1
IDBI                               250              184.1            197.4
IL&FS                              200             200.0             200.0
GIIC                               100              73.7              59.0
CBI                                100              73.7             100.0
BOB                                100               73.7             81.9
SBI                                150              110.7            120.0
DDBs                               250             300.0             300.0
Total Debt                          1,400           1,200.0          1,058.3
Grand Total                         1,950           1,750.0          1,608.3
More detailed information and notes on costs are provided in the spreadsheet "V-H_costs.xls" as attached
to the electronic version of the ICR in Annex 7 - List of Supporting Documents, and in the project files.
Proiect Benefits
The traffic studies undertaken at feasibility showed that a significant portion of the commercial vehicle
trips go beyond Halol towards Godhra, with the majority bound for North India. It was estimated that the
proportion of this traffic is likely to grow at a higher rate than the traffic between Vadodara and Halol in
future years. Given that this route is significantly shorter and that the GOG would strengthen the road
beyond Halol, as a part of the first phase of its World Bank approved loan (Gujarat State Highway
Project), the road will continue to increasingly divert this traffic which currently uses the NH8 through
Ahmedabad.
Since operations began, traffic levels are lower than what had been projected. Traffic volumes are only
58% of the estimated initial volumes and revenues are only 47% of estimated initial values. The table
below provides more detail.
-69 -



Vadodara-Halol Traffic Forecasts
(comparison of traffic forecast to initial actual traffic)
2w&h 3     Cars     Light CVs    Trucks     Buses       Total
wheelers
I         II         III      IV, VI        V          All
Investment Appraisal Memorandum, December 1999 - forecast for 2000/01
annual vehicles        0.55       0.95       0.41        1.72       0.28       3.91
(million tnps)
% distribution         14%        24%        10%        44%          7%       100%
toll rate (Rs)        5, 10         30         45         65          65
annual revenue         3.08      28.50      18.90      111.80      18.20     180.48
(Rs million)
% distribution          2%        16%        10%        62%         10%       100%
October 2001 actuals
averageveh/day        1,117      1,612        559      2,260        606       6,155
(O O O s)__          _ _ _   __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _
equivalent annual
vehicles               0.41       0.59        0.2        0.82       0.22       2.25
(million trips)   _
% distribution         18%        26%         9%        37%         10%       100%
Comparison, actual and equivalent to forecast
equivalent veh as      75%        62%        49%        48%         79%        58%
%   of forecast              _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ __              _ _ _ _
actual average         5.65      23.25      31.59       67.94      27.06       37.6
rev/veh  (Rs)__                 _ _ _   __ _ _ __                _ _ _ _
estimated annual       2.30      13.68       6.45       56.05       5.98      84.46
revenue (Rs mn)
% distribution          3%        16%         8%        66%          7%       100%
estimated revenue      75%        48%        34%        50%         33%        47%
as % of forecast
More detailed information and notes on costs are provided in the spreadsheet "V-H_traffic.xls" as attached
to the electronic version of the ICR in Annex 7 - List of Supporting Documents, and in the project files.
(Very slight revisions to the above table, based on Borrower comments received 12 March 2002, mean that
the figures shown here no longer precisely match those in the spreadsheet. There are no material changes.)
One concern is the volume of commercial traffic which is using the non-toll service road rather than the toll
road. This traffic may shift back to the main road as overall traffic growth leads to more congestion on the
service road. The following table illustrates the difference between the forecast use of the service road and
its actual use in 2001.
- 70 -



Vadodara-Halol Toil Road
Distribution of Vehicle Types on Service Road (non-toll)
Two       Three                 Light      Heavy Commercial
Wheelers  Wheelers     Cars    Commercial        Vehicles          Total
Vehicles     (trucks & buses)
Forecast for 2000   _
46.9%     25.5%      13.9%       7.2%             6.5%            100%
Survey, Nov. 2001
(both directions)
At Halol           38.9%     16.9%      15.2%       17.1%           11.8%            100%
At Baroda          30.4%     10.2%     21.4%        21.2%           16.8%            100%
Both locations     35.5%     14.2%      17.7%       18.7%           13.8%            100%
combined                                                                                     I
Proiect Returns
The financial re-evaluation is based on the following assumptions.
*   update first two years of traffic, toll revenue, and revenue per vehicle assumptions using actual figures
from first 13 months of operations.
*   project from this revised base into future years using the percent change assumptions of the Investment
Appraisal Memorandum with respect to traffic and toll levels.
*   there is insufficient information available at completion to allow the economic benefits to be calculated
from first principles. The target value of a cost saving of Rs 49.7 per trip has been assumed to have
been 50% achieved. This represents a conservative assumption of the benefits likely from the project
- 71 -



Summary of Re-Evaluation Results - Vadodara-Halol Toll Road
(Indian Rs millions)
At concept             At "appraisal"    At completion
Source                                            Investment
Detailed Feasibility Study,    Appraisal            ICR
July, 1997             Memorandum,         Jan. 2002
April 1999
Option 2 *     Option 3 **
at 12%
20 year: 352
Economic NPV     20 year: 1,030  20 year: 1,618  not included       30 year: 531
(12% discount)   30 year: 1,313  30 year: 1,902                       at 20%
20 year: 57
30 year: 85
"in excess of 12%
EIRR            20 year: 22.6%  20 year: 31.4%   and therefore     20 year: 23.2%
30 year: 23.1%  30 year: 31.6%   economically      30 year: 24.1%
viable"
Financial NPV    20 year: -428  20 year: -115        .              20 year: -493
(21% discount)   30 year: -245  30 year: 69      not included       30 year: -322
pre-tax
20 year: 19.1%
FIRR                                            20ya:1.1%pre-tax
20 year: 14.9%  20 year: 19.1%  30 year: 21.5%       year
30 year: 18.6%  30 year: 21.8%     post-tax        20 year: 15.2
20 year: 18.7%     30 year: 18.2%
30 year: 20.5%
* Option 2 provided for through service roads with no toll. The construction cost estimates used
later came from this scenario.
** Option 3 provided different service roads with some level of toll. The traffic forecasts used
later came from this scenario. This Option is considered to be the "base case" for all analysis
except construction costs.
More detailed information and major assumptions for economic and financial analysis are documented in
the spreadsheets "V-H_benefits.xls" and "V-H_re-eval.xls" attached to the electronic version of the ICR in
Annex 7 - List of Supporting Documents, and kept in the project files.
Factors Affecting the Subnroiect
On-going discussions have been held with the GOG to assess the low level of traffic and to detennine
solutions. In informal discussions, the GOG has accepted that one factor in the decline in truck traffic
could be the scrutiny of truck over-loading that is now being undertaken at the State border. This has
resulted in the flow of traffic avoiding the State of Gujarat altogether and using alternate roads via Madhya
- 72 -



Pradesh to reach North India.
VHTRL has responded to weak demand by revising its price structure to encourage greater use of the road.
This has caused average revenue per vehicle to fall from Rs 42.2 (as measured over November 2000 to
March 2001) to Rs 37.6 (October 2001). See spreadsheet "V-H_traffic.xls" for detailed revenue per vehicle
type per month data.
Sustainability and Future ODerations
VHTRL is taking steps to minimize toll leakage and avoidance by increasing patrolling and performing exit
checks. Several small intermediate connections between the service roads and the toll road have been
closed off by chains to prevent traffic avoiding the toll barriers. The existing toll rates and volume schemes
are being revised and rationalized with a view to increase toll revenues and to prevent diverting of traffic to
other competing routes. VHTRL is confident that the lower revenue will not affect the interest payments to
the lenders at present, partially due to lower initial and operating costs having been incurred. Traffic on the
facility is expected to increase sufficiently in the near future to support principal payments as and when
they begin. The dispersal of traffic beyond Halol is also expected to improve with the upgrading of the
Halol-Godhra road in the Gujarat State Highway Project in the coming years.
Lessons Learned
Similar to the lessons learned for the Delhi-Noida Toll Bridge, willingness-to-pay must be evaluated more
carefully and using better approaches. In the Feasibility Study for this subproject willingness-to-pay was
assessed separately for truckers and car drivers, although not for bus operators. However, despite 43% of
truckers saying they would reduce trips or change route rather than use a toll road and 40% of truckers
saying they would switch to an inferior road rather than use a toll road, the Feasibility Study concluded that
truckers would have nowhere else to go and "a reduction in trips by reassignment is negligible". The
lessons here is that "difficult" responses should be the focus of further analysis rather than dismissing them
because they run counter to accepted wisdom. Project preparation resources and schedules should allow
for the possibility of a second round of analysis before declaring the first round victorious.
Again, traffic forecasts provide only the "trending line" of future levels of traffic. For a "consumer"
product a product-launch or ramp-up period needs to be introduced into the forecasts of the first few years
of traffic levels. As with urban roads and bridges traffic forecasting needs to be more realistic in modelling
travel behaviour under congestion. The feasibility study for Vadodara-Halol assumed that the facility
reaches its overall capacity when capacity is reached during the peak one hour time period. This does not
,match observed behaviour, in reality travellers elongate the peak period and the total "peak" capacity is
greater.
Loop detectors were installed at the entry points of the toll road to allow for a cross-check of traffic
volumes against toll transactions data. However no loop detectors were installed at exit points or in the
adjacent service roads. Counts upon exit could be compared with entry flows to estimate "leakage" in or
out of the toll road. Data on traffic flows in the service roads is an important part of understanding the toll
road market and in understanding overall user impact of the facility. In future consideration should be
given to installing such detectors at the time of construction and requiring in the concession agreement the
gathering and provision service road traffic data to the state government
- 73 -



C. AHMEDABAD - MEHSANA TOLL ROAD
Descrintion of the Subvrooect
The Ahmedabad Mehsana Toll Road Project involves widening and strengthening of a 51.6 kIn stretch of
existing the State Highway between Ahmedabad and Mehsana, from two lanes to four lanes along with
service roads. The project also includes widening and strengthening of 11.5 km of existing Kadi-Kalol spur
road, a bypass of 2.3 kmn at Sertha village, two railway over bridges, two minor bridges, one road under
bridge, five underpasses, five cattle crossings cum box culverts, and two toll plazas.
The project is currently under construction. Construction began in May 2000 and is being undertaken in
two phases. As per original schedule, Phase I was to have been completed by October 2001, and Phase II
by August 2003. Due to the major earthquake in Gujarat state in Janualy 2001 there has been a
substantial slippage in the progress (by about 18%). AMTRL, the contractors and other concerned
agencies have revised the construction schedule, according to which Phase I is expected to be completed by
30 June 2002. The completion for Phase II has been advanced to 31 October 2002.
The October 2001 Monthly Progress Report was received by the ICR Mission in December 2001. The
overall cumulative achieved progress to date is 56%. Target is set to complete the overall project in 30
months instead of 39 months.
The implementation mechanism for the project remains a BOOT format, through a designated special
purpose vehicle (SPV), the Ahmedabad-Mehsana Toll Road Company Limited (AMTRL). The
Government of Gujarat (GOG) and IL&FS are the main shareholders of the company. A concession
agreement was signed on May 12, 1999 between GOG and AMTRL based on predetermined post tax
return of 20 percent. The recovery of investment is through imposing user charges for a concession period
of 30 years.
Proiect Costs and Financine Plan
The budgeted landed cost of the project is Rs. 3,230.5 million, inclusive of the cost of construction, interest
during construction and other financial engineering costs. The AMTRL has spent an amount of Rs 1,149.8
million up to October, 2001. See following table.
- 74 -



Ahmedabad - Mehsana Toll Road
(Indian Rupees millions unless noted)
Information       Ahmedabad - Mehsana
Memorandum           Toll Road Co. Ltd.
March 2000           December 2001
Budgeted    Actual
Budgeted     as of Oct. 2001
Cost Summary_
Construction Cost                       2,243.59       2,243.59         883.39
O&M Mobilization                           40.00          40.00
Non-Financing Costs_
Preliminary Expenses                     56.09          56.09          36.2
Establishment Cost                       60.00          60.00          35.4
Indep Engr, Indep Auditor                15.00          15.00           2.09
Social & Environmental Costs             80.00          80.00          37.63
Construction Supervision                 44.87          44.87          26.40
Insurance Charges                        11.22          11.22           7.29
Sub Total                                 267.18         267.18         145.07
Financing Costs
Project Management Fees                  64.61          64.61          32.31
Mobilisation Charges - Debt                             22.60          16.18
Mobilisation Charges - Equity            69.16           5.15           3.25
Upfront Guarantee Charges                                3.15           2.75
Other Financing Charges                                 38.26          38.03
Contingencies                           127.54         127.54
Base Project Cost                       2,812.08       2,812.08       1,120.98
Other Costs
Interest During Construction            178.04         178.04          28.91
Sinking Fund                             89.34          89.34
Debt Service Reserve                    151.04         151.04
Landed Project Cost                      3,230.50      3,230.50       1,149.8
- 75 -



Ahmedabad - Mehsana Toll Road
Financing Plan
(Indian Rupees millions unless noted _)
Ahmedabad - Mehsana
Toll Road Co. Ltd.
Information                     Actual
Memorandum        Budget     as of Oct. 2001
(March 2000)
Equity
Gujarat Toll Road Co. Ltd.          550.00        550.00         365.00
Construction Contractor             214.30        214.30         214.30
Institutional Investors             225.70        225.70            Nil
Total Equity                         990.00        990.00         579.30
Debt
IL&FS-World Bank Line               500.00           500              -
Deep Discount Bond (DDBs)           400.00           400              -
Institutions and Banks             1,340.50      1,340.50        292.50
Total Debt                          2,240.50      2,240.50        292.50
Grand Total                         3,230.50      3,230.50        871.80
Proiect Benefits
With the project still under construction it is not yet possible to have an indication of actual use of the new
facility.
- 76 -



Proiect Returns
Summary of Re-Evaluation Results - Ahmenabad-Mesana Toil Road
(Indian Rs millions)
At concept          At "appraisal"      At completion
Source          Feasibility Study, Final   Inforlation
Report, August 1997       March 2000     Borrower     ICR
(Option 3A)           (Option 3A)
Vehicle Operating Cost
Economic           (VOC) Savings
NPV (12%                10,022             not included       project not yet
discount)       VOC plus Time Savigs                            complete
19,208
VOC + Time + Accident
Cost Saving
19,307
'VOC only
EIRR             ~~~50.5%
EIRR                 VOC + Time            not included       project not yet
86.3%                                    complete
VOC + Time + Accident
86.9%
over 20 years
Financial                149               not included       project not yet
(at 20%)            over 30 years                               complete
585
FIRR                 over 20 years         over 20 years
20.8%                 20.8%            project not yet
over 30 years         over 30 years         complete
22.4%                 22.4%       1                    1
Factors Affectine the Subproeect
A second railway grade separation (railway over-bridge) was added after the project began. Indian
Railways reconsidered the expected future use of a line, resulting in an increased number of future trains.
This caused the threshold of expected rail - highway crossing movements to exceed the standard for grade
separations and so an over-bridge was required.
- 77 -



Additional Annex 11. Studies Financed Under The IDA Credit
IDA CREDIT (Cr. 2838-IN)
The status of the IDA credit in respect of the six contracts being managed by IL&FS plus two contracts
managed by government agencies is given in the following table. Of these, five have received
disbursements for a total amount of US$ 588,995.83. Brief status notes on the project preparation studies
managed by IL&FS are provided below.
Status of IDA Credit (Cr. 2838-IN)
Sub-Projectl    FFunds      Name of                 Costs ',t         TotalCoslt ,TotaVFui`ds,, Thtal Amount: ,Clalms Filed&  Furidi
Government      Apprved    Consultant,                               ., >in,.E, , ,,'k d :   ,in
ImplementingAgency  by1DEA  Ws C    u                                       US. 4            '                               raw
(MedhyaApproved' Pnaunds                                                                                    c
IndlanRs.' zBritish~  DoIhirs!,1i V'2'" 
State __IndustrialLPounds'
MholwuGhtabillod   150K000   WlsConsufting Rs. 4,822,192                 91,113    INR           INR          INR          21,338.12
Road                         Engineering                                           44,42,192     35,53,753.60  3,53 ,000
(Madhya Pradesh              Services
State Industrial
Development Corp.)
Ralpur Ring Road             Kirloskar    Rs. 5,826,883                  119,514   INR           INR 22,09,000 INR         27,873.84
(Madhya Pradesh              Consultants                                           22,09,000                   2209,000
State Industrial
Development
Corp                                                                                                         _
Dry Port of RaJasthan 482,000  Lea Associates Rs.              C$        351,581   INR 38,48,205 INR 3.848,205 INR 3,848,205 136,766.95
(Rajasthan Industrial                     11,366,754           188,711             CS 84997.60   CS 84997     CS 84,997.60
Infrastructure Corp)         South Asia
BIRNEP              58,800   MWs Consuhing Rs.                 USS       338,705   INR 56,61,225 INR 2,560,000 INR 2,560,000 114,064.00
(Orissa Industnal            Engineering  11,652,420           99.706              USD 29,366.72 USD 8,263    USD 8,263.60
Develop                      Services
ment Corp.)
Vizag Water Supply  847,000  MWs Binnie and Rs. 6,024,358 E95,085        259,217   INR 48,16,744 INR 4,816,744 INR 4,816,744 228,954.95
(Andhra Pradesh              Black, UK                                              76,068      E 76,068      76,068
Industrial
Infrastructure Corp)                                     _                _
Dewas Water Supply 563,760   M/s Tata     Rs.                             170,255  INR           INR          Nil          Nil
(MP Industrial               Consulting   4,800,785                                14,40,236     480,078
Development Corp.)           Engineers
Sub-Total - IL&FS  2,501,560              Rs          E95,085 C$188,711   1,330,385 INR22,417,602 INR17,467,781 INR        588,994.83
44,113,392           US$99,706            $84,997.60   C$84,997     16.787,949
USD 29,366.72 USD 8,263    CS 84,997
76,068        76,068      USD8,263
E 76,068
Tariff Authorlty for  710,000  MWs John H.                     168,820    168,820                                          Nil
Major Ports (managed         Amold
by TAMP)             _                    I           I                                                                    I
TN Solid Waste      90,000   Mls Camp                          490,000                                                     Nil
_   _     Dress, Mckee                                          _                   _
GRAND TOTAL        3.211,560                                              ' _  1,499.205 .                                 588,995.83
- 78 -



IDA CREDIT (Cr. 2838-IN): PROJECT PREPARATION STUDIES MANAGED BY IL&FS -
STATUS NOTES
1.     Mbow Ghatabillod Road Proiect
No.           Items                               Description
1.    Namne of Project        Mhow Ghatabillod Road Project
2.    Project Description     35 kmn long Road Project.
Strengthening and widening of existing State Highway
Seeks to improve the connectivity to Pithampur Industrial
Area.
3.    State Counterpart       Madhya Pradesh State Industrial Development Corporation
(MPSIDC) on behalf of Government of Madhya Pradesh.
4.    Name of Consultants     Consulting Engineering Services (I) Limited
5.    Scope of Consultants'   Preparation of Detailed Feasibility and Environment &
Work                    Social Assessment Report
6.    Consultancy Contract    Contract signed between CES (I) and MPSIDC for an
Description             amount of Rs. 44,24,192 /-, during May 1998.
Amount approved by WB/DEA for funding under IDA 2838
IN
7.    Amount Disbursed        USD 74,860.80
8.    Project Status          Consultants have completed detailed feasibility studies. All
the payments have been made to the Consultants. IDA claims
for balance reimbursements are being filed by MPSIDC on
behalf of GoMP
2.     Raiuur Ring Road Proiect
- 79 -



No.           Items           Description
1.    Name of Project         Raipur Ring Road Project
2.    Project Description     Construction of 45 km long Ring Road around Raipur city,
__bypassing the industrial estates and residential colonies.
3.    State Counterpart       Government of Madhya Pradesh
Madhya Pradesh State Industrial Development Corporation
(MPSIDC)
4.    Name of Consultants     Kirloskar Consultants
5.    Scope of Consultants'   Preparation of Detailed Feasibility and Environment &
Work                    Social Assessment Report in two phases. First phase
involved pre-feasibility study and preparation of Preferred
Alignment Report.
6.    Consultancy Contract    Contract signed between Kirloskar Consultants and MPSIDC
Description             for an amount of Rs. 58,26,883 during May 1998. Amount
approved by WB/DEA for funding under IDA 2838 IN
7.    Amount Disbursed        USD 50, 723.31
8.    Project Status          Phase I of Study has been completed by the Consultants.
With the formation of new State, project now falls in
Chattisgarh. New Governnent reviewing the proposal.
Payments for phase I study have been made to the
Consultants
3.     Dry Port of Raiasthan
No.           Items                               Description
1.    Name of Project         Dry Port Project, Kotagasim, Rajasthan
2.    Project Description     Seeks to develop a multi-modal logistics centre to facilitate
the management of container and export-import cargo in the
northern India.
3.    State Counterpart       Rajasthan State Industrial Development and Investment
Corporation Ltd. (RIICO) on behalf of Government of
Rajasthan.
4.    Name of Consultants     Lea Associates South Asia Pvt. Ltd.
5.    Scope of Consultants'   Detailed Feasibility and Environment & Social Assessment
Work                    Study
6.    Consultancy Contract    Consultancy Contract signed between RIICO and
Description             Consultants during July 2000 for a cost of Rs. 11,366,754/-
and Canadian $1,88,71 1/-, after seeking necessary WB/DEA
approvals.
7.    Amount Disbursed        USD 1,36,766.95
8.    Project Status          Phase I comprising of 'Pre-feasibility Study' has been
completed. Second Phase involving preferred site selection
and detailed feasibility study to be completed by March
2002.
- 80 -



4.     Bhubaneswar Intenrated Road Network Plan Proiect
No.            Items                               Description
1.    Name of Project          Bhubaneswar Integrated Road Network Plan Project in
_ _________ _________ _______ _   O rissa
2.    Project Description      Project involves construction of bypass to Bhubaneswar
town, intercity corridor between Bhubaneswar & Cuttack and
shorter connectivity link between Bhubaneswar and western
parts of Orissa
3.    State Counterpart        Orissa Industrial Infrastructure Development Corporation
(IDCO) on behalf of Government of Orissa
4.    Name of Consultants      Consulting Engineering Services (I) Ltd. in association with
Beca International Consultants
5.    Scope of Consultants'    Detailed Feasibility and Environment & Social Assessment
Work                     Studies.
Preparation of Bid documentation and assistance to Project
SPV during project bidding stage.
6.    Consultancy Contract     Consultancy Contract signed between Project SPV
Description              (Bhubaneswar Integrated Road Network Co. Ltd.) and
Consultants during July 1999, at a cost of Rs. 11,652,420/-
and USD 99,706.
Necessary WB approvals availed before signing Consultancy
__________________________  contract.
7.    Amount Disbursed         USD 63,340.69
8.    Project Status           Phase I, Preferred Alignment Study, has been completed.
Detailed Feasibility phase is in progress
5.     Visakhapatnam Industrial Water Supply Project
No.           Items                                Description
1 .   Name of Project         Visakhapatnam Industrial Water Supply Project
2.    Project Description      State water supply project seeks to provide 420 MLD water
____   ____________________    to  the  industry
3.    State Counterpart        Andhra Pradesh Industrial Infrastructure Development
_ ___________________ Corporation (APIIC) Ltd.
4.    Name of Consultants      M/s Binnie Black and Veatch Ltd. in association with
Kirloskar Consultants.
5.    Scope of Consultants'    Detailed Feasibility, Environment & Social Assessment
Work                     Studies and preparation of Investment Banking Report.
6.    Consultancy Contract     Consultancy Contract singed between APIIC and Consultants
Description             during May 1998 after availing necessary approvals from
World Bank.
7.    Amount Disbursed         USD 2,29,973.91
8.    Project Status           Detailed Engineering Report is under preparation. Request
For Qualification for the selection of Operator to be issued
during December 2001.
- 81 -



6.     Dewas Water Supply Project
No.           Items                               Description
1.    Name of Project         Dewas Industrial Water Supply Project
2.    Project Description     State water supply project.
to substantially augment the water supply to Dewas industrial
estate
3.    State Counterpart       Madhya Pradesh State Industrial Development Corporation
(MPSIDC) on behalf of Govemrnment of Madhya Pradesh.
4.    Name of Consultants     Tata Consulting Engineers (TCE)
5.    Scope of Consultants'   Preparation of Bid documents and assistance to Project SPV
Work                    in bidding phase
6.    Consultancy Contract    Contract awarded for USD 860,215/-
Description
7.    Amount Disbursed        Nil
8.    Project Status          Preparation of bid documentation in process.
- 82 -



Additional Annex 12. Environment and Social Safeguards
1.     This annex relates to the description of the implementing agency's (IL&FS) capacity to address
environment and social aspects of private infrastructure projects and highlights some of the good practices
adopted in integrating the environment and social dimension in sub-project preparation and implementation
phase.
Application of Environment and Social Safeguards Policies and Practices
2.     Internalization of environmental and social considerations in project development and business
processes of IL&FS has been a noteworthy accomplishment of the Project. IL&FS has invested
extensively in internal capacity building that began with the formulation of the Environmental and Social
Report (ESR) which enunciated the environmental and social policy and practices of the company. During
project preparation, IL&FS with the assistance from an NGO, prepared the Environment and Social Report
(ESR) as a tool to mitigate adverse impacts associated with environment and land acquisition. The ESR is
consistent with the local requirements and the Bank's operational directives (4.01 Environmental
Assessment and 4.30 Involuntary Resettlement). The report was subsequently adopted by IL&FS as its
corporate policy in November 1995. IL&FS created a separate Environment and Social Management
Group (ESMG) and adequately staffed it over the years. The due diligence mechanism is working
effectively, and the three sub-projects ( Delhi-Noida, Vadodara-Halol and Ahmedabad-Mehsana toll roads)
financed by the Bank can be highlighted for their environmental and social soundness. This practice is
being continued in the other projects (East Coast Road, Tirupur Area Development and Vizag Industrial
Water Supply) that are currently under development. Over the years, IL&FS has further evolved these
mechanisms and has begun the task of strengthening the capacity of SPVs to ensure high environmental and
social standards in the construction and operation phases of projects. The 2000-2001 Environmental and
Social Audit for the first time assessed the performance of projects at advanced stages of construction and
operation - and its findings have established that the provisions of the ESR have been effective in ensuring
adequate implementation of Environmental Management Plans (EMPs) and Resettlement Action Plans
(RAPs). In recent times, SPVs have started to play increasing role in ES supervision of their projects by
hiring and training dedicated project staff. The approach taken by IL&FS has set precedence in India and
other financial institutions have developed or in the process of developing similar due diligence mechanism
for addressing environmental and social impacts. More recently, IL&FS has transformed its environmental
and social knowledge practice into a full fledged business entity - Eco-Smart India Ltd. The progress
IL&FS has made in mainstreaming environmental and safeguards in its business processes and transactions
is captured in following table.
Table 1: Environmental and Social Safeguards Progress of IL&FS
Indicator                      Progress                       Remarks
1996             2001
Dedicated ES Staff                  I                4        All staff re-assigned to IL&FS
subsidiary Ecosmart India Ltd
Skills Enhancement of IL&FS        3                30        Internal and external training
Project Staff
ESR Updates and Annual ES         ESR           ESR (same)    The findings of E&S audit are
audit reports                                  4 Audit reports  presented in the annual Report
and discussed internally
- 83 -



Knowledge Sharing and             None            several     Retained as knowledge provider
Outreach                                                      by FIs and government agencies
ELFS Sub-project supervision    Minimal       DNB: Rs. 7.0 m  Ensuring satisfactory adherence
cost                                          VHR: Rs 3.5 m   to ESR provision by
AMR: Rs 3.5 m  sub-projects
Mitigation costs per sub-project  Minimal     DNB: Rs 75.3 m  Costs include payment for land
(Rau-Pitampur set  VHR: Rs 57.0 m  and assets at replacement value
as benchmark)   AMR:Rs 31.0 m   and adaptive designs
Lessons Learned
3.     IL&FS experience has demonstrated that upfront integration of environmental and social (ES)
safeguard aspects have increased sub-project's public acceptability and reduced project risks normally
caused by environmental and social issues.
*   Adaptive designs minimized resettlement and rehabilitation requirements on Delhi Noida Toll
Bridge subproject (DNBP) and Vadodra Halol Road sub-project (VHRP). The opportunity
provided to project affected persons (PAPs) to participate at the sub-project design stage,
significantly improved people's perception. The use of replacement value to compensate for
loss of acquired assets also generated goodwill among the PAPs and people at large. This is
further elaborated elsewhere;
*   The Ahmedabad High Court dismissed a public interest litigation that was filed against VHRP
for not complying with the environmental clearance requirements of Government of India. In
its judgment, among other reasons cited, the court held that the integration of environmental
aid social aspects in all stages of project design makes the sub-project fully compliant with the
provisions of the law.
4.     Capability Building beyond project contours has created a positive development impact as well as
new business opportunity for IL&FS.
*   The in-house environmental and social management capacity that began as a one-person due
diligence shop five years ago, has grown to become a 6-person outfit and has now been
transformed to a full-fledged subsidiary of IL&FS - Eco-Smart India Ltd. As a result of its
emphasis on the integration of environmental and social aspects in sub-project development,
continual sharing of experience and on-job training, the staff are equally adept at handling
environment and social safeguard issues;
* Eco-smnart India Ltd was set-up nine months ago to provide a variety of professional
environmental services. Among other tasks, it undertakes training programs for government
agencies on resettlement and is establishing a national database of environmental trends to aid
future environmental assessment studies in the country; and
*   Since FY 1997-98, IL&FS has been conducting Annual Environmental and Social Audit
(AESA) for all its infrastructure projects. The findings of the AESA are shared with the
IL&FS Board members and include in its annual report.
-84 -



5.     Identification of environmental issues occurred throughout the project cycle and not necessarily
limited to the identification stage only, which enabled IL&FS to be responsive to changing nature of project
development and use of safeguards as an enhancement tool. This was largely done through a process that
involved: (i) stakeholder consultation (ii) IL&FS supervision and (iii) annual environmental and social
audits.
*   For instance in VHRP, during the construction phase the project design was enhanced to
include: (i) under-pass near a village school so that the safety of children was not
compromised; (ii) additional noise barriers that were not previously included in the design; (iii)
transplantation of mature trees; and (iv) use of village ponds as earth borrow areas to achieve
twin benefits of improved water availability during the dry period and reduced environmental
impacts due to avoidance of opening up of new borrow areas.
*   In case of DNBP, pre-design surveys were done when water levels were high, and the therefore
cattle grazing areas were not evident. During the dry season construction, it was realized that
design modification was needed to allow for passage of cattle across the alignment of approach
roads to the bridge. Accordingly cattle underpass was constructed with fencing to prevent
cattle from straying into the carriage-way and minimize accidents.
6.     Improved implementation of EMPs and RAPs, when compared to similar projects in the highway
sector in India, due to proactive citizen engagement in monitoring implementation.
*   In Delhi-Noida Bridge sub-project, the citizens' committee provided timely feedback to the
SPV to take corrective actions on non-compliant aspects of the EMP. This included: (i) noise
abatement measures during construction, (ii) dust suppression; and (iii) improved health care
and safety in labor camps. These actions of the citizens, also encouraged the government
agency - NOIDA-to be more responsive to other issues raised by the committee, beyond
project-related issues. This approach largely averted problems normally encountered by similar
projects in urban areas in India.
*   For the other two sub-projects, located in rural areas, feedback measures were instituted
through a process which enabled villages along the road alignment to be involved in their
design and construction.
7.     RAP implementation was affected in case of DNBP due to bureacratic delays which fully tested the
dynamics of public-private partnership. Some of these are described in the section below.
* Delay in payment of compensation to agricultural and land owners despite depositing the
compensation by the company.
* Inordinate delay in allotrnent of alternate lands for resettlement colony to the displaced PAFs at
Ashram Chowk.
8.     Costs of implementing the environmental and social (ES) safeguards averaged around 3 percent of
the overall sub-project costs, while the benefits to the local environment and the goodwill created to ILFS
and SPVs was several fold higher. The ES safeguard costs incurred for the three sub-projects are
summarized below.
- 85 -



Table 2: Estimates of ES Safeguard Costs for Sub-projects
(Expenditure on Sub-projects in Rs. million)
VHRP         AMRP          DNBP
Project Development - Value of studies outsourced  2.0          1.2          2.0
EMP implementation                                10.5         18.3          15.8
RAP Implementation (including cost of land and    46.5         12.7          59.3
replacement value)
Total cost of IL&FS supervision                   3.5           3.5           7.0
Total                                             62.5         35.7          84.1
Good Practices in Resettlement in the Highway Sector
9.     Method of determining the renlacement cost of the lost assets: IL&FS deviated from the standard
approach by using a combination of methods to determine replacement cost for land and houses. These
include: data from market survey, village records, assessment of agriculture specialists and consultation
with PAPs. This resulted in values which were 4-6 times higher then the compensation paid by the
government under the Land Acquisition Act in the case of both VHTR and AMTR projects. The difference
was paid as rehabilitation assistance from the project funds. In case of structures, the replacement cost
was based on the engineering evaluation for new construction without depreciation. In case of DNBP,
IL&FS paid compensation at the rates applicable for residential properties for some of the agricultural
properties since the PAPs had previously purchased these lands with the aim of converting them into
residential properties. The compensation amounts were equivalent to the return on investment on fixed
deposit schemes offered by nationalized banks.
10.   Incentive based income generation activities: As part of rehabilitation assistance, the eligible
families were provided with self-employment assets. However, this was split in two parts: (i) assurance to
reimburse 50 per cent of the asset value at the end of 18th month; and (ii) the remaining value of the asset
was to be provided at the end of the three year period, contingent upon the PAPs continuing with the
activities and earn the targeted incomes. During this three year period, SPVs have offered them with
maintenance allowance in the first year and insurance of the asset against theft, diseases, etc. as appropriate
thereafter. This approach enabled successful implementation of income generation activities in the VHTR
sub-project and the same is being followed for AMTR.
11.    Support for Vulnerable Families: Some of the special measure provided to vulnerable families
included:
* Old age pension to all above 60 years of age in urban areas,
* Support for income generation activities to an additional member in case of those having older
menbers in rural setting,
* Repayment of debts out of asset lost as grant, and
* Issue of fixed deposit receipts for long term financial needs.
12.    Avoiding Fragmentation of Community in Physical relocation. The VHTR sub-project avoided the
fragmentation of a community through relocating the entire community of 17 families (instead of the 7
affected families) by offering them an altemative developed plot and construction cost which enabled them
to live together and retain their economic and social linkages.
- 86 -



Additional Annex 13. Borrower's Contribution
INDIA- Private Infrastructure Finance (IL&FS) Proiect
(Ln 3992-IN/Cr 2838-IN)
Borrower Evaluation Report
(Annexure 13 of the World Bank Implementation Completion Report)
April, 2002
411F
- 87 -



Summary of Ratines
(1)    Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely,
UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial,
M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: HL
Institutional Developmen HS
Impact:
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
I Appraisal            | ICR
Quality at Entry: I S                 S
(2)    Ratine of Achievement of Obiective/Outnut by Components
Objectives/Outputs                          H       SU        M       N
Physical                                             .
Financial                                     .
Institutional Development
Environmental
Social-Land Acquisition & Resettlement
Private Sector Development                                            =
(3)    Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
- 88 -



Bank Performance                            HS       S        U       HU
Lending                                       .
Supervision                                   o
Overall                                       o
Borrower Performance                                            _
Preparation                                   .
Government Implementation Performance         .                 _
Implementing Agency Performance               .
Overall                                       .
Note: Refer Section V
(4)    Proiect Cost (Anpraisal and ActuaI)($million)
Category                            Appraisal    Actual/Latest Estimate
Subprojects                         185.0         31.0
Consultants' Services and Training   15.0         0.13
IDA                                   5.0         0.77*
* including IL&FS Managed
II     Assessment of Development Obiective and Desien and of Oualitv at Entry
(1)    Assessment of Development Obiectives
(a)    Development Obiectives: For the Private Infrastructure Finance
Project the original project objectives as summarized in the Loan Agreement were:
(i)   to promote the participation of the private sector in infiastructure
development;
(ii)  to foster efficiency in the delivery and use of selected infrastructure
services; and
(iii) to assist in the institutional development of IL&FS to facilitate the
financing of such infrastructure.
There were no revisions in the objectives. The project was in line with the
directional thrust of the Government. It took into account the evolving policy and
institutional framework for private investment in infrastructure in the country. The
project was designed to build capacity in the country in this regard through
IL&FS and with the active support of the Bank
(b)    Comnonents: To achieve the above objectives, the Project provided
- 89 -



IL&FS with three interrelated funding components:
(i)    an investment component of $ 185 million in the form of a line of credit to
IL&FS;
(ii)   a subproject preparation component of $ 19 million (including $ 5 million
as IDA credit); and
(iii)  a training and technical assistance component of $ Imillion.
(c)    Ouality at Entry:
In our opinion, the Quality of the Project both at entry and on completion has been
satisfactory on account of the following:
(i)    At Appraisal : IL&FS as the Borrower had several positive features in its
favor. It was a pioneer in promoting private investment in infrastructure; it had
taken effective steps for access to international technology and training; it had
positioned itself as the leader in developing the concept for commercializing
infrastructure projects and it had put in place an effective envirom-nental and social
assessment process. Perhaps, most importantly, IL&FS had successfully and
uniquely engaged, on a partnership mode, a large number of State and Central
Government agencies in identifying and developing specific projects on a
commercial format.
(ii)   On Completion: At the time of appraisal, IL&FS had indicated a pipeline
of 18 sub-projects of which there were 10 sub-projects where formal agreements
to develop each sub-project were in place. By FY 2001-02, IL&FS had five road
sub-projects commissioned or under construction and one water supply project
achieving financial close. Each completed sub-project has contributed significantly
in establishing the framework for commercialisation of infrastructure in the
country. In our opinion, the objectives of the Project have been more than
substantially met.
From a developers perspective, a 50% hit rate is remarkably high
considering the nascent stage of the Indian market. A smaller pipeline would have
implied a higher hit rate which would have been even more difficult to achieve.
(iii)  Sub-proiects Outside the Loan: In addition to the projects posed to the
World Bank, IL&FS has successfully closed projects in power, telecom, airports,
industrial estates, water, etc. IL&FS current pipeline of investments is able to
close much quicker and to appropriate standards : the East Coast Road (113 kIn
road improvement works) project was developed, closed technically and
financially, and constructed in 18 months.
[    Achievement of Obiectives and Outputs
(1)    Backdro : In 1996, the concept of commercialization was still novel (especially in
- 90 -



sectors such as roads, water, etc) and did not enjoy the support of most stakeholders:
(a)    Government (political, administrative or judiciary) were wary of the concept and
did not institutionally understand its implications. Their capacity to support initiatives was
limited. The experiences in power and telecom only served to make them more cautious
and suspicious of private sector effort. In addition, the regulatory, fiscal and legal
framework to support private sector participation and investment was still largely absent
(b)    From a private sector point of view, most of the early efforts at commercialization
by Government had taken an inordinate amount of time, resulted in constant mid-course
changes, supported by infirm contractual documentation not amenable to project or limited
recourse financing, and were often abandoned mid-way through the bidding process. As a
result, private sector willingness to assume risks decreased substantially with the size of
the project, type of sector and perceived counter party commitment and preparedness. As
a result, few serious players participated in tenders
(c)    IL&FS was required to develop and close projects in the context of the foregoing.
The severe economic slowdown witnessed in the country over the period of the loan
imposed additional challenges to the project
(d)    In addition, there was an absence of credible players to work with Government in
developing projects, facilitating broad based stakeholder participation and/or
master minding the implementation projects from concept to commissioning. In
the absence of such players, Government and the private sector were severely
handicapped in taking projects forward
It is in the context of the foregoing that IL&FS role, performance and strategy in meeting
the objectives and outputs of the Loan require to be assessed
(2)    Constraints in the Road Sector (Pre-Proiect): In 1996, the issues faced by the road
sector included, inter alia, inadequate institutional capacity of Government, its agencies,
counter-parties and stakeholders to develop and commercialize projects; negligible private
sector exposure; absence of a well defined policy on returns, toll collection, environmental
and social issues; insufficient degree of sophistication in place in terms of equipment and
technology; lack of awareness and tenor in capital and debt markets to support the sector
and absence of project development
(3)    Constraints of the Water SUPDIy Sector (Pre-Proiect) In 1996, the water sector had
not been opened to the private sector in any significant manner. The domination of the
public sector continues : institutional arrangements leading to overlapping roles and
conflicts,  lack  of customer orientation, sub-optimal pricing  and  managerial
(in)efficiencies. Ineffective policy reforns also resulted in insignificant private sector
involvement; lack of financial initiatives, willingness to charge and/or collect. Finally,
there simply did not exist any project development capability in the sector
(4)    Performance of IL&FS-Proiect:
Selected Performance Indicators: The contribution by LL&FS towards achieving the
Project objectives can be summarized as follows:
- 91 -



Table 1 : IL&FS Performance-Selected Indicators
Indicator                                1996-2001
Financial Closure of sub-projects        5
Magnitude of Private Sector Funds Leveraged Debt Rs 11.8 bn
(excluding IL&FS)                        Equity Rs 4.2 bn
No. of Sub-Projects conmmissioned        2
Number of concession agreements signed   6
Number of local/state governments actively 15
involved in project transactions
No.   of  Local   Governments  and   Area 22
Development Authorities involved
Value of construction (EPC)/O&M contracts Rs 12.8 bn
executed
Value of new financial instruments       Rs 3 bn
Km. Of roads constructed/improved        240 of lane length
No. of financial institutions and banks involved Equity 26
Debt 39
No. of international firms involved in project 3
finance
No. of legislative, policy instruments approved  9  (including  instruments
initiated)
No. of Private corporations investing    3 1
No. of private sector firms (domestic and  40
intemational) that bid
(5)    Promoting private narticipation in infrastructure: IL&FS worked towards changes in
legislation, developing concession agreements that seek to balance public and private
interests, formulating new financial instruments and underlying documentation. It has
partnered with the Central and State Governments and other Financial institutions in India
in the process of developing improved policy and regulatory   frameworks for
conmmercialized infrastructure development
(a)    Sub-Project Implementation: Two of its road projects have been successfully
completed (with Bank financing) and two more are scheduled for completion
shortly (including one with Bank financing). All these are structured on a
public-private partnership and have set good precedents for limited recourse
financing in India
(b)    SPV Structure: IL&FS introduced the SPV structure for its road and water
projects. The concept also solved the issue of stakeholding by the Govemment and
the promoters and provided flexibility for other investors to come in. This format
is now being extensively used for infrastructure projects in the country
(c)    Proiect Development Cycle and Development of Institutional Capacity to
Support Proiect Implementation: IL&FS developed, along with the Bank, an
- 92 -



explicit project development cycle to position projects for commercialization. In so
far as there were no other agencies that provided such services on a holistic basis,
IL&FS was required to undertake a multiplicity of roles as each project
progressed through the project development cycle. Accordingly, IL&FS developed
significant technical, managerial and financial capacity covering all facets of the
process. IL&FS considers its organization of managerial and technical resources -
to transparently handle multiple roles through the project development cycle - a
design strength of the Project. The relationships and credibility built up with the
State Governments have been a strong and integral part of the project deyelopment
efforts taken up by IL&FS. Within this, IL&FS has avoided conflicts of interest
by building an explicit operating framework, including chinese walls and
domiciling activities in separate legal entities, to manage the issue. At another
level, it has enabled IL&FS to "keep" with a project and steer it towards
successful implementation
(d)    Financial Initiatives : IL&FS has been innovative in structuring financial options
and instruments to meet the varied needs of each sub-project. Financing from both
local and international investors has been raised. Despite the immense difficulties
faced, IL&FS successfully attracted three large and credible international equity
funds to invest in the sub-projects
(e)    Select Interventions by IL&FS in the Road Sector:
(i)    Capacitv: In terms of capacity, IL&FS has conmmissioned 240 km of lane
length with an investment value of Rs 6 bn. Along with group company
CTNL, road projects of investment value Rs 8 bn are to be commissioned
shortly. IL&FS commissioned the first commercial toll road project in
India and thereby created awareness of its feasibility
(ii)   Policy Reforms : Over the years, IL&FS has contributed to introducing
significant policy reforms : including, but not limited to the concept of
SPV's, seeking amendments to the Toll Act, Regulatory Framework,
Concession and other Contractual Frameworks, Amendments to the
Companies Act, SEBI, CBDT and toll collecation in different states. As
of date the policy and regulatory framework is largely in place to support
private sector participation in the road sector
(iii)  Financial Initiatives :    At the initial juncture, domestic appetite,
wholesale or retail, for the road sector was non-existent. To develop
awareness and an interest in the sector, IL&FS developed significantly
larger than required consortia of lenders for each project. IL&FS also
worked closely with Government in introducing specific financial
measures such as the depreciation reserve fund, deep discount bond with
take out guarantee, NCD, FCD and CCP as the part of the project finance
structure so as to make the participation of the wholesale and retail
market feasible. In fact, NTBCL was the first green field infrastructure
project to tap the capital market. The issue was wholly subscribed
(iv)   Sustaining the Sectoral Intervention: Having built up adequate expertise
- 93 -



in the sector as well as having identified the sector as a business strategy,
IL&FS has promoted Consolidated Toll Networks ltd. (CTNL), a holding
company for building a pan-India business in surface transport. The main
objective of CTNL would be to develop a diversified asset and cash flow
profile so as to provide an attractive balance sheet for capital market
intermediation: in the medium term, CTNL would link the capital market
to the road sector
(f)    Interventions by IL&FS in the Water Sector:
(i)    Policy Reforms : IL&FS has consciously worked towards increasing
awareness towards the need for reforms in the sector. The need has been
propagated on various platforms both within the national government and
at the state level. The Tirupur project has enabled the development of the
contractual and policy framework required for green field investments in
the sector. Similarly, IL&FS actively participated in the Sukthankar
Committee set up by the GoM to deal with improvements to existing
water systems in urban and rural areas
(ii)   Municipal Approach : Based on its experience, IL&FS initiated a phased
approach of bringing in operational and managerial efficiencies in the existing
UWSS, prior to large scale investments. The approach is being tried in Sangli in
Maharashtra and Hyderabad in Andhra Pradesh and would thereafter be
extended to other urban towns. IL&FS proposes to establish a "Municipal Desk"
to provide support to municipalities for solutions to privatization
(iii)  Sustainability of Intervention: At the point in time that the line of credit
commenced, IL&FS was working on implementing a large, green field,
integrated water and sewerage project. At close, IL&FS has successfully taken
the project forward as well as developed appropriate interventions for
improvements to existing systems through private sector participation. Between
Tinpur and Sangli, IL&FS has put in place the supporting contractual
documentation and other processes to support such interventions. It is the
assessment of IL&FS that the sector is now ready for scalability on a sustainable
basis
(6)    Efficiency in delivery and use of infrastructure services.:
(a)    Road : Contract structures novel to India were implemented for the first time
under this Project The intervention strategy at a project level also sought to
progressively transfer  risks to the private sector with suitable incentive
arrangements to achieve greater efficiencies in the delivery of service and output.
For example while the O&M contract was bid out separately for the Delhi-Noida
bridge project, the same was integrated with the construction contract for the
Gujarat road projects. Extensive pre-bid meetings were conducted to ensure
adequate awareness and understanding, amongst all stakeholders, of the proposed
procurement strategy
The sub-projects were completed ahead of schedule and within the cost limits
despite numerous constraints faced during implementation. Both these have been
- 94 -



funded by the Bank. Though the initial traffic estimates are short of expectations,
it would be premature to extend this to a long term view. Several corrective steps
are being taken up
(b)    Water: The water sector has proved to be more difficult. Tirupur currently
remains the only water project envisaging significant private sector investment in
India. The start of construction has been delayed but is expected to commence
shortly. Besides this, IL&FS is pursuing two other green field water projects viz.
Vizag and Dewas and one improvement project at Sangli. Of these, the Vizag and
Sangli water projects are at the procurement stage. With this, the exposure of
IL&FS in the water is poised to increase significantly
(c)    Other Sectors: IL&FS is pursuing several other sub-projects without recourse to
Bank financing. In addition to projects in the aforementioned sectors, IL&FS is
working on projects in waste water, area development, tourism, airport, urban
infrastructure and port projects. These are at different stages of development and
most of them are likely to commence implementation over the next 2 to3 years
(7)    Institutional Development of IL&FS : Over the years, IL&FS has built up competencies
in several areas. There has been significant progress in terms of institutional development
of IL&FS through the creation of its infrastructure strategic business unit, SPV's created
around subprojects and the building of partnerships at the state and local authority level:
(a)    Reoreanisation: As part of compliance under the Loan Agreement the entire
organization of IL&FS was restructured on lines of Strategic Business Units (SBUs) for
closer monitoring of performance. This yielded several benefits. The entire accounting
function was decentralized with SBU-wise accounts and sub-project accounts
(b)    Onerating Framework: IL&FS has established a corporate-wide risk monitoring
system and developed an internal credit rating system for its outstanding assets. The
operating framework of IL&FS helps it in managing its business risks as well as
maximizing stakeholder value
(c)    Risk Manaeement: IL&FS has put in place a risk management plan to safeguard
the Government, promoters and investors from down stream reversals. A comprehensive
risk mitigation plan is prepared for each project addressing issues coming out of the risk
matrix. Innovative risk mitigation measures have now been established
(d)    Facilitatine Infrastructure Develonment: IL&FS has also promoted specific
Boards for infrastructure development in various States. Further, a number of high level
committees have been formed at the state and central level at the behest of IL&FS
regarding infrastructure initiatives
(e)    Buildine Relationshins : IL&FS has maintained relationships with multilaterals,
banks and institutions, entered into government partnerships and association with
consultants/developers. Furthermore, it has contributed to the process of change at the
Central, State and Municipal Government levels in India
- 95 -



IV     Lessons Learned:     These include but are not limited to the following:
(1)    ConceDt to Commissioning : It is clear that significant managerial resources are required
to take a project from concept to commissioning. The availability of managerial resources
is not just limited to the advisor, sponsor or developer, but extends to all stakeholders. A
joint learning has been that it takes much longer than estimated to bring innovative limited
recourse infrastructure projects to a technical and financial close. The environment in the
country is not conducive to quick turnaround of such projects. Furthermore, failure to
integrate implementation as part of this process would jeopardize the original
developmental effort. IL&FS has successfully brought projects to commissioning to budget
and to time for this reason
(2)    Flexibilitv in Financial Instruments : There is a need for flexibility in the financial
instruments so as to make it more amenable to meeting/supporting the cash flows of the
project. In the case of the IL&FS line of credit, for instance, utilization would have been
significantly higher if such flexibility had been provided
(3)    Flexibility in Proiect Design: The delivery of commercial infrastructure projects is a
time consuming, complex and slow process. The success rate in project implementation
(from concept to commissioning) is highly skewed. To support commercial players in this
area, it is necessary that maximum flexibility be incorporated in the design of the project.
Such flexibility should be extended to sectors, scale, procurement, contract structures,
eligibility for financing, etc. In the case of the IL&FS line of credit, for instance, such
flexibility would have resulted in higher utilization of the line of credit
(4)    Contractual Framework : An     improved understanding and acceptance among the
various entities about the requisite contractual framework and due diligence procedures,
apriori, will  result in a shorter time period for financial close for the on-going
sub-projects. Thus the implementation of a sub-project on a fast track basis, would have
served to provide a replicable prototype
(5)    Equitv linked instruments :.Raising equity for such projects remains a problem.
Institutional and market mechanism in the country is not fully geared for it as yet as there
are few success stories. In the interim, there is a need to develop a market for quasi-equity
instruments to meet the objective
(6)    More Focused Approach : Based on its experience, IL&FS intends to evolve the risk
allocation paradigm in order to successfully transfer more and more risk to the private
sector on a considered basis. In this regard, IL&FS intends to evolve its own future role
from project sponsor and financial arranger, to a project developer in partnership with
selected state goveniments
V      Bank and Borrower Performance:
(1)    Proiect Identification: The Project as identified by the Bank was very much in line with
- 96 -



the development objectives of the GoI for promoting private investment in infrastructure.
As a financial intermediary, IL&FS was a vehicle to build up India's capacity to attract
private investment in infrastructure, pilot test institutional and contractual arrangements in
a variety of sub-projects under various administrative and political conditions and help
establish a track record as a pre-requisite for large scale private investment in the sector
(2)    Proiect Preparation & APpraisa : Project preparation and appraisal involved active
participation of the Bank through consultations, meetings and missions. Given that appraisal of
infrastructure projects was still an area where the company had least experience and where the
Bank could contribute most, there was close interaction with the Bank for the first two subprojects
in each sector category (e.g. roads, water supply, integrated area development) as agreed during
Project finalisation. In particular, the full documentation on the contractual framework for the
subprojects was reviewed in detail by the Bank for their risk mitigation aspects
(3)    Proiect Review: On an on-going basis, the Bank has provided valuable inputs by way of
assistance in developing acceptable procedures for inviting and evaluating proposals and
providing general guidelines which helped in meeting with the project objectives. The
supervision missions, mid-term reviews and partial reviews were used to jointly identify
implementation constraints, providing corrections and effective learning processes.
Aide-Memoirs were discussed for action and improvement
(4)    Comnliance by Borrower : As Borrower, IL&FS has managed well the various issues
arising from its roles in the sector/project. IL&FS will continue to ensure that its role as
lender is protected through the establishment of "good lending practices", e.g. retention of
separate lenders counsel, independent audit of financial model, etc. Further, IL&FS
continues to comply with all the covenants as stipulated by its lending consortia and
continues to be rated as AAA by the rating agencies
(5)    Movement of Pineline : Of the indicative pipeline of 18 sub-projects at the time of
appraisal, 5 reached a stage where they could be posed for Bank draw down and draw
down was achieved for 3. This reflects on the extremely difficult environment under which
IL&FS operated. There were also project specific reasons: (i) the time it took IL&FS and
the Bank to agree on project documentation (ii) the time it took to achieve technical and
financial closure for each sub-project and (iii) the time it took to receive project level
clearances
(6)    Review of Performance Indicators : There was a joint revision in the original project
performance indicators developed by the Bank and IL&FS during project preparation in
light of (i) development objectives and (ii) performance indicators which would take into
account the realities of the operating environment
(7)    Cancellation : IL&FS cancelled the unutilized portion amounting to about $169 million
effective March 23, 2001
(8)    Effective Utilisation of LOC: Utilisation of the investment component has been low  at
about 16%. However, this should be viewed in the context that it enabled IL&FS to pursue
project development work simultaneously on several sub-projects given the corpus of $200
million. The fact that only 5 projects could substantially materialize only serves to
- 97 -



emphasize the drag effect of the environment which had been underestimated by both the
Bank and IL&FS. Had Tirupur been included the utilisation would have increased to more
than 40%
Earlier, IL&FS had requested the Bank to restructure the project based on the changed
nature of the market which became apparent during project implementation. For instance,
IL&FS had suggested that the Bank allow more sub-projects to be considered under the
loan where construction had not been completed by the time of the loan closing date. Such
changes were not implemented. IL&FS submits that similar Lines of Credit should exhibit
greater responsiveness to market changes during implementation
(9)    Overall Assessment: Development objectives have been met despite slow disbursements.
As pointed out earlier, government acceptance of the unique contractual framework
certainly took its time. Despite this, the government implementation performance can be
treated as satisfactory given the socio-political environment in the country. Given the
constraints that the Borrower had to face during the implementation of the project, the
timely completion of major landmark sub-projects lends itself to a satisfactory rating.
Institutional development of the Borrower in fact has been highly satisfactory with a
special emphasis on surface transport, urban infrastructure (water) and environmental
sector specialization
VI     Sustainabilitv of the Proiect
(1)    From the point of the individual subDroiects: The Bank loan has been utilized for three
sub-projects in the road sector. Of these, two have been successfully completed and the
third is to be commnissioned shortly. While initial traffic performance of the completed
projects has been below expectations, these have been the result of specific identified
factors. For instance, in the case of the Vadodara-Halol road project, industrial recession
alone accounts for a 30% dip in traffic to forecast. The Government has further
exacerbated this by levying a cess on overloaded trucks entering the State. Based on
specific studies undertaken, it is clear that these constitute short term blips in traffic
growth with the fundamentals still sound
The other projects being taken up by IL&FS are without recourse to the Bank. The
framework for risk allocation and mitigation as developed in the security packages for the
initial projects are basically sound and should provide a good basis for other viable and
sustainable projects. IL&FS has benefited from its experience in the initial sub-projects
and will utilize it to ensure the sustainability of subsequent sub-projects
(2)    Sustainabilitv of IL&FS: Despite a difficult operating environment, IL&FS has
maintained its profitability and AAA rating. The company's operating framework, inter
alia, sets out a risk management framework and related policies as well as the company's
guidelines and framework of operations. Further, IL&FS has in- built safeguards relating
to limits to the company's exposure to infrastructure projects. Financial eligibility criteria
which continue to be used for on lending to individual subprojects are expected to contain
the credit risks of individual subprojects. In addition, IL&FS has successfully established a
frarnework of risk participation with a consortium of banks to reduce the level of risks on
its own books
- 98 -



(3)    Broad Sectoral Perspective: At the macro level, the Loan and IL&FS's efforts have
had a catalytic effect. The benchmarks established by IL&FS in the development of private
infrastructure investmnents, in collaboration with the concerned agencies of GOI and
individual states, are bound to be replicated and improved upon not only by IL&FS but
other entities in the infrastructure sector in the country. Thus, we are of the opinion that
the project has defined an improved regulatory and institutional framework for the sector
and hence establishing the sustainability of private infrastructure investments in India
VII    Asenda: Urban Infrastructure:
(1)    Business Areas: Future infrastructure operations are to be carried forward through the
following legal entities established by IL&FS:
(a)    IPDC: The infrastructure project development business;
(b)    CTNL The surface transport business;
(c)    The water supply and municipality services business;
(d)    Ecosmart: The environmental sector based business; and
(e)    ITCL: Design Engineering and Geo Mapping
(2)    The Proiect DeveloDment Business/IPDC: The project development activities till now
domiciled in IL&FS, are being transferred to and undertaken by an independent,
commercially viable company. This represents a consolidation of project development
activities under one roof leading to closer monitoring of performance and ease of
accounting. In a way, this is an extension of the earlier reorganization and streamlining of
accounting system carried out in 1997
(3)    Surface Transnortation business/CTNL: CTNL will act as a sponsor, financial
investor, offer advisory services and undertake project development work in the surface
transport sector. Investors in CTNL will benefit from a diversified portfolio of assets and
revenues and hence risks. With a strong asset and revenue portfolio, the company will
attract higher valuations. This will enable it to make a public offering and at the same time
offer exit opportunities to investors. CTNL presently has interests in properties valued at
almost $1 bn
(4)    The Water Sector and Municipal Business: The company is presently pursuing three
greenfield bulk water supply projects. The Tirupur project has recently received approval
from the GoTN to proceed with the project. Between the other two projects, the Vizag
project is more advanced than the Dewas project. IL&FS is also capturing opportunities
being offered by the municipalities. It plans to develop capacity at the municipal level to
implement several projects in urban municipal services, including in Sangli (Maharashtra)
and Hyderabad Metro (Andhra Pradesh)
- 99 -



(5)    Environmental Initiative/Ecosmart: IL&FS proposes to transform its environmental
and social knowledge practice to a full-fledged business opportunity through an
Environment fund, a new vehicle Ecosmart India Ltd. and a Trust for Environmental and
Social Change. New ventures include environmental information system, data centres,
eco-cities, emissions trading, energy efficiency, etc. The company is actively pursuing
contracts in these areas
(6)    Engineerine and Design/ITCL: IL&FS is attracting global consultants to domicile in
India in order to develop world class consulting experience and talent in the country. Equally, it is
envisaged that global consulting companies could use this framework to source local Indian
consulting talent for global assignments. IL&FS has already received significant interest in this
concept
(7)    Meetina Financine Needs for Proiect DeveloDment and Implementation:
(a)    Lines of Credit: IL&FS is pursuing with ADB and KfW for providing long term
funding assistance for the on-going initiatives. The credit terms are being tailored
to meet the needs in terms of cost competitiveness and flexibility
(b)    Proiect Development Fund : The IPDF has been formed to assist project
development efforts relating to infrastructure and to take them to financial close. A
recently developed fund, it has already committed support to projects in the sector
(c)    AIGF : The investment objective of the AIG Indian Sectoral Equity Fund is to
achieve capital appreciation by primarily making equity and equity related direct
investments in Indian companies and projects in the infrastructure sector. The fund
is substantially committed in this sector
(d)    Merchant Bankine Services : IL&FS Merchant Banking Services Ltd (IMBSL)
is currently providing the full range of merchant banling services to its clients and
supports in achieving financial close for the projects by way of syndication of
equity and loan
(e)    Guarantee Facility : IL&FS has recently entered into agreements with IFC and
FMO, Netherlands for guarantee facilities for meeting the needs of infrastructure
projects
(8)    Urban Infrastructure Business: An integrated Avproach: Emerging trends in urban
infrastructure indicate that Urban local bodies (ULBs) are actively exploring project
development and implementation through public-private partnership (PPP). The driving
force is the paucity of funds faced by them as well as the States and responsibilities for
service provisioning resting with the ULB's as a result of constitutional amendments. In
seeking PPPs, the initial focus will be on those activities that have the potential to generate
revenues for the delivery of services
IL&FS has fundamentally evolved to take up initiatives in the urban infrastructure sector
in an integrated manner covering roads and bridges, waters supply, sewerage and
sanitation, other environmental based proposals. This will be a culmination of past efforts,
- 100-



building up on competencies and provides a highly focused way forward. This will meet
the needs of the sector as more urban development authorities are becoming proactive in
their approach and amnenable to private sector participation
- 101 -









CATALOGUERSIFILE 5A      t11
Report No.:     23507
Type:   ICR



