*       INFRASTRUCTURE LEASING & FINANCIAL SERVICES LIMITED
ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL REPORT
VOLUME II: MAIN REPORT
November 1995
-_ I:., r



a
VOLUME II: ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL REPORT
a
I



DVTA, TABL    NT
DESCRIPTION                                                          PAGE NOS
Purpose                                                                     9-16
Preamble
The BOOT/BOT Contractual Framework and the ESR
Purpose
Strucure of the Report
Users of the ESR
Prepartion of the ESR
Part 1: Environmental And Social Statement of IL&FS                        17-19
Enviromental and Social Statement of IL&FS
Part l: Operational Procedures                                             20-23
Chapter I: Iegal and Institutional Setting                                 24-45
Environental Aspects
Consfitutional Provisions
- Intemational Treaties, Conventions and Protocols
- Stats of National Environmental Legislation and Regulation
- Organisaion Structure for Environment Management in India
- World Bank Operational Directives Concernmg Environment
Social Aspects
- Constitutional Provisions
- Intrnational Treaties, Conventions and Protocols on Human Rights and
Indigenous People
- Stams of Social-Related Legislation and Policies
- Summary of Key Trends in Indian Law/Policies
- Operational Agencies and Key Actors in RAR Plannig and
Implementation
- World Bank Operfaional Directives regarding Social Aspects
- Comparison of Indian Law and World Bank Operational
Direcdves 4.30 and 4.20
- Social Impact and Entitlement Framework for World Bank Financed Projects
2



DZSCB=aflI                                                              PAGE NOS
Chapter nI: Major Issues in Priority Sectors                                  46-55
Enviromnental Issues
- Integrated Area Development
- Water Supply and Sanitation Infastructure
- Surface Trnsport
- Power
Social Issues
- Involuntaiy Resettlement
- Protection of Marginalised and Vulnerable Groups
- Public Consultation and Consensus Building
Chapter m: Operational Procedures                                             5S6-90
The IL&FS Project Cycle
Environment and Social Assessment Report (EAR/SAR)
Environmental and Social Assessment Frmework
Environmental Assessment Process (EAP)
- Environmental Screning
- Enviromental Scoping
-  finasation of TOR for Environmental Assessment Studies
-  Appointment of Envinmental Assessment Consultant
- Environmental Assessment Studies
- Review of EAR
- Translation of Agreements into Legal Instruments
- Monitoring of Enviromnental Action
- Annual Environmental Audit
Social Assessment Process
- Social Screening
- Social Scoping
- Finalisation of TOR for Social Assessment Report
- Appointment of Social Assessment Consultant
- Establishment of Neighbourhood Committee
- Social Assesment and Preparation of Mitigation Plan
- Review of SAR
- Translation of Agreements Wto Legal Instruments
- Monitoring of RAP/IPDP
- Annual Social Audit
3



PAGE NOS
Chapter IV: Environmental And Social Risk Management                       91-105
Environmental and Social Risk
What is Envirommental and Social Risk
IL&FS Project Cycle and the Risk Evaluation Process
- Risk Identification
- Risk Assessment
- Allocation of Risk Pesponsibility
- Risk Management
Insttional Framework
Part In : Organisational Requirements                                      106-107
Chapter V: Organisational Support                                          108-117
h itroduction
Role of IL&FS
IL&FS Organisational Structure and the ESR
ilAFS Responsibility'Allocation Framework
l&FS Organisational Support for the ESR
- Corpomte Leel
- Project Level
Chapter VI: Staff Development Plan                                         118-127
Staff Development Needs
Staff Development Plan
Resources for hnplementation
Chapter VII: IL&FS - Mltblateral Agency Interface                          128-129
4



LIST OF TABLES
Table I      -     Shareholder - SPV Relationship
Table 1.1    -     Comparison of Indian Law with World Bank Directives (Environmental)
Table 1.2    -     Comparison: Indian Law and World Bank Directives (Social)
Table 1.3    -     Social Impact and Entitlement Framework for World Bank Financed
Projects
Table 3.1    -     IL&FS Project Cycle
Table 3.2    -     Environmental and Social Assessment Report
Table 3.3    -     Enviromnental and Social Assessmnent Framework
Table 4.1    -     Illustrative Environmental and Social Risks
Table 4.2    -     The EA/SA Process and Risk Evaluation
Table 4.3    -     Illustrative Risk Responsibility Framework
Table 5.1    -     IL&FS Departmental Responsibility Allocation
Table 5.2    -     Deployment of Corporate Consultant Per Project
Table 6.1    -     IL&FS Expertise Requiremnent
Table 6.2    -     Staff Development Plan 1996-1998
Table 7.1    -     Interface Matrix
5



LIST OF FIGURES
Figure I    -      Thc BOOT/BOT Framework
Figure 1.1    -    Organisation Structure for Environment Management at the Central
Government Level
Figure 2.1    -    Probable Environmental Impact Matrix
Figure 5.1    -    IL&FS Organisational Structre and the ESR
Figure 5.2    -    Schematic Representation of Proposed Organisational Support
6



LIST OF ACRONYMS
ADR    -      Altemative Dispute Resolution
BOO    -      Build Own Operate
BOOT  -       Build Own Operate Transfer
BOT    -      Build Operate Transfer
CBO    -      Community Based Organisation
CC      -     Corporate Consultant
CFD    -      Contractual Framework Documentation
COD    -      Committee of Directors
CPCB   -      Central Pollution Control Board
CRZ    -      Coastal Regulation Zone
DFIBR  -      Detailed Feasibility and Investment Banking Report
DPI    -      Detailed Prcess of Implementation
EA      -     Environmental Assessment
EAP    -      Environmental Assessment Process
ESAR   -      Envirownental and Social Assessment Report
ED      -     Executive Director
EIA     -     Environmental Impact Assessment
EMP     -     Environmental Mitigation Plan
ESMG  -       Environmental and Social Management Group
ESR    -      Environmental and Social Report
FRI    -      Forest Research institute
GOI    -      Govermment of India
lL&FS  -      Infrastucture Leasing and Financial Services Limnited
IPDP   -      Indigenous People Development Plan
ISR     -     Initial Screening Report
ITRC   -      Indian Toxicology Research Centre
LA      -     Local Authority
LAA    -      Land Acquisition Assessment
MA      -     Multilateral Agencies
MoEF  -       Ministry of Environment and Forests
MOU   -       Memorandum of Understanding
NDP    -      Neighbourhood Development Plan
NEERI -       National Environment Engineering Research institute
NGO    -      Non Governmental Organisation
O&M    -      Operation & Maintenance
OD      -     Operational Directive
PAP    -      Project Affected Person
PRA    -      Participatory Rual Appraisal
R&R    -      Resettlement and Rehabilitation
RAP    -      Rehabilitation Action Plan
7



REP    -       Risk Evaluation Process
RMG    -       Risk Management Group
RMP    -       Risk Mitigation Plan
SA      -      Social Ass:ssment
SAP    -       Social Assessment Process
SAR    -       Social Assessment Report
SDP    -       Staff Development Plan
SIA     -      Social Impact Assessment
SPCB   -       State Pollution Control Board
SPV    -       Special Purpose Vehicle
TOR    -       Terms of Reference
UMTS  -        Urban Mass Transit System
WB      -      World Bank
Wil    -       Wildlife Institute of India
S



P1URPOSE
9



TABLE OF CONTENTS
Preamble
The BOOT/BOT Contractual Framework and the ESR
Purpose
Structure of the Report
Users of the ESR
Preparation of the ESR
10



PUREOSE
PREAMBLE
(I)   Infrastructure Leasing & Financial Services Limited (IL&FS) is pioneering and
promoting innovative approaches to infrastructure development in India. It is developing
a pipeline of commercially viable projects which includes urban by-passes, mass transit
systems, watcr and sanitation infrastructure and integrated area development. The
projects are to be developed as Build-Own-Operate-Transfer (BOOT) or Build-Operate-
Transfer (BOT) schemes
(2)   IL&FS recognizes the need to clearly demonstrate its commitment to environmental and
social issues in each of its projects. The visibility, variety and complexity of the projects
make it imperative that they conform to a transparent environmental and social policy
with full public disclosure and with the full cost of environmental and social
management factored into projects costs
(3)   This document, the Environmental and Social Report, presents IL&FS Enviromental
and Social Policy and operational procedures. It has been designed to be in confonnity
with Government of India environmental and social requirements and with the
Operational Directives of the World Bank
(4)   IL&FS focus in the infatcture sector has been on commercially viable infrastructure
projects, where recovery of investments could be effected through the levy of user
charges. The BOOT/BOT contractual framework for infastructure projects and its
principal shareholders is presented in Eig= I below:
11



Eigure I
THEF OOTOT FRAME3WORK
I GOVERNAMNt
IConcesion
|IL&FS/ | ImLcdm   |          r        Shareoldlrs SHAREHOLDERSl
W~~~~~~                                    I
|Constucdton Contrac                O&m- Contract
I CONSTRUCTION CONSORT=IM               O&M CONSORTI
(5)   The critical aspect of the BOOT/BOT framework is the ability to allocate responsibilities
and risks through contracts. Each leg of the framework enables allocation on the basis of
agreed responsibility and in the process provides a transparent and contractually effective
mechanism to undertake project implementation and operation and maintenance within a
public-private partnership framework. More specifically, the relationship between each
shareholder to the SPV is provided in Table I
12



ICakkl
SHAREHOLDER                             ROLE
Govemment                        1i- Extend concession to the SPV
Provide land and grant
clearances/approvals to the SPV
Regulate SPV operation
.  Safeguard Public Interest
Project Sponsors                      Provide equity to the SPV
.  Develop the project
Special Purpose Vehicle            - Mobilise project finance
- Manage project implementation
- Manage project O&M
Lenders                               Extend debt to the SPV
JL&FS as financial internnediary   -Provide equity to the SPV
- Mobilise equity/debt for SPV
Act as project advisor/management
Construction Consortium               Undertake prject constructon
Participate in debt/equity of SPV
Provide construction finance
Operations and Maintenance Consortium  Undertake project O&M
- Provide commercial management of
Project on BOOT/BOT basis
.  Participate in debt/equity of SPV
(6)   T.he enviromnental and social frmework for IL&FS has been designed to be consistent,
inter alia, with the BOOTIBOT framework. The ESR outlines the various policies,
procedures, frameworks and assessments that will enable IL&FS as a financial
intermediary to ensure, that a project is developed in consonance with its policies, and is
adequately protected from attendant risks. In the process, the enviromnental and social
framework assigns responsibilities to each of the prospective players and illustates the
instrunents thrugh which such an allocation or assignment will be effei.ted
13



P[URPOSE
(7)   The Environmental and Social Report (ESR) is a core document of IL&FS for its
infrastructure activities. The purpose and aim of the ESR is to provide the Institution an
overall framework to guide it in the identification, assessment and management of
environmental and social concems at the project and at the organisationa! level
(8)   As a financial intermediary, IL&FS will ensure that the contractual fiamework for each
project complies with the provisions of the ESR prior to obtaining the approval of its
competent authority for investment in the project
(9)   Thus, as a core document of the Institution, the ESR is also meant to provide project
shareholders, existing as well as prospective, and IL&FS staff a cornmonality of
language and a framework of operation
qmi    F THLREEQRT
(10)  The Environmental and Social Report (ESR) comprises of three parts: Part I of the
Report states IL&FS commitment to responding to environmental and social issues. Part
II (Procedures) provides the process by which IL&FS will ensure that each of its
infastructure projects is in compliance with its policy. Part II begins with a discussion
of the current situation, by describing the legal-institutional scenario and the
environmental/social issues pertaining to the priority sectors that IL&FS is concerned
with. This nderstanding is incorporated into the project life cycle wo develop a project
schedule that includes both legal/mstitutional requirements and environmental/social
concems. Risk evaluation and managment is also addressed herein.  Part III
(Organisational Requirements) outlines IL&FS organisational stucture to administer the
ESR. It outlines the organisational support and staff development plan proposed to be
implemented and the interfaces that it will put in place, especially in relation to
Multilateral Agencies (MA) s;ch as the World Bank
(11)  By intent, Part I is brief, and is designed to provide an overview of the overriding
concerns, and commitments, and priorities of the Institution in relation to environmental
and social issues
(12)  Part II is a detailed exposition of the process by which IL&FS will, inter alia,
operationalise its environmental and social policy, allocate responsibility for the
implementation of environmental and social management plans within a public-private
partnership framework, monitor environmental and social parameters, implement
14



strategies to mitigate risks attendant to each project from these aspects, and undertake
review of project documentation
(13)  It is also designed to provide users of the ESR a clear framework to identify, assess, plan
and implement mechanisms that ensure compliance of an infrstructure project with
IL&FS environmental and social policy and procedures
(14)  Part III is designed to enable IL&FS to deliver on its enviromnental and social
objectives. The underlying philosophy herein is that environmental and social concems
are to be seen as an intrinsic element of project development and that this is best
achieved by inculcating awareness at the operational levels of the Institution. The
proposed organisational structure, the staff development plan and the institutional
interface matrix reflect this intent
(15)  The terns, definitions and methodology discussed are generic in nature and are flexible
enough to accommodate the nature of risks with respect to environmental and social
issues that are likely to be encountered by IL&FS in the course of its iructure
project activities
USERS OF 33E SR
(16)  The ESR is designed for the use of the following:
IL&FS Staff: As an operating document for ensuring that infrastructure projects are
adequately assessed and managed from an envirmonental and social point of view, are
reviewed in accordance with the ESR, and for setting environmental and social
compliance standards
SPEYLftect S=nsor: As a document expressing IL&FS requirements with respect to
environmental and social issues, the process and documentation that will need to be
followed/submitted for each project, and the framework by which enviromnental and
social risks are to be managed
Project Associates (Other Shareholders. Consultants. Lenders. .-tc-) : As a document
expressing the standards and processes which IL&FS will require each of its projects to
comply with, especially with respect to environmental and social assessment, risk
allocation and management
15



PEPEARATION F HE1SR
(17) The ESR was prepared by IL&FS with the assistance of Consultants - Development
Altematives - specialised in the field of environmnental and social issues. The process of
preparing this report has included desk research on the legal and institutional firamework,
analysis of priority issues in the infrastructure sector, consistency checks with
operational directives of the World Bank and other multilateral agencies. There have
been a series of discussions within and outside IL&FS for the preparation of the Report
(18) These discussions have served to distill the experience of IL&FS staff, specialists in the
sector, Government, private sector organisations, and representatives of the World Bank.
Principal conclusions reached at these discussions have been incorporated in the ESR
(19) The ESR has been formally approved by the Board of Directors of IL&FS
(20)  By design, this document is a statement of the core principles of environmental and
social ma!uagement to be followed by IL&FS. Thus, it aims to transcend the limitations
of time and continuously adapt itself to the changing needs of the Institution in a
dynamic external enviromnent. This will be made possible by reviewing the Report on
an on-going basis. Users are encouraged to identify areas requiring revision, addition or
deletion by communicating with-the Executive Director (Infiastructure) of IL&FS
16



PART I: ENVIRONMENTAL & SOCIAL STATEMENT OF IL&FS
17



As a dynamic and innovative institution, IL&FS is committed to provide value added services in
its mandated areas of operation. The Institution believes that improved access to efficient public
infrastructure necessitates synergy between prudent use of natural resources and meeting
people's concerns. Thus, attaining environmental and social viability through a consultative
process is an integral part of the business operations of IL&FS. The overall goal is contribution
to sustainable development in and around the project locations
The Environmental and Social Statement of the Institution commits each project to three
cardinal principles:
(1)   Enhance the quality of life and environment in and around the project location, by
(a)   Conserving natural resources
(b)   Addressing the legitimate concems of relevant stakeholders, especially project
affected persons
(2)   Prevent adverse environmental and social situations, by
(a)   Minimising the release of polluting wastes to amounts that do not hann the
environment
(b)   Preserving bio-diversity and ecological equilibriumn by reducing pressure on
natural resources
(c)   Avoiding or minimnising resettlement due to land acquisition through appropriate
technical and management measures
(d)   Ensuring protection of marginalised and vulnerable Groups, including the
economically and socially disadvantaged, the elderly, women, children,
physically handicapped and indigenous people
(e)   Minimising health and safety hazards
18



(3)   Mitigate possible adverse environmental and social impacts, by
(a)   Integrating waste managemnent mechanisms and maintaining the environrnental
quality of the project locations
(b)   Ensuring responsible resettlement and rehabilitation of project affected persons
through sustainable livelihood options that at least restore, if not improve, their
standard of living
While enhancenent is the first priority, incorporation of prevention and mitigation measures will
ensure minimal adverse impacts. IL&FS is committed to comply with environmental and social
regulations and legal requirements in spirit, not just in letter, with due credence to global.
domestic and local concerns. Each project will establish a framework that tansparently assigns
responsibility and strives to remedy or compensate for damage caused to eco-systems or people
IL&FS is intemalising its Environmental and Social Statement into its business operations
through detailed operational procedures including systems for continuous perfonnance
evaluation and self regulation. The highlights of an Annual Environmental and Social Audit will
be mzde public alongwith the Annual Balance Sheet Appropriate modifications to the
Environmental and Social Statement and the operational procedures will be made on the basis of
lessons learnt from periodic reviews and project experiences
19



PART H      OPERATIONAL PROCEDURES
20



TABLE OF CONTENTS
PT=              E aL
DFSCRIPTII                                                    PAGE NOS
Chapter I: Legal and Institutional Setting                         2645
Environmental Aspects
-     Constitutional Provisions
-     International Treaties, Conventions and Protocols
-     Status of National Enviromment Legislation and Regulation
-     Organisation Structure for Enviromnent Managanent in India
-     World Bank Operational Directives on r'nviromnent
-     Comparison of Indian Law with World Bank's Directive OD
4.01
Social Aspects
-     Constitutional Provisions
-     International Treaties, Conventions and Protocols on Human
Rights and Indigenous People
-     Status of Social-Related Legislation and Policies
-     Sunmnary of Key Trends in Indian Law/Policies
Operational Agencies and Key Actors in R&R Planning and
Implementation
'World Bank Operational Directives regarding Social Aspects
;Comparison of Indian Law and World Bank Operational
Directives 4.30 and 4.20
Social Impact and Entitlement Framework for World Bank
financed Projects
Chapter II: Major Issues In Priority Sectors                       48-54
Environmental Issues
-     Integrated Area Development
-     Water Supply and Sanitation Infastructure
-     Surface Transport
-     Power
21



DZSVREION                                                      PAGE NOS
Social Issues                                                        54-55
-     Involuntary Resettlernent
-     Protection of Marginalised and Vulnerable Groups
-     Public Consultation and Consensus Building
Chapter m: Operatiqual Procedures                                    58-90
The IL&FS Project Cycle
Environmental and Social Assessment Framework
Environmental Assessment Process
-     Environmental Screening
-     Environmental Scoping
-     Finalisation of TOR for Enviromental Assessment
Studies
-     Appointment of Environmental Assessment Consultant
-     Environmental Assessment Studies
-     Appraisal of Enviromnental Assessment Report
-     Translation of Agreements into Legal Instruments
-     Monitoring of Environmental Action
-     Annual Environmental Audit
Social Assessment Process
-     Social Screening
-     Social Scoping
-     Finalisation of TOR for Social Assessment and Management
Studies
-     Appointment of Social Assessment Consultant
-     Social Assessment and Preparation of Managenent Plan
-     Appraisal of Social Assessment and Management Plan (SAMP)
-     Translation of Agreements into Legal Instruments
-     Monitoring of Social Action
-     Annual Social Audit
Cbapter IV: Environmenl and Socisl Risk Mnagement                   93-105
Background
Environmental and Social Risk
What is Environmental and Social Risk
IL&FS Project Cycle and Risk Evaluation Process
Risk E' aluation Process
Risk Identification
Risk Assessment
22



Allocation of Risk Responsibility
Risk management
Institutional Framework
23



CHAPTER I :   LEGAL AND INSTITUTIONAL SEITING
24



TABLE OF CONTENTS
Chapter I: LEGAL AND INSTITUTIONAL SETTING
Environmental Aspects
-     Constitutional Provisions
-     Intemational Treaties, Conventions and Protocols
-     Status of National Environmental Legislation and Regulation
-     Organisation Structure for Environmental Management in India
-     World Bank Operational Directives on Environment
-     Comparison of Indian Law with World Bank's Directive OD 4.01
Social Aspects
-     Constitutional Provisions
-     International Treaties, Conventions and Protocols on Human Rights and
Indigenous People
-     Status of Social-Related Legislation and Policies
Summary of Key Trends in Indian Law/Policies
-     Operational Agencies and Key Actors in R&R Planning and Implementation
-     World Bank Operational Directives regarding Social Aspects
-     Comparison of Indian Law and World Bank Operational Directives
4.30 and 4.20
-     Social Impact and Entitlement Framework for World Bank financed Projects
25



I  LErILANQNS ISFlTNM
1.01  The legal and institutional setting provides the context in which the environment and
social policy and operational procedures of IL&FS is framed. An understanding of the
institutional structures that regulate environmental and social issues in India will also
serve to help IL&FS respond to their req- irements during the planning and execution of
infrastructure projects
1.02  Fundamental national commitments are enshrined in the Constitution of Indi., while the
Acts, Notifications, policies, rules and other documents issued by India's Central and
State Govemments provide operational details.  India also has obligations on
environmental and social issues through its participation in international conventions and
treaties
1.03  Since IL&FS is seeking lines of credit from multilateral agencies (MA), such as the
World Bank, its operations need to be consistent with their operational directives.
Currently, the World Bank directives are tile most detailed and stringent among
multilateral agencies, and hence these have been used in conjunction wiMl the regulatory
framework in India to develop the IL&FS procedures. IL&FS will modify its
Environmental and Social Report periodically based on changes in the Indian regulatory
framework and operational directives of multilateral agencies that it is associated with
ENVIRMNNTAL ASUE
1.04  A number of specific regu!atory instruments for environnmental protection have been
developed by both the Central and State Govermments. Many of these have a bearing on
IL&FS infrastructure projects. While the Constitution has p.-ovided the fundamental
basis, India's contributions to and learnings from negotiations of international treaties
have helped immensely in sharpening the focus of the regulatory instruments currently in
place. Most States and Central Govemment have either Ministries or Departments of
environment and forests as agencies dealing with environmental issues
1.05  World Bank's Directive 4.01 deals with the environmental assessment of projects
financed by the Bank and, accordingly, has a major influence on IL&FS infras
projects
1.06  With its basic commitmntn to address environmental concems in infrur projects,
IL&FS has attempted to captre the essence of the regulatory framework in India and the
26



experience of the World Bank as embodied in its Operational Directives
27



£ntlimalEwxuwm
1.07  The Indian Constitution provides for the protection and preservation of the environment
through guarantees and a scheme of governance. These are discussed in greater detail
below:
(a)   C;uajgnte=  : National commitment to the environment is enshrined in the
Constitution under two guarantees:
"The State shall endeavour to protect and improve the environment and
to safeguard the forests and wildlife of the country"
"It shall be the duty of every citizen of India to protect and improve the
natural environmnent, including forests, lakes, rivers and wildlife, and to
have compassion for living creatures"
Neither are enforceable but they direct State policy. Recently, courts have
recognised an enviromental dimension to fundamental rights and challenged
decisions that have a negative enviromnental impact
IL&FS projects will be developed keeping in mind that legal issues in relation to
environmental concern are increasingly significant
(b)   Scheme of Governance : The power to legislate and enforce regulation on
environmental matters is essentially with the Central and State Governnents.
Their respective jurisdictions are delineated in the Union and State lists in the
Cons.itution and is presented in Attachment - 1. Where both the Union
Parliament and State Legislatures have overlapping and share legislative power,
the issues are in the concurrent list. However, if there is a conflict between the
Central and State law, the forner prevails
IL&FS will comply with the appropriate Central and State Law depending on the
type of project and site
As a result of the 73rd and 74th Constitutional Amendments, local bodies have
begun to play a more active and formally recognised role in environmental
protection and conservation issues. Panchayats (local self govemments) have
taken on specific functions including soil conservation, water management,
watershed development, social and fann forestry. Urban local bodies have also
been assigned functions of "Protection of Environment and Promotion of
Ecological Effects". This decentralization of powver has a bearing on IL&FS
infatructre projects given the strong interface that is needed with Local
Governments
28



1.08 India's international obligations relating to environment through its participation on
international treaties are numerous. Some of the more important conventions/treaties are
listed in Aahment-2. India's obligations vary depending on the specific nature of the
treaty. Its record of implementation has been commendable. Global concerns ha,
invariably influenced both India's policies and legislations
Although IL&FS will incorporate India's existing policies and legislations, it will also
keep abreast of global concerns to foresee upcoming issues, their respective legislation
and their possible impact on long-tenn infrastructure projects
Status of National Eonronmental LeI3Iation and Regulation
1.09  Numerous State and Central legislations have a bearing on the environment but laws on
"environment protection" have only come into being recently. These laws can be
broadly classified in terms of focus areas:
Pollution
Natural resources
Linkage between pollution and natural resources
These laws are discussed in greater detail below:
(a)   PollutionLaw: There are three key pollution Acts which are established and
enforced by the Central and State Pollution Control Boards. The Boards will
proceks applications from ILFS for any project likely to cause pollution.
IL&FS has to comply with these Acts in the consent order. Relevant reports
must be made public, unless the Boards deem that such disclosure will 'harm
public interest'. Furthermore, citizens can initiate actions under these Acts
(i)    Water aPrevention And Control of Pollution! Act, 1974 : To provide for
the prevention and control of water pollution and the reoring of
wholesomeness of water
(ii)   The Water (Prevention And Control of Pollution) Cess Act 1977 : This
Act provides for dhe levy and collection of a cess by local authorities on
water consumed by persons carrying on certain industries to augment
resources for the Pollution Control Boards
(iii)   Air Prevention And Control of Pollution) Act 1981 : To preserve the
quality of air and control pollution
29



In essence, laws regarding air and water are becoming more stringent and
therefore, thinking ahead, IL&FS will aim for a 'Best Practice' approach in its
operations
(b)   Natural Resource Related Laws: The Government of India's (GOI) perception of
forests has evolved over the years from 'revenue generator' to 'protected area' to
'conservation' with 'public participation'. However, despite participation by the
States and other bodies, GOI continues to have the final say on all matters
conceming natural resources
(i)  The Forest Act 1927: To consolidate all laws relating to forests, with
focus on the control of timber and other forest produce
(ii) Wildlife Protection Act 1972;: To protect wildlife, by creating protected
areas and controlling trade in wildlife products
(iii) Foest Conservation AeL 1980 as amended in 1988 : To halt India's rapid
deforestation and the resulting enviromnental degmdation
(iv) National Forest Policy. 1988 : An enlightened policy to encourage peoples'
(including NGOs) involvement in the development and protection of
forests.
In essence, laws regarding forests are also becoming more stringent and have a
strong emphasis on public participation. IL&FS shall, as a best practice approach,
also emphasise public participation in its projects
(c)   Link La  : The Environment (Protection) Act of 1986 links pollution and
natural resource issues. Its objective is to protect and improve the human
environment and prevent hazards to human beings, other living creatures, plants
and property
Attachment- summariz the objectives, scope and operational agencies responsible for
key environmental legislations in India
Apart from the specific laws on pollution and natural resources and the Environment
Protection Act that links pollution and natural resource issues, there are rules and
notifications based on which the Central Government is empowered to regulate any
operation. A list of all relevant rules and notifications as published by MoEF are
provided in Attachments 4. 5. 6 and 7. Many of these have a significant bearing on
IL&FS infrastructure projects. For example, the Environmental Impact Assessment
30



Notification has specified project categories that require clearance from the Central
Ministry of Environment and Forests (MoEF). There are also State notifications that
essentially embody similar requirements with minor changes and additions
Besides these rules and notifications, there is a proactive policy firnework: egs. the
National Conservation Strategy and Policy Statement on Environment and Development,
1992 and the Policy Statement for Abatement of Pollution, 1992. These policy
documents will provide the framework under which IL&FS extends environmental
commitnents to infiastructure projects
1.10  India has a sound and comprehensive body of environmental legislation, but the efficacy
of enforcement varies. IL&FS recognises that it is in its long-term corporate interest to
fulfill environmental obligations in infrastructure projects and ensure that each of its
projects comply with relevant laws
Orgnization Structure for Environmental Management on India
1.11 In keeping with the scheme of governance as enshrined in the Constitution, the
organisational structure for environmental management in India has developed both in
the Centre and the State. The involvement of local level bodies is of recent origin and
has as yet to be fonnalised. The structure within both is similar with the Central
agencies having overriding powers for policy formulation. The organisational structure
for environmental management in India at Centre, State and Local levels is discussed
below
(a)   Centre : Within the Central Government, the Ministry of Environment and
Forests (MoEF) is the nodal agency for policy formulation, planning, promoting
and co-ordinating the environmental programmes. Other Ministries play a
supporting role. Enforcement agencies assist the MoEF in executing assigned
responsibilities. The Central Pollution Control Board is responsible for pollution
prevention and control
FigwL I A shows the organizatioiial structure at the Central Govtnment level
31



AT TFiE cv-NTRAL GovFgNmFNT LUR 1.
Ministry of          ...-.-.-.-.-....-.Associated Ministries 1
|Environment & Forests      I                I
egs. Ministry of
-      Rural Development
-      Power
-      Industry
-      Water Resources
-      Agriculture
-      Urban Development
-      Surface Trmisport
ResCearch           entral Pollution
Institutes        CnrlBoard
egs.
- Indian Toxicology Research Centre
(mC), Lucknow
- National Enviroment Engineering          Regional Offices of
Research Institute (NEERI), Nagpur
- Wildlife Institute of India (WUI), Dehradun
- Forest Research Instte (FRI), Dehradun
(b)    Stat: A structure similar to the Centre also exists at the State Govemment level
and is provided in Attachment -8
(c)    Locai: The local urban and mral bodies (i.e. Panchayats) also play a role but this
involvement is recent and a formal organization structure has not yet evolved
32



World Bank Opational l)irectives on Environment
1.12 The World Bank's Operational Directive 4.01 (OD 4.01) outlines Bank Policy and
procedures for the environmental assessment (EA) of projects funded by the Bank. Key
characteristics of OD 4.01 include the categorization of projects based on possible
environmental impact, the EA process throughout the entire project cycle, the
consultation of all affected groups, and public disclosure of EA reports. Details with
respect to OD 4.01 are provided in Attachment-2. IL&FS will conform to the EA
requirements described by the World Bank's OD 4.01
Compgrison   Indian LAw with World Bank's Directive OD 4.01
1.13  Both the Indian Environmental Assessmnent law and the OD 4.01 have their own
requirements. Thcse requirements are not necessarily in tandem. A comparison is made
to identify similarities and differences so that they can be rationally applied to IL&FS
projects
1.14  Table 1.1 lists some key comparison criteria, and discusses the requirements of the
Indian Law in comparison with the World Bank's operational directive for each criterion.
In general, the World Bank's process requirements are more comprehensive than those of
the Indian legal system. Accordingly, the 'Vorld Bank Requirements' column in the
chart only lists those World Bank requirenients that are above and beyond those of the
Indian system
1.15  Some of the criteria on which the World Bank is more stringent or comprehensive are:
-     Requiring regional and sectoral environmental analysis
-     Categorizing projects based on more environment-related issues
-     Including social aspects
-     Mandatory public consultation and disclosure of information
-     Public participation during the entire project cycle
33



Table 1.1
Comparison Criteria        Indian Law (Environmental)      World Bsnk (OD 4.01)
1. Type of enviommental    Project specific                Plus
analysis                                                Rcgional and sectoral
2. Basis for categorisation  -  level of pollution emission  Plus
-  involvement level           -  sensitivity
-  type of project             -  nature and magnitdeof
-  location                       poteial impacts
-  scale of project            -  social assessment
component
- resettlement
3. EA Ostputs              -  Outu required:               Outputs requird:
- EIA                       -  EA Report
- EMP                       -  Acceptable EMP
- Detailed Feasibility Report   -  Aeptable RAP
- Questionnaire             -  Acceptable IPDP
- Rehabilitation Master Plan
- Risk Assessment Report
- DisasterPlan
4. Public Consutton        -  Pscriptive at folowving      Mandatory at:
stages of projects cycle:     - preparation of EA
- preparation of EA            - projec: appraisal
- project appmaisal         Plus
- project design
- project implementaon
5. Disclosure of Infoomation   -  Notmandatory             -  Mandatry
-  Summary Feasbiliy Report   -  Summary ofproject
-  EIA/EMP Reports                description and potal
-  Summay of EA Reports.          adverse impacts
-  MoEF tecommunendations      -  Summary of EA Report
-  MoEF conditions                conclusions
-  EA Report
1.16   IL&FS has incorporated the strengths of both the World Bank operational directives and
the Indian Legislation and Policies in the ESR. The essence of the Indian environmental
law and the Bank's Operational Directives is applied to IL&FS infstrucure project
cycle in Chapter III
34



SQOA ASP
1.17   Compared to the more specific legal instruments on environmental issues, the legislations,
notifications, rules and policies on social issues are less definitive. At the time of the
preparation of the ESR, India had not adopted a comprehensive National Act on involuntary
resettlement. Some States have resettlement acts or policies which apply to the irnigation
sector. In addition, some public sector units in the energy sector have resettlement policies.
While Constitutional provisions provide several guarantees to project-affected persons,
international agreements on social and cultural issues have limited application. Due to the
adverse social impacts of several development projects supported through overseas
development assistance, broadly all major funding agencies are increasingly careful to
ensure that projects comprehensively undertand and address associated social issues
1.18   With its commitment to address social issues associated with infrastructure projects, IL&FS
has attempted to capture the essence of the regulatory firamework in India and the experience
ofthe World Bank as embodied in their Operational Directives
oso tion2lufvismoz   s
1.19   The Indian Constitution provides for the protection of project affected people through the
provisions of fundamental rights and the directive principles. These guarantees and scheme
of governance are discussed below:
(a)   Gaarantees: Between the fundamental rights and the directive principles in our
Constitution, the rights of project affected people (in particular tribals and other
vulnerable groups) are protected. The fmdamnental rights are enforceable while the
directive principles are not Nevertheless, their importance in guiding State action
cannot be denied. Atahment l  lists several key guarantees covering life, property,
equality and culture
(b)    Scheme of Govemane: No provision in the Constitution is specifically concerned
with resettlement and rehabilitation. However various Government agencies and
specific Ministries are empowered to deal with adverse social impacts and issues of
resettlement and rehabilitation (R&R)
35



Iterntional Treaties, Conventions and  Protocols on Human  Rights and
Idgenous People
1.20   Adverse social impacts have culminated in a violation of basic human rights and has led to
the development of related international laws. Many of these have been signed or ratified by
India. Three examples are:
Universal Declaration of Human Rights
International Covenant on Economic, Social, and Cultural Rights
International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights and many other instruments on
the prevention of discrimination
With special regard to indigenous/tribal peoples, there are guarantees mandating
Govermment to take responsibility for their development, with their active participation
Status of Social £-Selated  gigslation and Policies
1.21  Legislation and policy on social issues related to infiastructure projects are in a nascent
stage of development in India. The Land Acquisition Act, with amendments, enacted
thereto by various States, is applicable all over India, irrespective of the projecL
Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh are the only States which have formulated specific
legislation on R&R
(a)   Land Acquisition Act 1894 as amended in 1984: This Act enables the State to
acquire private land for public purpose. This sovereign power of the State can be
delegated to public bodies and Corporations. Progressive liberalization and
industrialization has resulted in the increase of compulsory acquisition. The Act
ensures that no person is deprived of land except under law and entitles the
affected person (land owner, tenant or licensee) to a hearing before acquisition,
with due and adequate compensation made thereafter
Only land owners, tenants and licensees are possible compensation recipients.
The landless, agriculural and non-agricultural labourers, artisans, forest produce
collectors are excluded. The Act only deals with cash compensation, at a percent
of market value. The Act also provides several methods of valuing the
compensation.  Several States are using negotiations as a means to fix
compensation and acquire land
36



Grievance/Redressal mechanisms are also in place and affected persons may seek
the intervention of the Supreme Court
(b)   Madbya Pradesh Pariyoiana Ke Karan Visthapit Vyakti (Punshthapan)
Adhiniyam. 1925: This Act enables the State to provide for resettlement of
certain persons displaced from lands which are acquired for irrigation projects in
the State of Madhya Pradesh, etc.
(c)   Maharashtra PrQject Affected Persons Rehabilitation Act. 1986: This Act
enables the State to rehabilitate persons affected by irrigation projects in the State
of Maharashtra
Very recently, there has been considerable effort in India both at the Central level and in
several States to evolve more comprehensive policies on issues of R&R. These are listed
below with the details provided in AtachmentL
-  Drft National Policy for Rehabilitation of Persons Displaced as a Consequence of
Acquisition of Land (Ministry of Rural Development)
- Draft NGO Position Paper
-  The Orissa Resetlement and Rehabilitation of Project Affected Persons Policy, 1994
(as applicable to water resources projects)
The draft policy prepared by the Ministry of Rumal Development is being widely
discussed and the NGO position paper is in response to the foregoing
Summarl of Ka Trends in Indisn Law/Policies
1.22  Legislation and policies to address social issues associated with infras     projects
are evolving fairly rapidly. IL&FS aims to keep abreast of these developments and
incorporate such policies as may prevail from time to time in its infrtue projects.
Most of these laws and policies are oriented towards refining an understanding of two
key issues:
- Definition oe project affected persons (PAPs)
- Nature and extent of entitlements
The recognition of these issues by some key laws and policies have been analyzed and
presented in Attnchents 12 and 13.  Key tends that are germane to IL&FS
infatructre projects are discussed below
37



Regarding the inclusion of persons within the definition of "PAP": The Land
Acquisition at one extreme only deals with people who lose land and have valid
legal titles while the Draft National Policy (Ministry of Rural Development) is
now moving to a holistic understanding of what R&R means and who a project
affected person is. AttaChmeunt-2 provides details of the same
-     Regarding the extent and nature of entitlements: While "adequate
compensation" was initially the objective of laws/policies, replacement value and
even dt;velopment benefits are now favoured, in order to mitigate the potentially
disruptive nature of project induced displacement and other adverse effects.
Correspondingly, compensation has now been re-defined, and includes
grants/allowances/civic amenities, establishing a similar resource base.
Attachment-l1 provides details on tne nature and extent of compensation
recognised by some salient documents
Laws/policies now provide for resettlement on a community-wide basis and not
on an individual basis. Integration into host communities is also an important
consideration
.Most policies now view R&R as a time-bound activity
Cut off dates for identification of PAPs, and the formulation of eligibility criteria
are now specified in some of the laws
- Nationa! Acts and policies have little provision for public disclosure, consultation
and participation, whereas the Orissa Policy and the NGO policy do
Regardin g gssmanisms The National Draft Policy provides
for the setting up of a Grievance Rcdressal Cell including organisations of
displaced persons.  Orissa policy mentions constitution of Lok Adalats
(alternative dispute resolution) for speedier disposal of grievances
The requirement of social assessment is not mandatory under national law. Preparation
of R&R plans are required under specific State laws and some policies, but there is no
parallel with the environmental clearance required under the EIA Notification, 1994.
There is mention of a Master Rehabilitation Plan under the EIA notification but only so
long as the project has adverse environmental impacts
38



1.23  The key players in R&R planning and implementation vary in each of the Acts and
policies. Attahment-14 provides details of the same
These agencies are involved in:
(a)   Acquisition of land
(b)   Development of R&R policies (where required)
(c)   Preparation of R&R plans
(d)   Implementation of R&R plans
(e)   Monitoring and evaluation
However, the trend is that these activities are no longer the sole purieiw of the
Government authorities. Voluntary organisations and representatives of displaced/
affected persons are also included. The degree of inclusion and participation varies
according to the concerned law or policy
1.24  The World Bank Operational Directives (OD 4.30 and OD 4.20) describes the Bank's
policies with respect to involuntary resettlement and indigenous people respecfively.
These are discussed below and provide the standards that will be required to be met to
obtain the Bank's participation
(a)   World Bank OD 4.30: Tnvoluntary Resetement: This directive describes Bank
policy and procedures on inv'luntaty resettlement as well as tle conditions that
borrowers are expected to meet in operations involving rsettlement. The
objective of the Bank's policy is to ensure that the population displaced by a
project also benefits from the project and that the standards of living are
improved, or at a minimum, restored. It stresses the development approach in
planning and implementation of resettlement action plans, with the participation
of affected groups
(b) World Bank o1 4.20: Indigenous Peoples : This directive describes Bank
policies and procedures for projects that affect indigenous peoples: social groups
with a social and cultural identity distinct from the dominant society that makes
them vulnerable to being disadvantaged in the development process. The
objective of the policy is to ensure that development programmes are socially
and culturally compatible, that they take place with the inforned participation of
the indigeno"s people, and that the indigenous people do not suffer adverse
impacts
39



For an investment project that affects indigenous peoples, an Indigenous Peoples
Development Plan (IPDP) is required. This will be prepared in consultation with
such peoples that are culturally compatible in order to offer social and economic
benefits
1.25  A comparison between trends in Indian law and OD 4.30 and OD 4.20 is essential to
identify differences and similarities so that social considerations are given due
importance and the socially disruptive potential of projects mitigated. Iabkle12 below
lists some key comparison criteria and discusses the trends and requirements in Indian
law and the World Bank's directives for each criterion. In general, the trends in Indian
law are moving toward redefinition of affected groups and nature and extent of
compensation and entitlements
1.26  The criteria on which the World Bank is more stringent or comprehensive are:
-     Payment of compensation for various losses at replacement value
-     Rehabilitation to ensure restoration/improvement of standard of living
-     Public consultation and disclosure of infonnation
-     Public participation during the entire project cycle
-     Requirement of a Resettlement Action Plan, and wherever appropriate,
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan
1.27 The strengths in the Indian law are:
Plans and provisions are countly related
Takes into account social realities in specific Indian conditions
eg., setting up of Lok Adalats (ADRs) in the Orissa R&R Policy
40



Table 1.2
COMSPARISON : INVDIAN^ LAW AND WORLTD BANK DTRECTIVES
Comparbson Criteria        Indian law (Social               World Bank
(OD 430.4.20)
1. Scopc/Applicability   Country specific            General guiding principles
State specific
Project specific
2. Schedule of SA      SA loosel:v linked to project  Strict linicages between SA and
cycle                         project cycle (pari passu)
3. SA preparation      Not specified                 Mandatty
4. SA Outputs          Not mandatofy:                Mandatory
-  Master rehabilitation plan    -  R&R plan
under EIA notification    -  IPDP
5. Definition :.f PAP    Limited-> Inclusive         Inclusive
6. Tnbals (Indigenous   No special status regarding R&R   Special status regarding R&R
People)
7. Extent of           Adequacy -> Replacement       Replacment value and
compensation                                      benefits
8. Nature of           Limted--> Comprehensive       Comprehensive
compensation
9. Public Consultation
- extent            Limited -> Participatory      Participatory
- status            Sporadic                      Entire project cycle
10. Disclosur          Not required-> Not manday  Mandatory
41



Sqocial Impact and Entitlement Framework for World ank financed PEoiectq
1.28  In contrast to the environmental legislation which exists in India and provides a reference
for the environment part of the Environmental and Social Report, no similar framework
or legislation exists for the general social impacts of development projects, of
resettlement and rehabilitation (R&R) in particular. In order to provide a framework for
the R&R process in projects where World Bank financing is involved this ESR provides
a list of entitlements for the project affected individuals, families and establishments.
Each such project will have to demonstrate compliance with the Social Impact and
Entitlement Framework. A detailed exposition of the social impact and entitlement
framework for World Bank financed projects is provided in Attacbmelnt.
1.29 Seven basic categories of issues/impact are forcseen under this entitlement framework:
(a)   Loss of land
(b)   Loss of structure
(c)   Loss of source of livelihood
(d)   Loss of access to common resources and facilities and
(e)   Loss of standing crops and trees
(f)    Losses during transition of displaced persons/establishments
(g)   Losses.to Host Communities
42



1.30 For the purposes of this framework, the following definitions will be applicable:
(a)   PrgScted Affected Persons (AP): PAP means those who are:
(i)   physically displaced or economically adversely alfected as a result of
physical re-location;
(ii)   economically affected but not physically re-located
(iii)  losing access to community amenities and resources
(b)   Familvy: Family is defined in terms of members of a household who share a
common kitchen
(c)   Replacement Value: Replacement Value means market value excluding
depreciation. Replacement value of land should be determined through a land
market survey
(d)   Cut-off date: Cut-off date is used to deternine the eligibility of PAPs. The cut-
off date will bc the date of the baseline survey. The survey will identify the
residents or users of the land being acquired
(e)   Laod: The term land refers to land acquired under the Land Acquisition Act, or
through private transactions. All land provided under the entitlement framework
should be provided with secure tenure
PAPs should be given choices regarding the entitlements provided. If land-for-
land is chosen by the PAP, the land should be of equivalent value and/or
productivity. Basic units or minimum econoomic holding should follow the norms
of the national, state or local Governnents sufficient to restore or improve the
standard of living
43



Type of Isue/ilmpaet                   Entitlement      |Entitement Options                      Responsibility
|                            | B~~~~~~~~enericebry l
1. Loss or land
a. Homestead                                                                                  Govt/SPV
(i) vith valid title, or customary   (i) Family    (i) equiv. area of land or
or usufruct rights                                 cash comp. at replacement value
(ii) squatters                  (ii) Family        (ii) developed plot as per Govt. norms
b. Agriculturl land
(i) with valid titl, or          (i) Titdeholders    (i) altrnate land of equiv.prod.
customary or usufruct rights                       potential or
cash payment at replacenent value
(ii) tants, sh rcppes            (ii) Individual    (ii) local skL for min. econ. land
leaseholder, encroachers                           holding or cash payment for min.
econ. landholding
c. ComnerciaU Industial/
Institutional
(i) with valid title, or         (i) Titleholder    (i) equiv. land or cash at replacemrent
customnary or usufruct rights                      value
(ii) tenant, leasebulder          (ii) Unit         (ii) equiv leased land, rmimbursemnent
for unexpired lease, transition
allow. equiv. to 1 year's income
(iii) squatter                    (iii) Unit        (iii) equiv.land and transition allowance
equiv. to I year's incoene
2. Loss of structure
L  House                                                                                      GovtJSPV
fi) with valid tite, or cusomay   (i) Family       (i) struture of equiv. standard or
or usufnict ri£tds                                 cads camp. at replacement value
(ii) teant, leasholder           (ii) Family       (ii) transition allow. to r-establish
rcsidence
(iii) squas, pavement            (iii) Family      (iii) basic dwelling unit as per gOvL
dwellers                                           norms or cash paymcnt for basic
dwelling unit
b. CormnerciaU IndustriaU
Institutional
(i) with valid title, or customawy   (i) Unit       (i) straucture of equiv. std or casb
or usufruct rights                                 comp. at replacement value
(ii) tenant, leaseholder          (ii) Unit         (ii) rasonable transition allowance
equiv. to 1 year's income
(iii) squater pavemCnt            (nil) Unit        (iii) basic unit as per govt norms or
dwelles                                              cash payment for basic unit
44



S
3. Loss of livelihood/trade/occupation                                                    SPV
a. Wage emnployment
(i) agriculture/ commerciaV   (i) Individual    (i) employment in reconstructed
industriaV institutional                        enterprise or packg  for re-
employment or strting a business,
and transition allow. equiv. to I
year's wages
4. Loss of access to common resoumes                                                      Govt/SPV
and facilities
a. Rural common property         HHI community  (a) replacement CPRs/amenities or
rcsources                                         providing min. Govt std
b. Urban civic amenities         HH/community   (b) access to equiv. amenities/services
5. Loss of standing cropshtrees
a. With valid titlc              Fanily           (a,b,c) cash compcnsation equiv. to I
b. Tenantilessec                 Family           year's income for crops and twelvc
c. Encroachers/Squauters         Famnily         y_y    for trees
6. Losses during tansition of de-                                                         Govt/SPV
placed persons/establishunents
a. Shifting/Tfrmsport            Family/Unit      (a) provision of tansport or cash
b. Maintenance                   Family/Unit         equiv
c. Construction                   Family/Unit     (b) cash payment for one year
(c) cash payment for materials and
.___________________________      labour or provision of matrials
7. Losses to Host co.nmunities
a. Amenities/Services             Community        Restore losses as a result of r-    GovtlSPV
settlement or amenities/services equiv.
.___________  to those provided to PAPs
1.32    IL&FS will ensure that all plans are approved by the competent authorities. It will ensure
that public consultation takes place at the necessary stages and that grievance redressal is
a priority. IL&FS will also encourage the use of innovative financial mechanisms, such
as annuities in the implementation of approved social entitlement scheme
1.33    As per World Bank requirements, in sub-projects where compensation has already been
paid and it was not at replacement value, the rehabilitation package should include
additional cash payments sufficient to meet this requirement or other measures,
acceptable to the PAPs, which enable them to restore or improve their standard of living
45



CIHAPTR I :   MAJOR ISSUES EI PRIORITY SECTORS
46



TABLE OF CONTENTS
CHAPTER II: MAJOR ISSUES IN PRIORITY SECTORS
Environmental Issues
-     Integrated Area Development
-     Water Supply and Sanitation Infrastructre
-     Surface Transport
Power
Socal Issues
-     Involuntaiy Resettlement
-     Protection of Marginalised and Vulnemble Groups
-     Public Consultation and Consensus Building
47



II MAJOR ISSUES IN PRIORITY SECTORS
2.01  IL&FS aspires to clearly demonstrate its commitment to environmental and social
concems while implementing and financing infrastructure projects. This process is
initiated by identifying the major issues in each of its project areas
The exercise begins with the identification of issues in the altemative project sites. The
degree and magnitude of these issues are captured in the subsequent investigations (EA
and SA process). Resolution of these issues are incorporated in the project design
EN ENTAIISCUE5.
2.02  While infrastructure delivers major benefits, the construction and operation of each type
of project involves certain activities that can have adverse environmental impacts.
Presently, IL&FS focus in the infrastructure sector includes the following:
(a)   Intoegated Area Development
(b)   Water Supply & Sanitation Infastructure
(c)   Surfice Transport
(d)   Power
Specific envirownental impacts during the construction and operation phase of the
project in each of the above areas are discussed below:
2.03  During the construction and operation phases, environmental impacts may be caused by
certain activities, such as:
Site preparation, extraction of building materials, construction of roads, drainage system,
water supply, power supply networks, construction of residential buildings, community
services, surface transport and storage of building materials and machines, traffic and
road maintenance, operation of conumunity services, possible overuse of the aquifer,
impoundmen -f water, operation of water treatment plants, collection of solid wastes,
collection of hazardous wastes, domestic heating a-Id cooking and burning of domestic
waste, disposal of domestic waste waters in open drains and ditches etc.
48



These activities may create impacts on:
-     areas of unique or exceptional aesthetic quality and unique ecosystems
-     hydrology and drainage patterns, flooding
-     erosion levels and soil quality
-     surface and ground water quality
-     land use, such as agriculture, forestry, tourism, recreation
-     aesthetics
-     fisheries
-     wildlife (e.g. habitats, migration routes, endangered species)
-     air quality
-     noise and vibration levels
-     local traffic
-     public health and safety
-     archaeological, historical, cultural or scientific values
WVater SulMlysnd Sanitstion Infrskstrocture
2.04   During the construction and operation phases, environmental impacts may be caused by
certain activities that can have adverse environmental impacts on ground, water and or
surface water. Each of these are discussed below:
(a)    Ground Water
It is important to know the water balance of the aquifer to be utilized. It may be
necessary to study and monitor the whole ecological balance in the area to asswe
that the aquifer is properly managed and the yields may be sustained over the
years
Possible impacts of overuse of the aquifer may be the following:
-     salinity intrusion from coastal waters or from nearby saline strata
-     diminished extraction elsewhere in the same aquifcr
-     increased mineral concentration
-     reduced soil moisture causing damage to vcgctation and loss in
productivity of plant and animal resources
-     increased seepage
-     intrusion of contaminants causing disease
49



Examples of other potential impacts include:
erosion around the water source due to population or livestock pressure
(migration), especially in arid and semiarid areas, or due to overflow of
water
-     trampling and overgrazing by animals
-     microbial contamination resulting in the spread of disease
-     spread of disease through spill water due to unconditioned surroundings
-     erosion due to steep or poorly aligned access roads
(b)   Surfa Water: Surface water for water supply needs purification to meet the
quality and quantity of demand. For each activity, a set of environmental issues
and impacts requires careful consideration
Raw water purification pl=
-     changes in land use
-     impact of leaking chemicals
-     impact of smells and odors
-     impact of waste dumping at the dumping sites
Conveymr
erosion due to wrongly placed wash-out, leaking pipes and wrong
alignment, especially in coastal and hilly areas
impact caused by the use of access roads
health problems due to leaking and standing water
Storage
visual impact
erosion due to overflow or scour
health problems due to leaking and standing water
Digbution
-     visual intrusion
-     erosion by leakage
-     health impact due to leakage and standing water
-     unplanned land use near the new water points
50



Waste Waters
health hazards due to pathogens and other contaminants (e.g. radioactive
materials)
health hazards due to disease vector increase
-     fish kills
-     eutrophication/oxygen depletion
-     excess vegetation
-     changes in species diversity
-     erosion due to inadequately planned outflow
-     thermal pollution
-     aesthetic impacts (smells, odours)
-     reduction of recreatioral value of recipients
-     impacts on fisheries
Waste water treatment plant
-     land use
-     air pollution
-     thermal pollution
-     impacts of sludge disposal
-     health hazards due to wrong use of sludge
-     aesthetic impacts
Surface 3mramns
2.05 The environmnental impacts attendant to surface transport projects, during the
construction and operation phase is primarily determined by the specific nature of the
projecL Broadly these may be segregated   as Roads, Bridges, Highways and
Expressways and Urban Mass Transit Systems. The environmental impacts during
construction and operation phase for both are discussed below:
(a)   R       _    _     _      _m
During construction and operation phase, environmental impacts may be caused
by activities such as:
(i)    Construction Pmhas: The environmental impacts during construction are
likely to rsult from three main sources: construction equipment,
including delivery trucks; earthmoving operations and demolition; and,
increased traffic congestion in construction areas, particularly at the
connection points of the Project's approach roads with the existing
network
5'



In addition, construction material exploitation, handling, surface transport
and storage, construction activities, asphalt and concrete plants, construction
of culverts, roads, bridges, highways and expressways, encroachment
previously accessible areas could also have an adverse environmental impact
(ii)    Q$Wion .Phase The environmental impact during the operation phase will
be due to mobile sources using the facility and congestion, if any, which
may occur at the connection points of the project with the existing network.
Location of potentially high concentrations of air contaminants will be the
toll plaza, where large numbers of vehicles will move slowly or will idle
while waiting to pay toll. Of particular concern will be the resultant
environmental impact on personnel manning the toll plaza
The above activities may create impacts on:
areas of unique or exceptional aesthetic quality and unique
ecosystems
hydrology and drainage patterns, flooding
erosion levels and soil quality
surface and ground water quality
land use, such as agriculture, forestry, tourism, recreation
aesthetics
fisheries
wildlife (e.g. habitats, migration routes, endangered species)
air quality
noise and vibration levels
local traffic
public health and safety
archaeological, historical, cultural or scientific values
(b)    Urban Mas Transit Sysms (UMS)
Most of the present UMTS are elevated type, with minimum obstructions and
impacts during the construction and operational phase. During the consruction
phase impacts may be created on environmental factors such as:
-      land use conflicts (eg., in regional resettlement)
-      eradication or significant depletion of unique or valuable habitats
-      air pollution (dust and emission caused by ground traffic)
-      noise
-     water pollution by rn-off, oil spills, uncontrolled waste treatment and
dumping, siltation caused by increased erosion, etc.
-      disruption of area drainage patterns
-     promotion of downstream flooding due to siltation
-      construction or denigration of historical archaeological or cultural sites and
areas or aesthetically valuable landscapes
52



2.06 Power
(a)    Thermal Power Plants
During the construction and operational phases, environmental impacts may be
caused by certain activities, such as:
Land clearing and drainage, raw materials supply, surface transport and storage,
blasting and drilling, construction of the power plant and other. buildings,
construction of access roads, transmission lines and pipelines, housing and services
for the labour force, air pollution emissions of power generation, cooling,
maintenance, regular service and repair etc.
These activities may create some impacts on environment factors such as:
-      air quality (greenhouse gases)
-      solid waste generation (flyash)
-      noise leve!s
-      ground and surface water quality
-      safety
-      aesthetics
-      soil (e.g. erosion levels, pollution)
-      other land uses
a menity values
fisheries
important wildlife habitats
- occupational and public health
- energy resources
(b)    Electric Transmisgaon Lines
During the construction and operation of electical transmission lines, environmental
impacts may be caused by certain activities such as:
Land clearing, raw nmatrials supply, extraction, manufacturing, surface ransport and
storage, access roads, construction activities, voltages and electromagnetic fields
These activities will create some impact on environmental factors such as:
-      agriculture
-      forestry and forest resources (directly or indixctly)
-      erosion
-      housing
-      aesthetics
-      unique ecosystems or important wildlife habitats
-      noise levels
-      human health and safety
53



2.07   Figurl 2.1 summarises the enviror.nental attributes that can be affected by each type of
infrastructure project. For each project, the Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA)
will idcntify and analysc the type, extent and significance of a project activity on
different environmental attributes. Measures to not only prevent and mitigate negative
impacts but also to enhance the overall quality of the environment will be incorporated in
the Environment Mitigation Plan (EMP)
SOC1ALSSUES
2.08 Infrastructure projects are very often confronted with a range of socio-economic issues
that vary considerably depending on the situations in the project location and the
resettlement area. IL&FS is committed to:
Fulfilling the legitimate needs of the project affected groups, and
Adopting a ransparent process acceptable to the concerned shareholders
2.09  The saliept social issues related to irfrastructure projects include:
(a)   Involuntary Resettlement
(b)   Protection of Marginalised and Vulnerable Groups
(c)   Public Consultation and Consensus Building
Each of these are discussed below
2.10  Involuntary Rese.tlement
(a)    While IL&FS will aim to avoid involuntary resettlement, it may become
inevitable in some of the projects. In such cases, the attempt will be to atleast
restore, if not improve, the standard of living of the affected persons
(b)   IL&FS will ensure proper valuation of land and assets, an entitlement policy for
each category of impact, minimisation of cwnbersome procedures and a well
developed compensation package. The entitlement framework developed for
World Bank fmanced projects is described in Table 1.3
(c)    One of the primary tasks in resettlement is to select an acceptable site. Once
selected, infrastructure development, conservation of cultural practices, spatial
and temporal resource use, and carrying capacity become important Timing of
transfers to new sites, and assistance during the transfer and transition period will
also be considered
54



(d)   There is often a preference for land as a compensation for acquired land.
Innovative opportunities for investment of cash compensation, and skill
assessment and capacity development will be considered for the creation of
sustainable livelihoods
(e)   There are also issues of host communities already living in the resettlement area,
like reduced access to amenities and facilities, that need to be addressed
(f)    The concerns of the resettled and host communities will be incorporated in the
Rehabilitation Action Plan (RAP). Refer Attachment No 16 for details
2.11   Protection of Marginalised and Vulnerable Grops:
In some of the infrastructure projects, there may be specific issues relating to
marginalised and vulnerable groups like the economically and socially disadvantaged;
the elderly; women and children; the physically handicapped; and indigenous people. As
a general principie, IL&FS will aim at enhancing their opportunities. Guidelines for
preparation of an Indigenous People Development Plan (IPDP) are firnished in
Attachment No l7
2.12  Public Consultation snd Consensus Building:
(a)   Projects designed and executed with the best of intentions can fail if adequate
steps are not taken to involve the concerned people from inception. A whole
range of social issues can be effectively addressed through more transparent and
participatory processes
(b)   For each project, a combination of methods will be adopted, depending on the
local situation, for public consultation and consensus building. Attachment 18
provides details on the process and methods that will be used for this purpose
(c)   In the case of each project, IL&FS will attempt to establish an effective local
mechanismn sensitive to socio-economic issues and capable of coordinating
implementation of the RAP. Non-Government Organisations (NGOs) and
Community Based Organisations (CBOs) will play a critical role. This
mechanism will also serve to redress the grievances of the affected groups
55



.
CHAPTER m:   OPERATIONAL PROCEDURES
56



TABLE OF CONTENTS
CHAPTER m           OPERATIONAL PROCEDURES
The IL&FS Project Cycle
Enviromnent and Social Assessment Report (EAR/SAR)
Environmental and Social Assessment Framework
Environmental Asssnment Process (EAP)
-      Environmental Screening
-      Environmental Scoping
-      Finalisation of TOR for Enviromental Assessment Studies
-      Appointment of Enviromental Assessment Consultant
-      Environmental Assessment Studies
-      Review of EAR
-      Translation of Agreements into Legal Instruments
-      Monitoring of Environmental Action
-      Annual Environmental Audit
Social Assessment Process (SAP)
-      Social Screening
-      Social Scoping
-      Finalisation of TOR for Social Assessment Report (SAR)
-      Appointment of Social Assessment Consultant
-      Establishment of Neighbourhood Committee
-      Social Assessment and Preparation of Mitigation Plans
-      Review of SAR
-      Translation of Agreenents into Legal Instruments
-      Monitoring of RAP/IPDP
-      Annual Social Audit
57



III  OZPERAIOQN"PROCEJIBE
3.01   This chapter details the operational procedures that will be followed by IL&FS in each of
its infrastructure projects in order to ensure compliance with the provisions of the ESR.
The underlying principle in deriving these processes, is that the environmental and social
concerns at the institutional and project level are best addressed when they are
incorporated as an intrinsic part of the project cycle
3.02  The lL&FS Project Cycle is first discussed (Table 3.1) briefly to provide the framework
within which tie environmental and social assessment (EA/SA) process will be
undertaken. The EA/SA needs are dovetailed into the [L&FS Project Cycle to develop
the EA/SA Process Framework (Table 3.2). This integrated assessmnent will be the
operational fiamework through which envirorunental and social issues will be addressed.
Subsequent sections of this Chapter detail the environmental and social assessment
processes
3.03  This section outlines the IL&FS Project Cycle. As a fmancial intermediary, IL&FS
primary task will be to appraise pk,Pjects and ensure that it finances BOT projects which
are;.structured as commercially viable stand alone entities; have follcrwed transparent
procurement processes; and are consistent with its eligibility, operating and risk
management requirements
3.04 The IL&FS Project Cycle proceeds through several distinct phases. As BOT projects are
typically complex and take extended periods to fully develop, IL&FS role in the project
cycle varies across projects. .rable 3.1 provides an overview of the typical IL&FS
Project Cycle; outlining the milestones, goals, responsibility and outputs at each stage
3.05  As the concept of BOT and its applicability is new in India and there is also very limited
experience globally, it is expected that for the foreseeable futre, IL&FS will be required
to assist potential project sponsors through project preparation. Nevertheless, while
IL&FS may provide assistance, responsibility will rest with the project sponsors/SPV.
In other words, after the project preparation phase, IL&FS will undertake a detailed and
independent appraisal of the project to ensure that it covers the Institution's
requirements, prior to extending any financial commitment to the project



3.06  As the first step in the project cycle, IL&FS will screen the project, with a view to
establishing whether the Institution should proceed to the next stage, request further
screening or reject it
(a)   Where project preparation has been sufficiently comprehensive and rigorous and
is consistent with IL&FS business practices, IL&FS will appraise the project and
proceed thereon
(b)   Where a project is less than fully prepared, IL&FS shall require the project
sponsorslSPV to undertake further preparatory exercises in line with its
requirements prior to undertaking an appraisal of the project
3.07 The objective of the project preparation phase is to ensure that the SPV or project
sponsor provides a well researched and documented report on the project so as to enable
IL&FS to determine its creditworthiness and assess the degree of attendant risks. During
appraisal, IL&FS will verify all project documentation, establish project viability,
approve the proposed process for selection of an operator, and concur with the proposed
contractual, institutional and legal framework and documentation. Where the project
proposal has been appraised and approved by IL&FS, the SPV and/or project sponsor
will be responsible to take the project to a technical and financial close
3.08  After the project has reached a technical and financial close, IL&FS role will be to
monitor that the project complies with the standards and agreements between the various
shareholders during the construction, operation and maintenance phase. IL&FS shall
ensure such compliance by requiring the SPV to submit periodic progress reports,
undertake site visits, and hrough interactions with local goverunent, local user groups,
etc.
3.09  The environmental and social assessment process will dovetail with the IL&FS pjject
cycle. It is envisaged that at each stage of the project cycle, environmental and social
assessment issues will be addressed concurrently. Based on these principles, subsequent
sections of this Chapter detail the Environmental and Social Assessment process to be
followed by IL&FS
59



IL&FS PROJECT CYCLE
Table 3.1
MILESTONES                               COAL                            PROCESS STEPS                 RESPONSIBILITY              DECISIONPRODUCr
Screening                        - Assessment of Initial feasibility       a Desk review                    IL&FS                      - Initial screening report
- Identification of critical Issues      b. Field investigations           IL&FS/SPV/Sponsor         - Decision to proceed or otherwise
- Examination of project eligibility with  c. Interactions:               IL&FSISPVISponsorI          with the project
respect to IL&FS project selection criteria  - Project sponsordSPV      Government
- Delineation of IL&FS Role                - Govemment
* Initial risk assessment                  - Users
Scoping                          Consensus on:                             a Interactions between IL&FS,    IL&FS/SPVI Sponsor/        * Memorandum of Understanding
- Extent, scope and nature of project      sponsors, SPV, government,      Govemment                  (MOU)
preparation                             public, users, etc.                                        - Finalisation of Channels of
* Allocation of responsibility                                                                         Consultation
* Methodology of study
Time frame
- Shirlng of costs
- Channels of Consultation
Finalisatlion of terms of reference  - TOR to be finalised with respect to all  a Preparatlon of TOR        SPW/Sponsor/Consultant    - Terms of reference (TOR) for
(TOR) for project preparation       tasks to be undertakeri during project   - findings from screening and                               appointment of consultants
studics                             preparation phase                          scoping
- technical components
- execution amangements
b. Verification of TOR and       IL&FS
consistency check with IL&FS
business practices
Appointment of consultants       - Selection of suitable consultants       a. Selection of suitable consultants   SPW/Sponsor          * Consultants appointed
b. Consistency checks with IL&FS
business practices              IL&FS
60



MILESTONES                              GOAL                            PROCESS STEPS               RESPONSIBI= TY              DECISION_PRODUCr
Project preparation              -Establish technical, economic, financial,   a. Field                    SPWSponsor/Consultant    . Detailed feasibility and
environment and social viability        - investigation                                           investment banking report
-Evolve a suitable procedure for the      - surveys                                                 (DFIBR)
commercial Implementation of the project  - interactions                                        - Environmental and social
* Establish the contractual fmamework for  - sector studies                                         assessment rcport (ESAR)
the project including preparation of draft   b. Technical and engineering  SPV/Sponsor/Consultant    - Contractual framework
contractual agreements                 studies                                                    documentation (CFD)
- Identify, assess and allocate risks   c. Environmenta and social studies  SPV/Sponsor/Consultant    - Detailed process of
associated with the project during    d. Market demand studies                                     implementation, including
construction, operation and maintenance    e. Economic analysis        SPV/Sponsor/Consultant      request for proposalikidding
phases                                E Financial analysis             SPV/Sponsor/Consultant      documents and evaluation
g. Resource mobilisation plan   SPV/Sponsor/Consultant      criteria for selection of operator
h. Institutional and legal      SPV/Sponsor/Consultant      (DPI)
framework                      SPV/Sponsor/Consultant    - Risk identification, asnessmnt
1. Development of contractual                               and management plan (RMIP)
framework                      SPV/Sponsor/Consuutant
j. Documentation for BOT operator
selection                      SPV/Sponsor/Consultant
- Performance standards
- Execution arrangements
- Evaluation framework
k. Risk analysis and allocation  SPV/Sponsor/Consultant
Initial project evaluation l      Review of drft project documentation by   a. IL&FS verification         IL&FS/Consultants        - Initial project evaluation report
IL&FS                                  b. Clcarancelconcurrence                                  - Agreement on:
- Clearances/approvals by govemment       - State government clearance   SPV/Sponsor                - DFIBR
- GOI clearmnce               SPV/Sponsor                - EAR/SAMP
- MA concurrence              IL&FS                      - CFD
- DPI
- RMP
Selection of Operator             Selection of a suitable Operator       a Issue of PQ Notice             SPV/Consultant           - Award recommendation
b. Shortlisting of Operators    SPV/Consultant
c. Bid document release         SPV/Consultant
d. Evaluation and sclection of  SPV/Consultant
operator
e. Consistency check with IL&FS    IL&FS
business practices
61



MILESTONES            !                GOAL                           PROCESS STEPS               RESPONSIBILITY             DECISION/PRODUCT
Project financial close         - Translation of agreement into legally  a. Negotiation of contractual  IL&FS, SPV/Sponsor,      - Final Project Evaluation Report
binding instruments                     documentation between SPV,     Govemment, Operator,     - Signed:
Finalisation of financial consortia for the  govemment and Operator     SPV/Merchant Banker      a Conc.sion agreement
project                                b. Preparation of private                                 b. Sharcholdcrs agreement
placement memorandum, and                                c. Construction agreemnent
negotiation with lenders and                             d. O&M contract agreement
other sharehplders                                     - Finalisation of project finance
consortium
- Lenders' agreement
Project Monitoring and Audit      Ensuring conformity to standards and  a. Periodic progress report     SPV/IL&FS                - Compliance report
agreements during construction,      b. Field visits                 IL&FS/Lendcrs            - Annual audit
opcration, and maintenance           c. Interactions with            IL&FS/SPV
Ensuring compliance with respect to   Government, SPV, Operator,
disbursement procedures                lender, MA, local
user groups, etc.
62



3.10  The IL&MS Environmental and Social Assessment Framework described in Table 3.3 has been evolved from an understanding of:
* The environment and social commitments of [L&FS as contained in the ESR
*  Statutory requirements of Govemment agencies
i Operational requirements of multilateral agencies, such as the World Bank
* Priority environmental and social issues in typical IL&FS infrastructure projects
* The IL&FS Project Cycle
3.11   At each stage of the project cycle, there is a corresponding milestone in the EA/SA process. For each stage, the goal, process steps,
responsibility for each step and the final decision or product is clearly indicated in Table 3.3. This framework indicates the linkages between
the EA and SA process and also their combined linkage to the overall project cycle
3.12  The format of the EA/SA Report is outlined below in Table 3.2. This report will emerge as the product from the application of this process
63



Table 3.2
ENVIR^ONMENTAL AND SOCIAL ASSESSMENT REPORT (EARISAR)
Executive Summary
Peamble:                                Purpose, Process, Content and Structure
of Report
Partk X                    :Environmental Assessment Report
(EAR)
*     Project Description
*     Existing Environment and Baseline
Survey
*     Prediction of Impacts
*     Analysis of Alternatives
*     Recommended Option
*     Environmental Management Plan
-     Mitigation Measures
-     Implementation Monitoring Plan
-     Institutional Responsibility
Framework
-     Risk Allocation
2arl                      :            Social Assessment Report (SAR)
64



*       Census and Socio-Economic Conditions
*       Social Assessment Summary
*       Resettlement Action Plan (RAP)
*       Indigenous Peoples Development Plan
(IPDP)
Annexures                                  :       (1)      Bibliography, Data Sources, Raw Data
(2)     List of Document Papers
(3)     Minutes of Public Consultations
Table 3.3
ENVIRONMENTALIAD SOCIALF ASSESSMENT FRAMEW(RK
AIIL_NES                              GOAL                             PROCESS STEPS                   RESPONSIBILITY               DECISIONIPRODUCT
.Environmental/Social Screening    - Initial Identification of environmental  a. Desk review                IL&FS                      - Environmental screening and
and social Impacts and range of    b. Field investigations                IL&FS with SPV/sponsor       social screening as part of Project
mitigation measures required       c. Interac(ions with GOI (MoEF, State  IL&FS, SPV/sponsor           Initial Screening Report
- Consistency check with Govt.         Government, Local Administatton)                               - Decision to proceed or otherwise
regulatoty framework
- Preliminary land acquisition
assessment (LAA)
- Composition of PAPs and special
needs of marginalised groups
- Decision on whether to proceed with
project
Environmental/SocIal Scoping   v Seeking Public Opinion and          a. Public Authority Consultation       SPV/Sponsor/LA            Scope and Coverage of EAR/SAR
consensus on the extent of contours  b. Public Consultation                SPV/Sponsor/LA
of LAA and the scope of EA and SA
studies                                                 _ 
Finalisatlon of Terms of       TOR for EA/SA studies                 a. Preparation of TOR                  SPVeLA/Consultant         Terms of Reference for
Reference for EA and SA                                              - Findings from screening and scoping                            appointment of consultant
studies                                                              - Technical components
65



- Public Consultation Mechanism
- Execution Afrangements
b. Verification of TOR consistency
with ESR, Govemment and MA            IL&FS
_   requirements
Appointment of consultants      Selection of Suitable Consultants     a. Selection of consultants            SPV/Sponsor                Consultants Appointed for
b. Consistency checks with IIFS                                  EA/SA studics
business practices                    IL&FS / SPV
66



MILESTONES                            GOAL                          PROCESSSTEPS                   RESPONSIBILITY              DECISION/PRODUCT
EA/SA Study                       Preparing well researched and     a. Pautilcpatory Field Investigations  SPV/Sponsor through      Draft EARISAR including:
documented report taking into     b. Analysis of Field Observations   Consultant                  - EMP
account public opinions           c. Design of Mitigation Measures and                            - RAP
Action Plans                                                  - IPDP
d. Public Disclosure and Consultation                           - Implementation Monitoring
e. Finalisation of ESAR                                          Plan
- Institutional Responsibility
Framewvork
- Risk Allocation Framewotk
Review of EARISAR                 - Clearance/Concurrence on        a. IL&FS verification               IL&FS                       - Clearance by Govemment
EAR/SAR by Govemment and MA   b. Clearance/Concurrcnce              SPV/Sponsor                   agencies
- Agreement among project            - Consent to Establish (State Govt.)                         - Cencurrence by MA
shareholders on actions proposed In  * MoEF Clearance                                           - Agreemcnt on EAR/SAR
EAR/SAR                            - MA Concurrence                 SPV/Sponsor                   actions
.__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ .__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ ___   .____________________________     IL & FS
Translation of Agreements Into legal  Incorporating environmental and  a. Preparation and signing of    SPV & Govemment              - Concession Agreement
Instruments                       social actions into implementation  contractual documents among                                   - Shareholders Agreement
stage through legal instruments    shareholders                                                   - Construction Agreement
b. Aliocation of responsibility for  IC&FS/SPV/Operatorl        - O&M Agreement
implementation of EMP and         Contractor                  - Lendes Agreemcnt
SMP
Project Monitoring                Ensuring the Conformity to        a. Periolic monitoring reports      SPV, IL&FS                  Periodic Monitoring Reports
Standards and Agreements          b. Field visitstappralsal misslons  IL&FS, lender
c. Interactio;.- with Government, SPV,  SPV, IL&FS
Operator Lender, MA, local public,
user gro"ps, etc.                 __
67



MiLEST'O_NES       =GOAL                                           PRCESSSTEPS                    RESPONSIBILITY        |    DECISIOMIPRODUCT
Annual Environmental and Social  Ensuring transparency of ILkFS    L Appointment of consultani         coti -consuItant =         Environment and Socid Audit
Audit                            commitment to environmental and   b. Review and report on                                        Report
social issues                      environmental and social
performance of project during
constuction, operation and
maintenance
GOI   -         Govemment of Inaia
SPV    -        Special Purpose Vehicle
IL&FS -         Infrastructure Leasing and Financial Services
LAA   -         Land Acquisition Assessment
LA      -       Local Administration - State Govemment, Municipal Council, Panchayat
68



3.13  IL&FS is committed to ensure that each project will rigorously follow a detailed
Environmental Assessment Process (EAP) as described in Table 3.3. For each milestone,
the objectives, process and outputs are discussed in greater detail below
3.14  Environments] Screning
(a)   Objectives
The project will be screened from an environmental perspective to:
(i)   Examine broadly the likely environmental impact of the project and the
range of mitigation measures required
(ii)   Check consistency with Government regulatory framework
(iii)   Decide whether to proceed with the project and provide inputs into the
Initial Screening Report (ISR)
(b)   Pocess
(i)   Desk &cI*ew
The Project Team, the Environmental and Social Management Group
(ESMG) of IL&FS and, if necessary, the Corporate Consultant (CC), will
review all the available documentation on the project This initial review
will seek to assess the type, location, sensitivity and magnitude of the
potential environmental impacts and would accordingly categorise the
projectl This categorisation will be guided by the Indian regulatory
requirements and the operational directives of multilateral agencies like
the World Bank (Refer Aac=ment 5 and 9. The desk review will also
provide a feel for the mitigation measures required and whether it is
logical to proceed with the project from an environmental perspective
(ii)  FiEld 9nvcsigataons
The preliminary answers to the objectives ascertained from the desk
review will then be checked at the project locations by the Project Team
of IL&FS, CC and the SPV or Project Sponsor. This field assessment
will be done using rapid appraisal techniques and based on the experience
and judgement of the team members. Typical environmental issues are
furnished in Chapter 2
69



(iii)  Interaction with Govemment Agencies
The samc team will also interact with the appropriate Central, State and
local Government agencies to ascertain their views on the type, scale and
magnitude of environmental issues associated with the project
(iv)  Decision to pceed (or otherwise) based on the environmental prpective
Based on the field investigations and interaction with the Government
agencies, the team will modify the preliminary findings reached as a result
of the desk review. Their final recommendation on whether to proceed
with the project based on environmental screening will be an input into the
Initial Screening Report (ISR) of the Project, and submitted by the Task
Manager to the Executive Director (Infrastructure)
The ED (Infrastructure), with his comments giving weightage to other
screening studies, will ultimately recommend to the Committee of
Directors (COD) for the final decision to proceed or abandon the project.
The ED (Infrasucture) may request a second iteration of screening prior
to final submission to the COD
(c3   Outputs
The environmental screening process will result in the following outputs:
(i)   Environmental input to the ISR of the Project
(ii)  Decision to proceed, or otherwise, with the project
3.15  Efvirnmenal Seping
(a)    bjectives
The objective of the environmental scoping is to seek public opinion and build
consensus on the scope and extent of the Environmental Assessment studies
70



(b)   Procss
(i)  Ex= Review
Based on the feedback received from the environmental screening, tile SPV
or Project Sponsor, if necessary with a consultant, will outline the scope
and extent of the Environmental Assessment studies. This outline will be
developed from their understanding of the project location, project
components, environmental attributes to be impacted, previous
experiences, suggestions received during screening and reference to the
regulatory requirements and operational directives of multilateral agencies
(ii)  PlAtzyCons           n
The outline developed will be discussed with the appropriate public
authorities to untderstand and incorporate their concems
* iii) Public Consulitation
The revised scope of the Enviromnental Assessment studies thus developed
will be subjected to a detailed public consultation process to attain
consensus.  The methods used for public consultation may be a
combination of those described in Attachmecnt-1. This public consultation
will also be utilized to initiate informed participation of PAPs
(iv) Finalisation of the Scop of Environmental Assessment Studies
The scope of environmental assessment studies will then be finalised by the
SPV or Project Sponsor and Local Authority concerned
(c)   oat
(i)  Scope of the Environmental Assessment Studies and Report
(ii) Public opinion and consensus on the scope
71



3.16  Finalisation ofTOR for Euviranmental A..mgnt Studies
(a)   Ojective
The objective at this stage of the project cycle is to finalize the tenns of reference
(TOR) for the environmental assessment studies
(b)   Pcess
Together with the consultants, the SPV or Project Sponsor and the local authority
prepare the TOR for the environmental assessment studies. The TOR will
include:
* Technical components of the study based on findings fromn the environmental
screening and scoping phases
* Details of the public consultation and participation mechanisms to be adopted
during the environmental assessment studies
* Execution or contractual arrangements between the SPV or Project Sponsor
and the Consultant
Checking to ensure consistency of the TOR and the Environmental Assessment
studies with the ESR, Government regulations and operational directives of the
concerned multilateral agencies. Atacmen12  provides details as suggested
ToR formats that will be followed
(c)   0ut
TOR for Environmental Assessment Studies
3.17  AMetmn ofEvromna
(a)   OMective
The objective at this stage is to select and appoint a suitable consultant for the
Environmental Assessment studies
(b)   Prcess
The SPV or Project Sponsor will select and appoint a consultant team with multi-
disciplinary expertise to undertake the environmental assessment studies. While
the selection and appointment will nonnally be through a competitive bidding
72



process, the SPV or Project Sponsor is free to adopt any method consistent with
IL&FS business practices
(c)   oluQ t
Consultant for environmental assessment studies appointed.
3.18  Environmental Assessent Studies
(a)   Obective
This is the most important and substantive stage of the project. The key
objective is to prepare a well researched and documented environmental
assessment report with due consideration to public opinion and sensitivities
(b)   Process
The entire study is to be undertaken by the appointed consultant team with multi-
disciplinary expertise. They will involve public and private agencies, NGOs,
C]BOs, PAPs and local authorities, as required. Appropriate stakeholder groups
will be established to facilitate public consultation and participation. Ataghmcns
20, 21 and 22 provides details of the environmental assessment process
(i)   Participtoy Field Investigations.
Based on the TOR and scope of the environmental assessment studies the
teamn will undertake field investigations for the following:
*     Baseline survey of relevant environmental parameters (This will
be undertaken applying appropriate sampling techniques for type,
'location and frequency of samples. Other field assessment
techniques will be adopted depending on the level of detail
required for each parameter)
*     Prediction of likely environmental impacts due to the project and
evaluation of their consequences. aRefer Chapter 2 -
En=nni=t S_UC)
*     Identification of altemative measures to mitigate likely adverse
environmental social impacts
*     Preliminary selection of preferred alternatives for mitigation of
adverse enviromental impacts
73



Besides baseline surveys, other field observation techniques will be
applied during the field investigations. Local representatives will also be
consulted for their indigenous knowledge and to initiate them in the
decision making process
(ii)   Analysis of Field observations
The envirounental assessment team then carefully analyzes the field
data, observations and consultation documents to select the preferred
approach to mitigate the adverse environmental impacts of the project.
At this stage, the environmental assessment study team may also suggest
other options for the project. This is referred to the project team before a
decision is taken on the preferred mitigation measures for environmental
impacts.
(iii)  Design of Mitigation Measures and Action Plans
The environmental assessment team then proceeds to design the:
-     Detailed Mitigation Measures to address environmental issues
-     Implementation Monitoring Plan to clearly articulate a protocol
for monitoring the suggested actions.
-     Institutional Responsibility Framework to allocate responsibility
among the public and private agencies and others responsible for
implementing the EMP.
-     Risk Allocation Framework identifying the risks associated with
not prudently undertaking the EMe, suggesting risk mitigation
measures and allocat on of probaV'e liabilities.
(iv)   Public Disclosure and Consultation
The mitigation measures and action plans designed are then made
available for public review. These plans are discussed with the PAPs,
public authorities and other shareholders. A consensus is arrived at and
any remaining differences of opinion are also documented. Attahmnt
IR provides an overview of the process and methods of public
consultation that will be used for specific project
74



Based on the public consultation and other feedback, the components of
the EAR may evolve through several iterations before the document is
finalised
(c)   Ouitputs
(i)    Draft EAR including Fnvironment Management Plan
* Environmental Mitigation Measures
* Implementation Monitoring Plan
* Institutional Responsibility Framework
* Risk Allocation Framework
(ii)   Consensus on the Draft EAR
3.1 S Reiew of EAR
(a)   Objcctives
The objectives of the review stage are to:
(i) Ensure that the process and documentation of the Environmental Assessment
Studies is comprehensive and the proposed action plans are feasible
(ii) Obtain statutory clearances including MoEF clearance
(iii) Arrive at agreement on the EAR among IL&FS, Government agencies,
multilateral agencies and other project shareholders.
(b)   Proces
(i)   Internal Review of the draft EPAR
The CC of IL&FS will review the draft ESAR to check for rigor and
completeness in the analysis including the adequacy and feasibility of the
proposed EMP and other mechanisms. (Refer Attachments 23 and 24 for
details). The CC will make an independent judgment based on an
appraisal mission and public consultation, if necessary, as to whether the
75



resultant environmental consequences as outlined in the draft EAR are
consistent with the ESR. The CC subinits its findings to the ESMG of
IL&FS for verification and transmission to the ED (infrastructure). The
final Environmental Assessment Report is approved along with the other
project documents by the COD
(ii)   External Review and Cleamnces
The Environmental Assessment Report, verified by IL&FS is submitted
by the SPV to appropriate Govemments agencies like MoEF, CPCB,
SPCB, etc. Simultaneously, IL&FS will submit the EAR, along with
other project documents, to the multilateral agencies for their review
(c)   Oututs 
(i)    Environmental Assessment Report acceptable to IL&FS
(ii)   "Consent to establish" from SPCB and clearance of EIAJEMP from
MoEF
(iii)   Concurreuce from multilateral agencies
(iv)   Agreements on EMP implementation by appropriate Govemment and
multilateral agencies
3.20  Trswsation of Agreements into Leal Instniments
(a)   Qbjective
The primary objective is to ensure that the measures suggested in the various
components of the Environmental Assssment Report (EAR), especially the
Envirornental Management Plan, are incorporated into legal instruments that
gavern project implementation
(b)   Process
The obligations of thedifferent shareholders with respect to environmental issues
as enunciated in the EAR will be translated through specific provisions in the
following legally bmding instruments. The order of agreements shall be as
follows:
(i) Concession Agrment will record the respective obligations and
responsibilities of SPV and Government
76



(ii) Sh=holders Agrment will confirm the SPV's obligations as spelt out in
the Concession Agreement and shall conform to the ESR
(iii) Construction Agreement will record the respective obligations of the
Contractor Consortium and SPV with respect to environmental mitigation
actions       in         the          construction       phase
(iv) Operation and Maintenance (O&M) Agreement will record the respective
obligations of the O&M Consortia and SPV with respect to environmental
mitigation actions in the operation phase
(v) Lender's Agreement between the SPV and IL&FS will take on record, inter
alia, the Concession Agreement, Shareholders Agreement, Construction
Agreement and O&M Agreemnent, and shall be executed after all the
aforemnentioned documents have been executed
(c)   Quuts
The Agreemnents outlined above will be executed in the order of their precedence
3.21   MonitingofEnv*rnntalhActi
(a)   Objective
The objectives at this phase are to:
(i) Ensure consistency of implementation with approved EMP and adherence to
Agreements
(ii) Check for any unforeseen adverse environmental impact, respond to public
concerns and undertake corrective measures
(b)   Process
The SPV will undertake its own monitoring to enhance quality of work while the
Government agency concerned will monitor regulatory compliance.
The CC will undertake independent monitoring of the EMP implementation on
behalf of IL&FS to check for consistency with the lender's agrew.. The
schedule and indicators of monitoring will be specified in the Implementation
Monitoring Plan depending on the type of projects and conditions prevailing
therein. The CC will also have the responsibility of identifying unforeseen
negative impacts and recommend corrective measures through the ESMG of
IL&FS. This will ensure that the project is not jeopardized due to lack of timely
77



action on environmental issues. The contractual agreements will have provisions
to ensure that in the event of non-compliance suitable remedial action can be
affected by the lenders
(c)   oupQuts
(i) Implementation of EMP as per agreements
(ii) Periodic Monitoring reports
78



?.22 Annual Envimnmental Audit
(a)   Objectives
The objectives of the Environmental Audit are to:
(i) Provide independent assessment on the environmental performance of
infrastructure projects
(ii) Provide feedback to new and other on-going projects
(b)   Eme
An independent consultant will annually undertake this audit by reviewing
documentation, including all the components of the Environmental Assessment
Report, Agreements, and progress reports. Field audits will also be undertaken.
The consultant will then submit its audit report to the Board of Directors through
the COD
(c)   0XU
This phase will result in the Environment Audit Report for public disclosure
SOCSES ROCES
3.23  IL&FS is committed to ensure that the legitimate needs of the project affected Groups
are fulfilled through a transparent process acceptable to the concemed shareholders. The
SAP adopted will restore the quality of life, if not improve it, when compared to tie
situation before the infrastrucure project. The SAP will be undertaken by a composite
team comprising of specialists like anthropologists, sociologists, community
development experts, non-governmental organizations (NGOs), community based
organizations (CBOs), project affected persons and appropriate public Institutions
324  The process outlined below attempts to highlight the key issues of the SAP at each stage
of the project cycle. The documents that embody the understanding from the studies and
action are also listed
325  SciaL Screeing
(a)  QOja:tives
79



The objectives of screening the project from a social perspective are to:
(i)    Undertake a preliminary assessment of land acquisition requirements
(ii)   Verify whether the land required falls into forest/tribal areas
(iii)   Define the characteristics of project beneficiaries and directly and
indirectly affected persons including the special needs of marginalised
and vulnerable groups
(iv)   Estimate the magnitude of the potential resettlement and rehabilitation
(v)   Decide from a social perspective (risks and benefits) whether to proceed
with the project, and provide inputs into the Initial Screening Report
(ISR)
(vi)   Define shareholders
(b)   Process
(i)    Desk ev*ew
The Environmental and Social Management Group (ESMG) of IL&FS,
with the Corporate Consultant (CC), if necessary, will review all the
available documnentation on the project. This initial review will seek
preliminary answers to each of the objectives of social screening
(ii)   Field Investi.ations
The preliminary answers obtained from desk review v will then be checked
at the project locations by the ESMG of IL&FS, CC and the SPV. This
field investigation will be done using rapid appraisal techniques
(iii)   nteain with Governent Az
TMe same team will also interact with the appropriate Central, State and
local Govemment agencies to ascertain their views on the type and scale
of social issues associat;d with the project
(iv) Decision to proceed baped on social perspective
Based on the field investigations and interaction with the Government
agencies, the team will modify the preliminary findings fiom the desk
review. Their final recommendation on whether to proceed with the
project will be provided as an input to the Initial Screening Report of the
project to be submitted by the Task Manager to the Executive Director
(Infiastructure)
80



The ED (Infrastructure) with his comments giving weightage to other
screening studies, if any, will ultimately recommend to the Committee of
Director (COD) for the final decision to proceed to the next stage, or
reject it. The ED (Infrastructure) may request for further screening before
final submission to the COD
(c)   oLuQts
The social screening process will result in the following outputs:
(i)   Social Screening input to ISR of Project
(ii)   Decision to proceed or abandon the project
3.26  SocjalScouing
(a)   Objective
The objective of the scoping stage is to seek public opinion and consensus on the
scope and extent of the social assessment
(b)   Procesr
i * Ezzcrt Review
Based on the feedback received from the social screening, the SPV or
Project Sponsor and the Local Authority involved will outline the scope
and extent of the social assessment. They may engage the services of a
consultant for this purpose. This outline will be developed from their
understanding of the project location, the needs of project affected
persons, special needs of marginalised and vulnerable groups like
indigenous people, previous experiences, suggestions received during
screening, and reference to the national regulatory requirements and
operational directives of multilateral agencies, and the ESR
(i i)   PbiAuhfCogltin
The oudine developed will be discussed with the appropriate public
authorities to incorporate their concems
81



(iii)  Public Consultation
The revised scope of social assessment thus developed will be subject to
a detailed public consultation process to attain consensus. The methods
used for public consultation may be a combination of those described in
Alaichment-81.. This public consultation will also be utilised to initiate
informned participation of PAPs and project beneficiaries
(iv)  'Scope of Social Assessment
The scope of social assessment will then be finalized by the SPV or
Project Sponsor and Local Authority concerned
(c)   OwUts
(i)    Scope of the Social Assessment Report
(ii)   Public opinion and consensus on the scope
327  Finalbudon of TOR for Social Assessment Report (BAR)
(a)   Obiective
The objective at this stage of the pmject cycle is to finalise the terms of reference
(TOR) for the social assessment report
(b)   Process
Together with the consultants, the SPV or Project Sponsor and the local authority
shall prepare the TOR for the social assessment report The TOR will include:
* Technical components of the study based on findings from the social
screening and scoping phase
* The TORs should minimally contain a brief description of the project and
information on objectives, methodology to be adopted, the expected outputs,
qualification for consultants and the details of issues that used to be covered in
the     SAR,       including     the      RAP       and      IPDP
* Details of the public consultation and participation mechanisms to be adopted
during the social assessmnent studies
82



* Execution of contractual arrangements between the SPV or Project Sponsor
and the Consultant
The TOR is then checked to ensure consistency of the social assessment and
management studies with the ESR and also with the requirements of the
Governments and multilateral agencies
()   Qutput
Final TOR for Social Assessment Report
3.28  Appointment of Social Assessment Consultant
(a)   Obicetive
The objective at this stage is to select and appoint a suitable consultant for the
SAR
(b)   Process
The SPV or Project Sponsor will select and appoint a consultant to undertake the
social assessment and management studies. While the selection and appointment
will normally be through a competitive bidding process, the SPV or Project
Sponsor is free to adopt any method consistent with IL&FS business practice
(c)    Omut_
Consultant for SAR appointed
3.29  Estabsnt of Neighbourbood -Committee: A Neighbourhood Committee should be
formed by the SPV, consisting of members from local societies, local NGOs, local
leaders and resident reprsentatives as well as representatives from local government and
the contractor. The committee will monitor the construction colonies, labour practices of
the contractor and the implementation of the RAP or IPDP. The committee will also
serve a grievance function with regard to the environmental and social issues in the
project. A project may require more than one Neighbourhood Committee. The
Committee will be consulted on the TORs for the SAR and its findings
83



3.30   SoCikl Aus  ment and Praration of MD tigalon El=I
(a)   OQjective
This is the most important and substantive stage of the project. The key
objective is to prepare a well researched and documented social assessment and
mitigation plans with due consideration to public opinion and sensitivities. For
projects in which World Bank financing is involved, the social assessment report
and the mitigation plans (RAP and IPDP) will be prepared in accordance with the
entitlement framework set forth in Part II, Chapter I, and the Bank's policies
(O.D. 4.30 and 4.20)
(b)   Process
The whole process is to be undertaken by a team to be constituted by the
appointed social assessment consultant.  Besides experts like sociologists,
anthropologists, and community development specialists, the team will also have
appropriate representatives of NGOs, CBOs, PAPs and local authorities, as may
be required. Appropriate shareholder groups will be established to facilitate
public consultation and participation
(i)    Participatory Field Investigations
Based on the TOR and scope of social assessment and management
studies, the team will undertake field investigations for the following:
* Identification of specific land acquisition acquisition requirements
*  Baseline census of all project affected persons, including establishing
cut-off date for entitlements, who are losing land or othcr assets,
which results in relocation or adverse economic impacts
* Prediction of likel social impacts due to the project and evaluation
of their consequences
*  Identification of specific needs of marginalised and vulnerable groups
like indigenous people
*  Identification of alternatives for mitigation of adverse social impacts,
including sites for resettlement, if any
* Preliminary selection of preferred alternative for mitigation of
adverse social impacts
84



* In cases where the land acquisition process is completed,
determination of those PAPs displaced and the manner in which they
were resettled
This field investigation will be undertaken using a variety of techniques
including baseline surveys, participatory appraisal, focus group
discussions, and planning and ethnographic studies using discussions
with local leaders, knowledgeable local persons and community
residents. During discussions with the community, alternative options for
avoiding or minimising displacement will be sought. These field studies
will also ensure that the PAPs and project beneficiaries are fully involved
in the decision making process.
(ii)   Analysis of Field observations
The social assessment consultant team will then carefully analyze the
field data, observation and consultation documents to select the preferrc'..
approach to mitigate the adverse social impacts of the project At this
stage, the social assessment and management studies team may suggest
other options for the project. This is referred to the project team before a
decision is taken on the prefered mitigation measures to deal with
adverse social impact
(iii)   Design of Mitig _on Measums and Action Plans
Resetlement Action Plan (RAP) to address the concerns of
project affected persons (Refer Attachment U6)
Indigenous People Development Plan  (IPDP) for tribal
communities to address specific concerns of marginalised and
vulnerable Groups. (Refer AUWlent-7.
Implementation Monitoring to clearly articulate a protocol for
monitoring the suggested actions
Institutional Responsibility to allocate responsibility amnong the
public and private agencies or community based organizations
responsible for implementing the RAP, and IPDP, and also
grievance redressal and appeals mechanisms
Risk Allocation Framework to identify the risks associated wiffi
not prudently undertaling the RAP, and IPDP, and to suggest risk
mitigation measures and allocation of probable liabilities
85



(iv)   Public Disclosure and Consultation
The mitigation measures and action plans designed are then made
available for public review. These plans are discussed with the PAPs,
public authorities and other shareholders. A consensus is arrived at and
any remaining differences of opinion are also documented. (Refer
AttachmeOnt-l8for details)
(v)   Finaliation of Social Assessment REpr (SAR)
Based on the public consultation and other feedback, specific
cormponents of the Social Assessment Report (SAR) may evolve through
several iterations, before the document is finalised
(c)   oututs
(i)    Several aspects of Draft SAR including
-     Resettlement Action Plan (RAP)
-     Indigenous People Development Plan (IPDP) or similar modules
as required
-     Inmpleinentation Monitoring Plan
-     Institutional Responsibility Frmework
-     Risk Allocation Framework
(ii)   Consensus on the Draft SAR
3.31   Revxew of SAR
(a)    Objective
The objectives of the appraisal stage are to:
(i)    Ensure that the process and documentation of the Social Assessment are
comprehensive, all technical avenues to minimise resettlement have been
visited, and the proposed action plans are feasible
(ii)   Obtain statutory clearances fiom Government agencies and concurrence
fiom multinational agencies
86



(iii)  Arrive at agreement on SAR and other mechanisms among IL&FS,
government agencies, multilateral agencies and other project
shareholders
(b)   Pmes
(i)   Intemal Review of the Social Aspects of the draft SAR
(ii)   The CC of IL&FS will review the draft SAR to check for rigor and
completeness in the analysis including the adequacy and feasibility of the
proposed RAP and other mechaniisms (Refer A hmen2Z). The CC
will make an independent judgment based on an appraisal and public
consultation, if necessary, as to whether the resultant social consequences
as outlined in the draft SAR are consistent with the IL&FS ESR
(iii)  The CC will submit its findings to the ESMG of IL&FS for verification
and transmission to the ED (Infrastructure). The final SAR is approved
along with the other project documents by the COD
(iv)   Rxtern Review and -Clearances
The SAR and other project documents acceptable to IL&FS, are
submitted by the SPV to appropriate Govemments for clearance. IL&FS
will simultaneously submit the SAR to the multilateral agencies for
concurrence
(c)   Outu
(i)   Social Assessment Report (SAR) acceptable to IL&FS
(ii)   Clearance from Government agencies and concurrence from multilateral
agencies
(iii)   Agreement on RAP, IPFP and other mechanisms among Government
agencies, multilateral agencies and other project shareholders
3.32  Translati      on of AgreemntsontotLcgaUTst.nime
(a)   Objective
The objective is to ensure that the measures suggested in the various components
of the SAR, especially the mitigation plans, are incorporated into legal
instruments that govern project implementation
97



(b)   EWcess
The obligations of the different shareholders with respect to social issues as
enunciated in the SAR will be translated through specific provisions in the
following legally binding instruments. The order of agreements shall be as
follows:
(i)    Concelsion Agreement will record the respective obligations and
responsibilities of SPV and Government in respect of, inter alia,
acquisition of land, transfer of land to SPV, implementation of the RAP,
IPDP, and other arrangernents. As it may be necessary to discharge some
of these obligations prior to the executive of the concession agreement,
the sponsors and the Government may decide to enter into a
Memorandum of Understanding at the initial stage of project
development in order to allocate responsibilities in respect of these
matters
(ii)   S    ld       =         will confirm the SPV's obligations as spelt out
in the Concession Agreement and will confonn to the IL&FS SAR
(iii)  r-onstnction Amreement will record the respective obligations of the
Contractor Consortium and SPV with respect to social management
action during the construction phase
(iv)   Op irahion and Maintcnance (O&hO Ayreent will record the respective
obligations of the O&M Consortia and SPV with respect to social
management action during the operation phase
(v)   Lenders A,reement between the SPV and IL&FS will take on record,
inter alia, the Concession Agreement, Shareholders Agreement
Construction Agreement and O&M Agreement, and shall be executed
after all the aforementioned documents have been executed
(c)   Ouuts
The Agreements oudined above are the outputs from this phase
88



3.33  MonitorngofRAE1JDP
(a)   O>jectives
The objectives at this phase are to:
(i)    Ensure consistency of implementation with approved RAP/IPDP and
adherence to Agreements
(ii)   Check for unforeseen social impacts respond to public concems and
undertake corrective measures.
(b)   Process
The CC will undertake independent monitoring of the RAP and IPDP
implementation on behalf of ILFS. The schedule and indicators for the purpose
of monitoring will be specified in the Implementation Monitoring Plan
depending on the type of project and conditions prevailing therein. The CC will
also'have the responsibility of identifying unforeseen negative impacts and
taking corrective measures immediately. This will ensure that the project is not
jeopardized due to lack of timely action on social issues. (Refer Attachment-2fi)
(*c)    QUW
(i)   Implementation of RAP and IPDP as per agreements
(ii)   Periodic Monitoring reports
3.34 Annual Soc Ia Audit
(a)    bjectives
The objectives of the Social Audit are to:
(i)   Provide independent assessment on the performance of infrstructure
projects
(ii)   Provide feedback to new and other ongoing projects
89



(b)   Pmcss
An independent consultant will undertake this audit annually by reviewing
documentation, including all the components of the Environment and Social
Assessment Report, Agreements, and progress reports. Field audits will also be
undertaken. The CC will then submit its audit report to the Board of Directors
through the COD
(c)   Ou
This phase will result in the Social Audit Report for public disclosure
90



CHAPTER IV : ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT
91



TABLE OF CONTENTS
CHAPTER IV  : ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT
Environmental and Social Risk
What is Environmental and Social Risk?
ilFS Project Cycle and the Risk Evaluation Process
-     Risk Identification
-     Risk Assessment
-     Allocation of Risk Responsibility
-     Risk Management
Institutional Framework
92



IV ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT
4.01  IL&FS is cognizant of the need to ensure that each of its business activities conform to
acceptable levels of risks in terms of earnmngs volatility and net worth
4.02  IL&FS has established organisational structures that will serve to mitigate many of the
normal project risks. Nevertheless, IL&FS still remains exposed to several other risks:
e.g. risks of dealing with the Governments that it shares project responsibilities with;
legal and regulatory risks; environmental and social concerns, etc. While some of these
risks are identifiable, others are not
ENLRONNALNCIALR
4.03  IL&FS recognises the importance of ensuring the proper management of environmental
and social risks for each sub-project. Major environmental and social problems could
adversely affect project operations, earnings and hence loan servicing obligations.
Consequently IL&FS will place significant emphasis on proper environmental and social
risk identification, assessment, allocation and management at the project level
4.04  IL&FS will approach environmental and social risks on thz basis of an approach to
Avoid, Reduce, Limit, Control and Delegate the risks. While some risks can often be
diminished by simply altering operational procedures or the production process, IL&FS
will endeavour to use insurance schemes and contracts to effectively allocate, manage
and mitigate risks. IL&FS will assess the risks for each project on the basis of well
defined processes. These processes are described in the subsequent sections of this
chapter
WHAT is ENVIRONMENTAL A" SO-CIAL RISK?
4.05  Environmental and social risks arise are typically caused by design failure, non
compliance and unforeseen incidents. Some typical examples of environmental and
Fncial risks associated with infiastructure development projects are shown in Table 4.1
93



Table 4.1
Envi6onmental Risks
* Contamination of ground water in a water supply project
* Major hazard like an explosion in a thermal power plant
*  Disruption/loss of pristine wildlife habitats due to a highway project
* Violation of air-emission standards in a thennal power plant
Social Risks
*  A major construction accident causing death and injury of construction
workers during project construction
* Disruption of cultural norms/practices of indigenous groups
Non-compliance with the Resettlement Action Plan/IPDP
* Severe adverse economic impacts on vulnerable or distinct ethnic
groups
lf, CSPRJCT CCE  ANDl TRIF RISK -VIUAIN  RL5S
4.06  In order to effectively manage the environmental and social risks attendant to
infrastructure projects, IL&FS will incorporate a risk evaluation process at each stage of
the EAISA process
4.07  The IL&FS EAISA process shown in Table 3.1 provides an outline of the specific
outputs that will be prepared by the Institution and the project sponsor/SPV. At each
stage, IL&FS will endeavour to ensure that the project confonns to its risk evaluation
process
4.08  Table 4.2 shows the framework that integrates the risk evaluation process with the
EA/SA                                                               process
94



Table .2
I.~~~~ .                                 i
Milestone          Outputs                  I Responsibility      i Risk Evaluation Process
.i                                                  input in EA/SAoutput
.  . ........
Screening          Initial scmrening report    ! IL&FS            ! -   Key issues from a risk
i  I                 I    perspective  requiring
firther investigation
.  -t.)  Identification  of
I    shareholders
Scoping          j Finalisation of Tmns ofI SPV,                   ToRtoinclude:
Reference                 IL&FS               I -   Issues  for  detailed
examnination
*.  Allocation         of
responsibility between
i____________     _ *  * shareholders
EA/SA Study    .1 EA Report          .       SPV/Projcct        .      EAR/SAR to evaluate
SA Report                  Sponsor   through        risk issues including
Consultants              aliocation of
responsibility,
eporting and
*_____________  .__________________  *______________  m onitoring   form ats
Review  of EAR, Agreements on SA, EA  IL&FS, Government .    Agreement                    on
SAR                and mitigation plans       SPVaMA                   allocation         of
responsibility   and
._____.__.    mitigation pans
Translation    of Concssion    Agreement, SPV/Govemment   .    RMP
Agreenents  into  Shareholder's Agremanent, Shareholders          .   ADlocation          of
Legal Instruments  Construction  Agreement, SPV/Contractor             responsibilities
O&M Agreement,             SPV/O&M Operator  .   Each  Instrnment to
J Lenders Agreement         SPV/Lender               incorporate   specific
provisions from a risk
allocation perspective
Monitoring         Periodic Progress Rports:  SPV                  -   Monitor   confoimity
-   Implementation         Consultants             -with agreements
-O&M
Envionmental &   Annual audit of ILFS  Consunts               7     . M onitor   conformity
Social Audit       projects                                            with the agreements
.__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  .__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  -~   Public   disclosure
95



4.09  In essence, the risk evaluation process will enable the Institution to develop appropriate
mechanisms to manage and monitor the risks on an on-going basis. Within IL&FS the
risk evaluation process will be implemented by the project team and the Risk
Management Group (RMG). Based on periodic reports received from the SPV, the RMG
will provide the Executive Director (Infrastructure) and the Committee of Directors with
status reports on each project
BISKEVALLATION PRQ-SS
4.10  Infrastructure development projects have a range of associated environment and social
risks and concomitant liabilities. As a financial intermediary, IL&FS will ensure that the
proposed infrastructure project is worthy of investment. In order to do so environmental
and social risks will be carefully evaluated. On the basis of Risk Identification and
Assessment, the viability of the project and liabilities will be determnined. IL&FS will
decide whether to accept it outright, modify the contours of the project and allocate the
risks to make them acceptable or reject the project. If the risks can be rendered
acceptable, reduced or transferred, effective and viable Risk Management mechanisms
will be designed and incorporated
4.11   The risk identification and assessment process will thus comprise of the following
sequence of steps
* Risk Identification
- Risk Assessrnent
* Allocation of Risks
* Risk Management including mitigation measures
Riskd n
(a)   Risk identification of a project will be conducted and documented by the project
sponsor/SPV. The aim of this exercise will be to provide IL&FS with a clear
picture of the possible risks associated with the project IL&FS will develop a
checklist of conditions to further this aim
(b)  I1 9-rS will develop checklists by either creating one independently or by
adL. g an established authoritative list to a particular purpose or activity
96



(c)   Essentially IL&FS requires this checklist to monitor the SPV's activities and
plans and to make a rapid assessment of the potential impacts, particularly for
initial environmental and social risk evaluations
(d)   IL&FS will use the checklist:
(i)   To identify worthwhile clients (e.g. BOT operators) and acceptable
investrnents
(ii)   To manage the environmental and social risks by putting in place
mechanisms that can reduce, transfer, and/or delegate the risks involved
(iii)   As a project control, to ensure completeness of any document, process or
procedure
(iv)   During audits and reviews, to confirm issues by questioning situations
and perfornance
(e)   Guidelines on how IL&FS will develop checklists are provided in Attachment 27
and covers both the assessment of the SPV and the project. IL&FS will develop
checklists for each type of project based on these general guidelines
sAssssm
(a)   IL&FS will conduct its risk assessment in three steps:
Q)    Prior to accepting any mandate IL&FS will prepare an initial screening
report which examines the eligibility of the project, keeping in mind
environmental and social implications
(ii)   The initial screening report will be submitted for the approval of the
COD, based on which the project will either be undertaken or rejected by
IL&FS
(iii)   A detailed feasibility investment banking report will then be prepared
wherein impact assessments conceming environmental and social aspects
will be incorporated
97



(b)   Risk assessment will be done by IL&FS for each project, using checklists. The
detailed feasibility and investment banking report will address the findings of the
risk assessment exercise. The decision to invest would depend, inter alia, an
whether the proposed investments contain environment and social liabilities that
could threaten project viability
(c)   As part of the risk assessment exercise, IL&FS will research the financial
implications of environment-related expenditures e.g. the nature and extent of
investmnent required to reduce volume and noxiousness of waste/ernissions/
effluents, to avoid damage to the soil, dispose special category waste, etc. This
includes defining the investment required for protecting the envirownent, using
what exists before the planned investment is made as the point of reference for
these calculations
(d)   The Institution  will also use appropriate capital investment and costing
methodologies. When evaluating investment projects, IL&FS shall ensure that
all appropriate methods are considered and that these do not prejudice investnent
in projects which may only bear financial benefits in later years
AllobcRiRnui"
(a)   Allocation of risk responsibility depends on the nature of the risks, and the
shareholders involved. Table 4.3 illustrates the allocation of risks and indicates
the    agency   responsible   if  the   risks    became    realities
98



Table 4@3
.___ _ __ _ __ __ _ __ _ _ _   Key  Plyers
Typical Risks                Government  SPV/Sponsor           BOT      I Insures
.                              . Operator
Non compliance
Regulatory
Contractual             .
Site contamination         .
Major hazards
Force majeure              ._*_i
Insurable
Non-insurable
Changes in regulatory
regime                                      _______
Unidentified impacts
Exclusion of concerned     .
communities/NGOs
Puu interest litigation
N   or delayed implement
ation of social plans        ___________99
99



(b)   The implications of the above environmental and social risks are:
* Civil and criminal liability, remediation costs
* Facility closure, downtime for retrofitting
* Liability for clean up costs after foreclosure, for negligence and for
misrepresentation
* Rejection or delay of contracts and permits
* Delayed payment or write off of interest and principal
* Devaluation of company's securities
* Defunct or devalued collateral
* Loss of credibility
* Reduced access or an increased cost of capital from domestic and
international markets
Each of these could affect IL&FS's investment due to their impacts on the projects
earnings
It is necessary that an appropriate risk management framework be developed for risks
that cannot be eliminated. IL&FS is committed to ensuring that such frameworks are
developed for each of its infrastructure projects. The essential purpose of the risk
management frameworkl will be to:
- Recognise quantifiable as well as unquantifiable factors
Determine which risks can be avoided or reduced, either technically or by other
means
Determine which risks can and should be insured against
Help protect commercial organizational entities from unquantifiable risks
(a)    Risk Mitigation Measures
(i)    The framework will specifically address either minimising/avoiding
risks; or handling unecpected risks; or sharing unavoidable risks; or
transferring unavoidable risks
(ii)   An essential component of the management plan includes the use of
specific mitigation measures. IL&FS will thus implement a series of
measures during the project initiation, approval and implementation
stage. In addition, IL&FS will have specific requirements for the
SPV/BOT operators
100



(iii) During the Project Initiation and Approval stage, IL&FS will ensure that
the SPV will:
Select working partners (i.e. SPVs, joint venture partners, BOTs)
who acknowledge environmental and social risks
Undertake detailed environmental and social analysis which
could range from environmental assessments, major hazard
assessments, compliance evaluation to site assessments and
environmental audits
-     Implement mitigation measures on the basis of the findings of the
EAISA reports and the EMP/SAMP
-     Create management structwres and methods to implement these
measures
-     Set detailed, unambiguous and comprehensive enviromnental
standards for BOT operators
-     WVork out contractual fiameworks that assign responsibility
-     Ensure that the project sponsor holds public consultations at
various times commencing from the project conceptualisation
stage
Ensure that the local participation of affected people and NGOs is
sought to create a support base for the project
(iv) During the project implementation stage, IL&FS will:
-     Use the concept of monitoring, follow-up and feed-back as a
principal risk management tool. An assessnent would be made of
how mitigation measures have been working in order to formulate
the next steps based on the feedback received
Undertake an annual environmental perfonmance review to see
how successfully an environmental and social risk management
system has been working
101



Evaluate the implementation of the various environment and
social plans. In relation to the social plans, as time is of the
essence, implementation will be closely monitored
Monitor the BOT operator with respect to the adherence to the
environmental and social norms of the project
Each project will have a responsibility framework which outlines
the extent of risk and associated liability to be shared between
each of the shareholders and IL&FS
(b)   Risik Prearedness Measures
(i)   The BOT operators should at any point in time be prepared to encounter
risk even after the best prevention measures are set in place. IL&FS will
ensure this through a set of protocols that clearly defne who has to
execute specific tasks. The BOT operator should ensure that plans are
prepared and implemented
,c)   SharngiPro ab     ilie
After the appropriate risk management systemns are set in place, EL&FS will
share and transfer the remaining risk and the associated liabilities, thrugh
insurance, contracts and parterships with Governments
vi)    ViInsuan
Opportumities will be explored whereby these risks can be
insured. Where the Indian insurance system may not be currently
mature enough to insure environmental and social risk, IL&FS
will attempt to access international insurance packages on a case
by case basis
In India and abroad, insurance Companies are now reviewing
their existing business liability insurance policies, some of which
still cover the risk of enviromnental liability, often without extra
charge. They have had to revise their contract conditions to
include recent amendments in thec law  of liability for
environmental damage as this liability is no longer conditional on
intent or negligence. In addition, the issue of gradual pollution,
ather than sudden or accidental pollution, is currently being
addressed
102



A potential risk for IL&FS is the possibility of being held liable
by third parties for environmental damage. Protection against
this becomes increasingly important as the question of placing
liability (fault) for such damage is now more accepted
As far as legislation on environmental insurance is concerned, the
only law on the matter is the "Public Liability Insurance Act",
1991. The act makes it mandatory for any owner dealing with
and handling hazardous substances to take out an insurance
policy. In case of an industrial accident, payments to the victims
will be made from the relief fund and the insurance cover
IL&FS will consider liability limits, deductibles, and self-
insurance. The risk analysis pro-cess will identify what level of
exposure to damages arises am operational procedures or
products the institution is exposed to. Limits to the liability
IL&FS can cope with will be defined in accordance with specifi_
findings and due consideration would be accorded to the danger
of accumulation
i) Via Contact
To limit the risk IL&FS will use legal provisions in the
investnent agreement with shareholders. Through appropriate
provisions in the contractual framework agreements IL&FS will
promote the adoption of the principles present in IL&FS ESR and
require improvements in the SPVs and BOTs practices to render
them consistent with the operational procedures of IL&FS
Using contracts, IL&FS will ensure that the risks are distributed
amongst the project shareholders through:
provisions for indemnification by shareholders in case of
breach or non-compliance
agreement on unlimited or limited liability for risks
assignment of sellers claim under the law of tOrt
103



regulation of burden of proof
insisting on warranties and declarations that maintain the
existence of operating permits, absence of contamination
and clarifies present situations and performance
deferment of payment and postponement of transfer of
titles unless risks are clarified and conditions are met
assigning responsibilities for environmental risks on the
operator and ensuring that penalties for any shortcomings
will be to the operator's account
The instruments through which the provisions with respect to risk
sharing will be implemented, include:
-     The Concession Agreement for risks/responsibilities of
Governnents
-     The Concession Agreement. Lenders' Agreement, O&M
Agreement,     Construction    Agreement    for
risks/responsibilities of SPV
-     The Shareholders' agreement for risks/responsibilities to
be bome by Shareholders
-     The O&M Contract for risks/responsibilities to be bome
by Operator
-     The Construction Agreement for risks/responsibilities to
be bome by a Contractor
(iii) Via Public-Private Partnerships
Infrastructure commercialisation by its very nature requires a strong
foundation based on clearly defined Government participation in the
risks of the project. IL&FS will use this partnership format to ensure that
project responsibilities are shared between shareholders in a manmer that
reflects on public-private interests
104



In addition, when IL&FS enters into a partnership with the Government,
the Concession Agreement will incorporate appropriate provisions that
protect the project from changes in policy. For this purpose, the
Agreement will include a provision that incremental expenditure incurred
to meet the changed environmental regulatory regime will be treated as
part of the project cost in order to achieve the targeted return
INST1IUfQNALEFAMEWR
4.14  IL&FS will constitute a Risk Management Group (RMG) to provide information and
analysis for the effective management and supervision of its various activities. The
Environmental and Social Management Group (ESMG) of IL&FS will be responsible
for providing the RMG with periodic information on compliance of the project
throughout the project cycle with specific reference to the Environment and Social policy
of IL&FS
4.15  The ESMG will also keep the RMG inforrned about changes in the regulatory regime
that could have an impact on any aspect of the project The RMG will formulate any
mitigation and control measures required arising out of such changes and appropriate
recommendations will be submitted to the COD for approval
105



PART m      ORGANISATIONAL REQUIREMENS
106



TABLE OF CONTENTS
PART m: ORGANISATIONAL REQUIREMENTS
DESCRFMON                                                             PAGE NOS
Chapter V : Organisational Support                                        103-112
Introduction
Role of 11&FS
EL&FS Organisational Structure and the ESR
ILnFS Responsibility Allocation Framework
ILTFS Organisational Support for the ESR
- Corporate Level
- Project Level
Chapter VI: Staff Development Plan                                        113-122
Introduction
Staff Development Needs
Staff Development Plan
R*sources for Implementation
Chapter VIl : IL&FS - Multilaterl Agency Iterfce                          123124
107



Ia
a!~~~~~~~~~~~~~



TABLE OF CONTENTS
CHAPTER V: ORGANISATIONAL SUPPORT
Iutroduction
Role of IL&FS
IL&FS Organisationsal Structure and the ESR
IL&FS Departmental Responsibility Allocation
IL&FS Organisational Support for the ESR
Corporate Level
Project Level
109



V ORGANISATIONAL SUPPORT
INTRODUCTION
5.01  IL&FS will establish an organisational support structure with the requisite expertise to
facilitate compliance with the ESR. To fulfill its role as a financial intermediary in the
infrastructure sector. it will inculcate and develop skills within the Institution and also
obtain complementaiy and specialised skills through the appointment of specialist
consultants on an assignment basis. The driving principle is that the environmental and
social objectives of the Institution are best achieved when it is made an intrinsic part of
the project cycle. The organisational support proposed for IL&FS reflects this intent
ROLE OF TL&FS
5.02  As a financial intermediary, IL&FS will initially review and verify that the project
conforms with the ESRP IL&FS will limit its involvement to reviewing and monitoring
that the project is being implemented and operated as envisaged. IL&FS will use the
services of consultants to assist it in such assignments wherever required
5.03  IL&FS will also monitor the environmental and social aspects of each project on an
ongoing basis, through environmental and social audits. These audits will be undertaken
by independent agencies and their report will be made available to all concerned
agencies
5.04  IL&FS organisational structure has evolved on the basis of three principles:
(a)   Management of synergistic activities under the supervisory direction of an
Executive Director
(b)   Strong emphasis on a multi-disciplinary approach for execution of assigmnents
(c)   Independent formats for all control and monitoring functions
110



The proposed organisational structure to facilitate the implementation of the ESR, has
also been developed on these three principles
5.05  lL&FS will follow a three pronged approach:
(a)   Achieve integration of the Environmental and Social Assessment Process with
the IL&FS project cycle
(b)   Enhance the technical and managerial base within the Projects Department in
IL&FS through the recruitment of suitable specialists in environmental and social
issues
(c)   Appoint Consultants to undertake specific assiginments with respect to
environmental and social issues of projects
5.06  The organisational structure and their interface with respect to the ESR is outlined in
Ejigure 5.1 . The circles represent ESR related activities
5.07  IL&FS will be involved in a review capacity with respect to the environmental and social
assessment process for infrastructure projects, including the following tasks
(a)   Screening of projects
(b)   Finalisation of terms of reference for EA and SA reports
(c)   Appointment of Consultants
(d)   Review of EA and SA reports
(e)   Translation of agreements into instruments
(f)    Monitoring of project implementation
(g)   Environmental and Social Audit
5.08  The responsibility for each of these tasks by department is outlined in Table 5.1. This
allocation famnework assigns responsibilities with a view  to  integrating the
environmental and social assessment process with the overall project cycle. The process
flow in terms of preparation, review and authorisation within IL&FS is geared towards
ensuring that sufficient independent cross checks exist within the systen to ensure
effective process and management control
111



Figure 5.1
IL&FS ORGANISATIONAL STRUCTURE AND THE ESR
BoardofDirectorsl
Committee of Directors
Vice Chairman & Managing Director
Vice President  Executive  !rector  Executive Director      Executive  iictor      .    Rsk         Executive Director
(Credit)      (Infrastructure)                              (New Initiative)        Management    (Operations & Company
|                |  .                                         I                 Group       Secretary)
|Credit   | projects    | Financial   ersonnel              New                                         Fes urc s
.Services'                      Initiative
Group
MONITORNG                                                                       RISKEVALUATION                    TRANSLATING  G
STAFF                            AND MONITORING                    AGREEMENTS
E/SA PROCESS               DEVELOPMENT                                                         INTO LEGAL
{ MANAGEMENT                             /                                                     INSTRUMENTS
AND MONITORING
112



Table 5.1
IL&FS DEPARTMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY ALLOCATION
MILESTONE                  PROCESS STEPS               PRODUCT/OUTPUT                 PREPARATION                    REVIEW                  APPROVAL
Screening                   aDesk review                   Environmental & Social      Project leamn               Executive Director           Committee Of
b.Fleld investigation         screening (as pan of initial    ESMG *                   (Infrastructure)            Directors
c.lntcractions with Gol       screening report)           Corporate Consultant        __
Finalisation of terms of    a.Consistency checks with      Terms of reference          Consultants                 ESMG                         Executive Director
reference for EA and SA       IL&FS business practices                                                                                          (Infrastructure)
studies                                                                                 _
Appointment of consultants   a.Consistency checks with     Consultants appointed                                   Project team                 ESMG
IL&FS business practices
Review of EA and SA         a.IL&FS verification           Draft final EA and SA       Project team                Credit                       Committee of
studies and management                                     reports and management      ESMG                        Legal                        Directors
plans                                                      plans according to agreed   Corporate Consultant        RMG
formats                                                 ED (Infrastructure)
Translatlon of agreements   a.Entirety of EAR and SA       Lender's agreement IL&FS-  Legal                        ESMO                         ED (Infrastructure)
Into instruments              & MP                         SPV                                                     Project Team
b.Check of other                                                                       RMG
agreements               .                                                           Credit
.Monitoring                  aPeriodic progress reports    Compliance report            Project team                ESMG                        Committee of
*Construction                                            Corporate Consultants                                   Directors
.O&M
b.Site visits
c. Interactions with
-SPV
.Govemment
Environmental and Social    ridependent review of          Audit compliance report     Independent Consultants     Committee of Directors       Board of Directors
Audit                       compliance of all project
SPV's to all standards and
agreements
*       ESMO                               Environmental and SociaL Management Group
**      Corporate Consultant  :            IL&FS Corporate Consultant for Environmental and Social Issues
113



5.09 The IL&FS organisational support structure for the ESR is designed, both at corporate
and project levels, to enhance the Institution's environrmental and social project
assessment, review and monitoring capabilities and to facilitate the use of specialist
consultants in the execution of specific assigmnents. Figure 5.2 provides a schematic
representation of the proposed organisational support for the ESR
Corporate Levl
At the corporate level, IL&FS will
(a)   Create an Environmental and Social Management Group (ESMG) as a part of the
projects department
(b)   Appoint a Corporate Consultant for Environmental and Social issues
(c)   Clearly delineate functions across concerned Departments and provide the
necessary training required to ensure that the requisite levels of skills- and
awareness are developed within each of the concerned Departments
(a)   Environmental and Social Management  =up (ESMG)
(i)    At the corporate level, the focal point for environment and social issues
will be the ESMG. The ESMG will comprise of specialists with adequate
expertise and skills to understand the critical issues of environment and
social concems, besides.having a grasp of infrastructuire development
projects. The ESMG will initially comprise of an Environmental and
Social Specialist, with additional staff recruited subsequently as required
(ii)   The key functions to be performed by the ESMG include:
Ensuring compliance of each project with the environmental and
social concerns of
- IL&FS (ESR)
- Regulatory agencies
- Financing agencies
114



EFise 5.2
Corpoa]te Levrel
Board of           Share Holders
Directors    |
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Executive
Director
(Infrastructure)
Le                  Credit                                  Risk Manageme
sessment Cel ....................           Group
Project Team
Task Manager
Environment &l
Social                  1      
Manageznent          Project             Project
Group                Officer             Officer
project Level 
Sponso
Special
1Purpose1
\Vehiclej
Project Environment &
115 Social Consultants
115



Liaising between
- Financing agencies and IL&FS
- IL&FS and Corporate/Project environmental and social
consultants
- IL&FS and project sponsor/SPV
Screening projects internally, from an environmental and social
perspective
Enabling the staff of IL&FS to internalise environmental and
social concerns
Communicating and promoting the environmental and social
policy and guidelines of IL&FS
(iii)  Ihe ESMG, as part of the Projects department shall report directly to the
Executive Dirctor (Infrastructure)
(b)   Corpora  Consultants Environmental & Social Issue
(i)   IL&FS presently retains the services of consultants to do a range of
specific assignments for its infriastructure activities. IL&FS will extend
this practice to the implementation of its ESR. The Corporate Consultant
will be selected from among agencies who have the full range of
expertise to address all the environmental and social concerns related to
infrastructure development projects
(ii)   The Corporate Consultant for environmental and social issues will
essentially provide the ESMG all the basic support services, as required,
for the following
-     Advising IL&FS on enviroimnental and social issues
-     Environmental and social screening of projects wherever required
by the ESMG
-     Reviewing EAR, SAR and other documents subnitted by specific
environmental and social project consultants
-     Monitoring and evaluating projects
-     Implementing specific training modules for IL&FS personnel
116



The Corporate Consultant will also undertake the annual environmental
and social audit of all IL&FS assisted projects
(iii) On a broad basis it is estimated that the Corporate Consultant will be
required to work for IL&FS for 70 person days per project through the
project cycle. The broad break-up of activity is provided in Takle.2
Table 5.2
MILESTONE           CORPORATE CONSULTANT
l      (!PERSON DAYS)
Screening                                 0
Review of EAISA study                   30
Monitoring                              30
Total                        70
(iv)  In addition to the above, the Corporate Consultant will be required to
implement specific training modules for IL&FS personnel
(v)   It is envisaged that an independent consultant would be appointed for 10
person days per annum to undertake an annual environmental and social
audit of all IL&FS infrastrucure projects
PcQiect 1Level
For each project, IL&FS will ensure that the SPVIProject Sponsor appoints project
consultants to undertake assignments on environmental and social issues in conformity
with its business practices. Project consultants for social issues will be selected from
among non-governmental organisations (NGOs), community based organisations (CBOs)
or public agencies
117



CHAPTER VI : STAFF DEVELOPMENT PLAN
11S



TABLE OF CONTENTS
CHIAPTER VI : STAFF DEVELOPMENT PAN
Staff Development Needs
Staff Development Plan
Resources for Implementation
119



VI STAFF DEVELOPMENT PLAN
6.01   This Chapter outlines a staff development plan for IL&FS personnel, in order to position
the organisation to achieve the objectives as set in the ESR. The Staff Development Plan
(SDP) is oriented to facilitate the implementation of the environmental and social
assessment process as an intrinsic part of the project cycle
6.02  The objectives of the SDP are:
(a)   To inculcate within the organisation an awareness of environmental and social
issues, especially with respect to infrastructure projects
(b)   To rapidly upgrade environmental and social assessment management and
monitoring skills within the projects team, and
(c)   To provide personnel ir, Departments that interface with the Projects Department
the necessary skills to execute their responsibilities
SIAFEDEYELOPMENT NEERS
6.03 A number of Departments in TL&FS will be involved in the preparation, review and
approval of the various outputs emanating from the environmental and social assessment
process. Table 6.1 outlines the expertise required by each Department to make the ESR
fully operational
6.04 At the present juncture, IL&FS staff have not been formally exposed to environmental
and social issues. Thus, in evolving a staff developmnent plan, all concerned staff will
initially undergo an orientation progammne on the ESR and its application to project
specific environmental and social issues.
6.05  In developing Table 6.1 the milestones, goals process steps and the outputs of each
Department in L&FS has been taken into consideration. Based on the foregoing, the
120



expertise required in a particular Department has been identified and is listed for each
Department against the milestone in the matrix
6.06  It is evident-that the projects team and ESMG require to be more closely involved in the
EA/SA process. Equally, it is necessary that other Departments have a reasonable grasp
of key environmental and social issues in order to effectively deliver on their
responsibilities. Thus the staff development plan is oriented to provide all Departments a
clear understanding of the ESR and an overall orientation in Environmental and Social
issues in infrastructure projects
STAFF DEVELOPMENT PLAN
6.07  Based on the foregoing, a staff development plan has been prepared for IL&FS personnel
and is presented in Table 6.2. It has been assessed that the Plan will be implemented
over a two year period. Table 6.2 provides details of the training modules with content,
for each Department, and for each category of management. The duration of the training
schemes were derived based on the level of skill and extent of awareness required
6.08  For the purposes of the staff development plan, IL&FS personnel are divided into three
categories:
Senior Management corresponding to AVP and above
Middle Management corresponding to Senior Managers and Managers
Junior Management corresponding to Assistant Manager and below
6.09  Training requirements have also been graded from 1 to 5 by their intensity and duration.
Grade I training programmes are primarily for senior management and are geared
towards providing an orientation to the ESR and a management perspective of the
process. Grade 2 to Grade 5 are detailed training programmes for middle and junior
management, with Grade 5 being the most intensive
6.10  The Personnel Department will undertake a detailed exercise in translating the SDP into
a specific training schedule for each Departnent and management level as also in
determining the appropriate form  for delivering such training.  The Personnel
Department would ensure that specific training schedule enables IL&FS staff, by
121



department, to achieve the expertise levels required for that department within a period
of two years. Thereafter, the staff development plan shall be oriented towards enhancing
and strengthening staff expertise levels
RESOURCES FOR IMPLEMENTATION
6.11   At the corporate level, IL&FS will primarily house its environmental and social expertise
in the ESMG and its corporate consultant. Thus in implementing its staff development
plan, both the ESMG and the Corporate Consultant for environmental and social issues
will be closely involved for delivering select training modules to other departments
6.12  More specialised and extenal forum will be accessed for training ESMG
6.13  In addition to the foregoing, field visits to other projects and offices will be encouraged
in order to ensure that IL&FS staff are kept abreast of the latest developments in the field
122



Table 6.1
IL&FS EXPERTISE REQIIIREMENT
MILESTONES    PROJECT TEAM                           ESMG                    CREDIT                     LEGAL                     RMG
Screening            -  ESR & EA/SA           -  IL&FS operations and
process                  business practices
-  Statutory and OD      -  IL&FS Project cycle
requirements
-  Rapid appraisal       -  Priority issues in             N.A.*                      N.A.                     N.A.
techniques               sectors
-  Negotiation skills    -  BOOT/BOT structure
-  Environmental and     -  Project eligibility
social issues            criteria
identification skills
-  Management and        -  Statutory and OD
mitigation techniques    requirements
-  Risk assessment skills  -  Rapid appraisal
techniques
-  LA assessment skills   -  Risk assessment skills
Finalisation of TOR   -  Scope of EA/SA       -  Public consultation
consistency check                                 and consensus
building skills
-  Public consultation   -  EAISA process
and consensus
building skills
-  Personnel, time cost    -  Personnel time cost           N.A.                      N.A.                     N.A.
estimation skills for    estimation skills for
EA/SA process            EA/SA process
-  Scope of EA/SA
N.A. Not Applicable
123



Table 6.1
IL&FS EXPERTISE REQUIREMENT (Cant"..
MILESTONES           PROJECT TEAM                   ESMG                    CREDIT                    LEGAL                     RAG
Appointment of      -  IL&FS operations       -  Skill to assess                N.A.                      N.A.                     N.A.
consultant              business practices       consultant capabilities
to meet the EAISA
requirements
-  Consultant evaluation
Review of EA/SA     -  EA/SA process          -  EA/SA techniques      ESR & EANSA process    ESR                         ESR & Priority issues
-  Risk assessment and    -  Report outlines and  Documentation required    Environmental and Social  Environmental and Social
management               formats               at each step of EA/SA    Statutory requirements    risk assessment and
techniques                                     process                  and operations            management techniques
-  Awareness of current   -  Risk assessment and    Environmental and Social  Commercial Law         Awareness of current
environmental and        management            conditionalities for credit                        Environmental and Social
social                   techniques            sanction and                                       issues/policiesJ laws
issues/policies/laws                           disbursement
-  Awareness of current   N A.                    Contracts
environmental and
social
issues/policies/laws
124



Table 6,1
IL&FS EXPERTISE REQUIREMENT (Contd...)
MILESTONES           PROJECT TEAM                   ESMG                   CREDIT                    LEGAL                     R1IG
Translation of                               -  Skills to draft        Exposure to statutory    Drafting of              N.A.
agreement into legal                             environmental and     requirements and         emivironmenial and social
instrument                                       social legal briefs  operations                provisions into legal
instruments
Awareness of
environmental and social
case law in India and
abroad
Monitoring          -  Monitoring            -  Monitoring            N.A.                      N.A.                     Techniques for
techniques               techniques                                                              monitoring
Environmental and social
risks
125



Table 6.2
STAFF DEVELOPMENT PLAN 1996-1998
Module                                 Course                          Training Scheme      Duration of          Staff to be       Departients
S.No.    Content                                                      _  programme            trained
ESR                  I      -ESP                                       Workshop             1/2 day              Senior/Middle     All
- Priority Issues
2.     - ESP                                      Workshop              3 days               Middle/Juniors    Project, ESMO, Credit
, EA/SA process
- Priority issues
3      -ESP                                       Training programme   7 days               Junior            Project, ESMO
- EA/SA process
- Project cycle
- Priority Issues
EA/SA Process        I      - EA/SA process                            Workshop             I day                Senior/Middle     All
- OD requirements
- Statutory/legal requirements
2      - EA/SA process                            Workshop             3 days               Middle/Junior     Projects, ESMG
- OD requirements
- E/S management
- LA assessment
- Public consultation
3      - EA/SA techniques                         Training Programme   7 days               Junior            Projects, ESMG
- Rapid appraisal
- E/S issue identification
4      - EA/SA process                            Training Programme   15 days              Junior            ESMG
- E/S issue identification
- E/S management & mitigation
- Risk assessment & management
- EA/SA techniques
- Documentation requirements for
EA/SA
5      - EA/SA process                            Training'            3 days               Middle/Junior     Project, ESMG
- Scoping
- Personal/Time/Cost estimates    _.
126



Table 6.2
STAFF DEVELOPMENT PLAN 19661998 (Contd.)
Module                                 Course                         Training Scheme      Duration of          Staff to be       Departments
S.No.    Content                                                        programme            trained
Management         *        - Negotiation skills                      Workshop             3 days               Middle            Project, ESMG
Skills                      - Consultant skill assessment/
evaluation
2      * Report writing skills                    Workshop             3 days              Junior            ESMG, Project
IL&FS               I       - IL&FS operations                        Workshop             I day                Senior/Middle     All
Practices                   - BOOT/BOT structure
- Project eligibility criteria
Monitoring          I       - Monitoring Techniques                   Workshop             3 days               Middle/Junior     Project, ESMO, RMG
Legal               I       - Statutory requirements and              Workshop             I day                Senior/Middle     All
Framework                     Operations
2      - Statutory requirements and              Training              3 days               Middle/!linior   Legal, ESMG
Operations, E/S case law
- Commercial law and contracts.
3      - Drafling E/S briefs                     Training             3 days               Middle/Junior     Legal, ESMG
- Drafling E/S contracts
Awareness           I       - Project case studies                    Conference           N.A.                 Senior/Middle     As required
- Intemational experience                  Study tours          _
127



CHAPTER VII IL&FS - MULTILATERAL AGENCY INTERFACE
128



VII : IL&FS - MULTILATERAL AGENCY INTERFACE
7.01   As a financial intermediary, IL&FS will access funding from a variety of lenders
including multilateral agencies such as the World Bank
7.02  In order to ensure that its infrastructure pr-jects are in conformity with World Bank's
OD requirements and business practices, IL&FS shall submit the following documents
for the review of the Bank. Table 7.1 below provides the institutional interface matrix
Table 7.1
INYT WFACE ATRTX
EA/SA MILESTONE              OUTPUT TO BE SUBMIlTED TO
I    TIE WORLD BANK
Screeng                            .nsa  sofing report
Fineiw   of terms of  ce for EA and  Tenns of refence
SA studies
Review of EA and SA studies and mitigation Draft EAR and SAR accordig to agreed
plans                               formats
Tnslation of agreemnts into instruments   Lenders Agreement alongwith other
Agreements
Monitoring                          Compliance report
Enviionmental and Social Audit      Audit compllance report
7.03   It is envisaged that World Bank concurrence to the output generated at each milestone
will be obtained prior to progressing to the next stage. However, when the capazity of
IL&FS is in place, it is expected that World Bank and other multilateral agency
concurrence will be required only for the EAR (EMP) and SAR (RAP/IPDP) and the
agreements, prior to approving finances for sub-projects. In all cases where more than
200 persons are affected by the project, or an IPDP is required, the RAP and/or IPDP
will have to be sent to the Bank for review and comments
129



