Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                               LOAN NUMBER  3992 IN
                           Loan Agreement
            (Private Infrastructure Finance (IL&FS) Project)
                               between
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                           AND DEVELOPMENT
                                 and
               INFRASTRUCTURE LEASING AND FINANCIAL
                          SERVICES LIMITED
                         Dated July 10, 1996
                                                 LOAN NUMBER 3992 IN
                           LOAN AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated July 10, 1996, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and INFRASTRUCTURE LEASING
AND FINANCIAL SERVICES LIMITED (the Borrower).
      WHEREAS (A) India, acting by its President (the Guarantor) and
the Borrower, having been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, have
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
      (B)   by an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) of even date
herewith between the Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor has agreed
to guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in respect of the Loan
and to undertake such other obligations as set forth in the Guarantee
Agreement; and
      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                              ARTICLE I
                   General Conditions; Definitions
Page  2
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated
May 30, 1995, with the modifications set forth in Schedule 4 to this
Agreement (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of
this Agreement.
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several
terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth, and the
following additional terms have the following meanings:
      (a)   "Directions" means the Non-Banking Financial Companies
(Reserve Bank) Directions, 1977 issued by the Reserve Bank of India
under the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934 including clarifications
and amendments issued or made from time to time to such Directions
for the purpose of regulating the credit system  and setting forth,
inter alia, categories of non-banking financial companies and the
prudential requirements applicable in respect thereof;
      (b)   "Environmental and Social Report" means the report dated
November 1995 approved by the Board of Directors of the Borrower on
November 27, 1995 setting forth, inter alia, the policies and pro-
cedures for carrying out environmental and social assessments of
Investment Projects, preparing environmental mitigation plans and,
where applicable, resettlement and rehabilitation plans and,
indigenous peoples development plans for populations adversely
affected and/or displaced as a result of the implementation thereof,
carrying out consultation with affected people, processing and
redressing grievances of affected people, and monitoring related
impacts;
      (c)   "Investment Enterprise" means an enterprise to which the
Borrower proposes to make or has made a Sub-loan;
      (d)   "Investment Project" means a specific development project
to be carried out by an Investment Enterprise utilizing the proceeds
of a Sub-loan;
      (e)   "Memorandum and Articles of Association" means the
Memorandum and Articles of Association of the Borrower as amended to
the date of this Agreement;
      (f)   "Operating Framework" means the framework approved by the
Directors of the Borrower in July 1995 setting forth its (i)
operating policy, (ii) risk management framework and policies, and
(iii) guidelines and framework of operation;
      (g)   "RBI" means the Reserve Bank of India established under
the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934, as amended, for purposes, inter
alia, of performing the functions of the  central bank of the Guarantor;
      (h)   "Rupees" means the currency of the Guarantor;
      (i)   "Security Documents" means documents to be executed, inter
alia, by the Borrower for purposes of providing the Bank a pari passu
interest in the liens created on its assets as security for debt
existing as of the date of this Agreement in order to equally and
ratably secure the payment of the principal of, and interest and other
charges on, the Loan;
      (j)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section
2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
      (k)   "Sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made by the
Borrower out of the proceeds of the Loan to an Investment Enterprise
for an Investment Project; and
      (l)   "Swap Account" means the account referred to in Section
2.02 (c) of this Agreement;
                             ARTICLE II
Page  3
                              The Loan
      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
an amount equal to two hundred million dollars ($200,000,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for: (i) amounts paid (or, if the Bank shall so agree,
to be paid) by the Borrower on account of withdrawals made by an
Investment Enterprise under a Sub-loan to meet the reasonable cost of
goods and services required for the Investment Project in respect of
which the withdrawal from the Loan Account is requested; and (ii) for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for Part
B of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
      (b)   The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open
and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appro-
priate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment.
      (c)   On or after the opening of a special deposit account,
the Borrower shall open and maintain in Rupees a Swap Account in a
commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank,
including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment.
      (d)   Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account and
the Swap Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 8 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 2001 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later date.
      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time
to time.
      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to LIBOR Base Rate
plus LIBOR Total Spread.
      (b)   For the purposes of this Section:
            (i)   "Interest Period" means the initial period from and
                  including the date of this Agreement to, but
                  excluding, the first Interest Payment Date occurring
                  thereafter, and after the initial period, each
                  period from and including an Interest Payment Date
                  to, but excluding the next following Interest Payment
                  Date.
           (ii)   "Interest Payment Date" means any date specified in
                  Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
          (iii)   "LIBOR Base Rate" means, for each Interest Period, the
                  London interbank offered rate for six-month deposits
                  in dollars for value the first day of such Interest
                  Period (or, in the case of the initial Interest
                  Period, for value the Interest Payment Date occurring
                  on or next preceding the first day of such Interest
                  Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank and
                  expressed as a percentage per annum.
           (iv)   "LIBOR Total Spread" means, for each Interest Period:
                  (A) one half of one percent (1/2 of 1%); (B) minus
                  (or plus) the weighted average margin, for such
                  Interest Period, below (or above) the London inter-
Page  4
                  bank offered rates, or other reference rates, for
                  six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank's out-
                  standing borrowings or portions thereof allocated
                  by the Bank to fund single currency loans or
                  portions thereof made by it that include the Loan;
                  as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed
                  as a percentage per annum.
      (c)   The Bank shall notify the Guarantor and Borrower of LIBOR
Base Rate and LIBOR Total Spread for each Interest Period, promptly
upon the determination thereof.
      (d)   Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting
the determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section
2.05, the Bank determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers
as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for determining the interest
rates applicable to the Loan other than as provided in said Section,
the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest rates
applicable to the Loan not yet withdrawn upon not less than six (6)
months' notice to the Borrower of the new basis. The basis shall become
effective on the expiry of the notice period unless the Borrower
notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in which
case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable on May
15 and November 15 in each year.
      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the
Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule
3 to this Agreement.
                             ARTICLE III
                      Execution of the Project;
              Management and Operations of the Borrower
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement,
and, to this end, shall carry out the Project and conduct its operations
and affairs in accordance with sound financial standards and practices,
with qualified management and personnel, and in accordance with the
Directions and the Operating Framework.
      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of
this Section and except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower undertakes that, unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, Sub-loans will be made in accordance with the
procedures and on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      (b)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights in relation to each
Investment Project in such manner as to: (i) protect the interests of
the Bank, the Guarantor and the Borrower; (ii) comply with its obli-
gations under this Agreement; and (iii) achieve the purposes of the
Project.
      Section 3.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procure-
ment of the goods, works and consultants' services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 7 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.04. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General
Conditions, and without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
      (a)   prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank,
and furnish to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing
Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the
Bank and the Borrower, a plan for the future operation of the Project;
Page  5
      (b)   afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views
with the Borrower on said plan; and
      (c)   thereafter, carry out said plan with due diligence and
efficiency and in accordance with appropriate practices, taking into
account the Bank's comments thereon.
                             ARTICLE IV
                         Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain procedures and records
adequate to monitor and record the progress of the Project and of each
Investment Project (including its cost and the benefits to be derived
from it) and to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained
sound accounting practices the operations and financial condition of
the Borrower.
      Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall:
            (i)   have the records referred to in Section 4.01 of this
                  Agreement, its accounts and financial statements
                  (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses
                  and related statements) and records and accounts for
                  the Special Account and the Swap Account for each
                  fiscal year audited in accordance with sound auditing
                  principles consistently applied, by independent
                  auditors acceptable to the Bank;
           (ii)   furnish to the Bank, as soon as available but in any
                  case not later than three months after the end of
                  each such year, (A) certified copies of said financial
                  statements for such year as so audited and (B) the
                  report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope
                  and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
                  requested; and
          (iii)   furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
                  the said records, accounts and financial statements
                  and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to
                  time reasonably request.
      (b)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from
the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure,
the Borrower shall:
            (i)   maintain, in accordance with Section 4.01 of this
                  Agreement, records and accounts reflecting such
                  expenditures;
           (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the Bank has
                  received the audit report for the fiscal year in
                  which the last withdrawal from the Loan Account
                  was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
                  bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing
                  such expenditures;
          (iii)   enable the Bank's representatives to examine such
                  records; and
           (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are included
                  in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (a) of
                  this Section and that the report of such audit
                  contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to
                  whether the statements of expenditure submitted
                  during such fiscal year, together with the pro-
                  cedures and internal controls involved in their
                  preparation, can be relied upon to support the
                  related withdrawals.
      Section 4.03. (a)  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall not incur any debt, if after the incurrence of such
Page  6
debt the ratio of debt to equity shall be greater than 6:1.
      (b)   For the purposes of this Section:
            (i)   The term "debt" means any indebtedness of the
                  Borrower maturing by its terms more than one year
                  after the date on which it is originally incurred.
            (ii)  Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a
                  loan contract or agreement or other instrument
                  providing for such debt or for the modification
                  of its terms of payment, on the date, and to the
                  extent, the amount of such debt has become
                  outstanding pursuant to such contract, agreement
                  or instrument; and (B) under a guarantee agreement,
                  on the date the agreement providing for such
                  guarantee has been entered into but only to the
                  extent that the guaranteed debt is outstanding.
            (iii) The term "equity" means the sum of the total
                  unimpaired paid-up capital, retained earnings and
                  reserves of the Borrower not allocated to cover
                  specific liabilities.
            (iv)  Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall
                  be necessary to value, in terms of the currency of
                  the Guarantor, debt payable in another currency,
                  such valuation shall be made on the basis of the
                  prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such
                  other currency is, at the time of such valuation,
                  obtainable for the purposes of servicing such debt,
                  or, in the case of currency converted under swap
                  agreements the rate at which such currency was
                  converted, or, in the absence of such rate, on the
                  basis of a rate of exchange acceptable to the Bank.
      Section 4.04. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
borrower shall not incur any debt unless the net revenue of the
Borrower for the fiscal year immediately preceding the date of such
incurrence or for a later twelve-month period ended prior to the date
of such incurrence, whichever is the greater, shall be at least 1.25
times the estimated maximum debt service requirements of the Borrower
for any succeeding fiscal year on all debt of the Borrower, including
the debt to be incurred.
      (b)   For the purposes of this Section:
            (i)   The term "debt" means any indebtedness of the
                  Borrower maturing by its terms more than one year
                  after the date on which it is originally incurred.
            (ii)  Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a
                  loan contract or agreement or other instrument
                  providing for such debt or for the modification
                  of its terms of payment on the date of such
                  contract, agreement or instrument; and (B) under
                  a guarantee agreement, on the date the agreement
                  providing for such guarantee has been entered into.
            (iii) The term "net revenues" means the difference
                  between:
                   (A)  the sum of revenues and payments from all
                        sources related to operations adjusted to
                        take account of the Borrower's rates in
                        effect at the time of the incurrence of
                        debt even though they were not in effect
                        during the twelve-month period to which such
                        revenues relate and net non-operating income;
                        and
                   (B)  the sum of all expenses related to operations
Page  7
                        including administration, adequate maintenance,
                        taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, but
                        excluding provision for depreciation, other
                        non-cash operating charges and interest and
                        other charges on debt.
             (iv)  The term "net non-operating income" means the
                   difference between:
                   (A)  revenues from all sources other than those
                        related to operations; and
                   (B)  expenses, including taxes and payments in
                        lieu of taxes, incurred in the generation of
                        revenues in (A) above.
             (v)   The term "debt service requirements" means the
                   aggregate amount of repayments (including sinking
                   fund payments, if any) of, and interest and other
                   charges on, debt.
             (vi)  Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall
                   be necessary to value, in terms of the currency of
                   the Guarantor, debt payable in another currency,
                   such valuation shall be made on the basis of the
                   prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such
                   other currency is, at the time of such valuation,
                   obtainable for the purposes of servicing such debt,
                   or, in the case of currency converted under swap
                   agreements the rate at which such currency was
                   converted, or, in the absence of such rate, on the
                   basis of a rate of exchange acceptable to the Bank.
      Section 4.05. The Borrower shall take such steps satisfactory to
the Bank as shall be necessary to protect itself against risk of loss
resulting from changes in the rates of exchange between the currencies
(including the currency of the Guarantor) used in its operations.
      Section 4.06. In order to make available to its management and
Board sufficient information to monitor and evaluate the relative
profitability of its major product lines, the Borrower shall, no later
than March 31, 1997, establish, and thereafter implement and maintain,
a comprehensive cost accounting system, satisfactory to the Bank, for
such major product lines taking into account costs related to
marketing, product and project development, financing, and admini-
stration, including designing an appropriate mechanism for allocating
such costs in order to determine gross and net earnings.
                              ARTICLE V
                        Remedies of the Bank
      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   The Memorandum and Articles of Association or the Directions
shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as
to affect materially and adversely the operations or the financial
condition of the Borrower or its ability to carry out the Project or
to perform any of its obligations under this Agreement;
      (b)   Any Security Document shall have been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived without the prior approval of the Bank
and the Guarantor or the Borrower shall have failed to enforce or
implement any provision of any such Security Document;
      (c)   The agreement referred to in Section 6.01 (c) of this
Agreement shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or
waived without the prior approval of the Bank or the Borrower or the
Guarantor, as the case may be, shall have failed to enforce or
implement any provision of such agreement;
Page  8
      (d)   The Operating Framework as revised pursuant to Section 6.01
(a) of this Agreement shall have been suspended, abrogated, repealed,
waived or amended in any material respect without the prior approval
of the Bank; and
      (e)   The Guarantor or RBI or any other authority having juris-
diction shall: (i) have taken any action for the dissolution or
disestablishment of the Borrower; or (ii) for the suspension of its
operation, or any portion thereof that materially and adversely affects
its financial condition or its ability to carry out the Project or to
perform any of its obligations under this Agreement.
      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely, the
events specified in paragraphs (a), (b), (c) and (d) of Section 5.01
shall occur.
                             ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination;
                  Representatives of the Borrower
      Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
      (a)   The Borrower shall have revised its Operating Framework
in order to: (i) set definite investment exposure limits in respect
of its activities; (ii)  limit its credit exposure to commercial
infrastructure projects to no more than one third of its total credit
exposure calculated in accordance with methodology satisfactory to
the Bank; (iii) limit its aggregate investments in entities in which
its share of the paid-in capital is more than 33 1/3% to not more
than 30% of its net worth; and (iv) treat as equity all expenditures
incurred by the Borrower in respect of Investment Projects prior to
the financial closure of such Projects.
      (b)   The Security Documents shall have been executed and any
necessary registrations and filings thereof shall have been made in
a manner satisfactory to the Bank and without any cost to it,
including execution of an agreement among the existing creditors of
the Borrower for the administration and management of the pari passu
security interest over the assets of  the Borrower created in favor
of all such creditors pursuant to the Security Documents.
      (c)   The Borrower shall have entered into an agreement with
the Guarantor, satisfactory to the Bank, for: (i) indemnifying the
Guarantor in the event that it is called upon to pay the principal
of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan or any portion
thereof pursuant to the provisions of the Guarantee Agreement; and
(ii) paying to the Guarantor on the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time a guarantee fee
satisfactory to the Bank, provided, however, that such fee shall not
be less than 1.2% per annum.
      Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional matter
within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to
be included in the opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Bank,
namely, that the Security Documents have been duly authorized or
ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and
are legally binding upon the Borrower in accordance with their terms
and are adequate for the purpose for which they have been executed.
      Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
      Section 6.04. The Company Secretary of the Borrower is desig-
nated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section
11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 6.05. The following addresses are specified for the
Page  9
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Bank:
            International Bank for
                  Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:               Telex:
                  INTBAFRAD              197688 (TRT),
                  Washington, D.C.       248423 (RCA),
                                          64145 (WUI) or
                                          82987 (FTCC)
      For the Borrower:
            Infrastructure Leasing and Financial Services Limited
            Mahindra Towers, 4th Floor
            Dr. G.M. Bhosale Marg
            Worli, Bombay 400018
            India
                                         Telex:
                                         011-74474
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.
                  INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                     RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                  By /s/ Heinz Vergin
                                     Acting Regional Vice President
                                                         South Asia
                  INFRASTRUCTURE LEASING AND FINANCIAL
                     SERVICES LIMITED
                  By /s/ N. Valluri
                                          Authorized Representative
                             SCHEDULE 1
               Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the
Loan to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so
to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                           Loan Allocated             % of
                            (Expressed in         Expenditures
      Category           Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1) Sub-loans              185,000,000           100% of amounts
                                                 disbursed by the
                                                 Borrower under
                                                 Sub-loans
Page  10
(2) Consultants' services   15,000,000           100%
    and training
                           ___________
        TOTAL              200,000,000
                           ===========
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals
shall be made:
      (a)   in respect of a Sub-loan unless:
            (i)   the Sub-loan has been made in accordance with the
                  procedures and on the terms and conditions set forth
                  or referred to in Schedule 5 to this Agreement; and
            (ii)  the financing agreements for the Investment Project
                  to be partially supported by the Sub-loan, together
                  with all other contractual agreements referred to in
                  paragraph 4 of Schedule 6 to this Agreement have
                  been executed.
      (b)   in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the
date of this Agreement.
3.    The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made
on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (i)
goods and works under contracts not exceeding the equivalent of
$500,000, under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by
notice to the Borrower; and (ii)  services under contracts not exceeding
$100,000 equivalent for employment of consulting firms and $50,000
equivalent for employment of individual consultants under such terms
and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
                             SCHEDULE 2
                     Description of the Project
      The objectives of the Project are:  (i) to promote the participa-
tion of the private sector in infrastructure development; (ii) to foster
efficiency in the delivery and use of selected infrastructure services;
and (iii) to assist in the institutional development of the Borrower as
will facilitate the financing of such infrastructure.
      The Project consists of the following Parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Bank and the Borrower may agree upon from
time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Investment Projects
      The financing of specific Investment Projects through Sub-loans
to Investment Enterprises within the infrastructure sector.
Part B:     Institutional Building
      Provision of technical assistance and training to the Borrower
for: (i) preparing Investment Projects referred to in Part A hereof;
and (ii) carrying out studies to assist in structuring appropriate
arrangements for implementing commercial infrastructure projects,
including review of the applicable legal and regulatory framework.
                            *    *    *
      The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 2001.
                             SCHEDULE 3
                        Amortization Schedule
                                            Payment of Principal
Page  11
Date Payment Due                           (Expressed in Dollars)
November 15, 2001                                4,250,000
May 15, 2002                                     4,375,000
November 15, 2002                                4,500,000
May 15, 2003                                     4,635,000
November 15, 2003                                4,770,000
May 15, 2004                                     4,910,000
November 15, 2004                                5,055,000
May 15, 2005                                     5,200,000
November 15, 2005                                5,355,000
May 15, 2006                                     5,510,000
November 15, 2006                                5,675,000
May 15, 2007                                     5,840,000
November 15, 2007                                6,010,000
May 15, 2008                                     6,190,000
November 15, 2008                                6,370,000
May 15, 2009                                     6,555,000
November 15, 2009                                6,750,000
May 15, 2010                                     6,945,000
November 15, 2010                                7,150,000
May 15, 2011                                     7,360,000
November 15, 2011                                7,575,000
May 15, 2012                                     7,800,000
November 15, 2012                                8,030,000
May 15, 2013                                     8,265,000
November 15, 2013                                8,505,000
May 15, 2014                                     8,755,000
November 15, 2014                                9,015,000
May 15, 2015                                     9,275,000
November 15, 2015                                9,550,000
May 15, 2016                                     9,825,000
                             SCHEDULE 4
               Modifications of the General Conditions
      For the purposes of this Agreement, the provisions of the General
Conditions are modified as follows:
      The words "the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower and the
      Guarantor, terminate the right of the Borrower to make with-
      drawals with respect to such amount. Upon the giving of such
      notice, such amount of the Loan shall be canceled" set forth
      at the end of Section 6.03 are deleted and the following is
      substituted therefor:
            "or (f) by the date specified in sub-paragraph 3 (b) of
            Schedule 5 to the Loan Agreement, the Bank shall, in
            respect of any portion of the Loan: (i) have received
            no applications or requests under sub-paragraph (a) of
            said paragraph; or (ii) have denied any such applica-
            tions or requests. The Bank may, by notice to the
            Borrower and the Guarantor, terminate the right of the
            Borrower to submit such applications or requests or to
            make withdrawals from the Loan Account, as the case may
            be, with respect to such amount or portion of the Loan.
            Upon the giving of such notice, such amount or portion
            of the Loan shall be canceled."
                             SCHEDULE 5
               Procedures for and Terms and Conditions
                            of Sub-loans
Terms and Conditions
1.    Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the terms and conditions
of each Sub-loan shall be:
      (a)   Currency:  Sub-loans may be denominated in US Dollars or
            Rupees.
Page  12
      (b)   Interest:  Interest shall be payable on the principal amount
            of the Sub-loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time
            as follows:
            (i)   For US Dollar denominated Sub-loans, the Borrower
                  shall charge a variable market-determined rate.
            (ii)  For Rupee denominated Sub-loans, the Borrower shall
                  charge a market-determined rate.
      (c)   Amount:  The amount of a Sub-loan for an Investment Project
            shall not exceed 25% of the total cost of the Investment
            Project.
      (d)   Amortization:  The maximum amortization period for a Sub-
            loan shall be 20 years with a grace period not exceeding 5
            years.
      (e)   Foreign Exchange Risk:
            (i)   The Foreign exchange risk on US Dollar denominated
                  Sub-loans shall be borne by the Investment Enterprise.
            (ii)  The foreign exchange risk on Rupee denominated Sub-
                  loans shall be borne by the Borrower.
Procedures for Approving Sub-loans for Investment Projects
2.    No expenditures for goods or services required for an Investment
Project shall be eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the
Loan unless the Sub-loan for such Investment Project shall have been
approved by the Bank and such expenditures shall have been made not
earlier than ninety days prior to the date on which the Bank shall
have received the application and information required under paragraph
3 (a) of this Schedule in respect of such Sub-loan.
3.    (a)   When presenting a Sub-loan to the Bank for approval, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank an application, in form satisfactory
to the Bank, together with: (i) a description of the Investment
Enterprise and an appraisal of the Investment Project carried out in
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2 of Schedule 6 of this
Agreement, including a description of the financing arrangements for
the Investment Project and the expenditures proposed to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan; (ii) evidence that the Investment
Project and the Investment Enterprise sponsoring such Project meet the
eligibility criteria set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 6 to this
Agreement; (iii) the proposed terms and conditions of the Sub-loan,
including the schedule of amortization of the Sub-loan; (iv) the
proposed contractual arrangements among the several participants
to the Investment Project as set forth in paragraph 4 of Schedule 6
to this Agreement; and (v) such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request.
      (b)   Applications and requests made pursuant to the provisions
of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph shall be presented to the Bank
on or before December 31, 1998.
4.    Sub-loans shall be made on terms whereby the Borrower shall:
      (A)   require the Investment Enterprise to enter into con-
            tractual arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank, with
            the several participants to an Investment Project as set
            forth in paragraph 4 of Schedule 6 to this Agreement; and
      (B)   obtain, by written contract with the Investment Enterprise
            or by other appropriate legal means, rights adequate to
            protect the interests of the Bank and the Borrower,
            including, the right to:
            (a)   require the Investment Enterprise to carry out and
                  operate the Investment Project: (i) with due
Page  13
                  diligence and efficiency and in accordance with
                  sound technical, financial and managerial
                  standards and to maintain adequate records; and
                  (ii) without limitation upon the foregoing, in
                  accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to
                  this Agreement;
            (b)   require that: (i) the goods and services to be
                  financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
                  procured in accordance with the provisions of
                  Schedule 7 to this Agreement; and (ii) such goods
                  and services shall be used exclusively in the
                  carrying out of the Investment Project;
            (c)   condition withdrawals under a Sub-loan based upon
                  the Investment Enterprise meeting construction
                  targets in respect of the Investment Project;
            (d)   inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives
                  of the Bank if the Bank shall so request, such
                  goods and the sites, works, plants and construction
                  included in the Investment Project, the operation
                  thereof, and any relevant records and documents;
            (e)   require that: (i) the Investment Enterprise shall
                  take out and maintain with responsible insurers such
                  insurance, against such risks and in such amounts,
                  as shall be consistent with sound business practice;
                  and (ii) without any limitation upon the foregoing,
                  such insurance shall cover hazards incident to the
                  acquisition, transportation and delivery of goods
                  financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to the
                  place of use or installation, any indemnity there-
                  under to be made payable in a currency freely usable
                  by the Investment Enterprise to replace or repair
                  such goods;
            (f)   obtain all such information as the Bank or the
                  Borrower shall reasonably request relating to the
                  foregoing and to the administration, operations and
                  financial condition of the Investment Enterprise and
                  to the benefits to be derived from the Investment
                  Project; and
            (g)   suspend or terminate the right of the Investment
                  Enterprise to the use of the proceeds of the Loan upon:
                        (i)   failure by such Investment Enterprise to
                              perform its obligations under its contract
                              with the Borrower, or upon notice by the
                              Bank to the Borrower that it intends to
                              exercise any of its remedies under
                              Sections 6.02 and 7.01 of the General
                              Conditions or Article V of this Agreement;
                              or
                        (ii)  upon notice by the Investment Enterprise or
                              any other party to the contractual arrange-
                              ments referred to in paragraph 4 of
                              Schedule 6 to this Agreement that it
                              intends to terminate any such contract, or
                              upon the actual termination of any such
                              contract, whichever occurs first.
                             SCHEDULE 6
                       Implementation Program
Eligibility Criteria for Investment Projects and Investment Enterprises
1.    Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, the Borrower shall ensure
that an Investment Project and an Investment Enterprise that sponsors
Page  14
such a Project and in respect of which a Sub-loan application is made
to the Bank pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 3 (a) of Schedule
5 to this Agreement meet the following eligibility criteria:
      (a)   the Investment Project supports, inter alia, one or more of
the following priority sectors: (i) integrated urban infrastructuresector; (ii) 
transport sector; and (iii) water supply and sanitation
sector;
      (b)   the total cost of the Investment Project is at least $10
million and does not exceed $200 million;
      (c)   the construction period of the Investment Project does not
exceed five years, provided, however, that for an Investment Project
costing less than US$60 million the construction period shall not
exceed three years;
      (d)   the Investment Enterprise: (i) contributes at least 25% of
the total cost of the Investment Project through equity investment out
of which the contribution of the promoter of such Enterprise shall be
at least 25% of such equity investment; and (ii) does not finance more
than 75% of the total cost of the Investment Project through debt;
      (e)   the Borrower is satisfied that the Investment Enterprise
sponsoring the Investment Project shall be able to arrange financing
for the Investment Project without the Guarantor's guarantee;
      (f)   the Investment Project is technically, economically and
financially viable;
      (g)   the Borrower is satisfied that the Investment Enterprise
shall be able to maintain a debt service coverage ratio of not less
than 1.25 based on an annual cash-flow, surplus cash as may be
invested and committed credit lines available with the Investment
Enterprise, and a suitable provision in respect thereof is included
in the contractual agreement between the Borrower and the Investment
Enterprise referred to in paragraph 4 hereof;
      (h)   the appropriate governmental authorities of the Guarantor
have authorized the establishment of the Investment Enterprise and
have provided all required clearances/approvals including environmental
clearances for implementing the Project and documented in the project
evaluation report;
      (i)   the Investment Project has a real financial rate of return
of at least 14%;
      (j)   the Investment Project has an economic rate of return of
at least 12%; and
      (k)   for purposes of this paragraph:
            (i)   the term "real financial rate of return" means the
                  discount rate which equalizes the present value of
                  the cost stream associated with the Investment
                  Project to the present value of the Investment
                  Project's benefit stream. The cost stream includes
                  all costs incurred to construct, operate and
                  maintain the Project facilities over the Project's
                  useful life; the benefits are the gross revenues
                  derived from the Project facilities or outputs.
                  Such costs and benefits shall be expressed in real
                  (net of any general inflation) prices calculated
                  in accordance with methodology satisfactory to
                  the Bank; and
            (ii)  the term "economic rate of return" means the dis-
                  count rate which equalizes the present value of the
                  cost stream associated with the Investment Project
                  to the present value of the Investment Project's
                  benefit stream, with costs and benefits measured in
                  accordance with methodology satisfactory to the Bank.
Page  15
Appraisal, Approval and Supervision of Investment Projects
2.    (a)   The Borrower shall continue to use its Operating Framework
for the appraisal, approval and supervision of Investment Projects,
subject to such modifications thereof as shall be required to be made
pursuant to Section 6.01 (a) of this Agreement.
      (b)   With respect to each Investment Project, the Borrower
shall, in accordance with the Operating Framework:
            (i)   prepare a detailed project evaluation report of the
                  Investment Project covering matters including: (aa)
                  suitability of site; (bb) availability of inputs;
                  (cc) appropriateness of, and proven experience with,
                  the technology offered; (dd) project design; (ee)
                  arrangements for detailed engineering; (ff) cost
                  estimates; (gg) construction and procurement
                  arrangements; (hh) arrangements for operation and
                  maintenance; (ii) arrangements for compliance with
                  environmental, resettlement and social standards as
                  set forth in paragraph 3 hereof; (jj) financial
                  viability of the Investment Project; (kk) adequacy
                  of the proposed financing; (ll) the contractual
                  arrangements for the Investment Project among the
                  several participants; (mm) the corporate and capital
                  structure of the Investment Enterprise; and (nn) the
                  eligibility criteria for Investment Projects and
                  Investment Enterprises;
            (ii)  furnish to the Bank for its review and approval,
                  pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of Schedule 5 to this
                  Agreement, such project evaluation report on the
                  Investment Project.
Environmental, Resettlement and Social Standards for Investment Projects
3.    Each Investment Project shall comply with the environmental,
resettlement and social standards set forth in the Environmental and
Social Report. To that end, the Borrower shall:
      (a)   require each Investment Enterprise applying for a Sub-loan to
furnish evidence satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank, showing that
the Investment Project in respect of which the application has been made
has been prepared in accordance with such standards, such evidence to
include an environmental impact assessment and an environmental miti-
gation plan, and where applicable, a resettlement and rehabilitation
plan and an indigenous peoples development plan for adversely affected
and/or displaced populations, for such Investment Project; and
      (b)   in respect of each Investment Project, include in the
contractual arrangements referred to in paragraph 4 hereof suitable
provisions obligating the Investment Enterprise sponsoring such
Investment Project to ensure compliance with such standards.
Contractual Framework for Implementing Investment Projects
4.    In order to clearly lay down the mutual rights and obligations of
the several participants to an Investment Project, the Borrower shall,
with respect to each Investment Project, require the Investment
Enterprise to enter into agreements, each in form and substance
satisfactory to the Bank, with the appropriate governmental authority,
Borrower, lenders/creditors, construction contractor, suppliers,
purchasers, operator, shareholders, escrow account holders, and other
parties that may participate in the Investment Project and include,
inter alia, provisions in such agreements in respect of the matters
set forth in paragraph 4 (B) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement and
paragraphs 1 (g) and 3 hereof.
Reports
5.    The Borrower shall within 30 days after any meeting of its Board
Page  16
provide to the Bank the agenda of such meeting, including all documents
that were forwarded and considered at such meeting.
6.    Without any limitation or restriction upon the provisions of
Sections 9.01 and 9.07 of the General Conditions, the Borrower shall
furnish or cause to be furnished to the Bank, within thirty days of the
end of each quarter, a report, in form and substance satisfactory to the
Bank, on the progress of the Project and each Investment Project during
such quarter.
Review
7.    The Borrower shall by April 30 of each year during the implemen-
tation of the Project, beginning with April 30, 1997, review with the
Bank the progress of the Project and the operations, financial per-
formance and budget of the Borrower under terms of reference satis-
factory to the Bank, and promptly thereafter, implement the recommen-
dations resulting from such review.
8.    The Borrower shall, with the participation of the Guarantor and
the Bank, carry out by April 30, 1998, or such later date as the Bank
may agree, a mid-term review of the Project under terms of reference
satisfactory to the Bank, and promptly thereafter, implement the
recommendations resulting from such review.
                             SCHEDULE 7
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     General
      Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions
of Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in January 1995 (the Guidelines) and the
following provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and
works shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the
provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1
thereto.
2.    The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of
paragraph 1 of this Part B.
      (a)   Preference for domestically manufactured goods and domestic
            contractors
      The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and
Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory
of the Guarantor and works to be carried out by domestic contractors.
      (b)   Notification and Advertising
      The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to
cost $10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance
with the procedures applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of
the Guidelines.
Part C:     Investment Project Procurement
1.    Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 hereof, an Investment
Project shall be constructed under a contract awarded to an Investment
Enterprise selected on the basis of bidding procedures in accordance
with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines, subject to the
provisions of paragraph 3.13 (a) thereof.  The goods and works required
for the construction of such Investment Project shall then be procured
in accordance with the applicable procedures of such Investment
Page  17
Enterprise.
2.    In those cases where an Investment Enterprise has not been
selected in accordance with the procedures set forth in paragraph 1
hereof, goods and works required for an Investment Project to be
constructed by such Investment Enterprise shall be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of bidding procedures set forth in
Part B hereof, subject to the provisions of paragraph 3.13 (b) of
the Guidelines.
Part D:     Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.    Procurement Planning
      Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding
or to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project
shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in accordance
with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance
with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and
with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.    Prior Review
      With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of
$500,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.    Post Review
      With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
1.    Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in
accordance with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines).
For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts shall be based on the
standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by the Bank,
with such modifications thereto as shall have been agreed by the Bank.
Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the
Bank, other standard forms acceptable to the Bank shall be used.
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the
provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or
approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures, letters of
invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts, shall not apply
to (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to
cost less than $100,000 equivalent each or (b) contracts for the employ-
ment of individual consultants estimated to cost less than $50,000
equivalent each. However, said exceptions to prior Bank review shall not
apply to (a) the terms of reference for such contracts, (b) single-
source selection of consulting firms, (c) assignments of a critical
nature, as reasonably determined by the Bank, (d) amendments to contracts
for the employment of consulting firms raising the contract value to
$100,000 equivalent or above, or (e) amendments to contracts for the
employment of individual consultants raising the contract value to
$50,000 equivalent or above.
                             SCHEDULE 8
                           Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible Category" means Category 1 set forth in
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
Page  18
respect of the reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for
Investment Projects and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the eligible Category in accordance with
the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent
to $25,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into
the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule;
      (d)   the term "Swap Agreement" means an agreement which the
Borrower may enter into using the proceeds of the Loan deposited into
the Special Account for the spot purchase of Rupees using Dollars with
simultaneous forward sale or vice versa in order to protect itself
against risk of loss on account of possible depreciation of the Rupee
against the Dollar during the term of the Loan; and
      (e)   the term "Swap Counterparty" means a party with which the
Borrower enters into a Swap Agreement.
2.    (a)   Amounts deposited into the Special Account pursuant to
paragraphs 3 (a) and 3 (b) of this Schedule shall be withdrawn exclu-
sively for exchanging such amounts into Rupees pursuant to Swap
Agreements and depositing such Rupee amounts into the Swap Account.
The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank copies of such Swap Agreements
promptly after their execution including information relating to the
Rupee amounts obtained therefrom.
      (b)   Payments out of the Swap Account  shall be made exclu-
sively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of
this Schedule.
      (c)   Each payment (including a payment under a letter of credit)
for an eligible expenditure in foreign currency in an amount equal to or
less than the equivalent of $5,000,000 and all payment in Rupees shall
be made exclusively out of the Swap Account, provided, however, that
there are sufficient funds in the Swap Account. The Bank  may from time
to time, by notice to the Borrower, revise the threshold amount
specified in the preceding sentence.
3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the
Special Account and the Swap Account have been duly opened, withdrawal
of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account shall be made as follows:
      (a)   (i)   For withdrawal of the Authorized Allocation, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request for
                  deposit into the Special Account the amount of the
                  Authorized Allocation. Prior to such request, the
                  Borrower shall confirm to the Bank that it has
                  negotiated a Swap Agreement with a proposed Swap
                  Counterparty for exchanging such amount into Rupees.
                  On the basis of such request, the Bank shall, on
                  behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
                  Account and deposit into the Special Account such
                  amount as the Borrower shall have requested.
            (ii)  Within a period of seven working days after the
                  Bank shall have deposited into the Special Account
                  such amount as the Borrower shall have requested
                  pursuant to paragraphs 3 (a) (i) or (b) (ii) of
                  this Schedule, the Borrower shall withdraw such
                  amount in its entirety for implementing the Swap
                  Agreement and deposit the equivalent Rupee amount
                  obtained under such Swap Agreement into the Swap
                  Account.
            (iii) If within the period referred to in paragraph 3 (a)
                  (ii) of this Schedule the amount deposited in the
                  Special Account shall not have been withdrawn and
                  deposited into the Swap Account in accordance with
                  such paragraph, the Borrower shall, promptly
                  upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank all
Page  19
                  such amounts on deposit in the Special Account.
      (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower
                  shall furnish to the Bank, upon the utilization of at
                  least 80% of the amount in the Swap Account for
                  eligible expenditures, requests for deposits into the
                  Special Account. Prior to each such request, the
                  Borrower shall confirm to the Bank that it has
                  negotiated a Swap Agreement with a proposed Swap
                  Counterparty for exchanging the requested amount into
                  Rupees.
           (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents and
                  other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of
                  this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect
                  of which replenishment is requested. On the basis of
                  each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
                  Borrower,  withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit
                  into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
                  shall have requested and as shall have been shown by
                  said documents and other evidence to have been paid
                  out of the Swap Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be:  (A) withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account under the eligible Category, and in the equivalent amounts, as
shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence; and (B)
subject to the provisions of clauses (ii) and (iii) of paragraph 3 (a)
of this Schedule.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Swap Account,
the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request,
furnish to the Bank such documents and other evidence showing that
such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule,
the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the
Special Account:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
      (b)   if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank,
within the period of time specified in Section 4.02 (a) (ii) of this
Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to the
Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the records
and accounts for the Special Account or the Swap Account; or
      (c)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower
of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to the
provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwith-
drawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Category shall
follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the
Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to
the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Swap Account as of the date of
such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Swap Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or
in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule;
or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the
Swap Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank)
an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof
Page  20
not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree,
no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made
until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or
refund, as the case may be.
      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Swap Account will not be required to cover
further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall,
promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstand-
ing amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account
or the Swap Account.
      (d)   (i)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 3
                  (a) (iii), and 6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule
                  shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent
                  withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with
                  the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including
                  the General Conditions.
            (ii)  Such refunds of the Rupee amounts in the Swap Account
                  shall be made initially to the Special Account in
                  Dollars calculated in accordance with paragraph 6
                  (d) (iv) of this Schedule. The amounts refunded to
                  the Special Account shall be immediately refunded
                  to the Bank.
            (iii) Such refunds shall be made notwithstanding the Swap
                  Agreements entered into by the Borrower in respect
                  of such amounts.
            (iv)  The exchange rate used for converting such refunds
                  from the Rupee amounts in the Swap Account to Dollars
                  shall be the rate at which the respective Rupee
                  amounts were converted from the Dollar amounts in
                  the Special Account pursuant to the relevant Swap
                  Agreements. If any question arises on the applicable
                  exchange rate to be used in respect of any amount to
                  be refunded, the rate shall be as determined by the
                  Bank.
