Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
GRANT NUMBER H091-NEP 
 
Project Agreement
 
(
Poverty Alleviation Fund Project) 
 
between 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
and 
 
POVERTY ALLEVIATION FUND 
 
Dated September 14, 2004 
 
Page  2
2
Page  3
GRANT NUMBER
 H091
-NEP 
 
PROJECT AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated September 14, 2004, between INTERNATIONAL 
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) and POVERTY ALLEVIATION 
FUND (PAF). 
 
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Grant Agreement of even date herewith 
between the KINGDOM OF NEPAL (the Recipient) and the Association, the Association 
has agreed to make available to the Recipient an amount in various currencies equivalent 
to ten million one hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 10,100,000), on the 
terms and conditions set forth in the Development Grant Agreement, but only on 
condition that PAF agrees to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are set 
forth in this Agreement;
 
and 
 
(B) 
by a Subsidiary Grant Agreement to be entered into between the 
Recipient and PAF, the proceeds of the Grant provided for under the Development Grant 
Agreement will be made available to PAF on the terms and conditions set forth in said 
Subsidiary Grant Agreement;  
 
WHEREAS PAF, in consideration of the Association’s entering into the 
Development Grant Agreement with the Recipient, has agreed to undertake the 
obligations set forth in this Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
 
Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the Development Grant Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and in the General 
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth. 
 
ARTICLE II 
 
Execution of the Project 
 
Section 2.01. (a) PAF declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project as 
set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Grant Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, environmental and economic practices, and shall provide, or 
Page  4
-
2
-
cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required for the Project. 
 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Association and PAF shall otherwise agree, PAF shall carry out the 
Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement, the EMF and the Operational Manual. 
 
Section 2.02. (a) PAF undertakes that, unless the Association shall otherwise 
agree, Block Grants will be provided by it to Beneficiaries under Parts A, B or C of the 
Project, all in accordance with the procedures and on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
(b) 
PAF shall exercise its rights in relation to financing provided by it to 
Beneficiaries in such manner as to: (i) protect the interests of the Recipient, the 
Association and PAF; (ii) comply with its obligations under this Agreement and the 
Subsidiary Grant Agreement; and (iii) achieve the purposes of the Project. 
 
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, PAF shall ensure 
that: 
 
(a) 
for purposes of financing IGSPs under Part A of the Project, no single 
Beneficiary shall receive out of the proceeds of  the Grant an amount, which either by 
itself or together with any other outstanding amount so received by such Beneficiary will 
exceed an aggregate amount equal to twenty five percent (25%) of the amount allocated 
from time to time to Category 1 (a) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to 
the Development Grant Agreement;  
 
(b) 
for purposes of financing SSIPs under Part B of the Project, no single 
Beneficiary shall receive out of the proceeds of  the Grant an amount, which either by 
itself or together with any other outstanding amount so received by such Beneficiary will 
not exceed the equivalent of twenty percent (20%) of the amount from time to time 
allocated to Category 1 (b) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the 
Development Grant Agreement; and 
 
(c) 
for purposes of financing Innovative Grants under Part C of the Project: 
(i) Sub-Project can be implemented out side the Project Area; and (ii) no single 
Beneficiary shall receive out of the proceeds of  the Grant an amount, which either by 
itself or together with any other outstanding amount so received by such Beneficiary will 
not exceed the equivalent of one hundred thousand Dollars (US$100,000) of the amount 
from time to time allocated to Category 1 (c) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of 
Schedule 1 to the Development Grant Agreement. 
 
Section 2.04. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
Page  5
-
3
-
Section 2.05. (a) PAF shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 
9.04, 9.05, 9.06 and 9.07 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods 
and services, plans and schedules, records and reports and maintenance, respectively) in 
respect of the Project Agreement. 
 
(b) 
For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, PAF shall: 
 
(i) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association 
and furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after 
the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this 
purpose between the Association and PAF, a plan for the future 
operation of the Project; and 
 
(ii) 
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange 
views with PAF on said plan. 
 
Section 2.06. PAF shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary 
Grant Agreement and, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, PAF shall not take 
or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning 
or waiving the Subsidiary Grant Agreement or any provision thereof. 
 
Section 2.07. (a) PAF shall, at the request of the Association, exchange views 
with the Association with regard to the progress of the Project, the performance of its 
obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Grant Agreement, and other 
matters relating to the purposes of the Grant. 
 
(b)  
PAF shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of 
the purposes of the Grant, or the performance by PAF of its obligations under this 
Agreement and under the Subsidiary Grant Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III 
 
Management and Operations of PAF 
 
Section 3.01. PAF shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, financial and economic practices under the 
supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in 
adequate numbers. 
 
Section 3.02. PAF shall at all times operate and maintain its plant, machinery, 
equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, make all 
Page  6
-
4
-
necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, 
financial and economic practices. 
 
Section 3.03. PAF shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or make 
other provision satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such risks and in 
such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Financial Covenants 
 
Section 4.01. (a) PAF shall establish and maintain a financial management 
system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements, in accordance 
with consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Association, adequate to 
reflect its operations and financial condition and to register separately the operations, 
resources and expenditures related to the Project; and 
 
(b) PAF 
shall: 
 
(i) 
have its financial statements (balance sheets, statements of 
income and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year 
(or other period agreed to by the Association) commencing with 
the fiscal year in which the first withdrawal under the Project 
Preparation Advance was made, audited, in accordance with 
consistently applied auditing standards acceptable to the 
Association, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association;  
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six (6) months after the end of each such year, 
(A) certified copies of the financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section, for such year (or such other period 
agreed to by the Association), as so audited, and (B) an opinion 
on such statements by said auditors, in scope and detail 
satisfactory to the Association; and 
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
such records and accounts and the audit of such financial 
statements, and concerning said auditors, as the Association may 
from time to time reasonably request. 
 
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon PAF’s reporting obligations set out in 
paragraph 4 of Schedule 3 to this Agreement, PAF shall prepare and furnish to the 
Association a Financial Monitoring Report (FMR), in form and substance satisfactory to 
the Association, which: 
 
Page  7
-
5
-
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Grant, and explains 
variances between the actual and planned uses of  such funds; 
 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual
 
and planned Project 
implementation; and 
 
(iii)  
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
 
(b) 
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Association not later than forty-
five (45) days after the end of the first fiscal trimester after the Effective Date, and shall 
cover the period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the 
end of such first fiscal trimester; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the 
Association not later than forty five (45) days after each subsequent fiscal trimester, and 
shall cover the period not covered by the previous FMR until the end of such fiscal  
trimester.  
 
ARTICLE V 
 
Effective Date; Termination; 
Cancellation and Suspension 
 
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Grant Agreement becomes effective. 
 
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of PAF 
thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates: 
 
(i) 
the date on which the Development Grant Agreement shall 
terminate in accordance with its terms; or 
 
(ii) 
the date twenty (20) years after the date of this Agreement. 
 
(b) 
If the Development Grant Agreement terminates in accordance with its 
terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)(ii) of this Section, the Association shall 
promptly notify PAF of this event. 
 
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force and 
effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General Conditions. 
 
Page  8
-
6
-
ARTICLE VI 
 
Miscellaneous Provisions 
 
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly 
given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telex or facsimile to the 
party to which it is required or permitted to be given or made at such party’s address 
hereinafter specified or at such other address as such party shall have designated by 
notice to the party giving such notice or making such request. Deliveries made by 
facsimile transmission shall also be confirmed by mail. The addresses so specified are: 
 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
For PAF: 
 
Nepal Poverty Alleviation Fund 
 
Kathmandu, Nepal 
 
Facsimile: 
 
(977-1) 555-3674 
 
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of PAF, or by PAF 
on behalf of the Recipient under the Development Grant Agreement, may be taken or 
executed by its Vice-Chair person or such other person or persons as shall be designated 
in writing by him. The Vice-Chair person shall furnish to the Association sufficient 
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person. 
 
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument. 
 
Page  9
-
7
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Kathmandu, Kingdom of Nepal, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ Kenichi Ohashi 
Authorized Representative 
 
POVERTY ALLEVIATION FUND 
 
By /s/ Raj Babu Shrestha 
Authorized Representative 
Page  10
-
8
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Procurement  
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A
:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with: (i) the provisions of 
Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits”, 
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, 
September 1997 and January 1999 (the Guidelines); and (ii) the provisions of the 
following Parts of this Section I. 
 
Part B
:
International Competitive Bidding
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines 
and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
 
2. 
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
 
(a) 
Grouping of Contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $200,000 equivalent or more each. 
 
(b) 
Preference for Domestically Manufactured Goods
The provisions of paragraph 2.54 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 thereto shall 
apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Recipient. 
 
Part C
:
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding
(a) 
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to 
an aggregate amount not to exceed $200,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
 
(b) 
In order to ensure economy, efficiency, transparency and broad 
consistency with the provisions of Section 1 of the Guidelines: 
 
Page  11
-
9
-
(i) 
invitations to bid shall be advertised in at least one (1) widely 
circulated national daily newspaper, at least thirty (30) days prior 
to the deadline for the submission of bids; 
 
(ii) 
bid documents shall be made available, by mail or in person, to 
all who are willing to pay the required fee; 
 
(iii) 
evaluation of bids shall be made in strict adherence to the criteria 
disclosed in the bidding documents, in a format and specified 
period agreed with the Association; 
 
(iv) 
bids shall be opened in public in one place, immediately after the 
deadline for submission of bids; 
 
(v) 
foreign bidders shall not be precluded from bidding and no 
preference of any kind shall be given to national bidders; 
 
(vi) 
qualification criteria (in case pre-qualifications were not carried 
out) shall be stated in the bidding documents, and if a 
registration process is required, a foreign firm declared as the 
lowest evaluated bidder shall be given a reasonable opportunity 
of registering, without let or hindrance; 
 
(vii) 
contracts shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated bidders; 
 
(viii) 
post-bidding negotiations shall not be allowed with the lowest 
evaluated bidders or any other bidders; 
 
(ix) 
bids shall not be rejected merely on the basis of a comparison 
with an official estimate without the prior concurrence of the 
Association; 
 
(x) 
contracts shall not be awarded on the basis of nationally 
negotiated rates; 
 
(xi) 
re-bidding shall not be carried out without the prior concurrence 
of the Association; 
 
(xii) 
all bidders/contractors shall provide bid/performance security as 
indicated in the bidding/contract documents; 
 
(xiii) 
a
bidder’s bid security shall apply only to a specific bid, and a 
contractor’s performance security shall apply only to the specific 
contract under which it was furnished; 
 
Page  12
-
10 - 
(xiv) 
split award or lottery in award of contracts shall not be carried 
out. When two or more bidders quote the same lowest price, an 
investigation shall be made to determine any evidence of 
collusion, following which: (A) if collusion is determined, the 
parties involved shall be disqualified and the award shall then be 
made to the next lowest evaluated and qualified bidder; and (B) 
if no evidence of collusion can be confirmed, then fresh bids 
shall be invited after receiving the concurrence of the 
Association. 
 
(xv) 
extension of bid validity shall not be allowed without the prior 
concurrence of the Association: (A) for the first request for 
extension if it is longer than eight (8) weeks; and (B) for all 
subsequent requests for extension irrespective of the period; 
 
(xvi) 
bids shall not be invited on the basis of percentage premium or 
discount over the estimated cost; and 
 
(xvii) 
there shall not be any restrictions on the means of delivery of the 
bids. 
 
2. 
International or National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of international or national shopping 
procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
 
3. Community 
Participation
For the purposes of carrying out Sub-Projects under Parts A, B and C of the 
Project estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract: 
 
(a) 
labor may be provided by the Beneficiaries at market rates or as part of  
their in-kind contribution towards the capital costs of the Sub-Projects; and 
 
(b) 
materials may be procured by the Beneficiaries under contracts awarded 
on the basis of international or national shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of the regulation and manual of PAF. 
 
Part D
:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1. Procurement 
Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review and 
Page  13
-
11 - 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1. 
 
2. Prior 
Review
With respect to the first two (2) contracts for equipment and vehicles, and works, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. 
 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions of 
the Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers”, published by the Association in January 1997 
and revised in September 1997, January 1999 and May 2002 (the Consultant Guidelines); 
and (b) the provisions of the following Parts of this Section II. 
 
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ 
services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
Section II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to quality- 
and cost-based selection of consultants. 
 
2. 
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding 
paragraph.  The short list of consultants for services for the Project, estimated to cost less 
than $50,000 equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
Page  14
-
12 - 
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services costing less than $200,000 equivalent per contract may be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of 
the Consultant Guidelines.
 
2. Individual 
Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines. 
 
Part D
:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 
of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by the 
Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2, 3 and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
 
(b) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval. The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given. 
 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply. 
 
Page  15
-
13 - 
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Terms and Conditions of, and Procedures for  
Contracting with POs and Provision of Block Grants to Beneficiaries 
 
Part A:
Contracting with POs
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, POs shall be contracted by PAF 
for the purposes of facilitating the preparation for, and carrying out of, Sub-Projects by 
Beneficiaries. 
 
Terms and Conditions Procedures
(a) 
PAF shall, through an advertisement to be published in national 
newspapers from time to time, invite POs to submit written proposals on how they would 
facilitate Beneficiaries mobilization and Sub-Projects preparation for one or more 
districts within the Project Area. 
 
(b) 
On the basis of such proposals, PAF shall carry out a series of 
preliminary appraisals, desk appraisals and field appraisals of the proposed POs in 
accordance with its Operational Manual, in order to establish, 
inter alia
,
whether 
proposed POs can: 
 
(i) 
satisfy the relevant eligibility criteria; 
 
(ii) 
accept PAF’s policies; 
 
(iii) 
demonstrate a high degree of compatibility with PAF’s financing 
strategy; and 
 
(iv) 
demonstrate that they employ, or can employ, the operational 
policies, procedures and human resources, required in 
furtherance of the proposed partnership between themselves and 
PAF. 
 
(c) 
Without limiting the generality of sub-paragraphs 1 (a) and 1 (b) of this 
Part A, in order to receive financing for the purposes of facilitating the carrying out Sub-
Projects or the preparation of proposals thereof, each eligible PO shall enter into a written 
agreement with PAF, and, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, such 
agreement (PO Agreement) shall provide, 
inter alia
,
for: 
 
(i) 
the PO to declare its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
and to undertake to conduct its operations and affairs in 
accordance with sound financial standards and practices, with 
Page  16
-
14 - 
qualified and experienced management and in accordance with 
its charter; 
 
(ii) 
the PO to establish and maintain satisfactory procedures and 
operational policies for supervision and monitoring of Sub-
Projects so as to ensure the achievement of the objectives of the 
Project; and 
 
(iii) 
the PO to exchange views with PAF with regard to the 
performance of its obligations under the PO Agreement and 
other matters relating to the purposes of the Project. 
 
Part B
:
Block Grants to Beneficiaries
1.  
Eligibility Criteria
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, Block Grants shall be made only 
to: 
 
(a) 
Beneficiaries who satisfy the eligibility criteria set forth in the 
Operational Manual, which shall include that: 
 
(i) 
the Beneficiaries shall be considered poor under the 
definition of poverty adopted by PAF or under a more 
specific standard for measuring poverty to be developed 
by PAF; 
 
(ii) 
the Beneficiaries shall conduct their affairs in a 
participatory manner including women and 
disadvantaged groups in their Sub-
Projects’ proposals 
development, pursuant to VCDP, within the Project 
Area; and 
 
(iii) 
the Beneficiaries shall: 
 
(aa) 
conduct their affairs in an equitable manner and 
in accordance with sound and transparent 
administrative and financial practices; 
 
(bb) 
hold regular meetings of their governing body; 
and 
 
(cc) 
actively involve women in decision making. 
 
Page  17
-
15 - 
(b) 
Eligibility criteria for IGSPs set forth in the Operational Manual, 
shall include the following: 
 
(i) 
the IGSPs shall be in compliance with the Recipient’s 
laws and regulations relating to health, safety and 
environmental protection, including the EMF, VCDP; 
and are able to generate income; and 
 
(ii) 
the IGSPs shall not be on PAF’s negative list set forth in 
the Operational Manual.
 
(c) 
Eligibility criteria for SSIPs set forth in the Operational Manual, 
shall include the following: 
 
(i) 
SSIPs shall be in compliance with the Recipient’s laws 
and regulations relating to health, safety and 
environmental protection, including the EMF and 
VCDP; and 
 
(ii) 
SSIPs shall be equitable (with more than 50% of the 
Beneficiary community concerned benefiting in each 
case); and technically viable.  
 
2.  
Terms and Conditions
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, Block Grants shall be made: (i) 
on a non-reimbursable basis; and (ii) denominated in Nepalese Rupee. 
 
3.  
Procedures
(a) 
Proposals for Sub-Projects may be initiated or sponsored by 
Beneficiaries in their own capacity or liaising with POs, as the case may be, and shall 
identify the type of Sub-Project and the Beneficiary, describe the works or goods to be 
financed and any goods or works to be provided in-kind by the Beneficiary, identify the 
PO, if any, and its facilitating role. 
 
(b) 
Block Grants shall be made on such terms as shall enable the PAF to 
obtain by written contract (Sub-Project Grant Agreement) with the concerned Beneficiary 
rights adequate to protect the interests of the Recipient, the Association and the PAF,  
including the right to: 
 
(i) 
require that the Sub-Project for which the Block Grant is made 
be carried out in accordance with the Operational Manual, with 
due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound 
technical, financial, environmental and managerial standards and 
Page  18
-
16 - 
that adequate records to reflect the operations, resources and 
expenditures in respect of the Sub-Project be maintained; 
 
(ii) require 
that: 
 
(aa) 
the goods, works and services to be financed from the 
proceeds of the Block Grant be procured in accordance with the 
procedures set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
 
(bb) 
such goods, works and services be used exclusively in 
the carrying out of the Sub-Project for which the Block Grant is 
made; 
 
(iii) 
inspect by itself, or jointly with the Association, if the 
Association shall so request, the goods, works, sites, plants and 
construction included in the Sub-Project for which the Grant is 
made, the operations thereof and any relevant records and 
documents; 
 
(iv) 
obtain all such information as the Association shall reasonably 
request, regarding the administration, operation and financial 
condition of the Sub-Project for which the Block Grant is made;  
 
(v) 
suspend or terminate the right of the Beneficiary to use the 
proceeds of the Block Grant upon the failure by the Beneficiary 
to perform any of its obligations under the Sub-Project Grant 
Agreement; and 
 
(vi) require 
that: 
 
(aa) 
the Beneficiary identify and approve the IGSP or SSIP 
for which the Block Grant is made through an open and 
participatory process; 
 
(bb) 
the Beneficiary sign the Sub-Project Grant Agreement 
on terms of partnership approved in its general body 
meeting, with its responsibilities clearly defined; 
 
(cc) 
the Beneficiary contribute towards the capital cost of the 
IGSP and SSIP for which the Block Grant is made, such 
contribution varying according to the capacity to pay, as 
set forth in the Operational Manual; 
 
(dd) 
the Beneficiary implement the IGSP and SSIP for which  
Page  19
-
17 - 
the Block Grant is made within a stipulated time and  
budget; 
 
(ee) 
the Beneficiary open a separate bank account, to be 
operated by at least two (2) signatories, and maintain a 
record of all receipts and payments, all relating to the 
IGSP and SSIP for which the Block Grant is made; 
 
(ff) 
the Beneficiary submit its work to supervise and  
certification for quality and adherence to specifications 
by the PAF, having the right to suspend payments under 
the Block Grant in respect of sub-standard work until 
such time as such work has been rectified;  
 
(gg) 
the Beneficiary be fully responsible for the operation and  
maintenance costs of the IGSP and SSIP for which 
Block Grant is made; and 
 
(hh) 
The Beneficiary contribute skilled and/or unskilled  
 
labor, whether in cash or in kind. 
Page  20
-
18 - 
 
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Implementation Program 
 
1.  
PAF shall at all times: 
 
(a) 
maintain a Board of Directors which shall have general oversight over 
the Project, and which shall on a quarterly bases meet to discuss matters related to the 
implementation of the Project; 
 
(b) 
maintain staff, to include an Executive Director (ED) and at least one (1) 
senior officer who shall undertake the overall environmental monitoring responsibility, 
all of whom shall have appropriate experience and qualifications and shall have been 
appointed in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Association; 
 
(c) 
keep the Association promptly informed of changes in membership of its 
Board of Directors and Executive Director referred to in sub-paragraph (b); and 
 
(d) 
the PAF shall implement the VCDP in accordance with objectives, 
policies, procedures, time schedules and other provisions set forth therein, to ensure that 
vulnerable people in the Project Area shall benefit fully from the activities financed under 
the Project. 
 
2.  
PAF shall: 
 
(a) 
carry out its activities under the Project in accordance with the 
procedures, principles and practices set forth in the Operational Manual; 
 
(b) 
take all measures necessary to ensure that activities of Beneficiaries and 
POs under the Project are carried out in conformity with the Operational 
Manual; and 
 
(c) 
not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Operational Manual or any 
provisions thereof if, in the opinion of the Association, such assignment, 
amendment, abrogation or waiver will materially and adversely affect 
Beneficiarie
s
and POs’ performance or the implementation of the 
Project. 
 
3.  
PAF shall: 
 
(a) 
ensure that all Sub-Projects will be carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the EMF and VCDP; and 
 
Page  21
-
19 - 
(b) 
not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the EMF and VCDP or any 
provisions thereof if, such assignment, amendment, abrogation, or waiver will materially 
and adversely affect the implementation of the Project or any Sub-Project. 
 
4. PAF 
shall: 
 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in Schedule 4 to 
this Agreement, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof; 
 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about December 1, 2006, a report integrating the results 
of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the 
efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during 
the period following such date; and 
 
(c) 
review with the Association, by February 1, 2007, or such later date as 
the Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and 
the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations 
of the said report and the Association’s views on the matter. 
 
Page  22
-
20 - 
 
SCHEDULE 4 
 
Performance Indicators 
 
INDICATOR BASELINE 
MIDTERM 
FINAL 
1. Number of Sub-Projects  
0 
300 
1000 
2. Number of groups of beneficiaries 
0 
400 
1000 
3. Percentage of women membership   
 
in groups. 
0% 20% 30% 
4. Percentage of 
Dalit 
membership in 
 
groups. 
0% 20% 30% 
5. Percentage of indigenous 
 
membership in groups. 
0% 20% 30% 
6. Number of villages covered.  
0 
50 
100 
7. Amount of contribution of  
 
communities. 
0
US$15,000 US$50,000 
8. Number of Beneficiaries. 
0 
3,000 
10,000 
9. Number of Beneficiaries trained. 
0 
3,000 
10,000 
