Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
GRANT NUMBER H091-NEP 
 
Development Grant Agreement
 
(Poverty Alleviation Fund Project) 
 
between 
 
KINGDOM OF NEPAL 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated September 14, 2004 
 
Page  2
-
2
-
Page  3
GRANT NUMBER
 
H091-NEP 
 
DEVELOPMENT GRANT AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated September 14, 2004, between KINGDOM OF NEPAL 
(the Recipient) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the 
Association). 
 
WHEREAS (A) the Recipient, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has 
requested the Association to assist in the financing of the Project; and 
 
(B) 
the Project will be carried out by the Nepal Poverty Alleviation Fund 
(PAF) with the Recipient’s assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Recipient will 
make the proceeds of the grant provided for in Article II of this Agreement (the Grant) 
available to PAF, as set forth in this Agreement;  
 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of the foregoing, 
to extend the Grant to the Recipient upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the agreement of even date herewith between the Association and the 
Nepal Poverty Alleviation Fund (the Project Agreement); 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through 
October 6, 1999) (the General Conditions) with the modifications set forth in Schedule 4 
to this Agreement constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
 
(a) 
“Beneficiary” means, within the Project Area (as hereinafter defined), 
Community Based Organization (CBO), village organization, self-help women group, 
credit groups, or any other group eligible pursuant to Part B.1 of Schedule 2 to the Project 
Agreement and other eligibility criteria as set forth in the Operational Manual;  
 
Page  4
-
2
-
(b) 
“Block Grants” means a grant made or proposed to be made by the 
Recipient, out of the proceeds of the Grant, to a Beneficiary to finance the costs of goods, 
works, and services for Sub-Projects under Parts A, B or C of the Project; 
 
(c) 
“DDC” means a District Development Committee established in each 
district of the Recipient’s territory under the Local Self Governance Act, 2055 (1999); 
 
(d) 
“Environmental Assessment” means the Recipient’s environmental 
assessment, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association, dated March 7, 2004, 
including, 
inter alia
:
(i) the identification and assessment of the potential environmental 
impact of activities to be carried out under Sub-Projects; (ii) an evaluation of alternative 
measures; and (iii) the EMF (as hereinafter defined) detailing the appropriate mitigation, 
monitoring, institutional and management measures required for the implementation of 
Sub-Projects with a view to ensuring compliance of the activities referred to in sub-
paragraph (i) herein with said measures and to eliminating adverse environmental 
impacts, offsetting such impacts, or reducing them to acceptable levels; 
 
(e) 
“EMF” means the Recipient’s Environmental Management Framework 
which sets out, 
inter alia:
 (i) key principles for environmental management of Sub-
projects; (ii) procedures to screen and process Sub-Projects for significant environmental 
impacts, and to assist in mitigating impacts; and (iii) procedures to ensure that these 
principles and procedures are properly applied; 
 
(f) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” means each report prepared in accordance 
with Section 4.02 of the Project Agreement; 
 
(g) 
“Fiscal Year” or “FY” means the twelve (12) month period 
corresponding to any of the Recipient’s fiscal years, which period commences and ends 
in mid July of each calendar year; 
 
(h) 
“IGSP” means an Income Generating Sub-Project financed or proposed 
to be financed under Part A of the Project; 
 
(i) 
“Innovative Grants” means Block Grants made by PAF to selected
 
Beneficiaries under Part C of the Project; 
 
(j) 
“Nepal Rastra Bank” means the central bank of the Recipient, 
established and operating pursuant to the provisions of the Recipient’s Nepal Rastra Bank 
Act, 2058 (2001); 
 
(k) 
“Nepalese Rupee” and the sign “NRs” mean the currency of the 
Recipient; 
 
(l) 
“Operational Manual” means the Recipient’s Operational Manual dated 
March 7, 2004, satisfactory to the Association, containing PAF’s eligibility criteria and 
Page  5
-
3
-
appraisal, approval and supervision rules and procedures for POs (as hereinafter defined), 
Beneficiaries and Sub-Projects; as well as, EMF, VCDP (as hereinafter defined) and 
negative list of Sub-Projects, and the Financial Management Manual, as the same may be 
amended from time to time with the agreement of the Association; 
 
(m) 
“PAF” means the Poverty Alleviation Fund, an autonomous institution 
established pursuant to the Recipient’s “Poverty Alleviation Fund Ordinance, 2004”; 
 
(n) 
“Performance Indicators” means indicators set out in Schedule 4 to the 
Project Agreement; 
 
(o) 
“PO” or “Partner Organization” means a Non-governmental 
Organization (NGO), VDC (as hereinafter defined), DDC, CBO or private sector 
institution or entity, involved in poverty alleviation work, which meets the eligibility 
criteria for POs set forth in the Operational Manual; 
 
(p) 
“PO Agreement” means an agreement to be entered into between PAF 
and a PO pursuant to Part A of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement; 
 
(q) 
“Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Association and 
PAF of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such 
term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement; 
 
(r) 
“Project Area” means the six (6) districts that have been identified for the 
purpose of carrying out the Project, namely 
Mugu
 and 
Darchula
 in the mountains, 
Ramechhap
 and 
Pyuthan
 in the hills, and 
Kapilvastu 
and 
Siraha
 in the Terai; 
 
(s) 
“Project Preparation Advance” means the Project preparation advance 
provided by the Association to the Recipient pursuant to the letter agreement signed on 
behalf of the Association on October 17, 2003 and on behalf of the Recipient on 
December 26, 2003 and referred to in Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement; 
 
(t) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; 
 
(u) 
“SSIP” means a Small-Scale Community Infrastructure Development 
Project financed or proposed to be financed under Part B of the Project; 
 
(v) 
“Sub-Project” means an IGSP, SSIP or a development project or scheme 
to be carried out by a community under Parts A, B or C of the Project, which meets the 
eligibility criteria to receive financing in the form of Block Grants; 
 
(w) 
“Sub-Project Grant Agreement” means an agreement to be entered into 
between a PAF and a Beneficiary pursuant to paragraph 3 (b) of Part B of Schedule 2 to 
the Project Agreement; 
Page  6
-
4
-
(x) 
“Subsidiary Grant Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into 
between the Recipient and PAF pursuant to Section 3.01(b) of this Agreement, as the 
same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the 
Subsidiary Grant Agreement; 
 
(y) 
“VCDP” means Vulnerable Communities People’s Development 
Plan/Operational Guidelines dated March 7, 2004, prepared by the Recipient in 
consultation with the local communities in the Project Area describing a program of 
actions, measures and policies designed to maximize the benefits accruing to vulnerable 
people under the Project, as the same may be revised from time to time in agreement with 
the Association; and 
 
(z) 
 “VDC” means a Village Development Committee established within the 
Recipient’s territory pursuant to the Local Self Governance Act, 2055 (1999). 
 
ARTICLE II 
 
The Grant 
 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to make available to the Recipient, on the 
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount in various 
currencies equivalent to ten million one hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights 
(SDR10,100,000). 
 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Grant may be withdrawn from the Grant 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of: (i) the 
reasonable cost of goods, works, and services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Grant; and (ii) amounts paid (or, if the Association shall so 
agree, amounts to be paid) under Block Grants to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Grant. 
 
(b) 
The Recipient may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in Nepal Rastra Bank, on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
(c) 
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of the 
Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and pay to itself the amount required to 
repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
canceled. 
 
Page  7
-
5
-
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be February 1, 2009 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Recipient of such 
later date. 
 
Section 2.04. (a) The Recipient shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Grant not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set 
by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of 
one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
 
(b) 
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty (60) days 
after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which 
amounts shall be withdrawn by the Recipient from the Grant Account or canceled; and 
(ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. 
The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in that year 
specified in Section 2.05 of this Agreement. 
 
(c) 
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or 
in the territory of, the Recipient; and (iii) in United States dollars or in such other eligible 
currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the 
provisions of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
 
Section 2.05. Commitment charges shall be payable semiannually on June 15 and 
December 15 in each year. 
 
Section 2.06. The Secretary, Ministry of Finance of the Recipient, or any person 
whom he or she shall designate in writing, is designated as representative of the Recipient 
for the purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the 
provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE III 
 
Execution of the Project 
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without any 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under the Development Grant 
Agreement, shall cause the PAF to perform in accordance with the provisions of the 
Project Agreement all the obligations of the PAF therein set forth, shall take and cause to 
be taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other 
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable the PAF to perform such obligations, and 
shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such 
performance. 
 
Page  8
-
6
-
(b) 
The Recipient shall make the proceeds of the Grant available to the 
Board under a Subsidiary Grant Agreement to be entered into between the Recipient and 
the PAF, under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the Association. 
 
(c) 
The Recipient shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Grant 
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Recipient and the Association 
and to accomplish the purposes of the Grant, and, except as the Association shall 
otherwise agree, the Recipient shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary 
Grant Agreement or any provision thereof. 
 
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, wor
ks, and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Project 
Agreement. 
 
Section 3.03. The Recipient and the Association hereby agree that the obligations 
set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06 and 9.07 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, and 
maintenance, respectively) shall be carried out by PAF pursuant to Section 2.05 of the 
Project Agreement. 
 
Section 3.04. The Recipient shall maintain, in form and substance satisfactory to 
the Association, the VCDP, and implement it in accordance with the objectives, policies, 
procedures, time schedules and other provisions set forth therein, to ensure that 
vulnerable people in the Project Area shall benefit fully from the activities financed under 
the Project. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Financial Covenants 
 
Section 4.01. (a) The Recipient shall establish and maintain a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements, all 
in accordance with consistently applied accounting standards, acceptable to the 
Association, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the 
Project. 
 
(b) The 
Recipient 
shall: 
 
(i) 
commencing with the fiscal year in which the Effective Date 
falls, to and including the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Grant Account is made, have the financial statements 
referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for each Fiscal Year, 
or other period agreed to by the Association, audited, in 
accordance with consistently applied auditing standards 
Page  9
-
7
-
acceptable to the Association, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association; 
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six (6) months after the end of each such year, 
(A) certified copies of the financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section for such year, or such other period 
agreed to by the Association, as so audited, and (B) an opinion 
on such statements by said auditors,  in  scope and  detail  
satisfactory to the Association; and 
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
such records and accounts, and the audit  of such financial 
statements, and concerning said auditors, as the Association may 
from time to time reasonably request. 
 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient shall: 
 
(i) 
retain, until at least one (1) year after the Association has 
received the audit report for, or covering, the fiscal year in which 
the last withdrawal from the Grant Account was made, all 
records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures; 
 
(ii) 
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such 
records; and 
 
(iii) 
ensure that such statements of expenditures are included in the 
audit for each fiscal year or other period agreed to by the 
Association, referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section. 
 
ARTICLE V 
 
Remedies of the Association 
 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
 
(a) 
the PAF shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
Project Agreement; 
 
(b) 
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the 
Development Grant Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall 
Page  10
-
8
-
make it improbable that the PAF will be able to perform its obligations under the Project 
Agreement; 
 
(c) 
The Poverty Alleviation Fund Ordinance shall have been amended, 
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the 
ability of the PAF to perform any of its obligations under the Project Agreement; and 
 
(d) 
The Recipient or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of the PAF or for the suspension of its 
operations. 
 
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01(h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
 
(a) 
the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty (60) days after notice thereof shall 
have been given by the Association to the Recipient; and 
 
(b) 
the events specified in paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination 
 
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General 
Conditions, namely, that the Subsidiary Grant Agreement has been executed on behalf of 
the Recipient and the PAF. 
 
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or 
opinions to be furnished to the Association: 
 
(a) 
that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified 
by the PAF, and is legally binding upon the PAF in accordance with its terms; 
and 
 
(b) 
that the Subsidiary Grant Agreement has been duly authorized or 
ratified by the Recipient and PAF and is legally binding upon the Recipient and 
the PAF in accordance with its terms. 
 
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
 
Page  11
-
9
-
ARTICLE VII 
 
Representative of the Recipient; Addresses 
 
Section 7.01. The Secretary of Ministry Finance of the Recipient is designated as 
representative of the Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Recipient: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
 
Singha Durbar   
Kathmandu 
 
Nepal
 
Facsimile: 
 
(977-1) 4259-891 
 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:   
Telex:   
 
Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
Page  12
-
10 - 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the Kathmandu, Kingdom of Nepal, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
KINGDOM OF NEPAL
 
By /s/ 
Bhanu Prasad Acharya
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ Kenichi Ohashi  
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  13
-
11 - 
 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Grant 
 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the Grant to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
Grant Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1) 
Block Grants for: 
 
 
 
 
100% of amounts 
 
disbursed 
 (a) 
IGSPs 
2,300,000 
 
(b) SSIPs 
5,490,000 
 
(c) Innovative Grants                    410,000 
 
(2) 
Consultants’ services 
  310,000   
 
 
 
85%  
 
(3) 
Equipment and  
 220,000 
 
 
 
100% of foreign 
 
vehicles for PAF 
 
 
 
 
expenditures,  
 
and 85% of local 
 
expenditures 
 
(4) 
Training and knowledge 
 390,000 
 
 
 
100% 
 sharing 
 
(5) 
Incremental Operating 
 110,000 
 
80% 
 Costs 
 
(6) 
Refunding of Project  
 300,000 
 
Amount due
 
Preparation Advance 
 
 
pursuant to 
 
Section 2.02 (c) 
 
of this Agreement 
 
(7) Unallocated 
570,000 
 
____________ 
 
TOTAL
 
10,100,000 
 
=========== 
Page  14
-
12 - 
 
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Recipient for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Recipient;  
 
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Recipient or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Recipient; and 
 
(c) 
the term “Incremental Operating Costs” means, salaries, per diem, and 
fringe benefits of staff appointed to posts in PAF and engaged on a full-time basis for the 
purposes of the Project, including conveyance, travel and boarding/lodging allowances 
when on tour, and operating and maintenance costs of vehicles, fuels, equipment and 
offices acquired under and used in the carrying out of the Project, including the costs of 
advertising, media projections, newspaper subscriptions, periodicals, insurance, printing, 
stationary, rent and utilities. 
 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement. 
 
4. 
The Association may require withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made
 on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures: (a) for all Block Grants including  
Innovative Grants; (b) training, knowledge sharing; (c) incremental operating costs;  
(d) under contracts for equipment and vehicles, costing less than $200,000 equivalent per 
contract; (e) under contracts for services of consulting firms and POs costing less than 
$100,000 equivalent per contract; and (f) under contracts for services of individual 
consultants costing less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, all under such terms and 
conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient. 
Page  15
-
13 - 
 
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Description of the Project 
 
The objective of the Project is to carry out demand- and community-driven 
approach to improve access to income-generating Sub-Projects and community 
infrastructure, benefiting groups excluded by reasons of gender, ethnicity and caste, as 
well as the poorest groups in rural communities. 
 
The Project consists of the following Parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Recipient and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objective: 
 
Part A:
Income Generating Sub-Projects
Provision of Block Grants to Beneficiaries to carry out IGSP in the areas, 
inter 
alia, 
of: (i) micro-irrigation; (ii) micro-enterprises; (iii) crafts; (iv) land productivity; and 
(v) animal husbandry. 
 
Part B
:
Small-Scale Village and Community Infrastructure Projects (SSIP)
Provision of Block Grants to Beneficiaries to carry out SSIPs in the areas, 
inter 
alia, 
of: (i) engineered trails; (ii) footbridges; (iii) schools; and (iv) clinics. 
 
Part C
:
Innovation and Special Programs
Provision of demand-driven Innovative Grants to selected Beneficiaries for the 
carrying out of: 
 
(i) 
Sub-Projects requiring innovative approaches for targeting and 
improving livelihoods; and 
 
(ii) 
Special Sub-Projects proposed by Beneficiaries. 
 
Part D
:
Capacity Building and Implementation Support 
1. 
Mobilization of Community Groups
(i) 
Carrying out social mobilization activities through POs, to create 
an enabling environment among Beneficiary groups for the 
development of funding proposals; and 
 
(ii) 
Provision of consultants’ services to build the capacity of the 
POs, and assist them in monitoring implementation of Sub-
Projects. 
Page  16
-
14 - 
 
2. 
Capacity Building for Local Bodies
Provision of consultants’ services to build the capacity of selected VDCs and 
DDCs, and assist them in implementing Sub-Projects.  
 
3. 
Capacity Building of Beneficiaries
Provision of consultants’ services to build the Beneficiaries’ capacity in areas 
including: (i) training of village health workers; (ii) veterinary skills; (iii) crafts skills; 
(iv) introduction of improved varieties of agricultural produce; (v) marketing; 
 
(vi) entrepreneurship; and (vii) bookkeeping. 
 
4. 
Support to Micro-finance Intermediaries
Provision of consultants’ services, on a demand basis, to build the  capacity of 
micro-finance intermediaries.  
 
5. 
Monitoring and Evaluation System
Provision of consultants’ services to monitor, supervise and evaluate the 
implementation of the Project. 
 
Part E
:
Administration of the PAF
Strengthening the operational capacity of PAF through the provision of 
equipment, vehicles, studies and training and technical assistance to improve information 
management, financial systems, procurement and environmental management. 
 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by July 31, 2008. 
Page  17
-
15 - 
 
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Special Account 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1)(a), (1)(b), (1)(c), (2), 
(3), (4), and (5) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works, and services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Grant allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to 
$600,000 to be withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule. 
 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
 
3. 
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount 
or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On 
the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Recipient, 
withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or 
amounts as the Recipient shall have requested. 
 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify. 
 
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the 
payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as 
the Recipient shall have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of 
Page  18
-
16 - 
 
the Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits 
shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Grant Account 
under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective 
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said 
documents and other evidence. 
 
4. 
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the 
Recipient shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures. 
 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly from the Grant Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit 
of the records and accounts for the Special Account; 
 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Recipient of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals 
from the Grant Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal the 
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Grant allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all 
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice 
will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
 
6. 
(a) 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment 
out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Page  19
-
17 - 
 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the 
Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so 
eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by 
the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Recipient
 has provided 
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Grant Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the 
General Conditions. 
 
Page  20
-
18 - 
 
SCHEDULE 4 
 
Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
For the purpose of this Agreement, the provisions of the General Conditions are 
modified as follows: 
 
1. 
Sections 3.02, 3.03, 3.04(a), 3.04(b), 3.05, 6.05 and Article VII, are deleted in 
their entirety. 
 
2. 
Wherever used in the General Conditions, the following terms are modified to 
read as follows: 
 
(a) 
The term “Borrower” is modified to read “Recipient”. 
 
(b) 
The term “Credit” is modified to read “Grant”. 
 
(c) 
The term “credit” is modified to read “grant”; except that where used in 
Sections 2.03 (b), 6.02 (a)(ii) and 6.02 (c)(i), as modified below, the term “credit” shall 
continue to read “credit”.  
 
(d) 
The term “Credit Account” is modified to read “Grant Account”. 
 
(e) 
The term “Development Credit Agreement” is modified to read 
“Development Grant Agreement”. 
 
3. 
Article IV is modified as follows: 
 
(a) 
Section 4.02 (a) and the heading of Section 4.02 are modified to read as 
follows: 
 
“Section 4.02 Currencies in which Commitment Charges are Payable. 
 
(a) 
The Recipient shall pay the commitment charge on the Grant in the 
currency specified in the Development Grant Agreement or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or 
selected pursuant to paragraph (c) or (e) of this Section. 
 
(b) 
Wherever used in Section 4.02(c) and (e) of the General Conditions the 
words “principal and service charges” are modified to read “commitment 
charge”.” 
 
Page  21
-
19 - 
 
(b) 
Section 4.03 and its heading are modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 4.03 Amount of the Grant. 
 
The amount of the Grant withdrawn from time to time shall be the 
equivalent in terms of SDR (determined as of the date or respective dates 
of withdrawal from the Grant Account) of the value of the currency or 
currencies so withdrawn.” 
 
4. 
Section 6.02 is modified as follows: 
 
(a) 
The phrase “any other development credit agreement” in 
Section 6.02 (a)(ii) is modified to read: “any other development grant 
agreement or any development credit agreement or development 
financing agreement”. 
 
(b) 
The phrase “any development credit agreement” in 
Section 
6.02(c)(i) is modified to read: “any development grant 
agreement, development credit agreement or development financing 
agreement”. 
 
5. 
The words “The principal of, and any other charges on” in paragraph (a) of 
Section 8.01 are modified to read “The commitment charge on”. 
 
6. 
Section 12.05 and its heading are modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 12.05.  Termination of Development Grant Agreement. 
 
The obligations of the Recipient under the Development Grant 
Agreement shall terminate on the date 20 years after the date of the 
Development Grant Agreement.” 
 
Page  22
-
20 - 
 
Seble Berhanu 
M:\legsa\Nepal\Poverty Alleviation Fund (PAF)\PAF-DGA (Board).doc 
May 21, 2004 2:08 PM
 
