                                            Documentof
                                        The World Bank

                                     FOROFFICIALUSEONLY
                                                                           ReportNo: 28606-NEP




                                 PROJECTAPPRAISALDOCUMENT

                                               ONA

                                        PROPOSED GRANT

                              INTHE AMOUNT OF SDR 10.1MILLION
                                  (US15.O MILLIONEQUIVALENT)

                                             TO THE

                                       KINGDOMOFNEPAL

                                               FORA

                             POVERTYALLEVIATIONFUND PROJECT

                                           April29,2004




RuralDevelopment Sector Unit
SouthAsia RegionalOffice




   This documenthas a restricteddistributionandmay be usedby recipients only inthe performance of
   their officialduties. Its contentsmaynot be otherwisedisclosedwithout World Bankauthorization.

                                 CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                            (Exchange Rate Effective April 20, 2004)

                                Currency Unit = NPR
                                     NPR 1.00 = US$0.014
                                      US$l.OO = NPR 73

                                          FISCAL YEAR
                                        July 15 -- July 14

                            ABBREVLATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAS   Country Assistance Strategy                NISP      Nepal IrrigationSector Project
CBO   Community-based organization               NPC       NationalPlanningCommission
CDD   Community-driven development               OAGN      Office ofthe Auditor General o fNepal
CECI  Canadian Center for International Studies  OPM       Office o fthe Prime Minister
CFAA  Country Financial Management Assessment O&M
co                                                         Operation and Maintenance
      Community Organization                     PAF       Poverty Alleviation Fund
DDC   District Development Committee             PDDP      Participatory District Development Program
EA    EnvironmentalAssessment                    PO        Partner Organization
EMF   Environmental Management Framework         PPF       Project Preparation Facility
EMP   Environmental Management Plan              PRS       Poverty Reduction Strategy
FAR   Financial Administration Regulations       RMDC      Rural Micro-finance Development Center
FMIS  Farmer Managed Irrigation System           RUFIN     RuralFinanceNepal
HMGN  HisMajesty's Government ofNepal            SDC       Swiss Agency for Development and
INGO  InternationalNon-governmental                        Cooperation
      Organization                               SFCL      Small Farmers Cooperatives Limited
LDT   LocalDevelopmentTraining                   SFDP      Small Farmers Development Program
MFI   Micro-Finance Intermediaries               SOE       Statement o f Expenditure
MIS   Management Information System              TA        Technical Assistance
MOF   MinistryofFinance                          TOR       Terms of Reference
MOL   MinistryofLocalDevelopment                 VDC       Village Development Committee
MTEF  MidTermExpenditure Framework               W A F     Water User Association Facilitators
NGO   Non-governmentalOrganization



                               Vice President:     Praful Pate1
                  Country Managermirector:         Kenichi Ohashi
                    Sector Managermirector:        Adolfo Brizzi
          Task Team Leader/Task Manager:           Geeta Sethi

                                                     NEPAL             FOROFFICIAL USEONLY
                                 POVERTY ALLEVIATIONFUNDPROJECT


                                                  CONTENTS




    A. Project Development Objective                                                         Page

        1. Project development objective                                                       2
       2. Key performance indicators                                                           2

    B. Strategic Context

        1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project      2
       2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                           3
        3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                  5

    C. Project Description Summary

        1. Project components
        2. Key policy and institutionalreforms supported by the project
        3. Benefits and target population
        4. Institutional and implementation arrangements

     D.Project Rationale

        1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                           12
        2. Major related projects financed by the Bank andlor other development agencies       14
        3. Lessons leamed and reflected inthe project design                                   14
        4. Indications o f recipient commitment and ownership                                  15
        5. Value added o f Bank support in this project                                        15

     E. Summary Project Analysis

        1. Economic                                                                            15
        2. Financial                                                                           16
        3. Technical                                                                           16
        4. Institutional                                                                       17
        5. Environmental                                                                       18
        6. Social                                                                              19
        7. Safeguard Policies                                                                  21

     F. Sustainability and Risks

        1. Sustainability                                                                      22
        2. Critical risks                                                                      22



This document has a restricteddistributionandmay be usedby recipients only in
the performance of their official duties. I t s contents may not be otherwise disclosed
without World Bank authorization.                                                        -

  3. Possible controversial aspects                                                      24


G. MainLoan Conditions

  1. Effectiveness Condition                                                             24
  2. Other                                                                               24

H. Readiness for Implementation                                                          24

I.CompliancewithBankPolicies                                                             25


Annexes

Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                          26
Annex 2: DetailedProject Description                                                     29
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                         33
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary, or Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary           34
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities, or Financial Summary    44
Annex 6: (A) Procurement Arrangements                                                    45
          (B) FinancialManagement andDisbursement Arrangements                           51
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                     60
Annex 8: Documents inthe Project File                                                    61
Annex 9: Statement o f Loans and Credits                                                 62
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                            63

                                                      NEPAL
                                          Poverty Alleviation FundProject
                                      Project Appraisal Document
                                           South Asia RegionalOffice
                                                      SASRD

~Date: April 29,2004                                       Team Leader: Geeta Sethi
 Sector Director: Constance A. Bernard                     Sector(s): Generalagriculture, fishing and forestry sector
 Country Director: Kenichi Ohashi                          (50%), Other social services (40%), Sub-national
 Project ID: PO81968                                       governmentadministration(10%)
 Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)        Theme@): Rural policies and institutions (P), Rural
                                                           services and infrastructure (P)
 Project Financing Data
  [ ]Loan       [ ] Credit     [XI Grant       [ ]Guarantee          [ ]Other:




 BORROWEWRECIPIENT                                                          0.19    I        0.01   I          0.20
 LOCAL COMMUNITIES




                      : POVERTY ALLEVIATIONFUND
 Poverty AlleviationFund (PAF) Secretariat
 Contact Person: The ExecutiveVice Chair
 Tel: 011-977-1-5553671                Fax:                 Email: pafnepal@info.com.np




 Expectedeffectivenessdate: 08/30/2004      Expectedclosing date: 01/02/2009

A. Project Development Objective

1. Project development objective: (seeAnnex 1)
The Project's development objective is to support His Majesty's Government ofNepal (HMGN)in
implementing a new, targeted instrument-the Poverty Alleviation Fund(PAF) -for reaching poor and
excluded communities. It aims to improve accessto income-generation projects and community
infrastructure for the groups that have tendedto be excluded by reasons o fgender, ethnicity and caste, as
well as for the poorest groups inrural communities. Unlikethe past targeted interventions by HMGN, the
PAF will be basedon a demand-driven, and community-centered approach, implementedby an autonomous
body inclose collaboration with other non-governmental groups as well as local bodies. The initial phase
to be supported by the Project will be implemented insix districts, and expandedinsubsequentphases as
PAF gains experience and can demonstrateits ability to reach targeted groups effectively. Inaddition to
the key development objective ofinitiating anew poverty alleviationapproachthat can be subsequently
scaledup, the Project would provide diredindirect benefits to poor people inthe selecteddistricts, by: (i)
creating infrastructure, employment and income-generating opportunities inpoor communities; (ii)
enhancing the capacity o f localbodies, particularly Village Development Committees (VDCs), to provide
better services for poor and socially excluded groups; and (iii)  improve government efforts to better
coordinate support targeted towards poor and excluded groups.

2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)

The key performance indicator o f the Project will be the extent to which the PAF succeeds inreaching
targeted groups inthe selecteddistricts. The impact o f the PAF will bejudged on the basis of:

0    number o fbeneficiary householdsincluding female-headed, poor, Dalit or Janajati;
0    employment generatedat the village level for the target groups;
     increaseinincomes o fbeneficiary households;
0    percentage of quality groups (regular meetings, access to services);
0    beneficiary participationand voice in community decision-making.

B. Strategic Context
1.Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported bythe project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: Report No. IDMR2003-0191                     Date of latest CAS discussion: 11/18/2003

The Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) discussedby the Board inNovember 2003 supports and is aligned
with Nepal's Poverty ReductionStrategy (PRS), which intum is basedon the Tenth Five-Year Plan. (Joint
Staff Assessment, ReportNo. 26674-NEP, was presented to the Boardtogether with the CAS.) The PRS
i s formulated around four key pillars: (i) achieving and sustaining highand broad-based economic growth,
focusing particularly on the rural economy; (ii)   accelerating humandevelopment through a renewed
emphasis on effective deliveryo fbasic social services andeconomic infrastructure; (iii)   ensuring social and
economic inclusion o f the poor, marginalized groups and less developed regions, by usingtargeted
programs where appropriate; and (iv) pursuinggood govemance as a means of achieving better
development results, andensuring social andeconomic justice. The Tenth PladPRS has for the first time
explicitly recognized social exclusion as a serious development issue. Although HMGNleaders clearly
take this issue seriously, they struggle to find effective interventiontools. While mucho f the efforts are
focused on ensuring universal primary education as the central instrument to promote social and economic
inclusion, HMGNhas identified the PAF as a promising instrument for targeted support. The Project,
therefore, aims to support the thirdpillar o f the PRS most directly, while indirectly contributing to the other
three. The CAS identifies the PAF as the most immediate instrument to reach out to marginalizedgroups


                                                        - 2 -

that tend to be overlooked by existing institutions. The proposed Project thus supports one o f the main
thrusts in the CAS, to beginto address social exclusion and ruralpoverty inNepal.

2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
The fundamental challenge inNepal is to break out o fa trap ofpoverty, slow growth, poor govemance,
social exclusion, anddeep inequalities, which are all interlmked. However, the insurgency now presentsthe
most serious obstacle to development inNepal. The breakdown o f the democratic process has further
compounded the difficulties. Nepal's deepening crisis, however, has also given rise to a renewed drive for
reforms over the past two years. Compelledby the sense o f urgency, reform-minded leadershave been
pushingfor changes that can lead to more sustainedandequitable economic and social development. Their
strategy i s now articulated inNepal's PRS, which is basedon the Tenth Five-Year Plan. One o fthe main
issues identifiedinthe PRS i s the plighto f the marginalized segments o fNepali population. They are more
often thannot women, are either from Dalit or Janajati background, andlive inremote areas that have
tendedto receive lesspublic services. Their economic handicap is multiple. They face social biases
against them, they suffer from lack o f good education and healthcare, andthey live inareas with extremely
poor infrastructure. While broad improvement inall public services must be the main instrument for
helping this group, HMGNalso believes that there i s a need for more direct interventions to help these
marginalizedpeople immediately. HMGNwants to start rectifying the disadvantagesthis group faces, but
it also wants to senda clear signal that many exclusionary practices ofthe past are unacceptable. HMGN
also hopes that by beginningto address the grievances o f the marginalizedgroups, it can start to change the
situation inthe rural areas that has tended to fuel the ongoing insurgency.

RuralPoverty and Social Exclusion. Poverty inNepal is pervasive with about 40 percent o fthe
population livingbelow the poverty line. The poor livepredominantly inrural areas (about 86 percent) and
engage insubsistenceagriculture on small plots o f low quality land; have limited access to credit,
infrastructure, markets, andbasic social services, often because o f remoteness; and rely heavily on seasonal
migration andremittances. Ethnic minorities andlower caste communities inremote areas, andwomen
(especially female-headedhouseholds) lag seriously behindinterms o f incomes, assets, andmost human
development indicators.

Poor effectiveness of public expenditures and aid programs inrural areas. HMGNspends close to 6
percent o f GDP on rural development and poverty alleviation programs. While this highlevel o f
expenditures shows the commitment to ruralpoverty alleviation, spendingis not effective or efficient. Key
issues include poor targeting, tied funds and supply driven investments, highadministrative costs and
complex procedures. Inaddition, lack o f transparency and corruption remain problems, leadingto
misallocation ofpublic resources, delays inproject implementation, andrapidturnover andperverse
incentives for public servants. Becauseo f the highcost o f investment, infrastructure investments have
tendedto focus more on readily accessible areas. While this may make sense from the point ofview of
economic returns, it has clearly deepenedthe inequalities between more accessible areas and remoter areas.
Evendonor-supported programs and NGO activities have tendedto concentrate on the areas with easier
access, thereby contributing to the inequalities. Now that the insurgency has intensified, the challenge o f
rectifying the imbalanceshas become daunting. Since the influence o fthe insurgency tends to be stronger
inthe remoter areas, any efforts to implement development programs or improve public servicesmore
generally is that much more difficult. Under these circumstances, it becomes even more critical for HMGN
to find innovativeways o f reaching out to the poorest and the marginalized groups.

The insurgencybegan in 1996 as a low intensity and mainly rural campaign to replace the present polity
with a 'people's republic'. Over the past eight years, it has gained considerable strength, by taking



                                                      - 3 -

advantage of the near vacuum o f government presenceinmany remote areas. While the insurgency seems
to be a political movement at its core, it has clearly been successfulintapping into the gnevances caused
by the deep-seatedpolitical, economic andsocial exclusion basedon class, caste, gender, ethnicity and
geographical isolation. The insurgents claim an explicit objective o f eliminating social exclusion.
Followingthe breakdown inthe cease-fire, the insurgency escalatedonce again over the past year andhas
ledto a growing climate o f fear and insecurity inrural areas. Although the security situation i s extremely
fluidand changing constantly, anumber o f districts are under strong insurgentinfluence, especially outside
the mainurbancenters, while others operate underheightened security threats. The insurgents generally
allow development efforts to continue inthe districts where they have strong influence, providedthat they
are supported by local non-governmental groups and organizations, and that they are broadly supportedby
local communities. Although over one-third o fthe coun!xy's 3,900 VDC buildings have been damagedor
destroyed (as they are seen to be the symbols o f HMGNauthority), the insurgency has tended to spare
community-owned infrastructure from attacks. Nonetheless, increased incidents o fextortions from those
involved indevelopment activities inthe field could begin to limitthe ability o f HMGN, donor agencies, or
NGOs to operate inthe conflict affected areas.

Lack of locally elected bodies. Because of the poor security conditions, localelections have not been held
since July 2002 when the terms o f elected local bodies expired. This has derailed HMGN'sdecentralization
program, which hadbegunto gain some momentum. Most local bodies maintain an administrative
structure, but the administrative staff o f many VDCs have been forced to relocate to DistrictDevelopment
Committee (DDC) headquarters, leaving many VDCs virtually void o f basic government services.

Government Strategy. Although the politicallegitimacy of the present government continues to be
challenged by parliamentary parties and the implementation o fthe development programs challengedby the
security situation, HMGNhas been implementingthe PRS with considerable success in some areas. Inan
effort to rectify the past geographic imbalances ininfrastructure investment and public service provisions,
the PRS emphasizesdecentralization as a central tool. HMGNhas already begunto link block grants for
DDCs and VDCs to poverty indicators, and has been shiftingresponsibilities insome key areas to local
bodies, including rural roads and agricultural services. While the part o f decentralization processthat
relies on DDCs, VDCs, and municipalities has been put on hold to a large extent, pendingnew elections,
important initiatives are underway to decentralize responsibilities for service delivery to the beneficiary
communities themselves inprimaryeducation andprimary healthcare. Inthe rural water sector, HMGNi s
also expanding service provision through an autonomous body which works inclose partnerships with
NGOs and community-based organizations (CBOs). HMGNrecognizes, however, that these broad-based
instruments are not sufficient to bringmore immediate support to the groups that have been neglected inthe
past.

Inthe longer term, localbodies shouldbe inthe best positionto provide specialized support to these
groups. Inreality, given the very limitedresourcesavailable for any investments or public services, it is
only naturalthat political processes will tend to allocate more of the available resourcesto serve the groups
with greater political voice. Thus, HMG i s considering a few targeted interventions, including the PAF.
Other instruments include a scholarship program for the disadvantaged, an affirmative action program for
the Civil Service, and possibly a 'land bank' scheme to help the landless acquire small plots o f agricultural
land. The PAF is a particularly important component o f this strategy, for it i s designed to increase the flow
of public resources directly to the target communities. (It i s also specially important, for it has been
developed with considerable care already and is closest to implementation.) HMGNi s aware o f the risk
that the PAF could undermine healthy development o f local bodies by taking over what should be one o f
their functions. The PAF is designedto minimizethis riskby working incollaboration with local bodies as
much as possible, and even creating incentives for localbodies to be sensitive to the needs o fthe


                                                       - 4 -

marginalized groups. Inthe longer-term, the PAF should either phase out completely, or become a special
finding mechanismto finance targetedprograms through localbodies.

3. Sector issuesto be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
HMGNrequestedthe Bankto assist inestablishing andfinancingthePAF to: (i)             implement a new
approach to rural poverty alleviation that could reach excluded and marginalizedcommunities; and(ii)
move toward a single instrument (the PAF) to better coordinate development efforts to target poor and
excluded rural communities.

The PAF starts with the recognitionby HMGNthat adhoc efforts to assistthe marginalizedgroups inthe
past didnot work effectively, and that government institutions face inherentdifficulties inallocating limited
resourcesto those who have the least political voice. The key issue for the PAF, therefore, is to builda
program that can overcome these obstacles. To that end, the project will support a new approach to rural
poverty alleviation that is built around community-driven interventions, self-targeting by poor andexcluded
communities, andcommunity mobilization to enhance voice, empowerment andsocial capital, andrelies on
`public-private partnership' for implementation.

Various targeted programs inthe past (e.g., scholarship programs for disadvantaged children) failed
becausethe resourceswere capturedby the politically influential. Evenmany o f the community-based
programs,supported by NGOs have faced difficulties inreaching the target groups. `User groups' that are
at the center o f community-based approacheshave often proven exclusionary. Therefore, the PAF faces
two key issues. First, it must preventpolitical interference inresource allocation. This is addressedby
creating an autonomous PAF, with a strongly independent Boardto oversee the program and a professional
secretariat to manage day-to-day operations. Second, the PAF mustbe able to target its support
effectively. Inthis area, despitemany disappointing examples, there are also some successful interventions
to leam from. Successful models all rely heavily on local level NGOs, carefully designed eligibility
criteria, andclose monitoring. The PAF will work with Partner Organization (POs), such as NGOs, that
are close to the ground level and have good track record to improve its ability to reach out to the target
groups. Before the PAF begins its operations inany district, it will also conduct a district-wide assessment
o fthe needs andestablish clear criteria for eligibility. These design features o f the PAF should minimize
the risk o fpoor targeting.

While the main objective o f the PAF i s to provide immediate support to the marginalizedgroups, it will
also try to help local bodies develop in such a way that they view such a function as part o f their normal
responsibilities. To that end, the PAF will seek to assist inthe process o f strengthening local bodies by:
(i) providing capacity buildingassistancefor DDCs and VDCs inthe first-phase districts insupporting the
target groups; (ii) malunglocalbodies eligible as POs ifthey meetthe criteria and show interest; (iii)
prioritizingcommunity infrastructure sub-projects that are included inapproved VDC Development Plans;
and (iv) encouraging innovative and dynamic local bodies that want to experiment with new targeting
approaches to access PAF support though a special Innovation and Special Programs financing window.

C. Project DescriptionSummary
1. Project components (seeAnnex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed costbreakdown):

The Project would finance the following activities:

(a) Income-Generation Sub-projects Targeted to the Poorest and Excluded Groups: Nepal has many
examples o f community-based income generating projects, typically supported by NGOs (often with



                                                       - 5 -

 fimdingsupport from donor agencies). Certaingroups, however, have tendedto be overlooked by these
 interventions, or even deliberately excluded by other, socially dominant groups. There are also examples o f
 income-generating projects that failed becauseof inadequate attention to technical soundness or market
 access. Based on this experience, the PAF would provide grants for income-generation activities o f
 self-selected groups o fpoor and excluded people, basedon objective criteria including ethnicity, caste,
 gender, andpoverty levels. Communities would contribute 10% of the sub-project cost incash. A
 proportion o f the grants would be reserved for technical assistance to be contracted by communities
 themselves in areas where they felt such need. POs would be contractedby the PAF to work with these
 communities (for both income and infrastructure sub-projects), includingthrough locally selected
 community facilitators, to assist inparticipatory processes, group formation, and development of sound
 sub-project proposals. Particular attention will be paidto the commercial soundness o f the projects, to
 avoid failures o f supply-oriented projects. Most likely examples include micro-irrigation, micro
 enterprises, crafts, landproductivity, trading, and animal husbandry.

     (b) Small-Scale Village and Community Infrastructure: Giventhe extreme remotenessofmany
.    communities and virtual non-existence o f public infrastructure services (even basic roads, not to
     mentionelectricity, water, and telecommunication), small investments ininfrastructure can make an
     important difference to poor communities. The communities are often very clear on what they need,
     and are willing to contribute significant resourcesfor investment. (This has been amply demonstrated
     by the experienceo fthe community-based rural water supply and sanitation program, which the Bank
     has supported since 1996. See also Annex 4.) Nevertheless, without substantial government support,
     most projects are simply beyondthe reach o f these communities, both financially andtechnically.
     Consideration would be givento sub-projects already included inVDC development plans andor
     where the DDCNDC is preparedto provide matching grants. Key evaluation criteria would include
     the number of target householdsthat would benefit andthe number of localjobs created. Inaddition,
     infrastructure subprojects would require communities to prepare and commit to a credible O&M plan.
     POs would also be used to facilitate the process o f community organization and preparation o f
     community infrastructure sub-project proposals. Community contributions for community
     infrastructure would also be 10%with adjustments to be made for very remote anddifficult areas. In
     the sectors where HMGNalready has sector policies that require higher community contribution (eg,
     20% inrural water, with possible adjustments for very remote or poor communities), such rates would
     be applied to ensure consistency with government policy. Examples ofmost likelyprojects include
     engineeredtrails, footbridges, community meetinghalls, schools, health facilities and other small-scale
     infrastructure that can be managedby community groups or VDCs.

     (c) Innovation and Special Programs: Indesigning the PAF, the PAF Board andHMGNfelt a
      strong desire to roll out a nation-wide PAF, to bringhope to the poor immediately with a special
     program. On the other hand, they recognized that the PAF will have difficulty responding to demands
     from 75 districts from the outset. It will take some time for the PAF to establish effective and efficient
     working modalities, and buildup its own institutional capacity. It is also critical for the PAF to
     establish credibility as a professional institution. The Boarddecided that in fact the quickest way to
     make the PAF a nation-wide program was to start with a small number o f districts, builda strong
     foundation, andthen scale up. Nevertheless, the Board also felt that other districts should not feel
     completely excluded. To balance the two conflicting needs, the PAF will support proposals from
     communities outside the six initial phase districts, ifthey merit special considerations becauseo f
     exceptional circumstances o f the community. This special window will be open also to new and
     innovative ways to address poverty and reach targeted groups. These proposals may be national or
     regional in coverage, can be sponsoredby organizations representingor working with the target
     groups, and can include local bodies not covered inthe initial 6 districts.


                                                        - 6 -

(d) Capacity Building: Experience of successfulcommunity-based programs, bothinNepal and
elsewhere, show the critical importance o f careful capacity buildingand social mobilization. This
component would include four sub-components:

    (i) Mobilization.ThiswouldfocusonbuildingthecapacityofPOsininteractingwith
       Social
    targetbeneficiaries (where needed) andinfostering the mobilization oftarget beneficiaries in
    community organizations around a common problem or interest, such as preparation o f an income
    generation or infrastructure sub-project, providing services to the community at large, savings
    activities, etc. Many organizations inNepal, including NGOs and community-based organizations,
    tend to reflect the social structure at large inwhich certain social groups tend to dominate the
    decision-making process. Thus, the PAF would ensure that POs are indeed sensitive to the
    marginalizedgroups and are capable of reaching out to them. The component would also include
    capacity buildingsupport for existing community organizations where they choose to play a role
    underthe PAF.

    (ii)CapacityBuildingfor Local Bodies: Where local bodies show interest, this would focus on
    buildingtheir capacity infinancial management, participatory budgeting, social assessments and
    impact evaluations, and other relevant topics for local development generally, but with special
    focus on promoting social inclusionintheir planningand service delivery. This component will
    also provide assistance inclarifying PAF rules and eligibility requirements to enable localbodies to
    assist groups and communities to access PAF resources.

    (iii)Capacity Buildingfor Target Groups. Income-generating sub-projectswill include some
    provisions for obtaining technical support as needed. This, however, may not be sufficient to
    prepare the community for the activity or to help implement the activity successfully. Therefore,
    this component would focus on developing the skills o f the target population on the economic
    activities chosenby them, such as marketing,transport logistics, financing, quality control, etc. A
    Capacity BuildingAgency would be contracted by the PAF to develop capacity buildingplans and
    procure technical assistancefor capacity building.

    (iv) Support to Micro-financeIntermediaries: Nepalalready has a number ofprograms that
    support micro-finance schemes, and the availability o f funds as such is not considered to be the
    binding constraint for further development o fmicro-finance activities. Therefore, the PAF would
    not provide funds for micro-lending. Inadequateinvestment in strengthening micro-finance
    intermediaries as professional andbusiness-minded organizations has been identified as one o f the
    reasonswhy the micro-finance sector has not scaledup. This inturn has limitedthe access by
    marginalized communities to adequatecredit, even where they have their own micro-finance
    schemes, for they tend to be too small to finance any significant business ventures. Where
    financial intermediaries express interest, this component can provide capacity building support to
    such intermediaries so as to better serve the target communities, to improve their ability to access
    financial services. Such support will likely focus on technical assistanceon savings mobilization,
    linkingup with other financial intermediaries to increasethe lendingcapacity, and diagnosiso f
    regulatory obstacles.

    (v) Information,MonitoringandEvaluation: The PAF's monitoringand evaluation system
    would include: (i)  a standardManagement Information System (MIS); (ii)       structured field visits by
    PAF staff or consultants during implementationto ensure that sub-projects are beingimplemented




                                                   - 7 -

         as intended; (iii) assessments to evaluate impact on beneficiaries andparticipatory
                          social
         processes; (iv) peer reviews; and (v) social and poverty impact assessment surveys, including
         beneficiary assessments. The results from this monitoring and evaluation system would be made
         available to the public ina regular mannerto ensuretransparency.

        (d) Administrationofthe PAF. The Project would finance PAF staff, establishment andoperating
         expenses including financial, procurement and environmental managementand audits, as well as
         human resource development activities for PAF staff.


                                                                 ndicative                   Bank-        % of
                          Component                                costs         % of
                                                                  (US$M)
 (a> Income Generation Sub-projects                                   4.27
 (b) Infrastructure Sub-projects                                      9.28
 (c) Innovationand Special Programs Window                            0.84                     0.76
 (d) Capacity Building:(i) Mobilization; (ii)
                             Social                   local           1.41          8.5
 bodies; (iii) Target Groups; (iv) Micro-finance
 Intermediaries; and (v) Information, Monitoringand
 Evaluation
 (e) PAF Administration                                               0.80   1      4.8         0.72   1    4.8
                                            Total Project Cost:
                                    Total FinancingRequirec

2. Key policy andinstitutionalreformssupportedby the project:
The key policy reform supported by the Project is HMGN's explicit objective ofreducing gender and
ethniclcaste-related exclusion and disparities inits poverty alleviation efforts. This policy objective,
adopted by HMGNand clearly articulated inthe PRS, representsa marked departure from previous
policies and strategies, which avoided or ignored social exclusion as a development challenge. In
institutional terms, the key reform supportedby the Project is the establishment of the PAF as an
independentandprofessionalagency with the overridingmissionof implementingHMGNspolicy of
reaching poor and excluded rural communities with poverty alleviation activities. A second institutional
objective i s to encourage greater donor harmonization, by establishing government leadership inthis area
where donors have tended to pilot a range o f activities without much coordination or scaling up, and
provide the PAF as a common vehicle for channeling an increasing amount o f donor assistance for targeted
interventions ina more coherent and consistent manner and on a sufficiently large scale.

3. Benefitsandtarget population:
Benefits. The mainbenefits from the project wouldbe: increasedincomes from improvedaccess to
productive assets (infrastructure, resources, skills); improved access to basic services, including healthand
education; employment for the most disadvantaged; and increasedvoice and empowerment o f
disadvantaged groups.

Target Population.The target populationwould be the most socially and economically disadvantaged
rural households inthe pilot districts. The following selection and targeting criteria would be used:

District selection. The PAF has selectedsix districts for the initial phase, the one to be supportedbythe



                                                      - 8 -

project, with attention to needs, diversity, as well as security conditions. A set o f 28 district-level
socio-economic indicators prepared by the National Planning Commissionwas usedto rank all districts
according to a composite index of socio-economic development. From Group C which includes the lower
thirdof districts by this ranking, six districts were chosen, with due attention to geographic distribution and
the security situation. The six districts are Darchulainthe Far Western Region, Muguand Pyuthan inthe
MidWestem Region, Kapilbastuinthe Westem Region, Ramechhapinthe Central Region, and Sirahain
the Eastem Region. O fthese, two are inthe Terai, two inthe hills,andtwo inthe mountains. Four ofthe
six districts are inthe western part o f Nepal, which is considered to be generally underserved interms o f
public services andinvestment. Four are classified as significantly affected by conflict, but they are not
among the six districts that are considered to be the base areas o f the insurgency where NGOs and
community groups have encountered significant logistic difficulties. Inall six districts, despite varying
degrees o f insurgency actions, there are active NGOs and community groups engagedin development
activities. Ingeneral, community driven development initiatives, where communities have a sense o f
ownership, projects and development work has not been disturbedas a result o f conflict.

Village targeting. Within each district, the PAF will select 25 VDCs basedon the respective DDC
poverty ranking, including the prevalence of excluded groups, andfollowing a preliminary social
assessment ineach district. Withinthe first-phase districts, the capacity-building component will help to
refine the poverty rankingo f VDCs and establish a baseline to assess socio-economic impact.

Beneficiary targeting. For income generating sub-projects, beneficiary eligibility will be determined at the
village level by the villagers themselves (self-selecting) basedon objective criteria including caste, ethnicity,
gender, accessibility to services and indicators ofpoverty such as level of assets andincome. For village
infrastructure sub-projects, eligibility would be determinedbasedon consistency with VDC/DDC
development plans, impact on target groups, technical feasibility, local employment generation and
beneficiary commitment to a viable O&M plan.

Innovation and SpecialProgramsWindow. This window will support proposals submittedby legitimate
and representative organizations (including local bodies) o f the target groups to address their needs or
proposals consisting o f particularly innovative ways o f addressing the needso f the target population.
These proposals could focus on any geographic area o fNepal and would not need to be restrictedto the six
districts.

4. Institutionaland implementation arrangements:
Institutionalarrangements. The Projectwill finance the PAF, establishedby HMGNas an autonomous
body underNepal law with its own rules and regulations. The PAF will implement the Project components.
PAF will bemanagedby a I0-member Board which consists o f Chair, Vice-Chair, Secretary NPC,
Chairpersons of the DDC Federation, VDC Federation, National Dalit Commission, and National Women's
Commission, representativeo fNGO Federation, andtwo members(including one woman) chosen on the
basis o f substantial contributions to poverty alleviation inNepal. The Prime Minister will be the chair o f
the Board. The Vice-Chair will be the functional chair person. The PAF Board will approve strategy,
programs, and PAF operational policies, mobilize resources, approve annual budgets and staffing o f the
PAF Secretariat, support the monitoring and evaluation system, and review progress and impact.

The PAF Secretariatwill implement the Project inline with the directions set by the Board; design and
implement capacity building; design targeting mechanisms; prepare periodic progress reports, PAF Annual
Report and Annual Audit Report; design and implement monitoring, learning and evaluation systems,
including baseline; and design and implement communications and dissemination campaign. The



                                                       - 9 -

Secretariatwill have a small staff o f professional individuals, recruited on a competitive basis, on fixed
term contracts. To attract competent and motivated staff, the salary will be set with reference to the market
for the requisite skills. To complement the small staff, the Secretariatwill use consultants and/or NGOs to
help inits operations as needed. Project approval, financialmanagementand procurement would be
according to acceptable transparentprocedures andhandledby the PAF. Assessments, project
identification and preparation, and capacity buildingwould be contracted out. The day-to-day operations
o f the PAF Secretariat will be managedby the Executive Director, who will be recruitedon a competitive
andprofessional basis (an interim ExecutiveDirector, on secondment from the NPC, will managethe
day-to-day operations o f the Secretariat untilthe permanent ExecutiveDirector i s recruited).

POs. Social mobilization is key for the formation ofcommunity groups, dissemination ofPAF rules and
eligibility criteria, anddevelopment ofbeneficiary capabilities. POs will be competitively selectedby the
PAF basedon careful and explicit criteria, to work inthe project areas, focusing particularly on excluded
groups. The selection criteria will include appropriate experience andtrack record inthe project areas, and
experience with participatory development approachesamong excluded groups. Contracted by the PAF,
they will disseminate information about the project, mobilize community groups, work with them in
developing sub-project proposals, and monitor the quality o fparticipation. POs could beNGOs,
community based organizations, or VDCs/DDCs providedthey meet PAF eligibilitycriteria. POs will be
requiredto appoint community facilitators ineachtarget VDC, who mustbe trustedby and selectedin
consultation with the target communities, consistent with the PAF's aim to reach excluded groups. POs
will also liaise with local bodies to ensure that proposed infrastructure projects fit into VDC/DDC plans
andpriorities. While POs may be entrustedby community groups to submit sub-project proposals to the
PAF, grants will flow directly to communities andnot through POs.

Phasing. The PAF is designed as anational instxument to reach out to the poor and marginalizedgroups
across the country. Inthe initial phase, however, the project will focus on six districts to refine different
modalities o f support and different partnerships for deliveryo fbenefits. The six first-phase districts have
high levels o f poverty and social exclusion, and will thus allow testing o f sub-project approaches and
partnerships with POs. Toward the end o f the Project period, the various approaches would be evaluated
to assess social and poverty impacts, transparency and independence, operational speedand effectiveness,
as well as credibility among communities and other development partners. Once having establishedits
credibility and institutional capacity, the PAF would expand into other districts as rapidly as security
conditions permit andadditional fundingbecomes available. Inthis regard, HMGNitself is preparedto
transfer resourcesearmarked for other `poverty alleviation' activities into the PAF over time. Some
bilateral donors have also expressedpreliminary interest in adding their resources to the PAF as soon as it
proves to be effective.

Implementationarrangements. Income generation and community infrastructure sub-projects will follow
the same basic rules. Activities would be demand driven, and communities would choose from an open
menu,with a limitednegative list. With an average of 3,000 people per VDC, and25 VDCs per district,
income-generation and infrastructure sub-projects would target approximately 450,000 individuals or
90,000 households. On average this would meanPAF grants o f about $133 per household over the Project
period. Infrastructure sub-projects are estimated to account for about two-thirds o f total sub-projects
(excluding the Innovation and Special Programs Window). Communities would be requiredto contribute
10%incash, kindand/or labor to all sub-project costs. Giventhe different geographic conditions
(construction costs rise steeply inmountain districts and, to a lesser extent, inhill areas relative to the
Terai), and special hardships in some communities, exceptions to the contribution level could be approved
by the PAF. The basic implementationmodality is as follows:



                                                      - 1 0 -

    0     groups o fpoor people would self select and organize for the purpose o f carrying out the proposed
          sub-project;
          sub-project proposal would be selectedand prepared by groups o fpoor people, assistedby POs,
          andcould cover a village or severalvillages;
    0     cash, labor or in-kindcontributions would needto be provided by the community groups;
    0     sub-project funds would be deposited incommunity bank accounts (not channeledthrough POs);
          and
    0     decisions regarding the sub-projects would be participatory and inclusive, with monitoring o f
          decision-making processesby POs, community groups andior PAF staff.
The project cycle would comprise: (i)  project launch by the PAF ineach VDC to explain PAF rules and
criteria, andto seek community feedback; (ii)    community mobilizationto identify local needs andtarget
groups consistent with PAF criteria; (iii) preparation, including identification o f Technical
                                           project
Assistance (TA) needs (from PO or other sources chosenby community groups) and an O&M plan for
infrastructure sub-projects; (iv) appraisal, including consultationwith VDCDDC to ascertain whether
infrastructure sub-projects are included inthe VDC development plan; (v) approval and transfer o f funds to
community accounts; and(vi) implementation. Final appraisal would be the responsibility o f PAF staff
andapproval would bebythe Board, although this could be delegatedto PAF portfolio managersfor
smaller and standard sub-projects once PAF staff and Board have gained experience.

Before initiatingoperations ineach o f the six initial districts, the PAF Secretariat will commission a
district-level social and poverty assessment to select target VDCs, assess the conditions o f target groups
and participatory processes, map the existence and activities o f local POs and community organizations
andof other development programs inthetarget areas, assess the security risks andhow these might affect
supervision, and launch the PAF inthe selectedVDCs. A comprehensive social and poverty assessment
covering the six districts will be undertakentowards the endo f the project to help guide design o f a
follow-on operation and prior to expansion o fthe PAF into new districts.

FundFlow and DisbursementArrangements. The PAF Secretariat will prepare the annual budget in
accordancewith the annual program andimplementationplan, and will submit it to the Board for approval.
Following the approval o f the proposed program and budget by the Board, the PAF Board submits its
program and request for the budgetto HMGNvia the Office o f the Prime Minister and Council o f
Ministers (OPMCM) for inclusion o f the program budget inthe RedBudgetBook. The MOF reviews the
request and approves the budget submittedby the PAF Boardinthe form as it i s approved by the Board.
HMGNreleasesthe budget as block grants (both for IDApart andcounterpart funds) to the PAF Boardin
three tranches as per the fundreleaseprocedure o f HMGN. The PAF BoardAccounts created for the
purpose o f receiving all proceeds o fblock grants from HMGN, funds received directly from other donor
agencies or NGOs with prior concurrence o f HMGN, and funds received from any other sources (e.g.,
individuals, corporations, or other national organizations), i s operated underthe joint signature o fthe
ExecutiveDirector and the Chief of the Finance and Administrative Division. The budget approved by
HMGNwillbeindicated inthe government's budget(RedBook) under a separatebudgetheadinthe name
of the Poverty Alleviation FundProject.

SpecialAccount. A Special Account will be establishedto facilitate timely payments underthe Project.
The Special Account funds will be usedprimarily for makingdirect payments and for transfer o f funds to
HMGN's consolidated fund after the statement ofexpenditures are consolidated andreconciled. The
Special Account will be managed under thejoint signature o f the Executive Director and the Chief o f the
Finance and Administrative Division.




                                                     -11 -

Disbursements will be made against contracts (subproject agreements)with community groups inone
tranche, based on agreedupon milestones, including contributions for various income generating
sub-projects, small scale village and community infrastructure sub-projects and innovative sub-projects
carefully selectedand approved following certain approved criteria andnorms. Disbursementswill also be
made for: (a) the consultancy services providedby POs insupport of community groups; (b) capacity
buildingactivities, including mobilizationo fcommunity groups, strengtheningofVDCs, support to
micro-finance intermediaries, andmonitoring and evaluation; (c) various training, orientation, and
knowledge sharing programs; (d) the procurement of various equipmentand vehicles requiredfor the PAF
Board; and (e) incremental operating costs o fthe PAF Secretariat on a declining basis.

Financial Management and Disbursements (also see Section E- Summary Project Analysis and Annex
6)

A financial managementcapacity assessment o fthe implementing agency, the Poverty Alleviation Fund
Secretariat, was carried out during appraisal, andi s considered satisfactory subject to the completion o f
agreedactions for financial managementimprovement. The PAF Board is a newly constituted autonomous
Board which reports directly to the Office o f the Prime Minister and Council o f Ministers. The Board is
createdas provisionedby the PAF Ordinance. Currently, the Board is designing a systembasedon
successful PAF operations inother countries, and also basedon best practice example of a
community-based Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project inNepal. The Boardi s preparing its Rules
andRegulations, as well as the Operations Manual andthe FinancialManagement Manual. The Bank is
providing technical guidance inthe preparation o f these Manuals which are being prepared by national
consultants. The PAF Secretariatincludes a Finance andAdministrative Divisionwhich will be headedby
a Finance Analyst and supported by an Administrative Officer and the Accounts Officer. The PAF
Secretariat will recruit these staff from the market on a competitive selection basis. The annual project
accounts (including statemento f expenditures andspecial account) of the grant will be maintained andwill
be audited by the Office ofthe Auditor General ofthe Kingdom ofNepal (OAGN) as requiredbythe
Constitution o f the Kingdom ofNepal, with audit reports due within six months o f the end o f each fiscal
year. The PAF Secretariatwill also submit the financial statementso f the PAF within six months o f the
endof eachfiscal year to IDA. The financial monitoring reports will be submitted on a trimester basisto
IDA. For intemal audit, the PAF Rules and Regulations will spell out arrangementsthat a professionally
qualified accounting firmbe appointed on a competitivebasis. The intemal auditor will report to the Board
directly. Inorder to ensure the accountability o f the funds disbursedthrough community organizations
(CO), the PAF Boardwill appoint professionally qualified accounting firms through a competitive process
to review the accountsmaintained by the COSand make recommendations for improvements. The PAF
Secretariatwill also organize training for COSto buildtheir capacity inbook-keeping and simple
accounting basedon the Manuals providedby the PAF Board.

D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Two altemative models were considered and discussedwith HMGN: (i)PAF with a HMGN-controlled
                                                                           a
Board (i.e., not an autonomous agency); and (ii)   a PAF that works through localbodies, using
VDCs/DDCs as intermediaries.

When the idea o f a PAF was first proposed by HMGNin2000, the first design, preparedby NPC,
envisioned a Board chaired by the Vice Chairman o f the NPC, with a majority o f seats heldby HMGN
representatives. The predominant view in HMGNwas that although the PAF was meant to be



                                                     -12-

`autonomous,' HMGNhad to exercise sufficient `control' over its activities. After all, the PAF would be
entrusted with public funds. Basedon the experience o f successfulPAF-type programs elsewhere, the
Bank strongly suggestedthat more meaningful autonomy was essentialfor the PAF to work effectively. By
late 2002, HMGNleaders came to share the view that since the basic rationale for the PAF is HMGN's
inability inthe past to reach out to marginalizedgroups effectively, it didnot make sense for HMGNto try
to manage its programs directly. They agreedthat HMGNshould simply set out broad objectives for the
PAF andperformance targets, and let the PAF Board and Secretariat implement the program according to
their bestjudgment. The `control' should be exercisedby holding the PAF accountable to the agreed
performance targets, not by directing the details o fthe operations. Therefore, a HMGN-controlled PAF
Board structure was rejected. There are examples o fprograms outside HMGNthat have succeededin
supporting marginalizedgroups. A PAF guidedby an independent Board that i s bound only by
performance targets is llkely to be more effective inabsorbing and adapting such success cases and develop
a set o f support modalities that work.

Relying exclusively on local bodies as the interface with the target groups was rejected because local bodies
(aside from the reality that elected executives are not inplace today) are still nascent and their capacity,
both institutional andfinancial, is stretched even inproviding basic public services. Inthis situation, it i s
unlikely that they will place a highpriority on service the groups that have the leastpoliticalvoice. The
experience elsewhere also shows that local bodies are not the best vehicle to support income-generation
activities.

The option chosen is an autonomouspoverty alleviation agency basedon a community-driven development
(CDD) approach, consistent with HMGN'sPRSpriorities. The Project design will allow HMGNto
implementandtest new approachesto reachmarginalized and excluded groups, while recognizing that
local civil society organizations and communities are better placedto support participatory processes, give
voice and influence to excluded groups, and ensure that project activities reflect priorities and demand at
the community level (see Annex 4 for a more detailed discussion). Through this approach, HMGNis in
effect tryingto address its own deficiency interms o freaching excluded andmarginalizedgroups, and
hence improve the poverty alleviation impact o f its development efforts. Although HMGNis working
towards preparing longer-term decentralization strategy, including strengthening o f localbodies, it will take
considerable time (even assuming local elections relatively soon) before localbodies develop the capacity to
take the lead in implementingeffective andtargetedpoverty alleviation efforts, especially those that aim to
reach excluded and marginalizedgroups. HMGNneeds to quickly translate its statedpriority o f reaching
out to excluded groups inrural areas and demonstrate it can do so effectively. For this reason, a new and
autonomous agency basedon professionalism, transparency, agility andresponsivenessto community needs
was considered the best model.




                                                     - 13-

2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
                                                                                    Latest Supervision
                Sector Issue                            Project                        (PSR) Ratings
                                                                               (Bank-finance1 projectsonly)
                                                                               implementation  Development
 Bank-financed                                                                  Progress(IP)   Objective (DO)

 Rural Water                                RuralWater Supply and                    S              S
                                            Sanitation Project

                                            Proposed Second RuralWater
                                            Supply and Sanitation Project
                                                                                     S               S
 Rural Roads                                Rural Infrastructure LIL
                                                                                     S               S
 Forestry                                   HillCommunity ForestProject
 3ther developmentagencies
                                                                               (Highly Unsatis

3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The project draws on the global lessonsfrom social fund/CDD projects andthe experience o f development
projects inNepal. Key success factors for the design of a mechanism such as the PAF are: (i)     autonomy
andtransparency; (ii) results-oriented organization; (iii) approachrelative to ongoing
                       lean,                                   distinct
approachesand programs; and (iv) complementarity with longer-term decentralization efforts and
strategies.

Project design also draws on the Bank'sglobal experience incommunity-driven rural development. Key
lessonsare:

        communities need to be inthe driver's seat through control over funds and investment decisions to
        achieve efficiency and sustainability;
        project implementers need to be continuously aware that communities themselves contain important
        social and economic stratifications and it is important to listen to the often more mutedvoices o f
        those with low social and economic status within the village and ensure that their priorities are also
        reflected inPAF-supported interventions;
        communities are willing to contribute toward investment and operational costs ifthey are assured
        of transparency and effective service delivery;
        it is not enough to mobilize communities for social action-they     want economic opportunities and
        need investments to be made, alongside social mobilization;
         it is important to ensure speedy implementation through development of streamlined procurement
        and disbursement rules andregulations, simple operational manuals, computerized MIS,
         standardizedfinancial managementprocedures, regular and rigorous auditing, and quantitative
        monitoring andevaluation; and
         it is important to create competitive employment conditions for project managementand staffto
         attract and retain competent and motivated individuals.




                                                      -14-

The large number ofdonor andNGO-sponsored local development projects implemented inNepal over the
past two decades also provide a rich source of lessonsfor PAF design and operation. Studies financed by
the World Bank, IFAD and others, show that the traditional model ofpublic investment and service
delivery, inwhich line ministries andcentral agenciesplan, finance andexecute local public investments,
performs less well than participatory models centeredon community organizations. Inparticular,
investment and service provision modalities which combine social mobilization (usually by localNGOs and
community-based organizations), with efficient and transparent resourceflows directly to community
groups, coordinated with the development plans andpriorities o f VDCs and DDCs, result inlower unit
costs, better quality, greater transparency, and improved sustainability. This is largely due to greater local
ownership ofproject outputs, greater transparency, more realistic scope and size o fprojects, and the use o f
more appropriate technologies.

4. Indicationsof recipientcommitmentand ownership
HMGNhasbeendeveloping the PAF concept sincethe NepalDevelopment Forumof2000. As discussed
inSectionB, HMGNseesthe PAF as the key instrumentto implementthe thirdpillarofthe
PRSP-promoting       social inclusion. It also sees the PAF as making an important contribution to the
cross-cutting theme o f accelerating decentralization to include community participation at the local level.
Although it took a while, HMGNcame to intemalize the lessonsfrom successful PAF-type programs
elsewhere and inNepal, andcompletely against its tradition and considerable reservations, decidedto give
the PAF far greater autonomy than any other HMGN-sponsored body hasbeen given inthe past. In
selecting the Vice Chair o f the Board andtwo appointed members, HMGNhas clearly focused on people o f
professional substanceandpersonal integrity who are like to give the PAF Boardtrue autonomy and
competence. Above all, these decisions show HMGN's commitment to malung the PAF a success.

5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The Bank bringsto bear on this Project its extensive experience on CDD, decentralization, andapproaches
inconflict-affectedsettings-all    o fthemrelevant to today's Nepal. Several evaluations o f these types o f
operations have taken place (e.g., Social Funds:Assessing Effectiveness, OED, World Bank 2002).
Several operations in South Asia (e.g., India, Pakistan) in fairly similar contexts provide valuable lessons
for Nepal. The Bank has supported or i s supporting a number o f CDD-based operations in a range o f
conflict andpost-conflict settings, including Kecamatan Development Projects inIndonesia, Community
Empowerment Projects in Timor-Leste, Community Development Projects inWest-Bank andGaza,
Magdalena Medio LIL inColombia, a country-wide CDD approach inAfghanistan, and the Community
Reintegration andDevelopment Project inRwanda, among others. Inaddition, a number o fbilateral
donors have expressedinterest inthe PAF approach andhave indicatedthey would be willing to participate
once there i s some initial experience, especially interms o f the PAF's independence, transparency and
ability to begin to effectively reach excluded groups. Donors have indicatedthey would look to the Bank to
help HMGNcreate an effective PAF that they can support with additional resources. Finally, because the
Bank i s actively supporting the decentralization agenda inNepal, it would be able to ensure that the PAF is
coordinated with and supports the decentralization agenda.


E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessmentsare inthe project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
0 Costbenefit          NPV=US$ million; ERR= % (see Annex 4)
0 Costeffectiveness
0 Other(specify)


                                                      - 1 5 -

The Project focuses on the ruralpoor by targeting disadvantagedand marginalizedgroups, operationalizing
HMGN'scommitment to reachpoor and excluded groups as articulated inthe PRS, improving coordination
o fpoverty programs, increasing employment and income opportunities through community-dnven
sub-projects, and buildingthe capacity of various stakeholders, including beneficiary groups and local
bodies. Hence, economic opportunities from sub-projects are but one o fthe project's outcomes. Dueto its
demand-drivencharacter, the Project does not lenditselfeasily to detailedex-ante cost-benefit analysis and
rate of returncalculations. Itwill be the beneficiaries who ultimately determine the scope andmix of
investments. Becausebeneficiaries will need to contribute at least 10 percent o f project costs, they will have
strong incentives to invest inactivities that sustainably contribute to their livelihood and empowerment.
Givenits demand-drivennature andthe openmenuapproach, it is not possible to predict with exactness the
kinds of subprojects that communities will select. Experience inCDD-type projects suggests that
investments chosenby poor communities are often not those that would appear to have the most immediate
economic payoffs, such as increasing productivity o f assets. Insteadthey often choose first investments
that helpreduce migration inthe household, improve the conditions for children to attend school and
enhance their food security.

A recent policy note onNepal-Towards        a SustainableApproach for Poverty Reductionand
Decentralization (Report No. 25019-NEPFfound that community-based approaches are most
cost-effective for local infrastructure projects. Average savings per sub-project (incomparison to similar
infrastructure projects managed, procured, andimplemented by line agencies) is about 30%. A real case
analysis for five types of sub-projects popular in CDD projects inIndia(goats, dairy, land-leveling,
tailoring and brassband) showed positive economic net presentvalue rangingfrom $603 (land-leveling) to
$4,450 (brass band) at a 15 percent real interest rate.

2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = YO(see Annex 4)



Fiscal Impact:

The proposedproject is not expected to have negative fiscal effects. There are a number ofprojects that
are meant to help the target groups but are not performing well. Should the PAF prove to be very effective,
HMGNis preparedto shiftresourcesfrom other less successfulprograms to the PAF. Some donors are
likely to be willing to bringnet additional resourcesto the PAF as well, for some donors are willing to
increasesupport but are in searcho f effectiveprograms to finance. Therefore, there should not be any
major fiscal impact on HMGN.

3. Technical:
The technical quality of sub-projects would be ensuredby: (i)    allowing communities to chosetechnologies
they are familiar with; (ii) allowing communities to procure technical assistancefrom the public, NGO or
private sectors ifthey choose to do so; and (iii) requiringtechnical appraisal ofmore complex sub-projects
such as those involving engineering inputs. Activities indifferentsectors would be carried out within
HMGN'sestablishedpolicy framework and general guidelines.




                                                     - 1 6 -

4. Institutional:


4.1 Executing agencies:
PAF set-up incorporates the lessonsfrom numerous local and international studies and field experience.
The PAF would operate through a structure with limitedstaff, recruitedon competitive salaries, on a fixed
term contract, and use consultants andNGOs to support its operations, outreach and dissemination, as
needed. The PAF Boardhas only one government representative,andits ExecutiveDirector will be
recruitedcompetitively to limitpolitical interference. PAF rules andby-laws would ensure an autonomous
and transparent structure.
4.2 Project management:
Project management will be the responsibility o f the PAF ExecutiveDirector and the PAF Secretariat.
PAF staff will include competitively recruited senior sector specialists on: (i) community infrastructure; (ii)
humanresource development; (iii)     operations, monitoring, evaluation andresearch, communications and
dissemination; (iv) social inclusion; and (v) finance, accounts andadministration. Six portfoliomanagers
(one for each district) will coordinate the appraisal process at the district level and would supervise POs
operating intheir districts. The PAF will, to the maximumextent possible, contract out its work including
social mobilization, sub-project evaluations, social and poverty impact assessments, project identification
and preparation, and capacity building, including for its own staff.
4.3 Procurement issues:
Community sub-projects will require procurement o f works, goods and services costing less than
US$50,000 equivalent. These sub-projectswill be implemented by the communities, through direct
contracting. Looking to the different procurement needs, the following provisionshave beenmade under
the project. PAF will have a trained procurement officer conversant with the Bank'sprocurement
procedures, especially those related to small community-based investments. Sihe will also standardize
technical details for the community works to be used as an aid to preparation and review o f the sub-project
proposals. Given that the formation of groups o f beneficiaries and hiringo f POs would be a continuous
process spreadover the entire project period, workshops and seminars on procurement issues will be
organized at regular intervals to ensure good understandingo f procurement procedures amongst PAF staff
and POs.
4.4 Financial management issues:
Community basedpoverty alleviation program i s a new initiative inNepal. The PAF Boardis entrusted to
implementpoverty alleviation programs as articulated inHMGN's poverty reduction strategy. Since the
PAF Secretariat i s a newly establishedagency yet to be fully staffed, its financial management system and
practices will basically follow the standardpractice followed inthe country andinparticular the successful
practice o f the similar operations inthe Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project (RWSSP I)      inNepal.
The riskassociatedwith the systemthat is yet to be finalized and testedis medium. Inorder to mitigate
the risks, the PAF Board is taking necessaryactions including (i)    adoption o f the PAF Rules and
Regulation; (ii) preparation and adoption o f the Operations Manual and the Financial Management
Manual; (iii)  training and workshop on the process; (iv) institutionalizing the accountability measures such
as, supervision by the PAF Board, social audit by the community, performance audit by the Office o f the
Auditor General, andtransparency o f the funds disbursedto the communities and their utilization; and (v)
improving the system as feedbacks are received and programs are implementedon the ground. Subject to
the completion o f actions agreedinthe Action Plan, the PAF Secretariat has a satisfactory financial
management system. The Bank as the development partner will also intensivelyfocus on the



                                                      - 1 7 -

implementationto ensure that development objectives and fiduciary requirementsare met. The PAF Board
will strengthen its monitoring capacity to monitor the accounts andperformance ofPOs, andthis will be
reflectedinthe Operations Manual.

5. Environmental:                           Environmental Category: B (Partial Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emergingfrom this analysis.
Inthe context ofthe PAF, environment andpoverty are linkedintwo ways: (i) alleviationmeasures
                                                                                  poverty
should not damage the environment o f the poor, as this would only substitute gains inone dimension with
losses inanother; and (ii)  improvements inenvironmental conditions can helpreduce poverty.

Most o f the sub-projects to be financed underthe village and community infrastructure components are
expectedto be small, community-driven investments, and their possible negative environmental impacts on
terrestrial ecosystems (land, forests, protected sites, etc.) and aquatic (water sources, water flows,
wetlands, etc.) are likely to be insignificant andmostly reversible. All sub-project proposals will, however,
be subject to an environmental screeningexercise inorder to:

    0    prevent execution o f sub-projects with potentially significant negative environmental impacts;
    0    decrease potential minor negative impacts through modifications in sub-project design, location or
         execution;
    0    prevent or mitigate cumulative negative impacts as the result o fmultiplesmall-scale investments;
    0    enhancethe positive impacts o f sub-projects; and
    0    prevent additional stress on environmentally sensitive areas.

To meet these objectives, the project Operational Manual includes an EnvironmentalManagement
Framework (EMF) consisting o f an Environmental Screening Procedure, Sectoral Environmental
Guidelines (see EnvironmentalManagement Plan [EMP] below), and a Negative List of Sub-projects, that
should not be supportedby the project.

The project's capacity buildingcomponent includes: (i)methodology and administrative structure for
                                                            a
environmental management; (ii)     an environmental capacity buildingand awareness raising program; and
(iii) environmentalsupervisionandmonitoringplan. TheseelementsareincludedintheProject's
    an
Operational Manual. Inthe PAF Secretariat (Implementation Unit), a senior PAF member would also
handlethe function ofan environmental specialist and will focus on environmental impact assessment,
mitigation, and monitoring and evaluation, to ensure that environmental concerns are adequately
incorporated and addressedinsub-projects supported by the PAF.

Several stakeholder workshops and brainstorming sessions took place betweenDecember 2003 and
February 2004 to prepare the project and the environmental assessment'plan. Government representatives,
community representatives,NGOs, PAF board members and Bank staff discussedthe roles o f stakeholders,
the operational rules ofPAF implementation and identifiedthe environmental guidelinesfor the project.

The keypoints that were raised concerned clear operational guidelines for environmental assessment
including checklists, mitigationmeasures and activities which should not be included inthe project. The
Environmental Assessment andFramework provide a negative list o f sub-projects and sub-projects that
need to have environmental assessments before implementation. There is also a corresponding table listing
the mitigation measuresto be camed out for each type of impact. Before sub-projects are selected, initial
environmental assessment will be camed out by the POs who will identify the potentialimpacts and also
continue the monitoring of the mitigation measures. Capacity buildingand monitoring o f the environmental


                                                      -18-

assessment andmanagement will be carried out by a separate environmental agency underthe project. The
maximumsize ofthe investments underthe project is $50,000per sub-project ineachVDC, andmost of
the sub-projects will be small insize including activities for income generation andrural infrastructure.
5.2 What are the main features o f the EMP and are they adequate?
The EMP includes a negative list of projects that cannotbe fundedby the project as per guidelines outlined
underWorld Bank safeguards. Italso includes a mitigation strategy for any adverse environmental impact
that may potentially occur. As the PAF's role is to support community level operations and sub-projects to
be implementedby community groups, the EMP will rely on existing andwell-established environmental
guidelines andprocedures for detailed impact analysis/assessment(ifrequiredafter initial screening) and
the design o f mitigation measures. For example, it is expectedthat the EMP for sub-projects involving
engineeredtrails, footbridges andother infrastructure would incorporate the relevant guidelines developed
with support o fthe Swiss Agency for Development and Cooperation (SDC), and usedby Ministry ofLocal
Development (MLD),DDCs, VDCs, and CBOs. Likewise, the environmental guidelines developed by the
RWSSP Iwould apply to all water supply sub-projects fundedby the PAF. The PAF Operational Manual
cross referencesto all relevant environmental standards andguidelines andrequires their application in
sub-projects fundedby the PAF.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status o f EA:
                      Date o f receipt of final draft: March 7th, 2004.

The EnvironmentalAssessment (EA) consists o f the EMF, which i s included inthe PAF operational
manual.

5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage o f (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts andproposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
o f consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
Consultations have been heldwith NGOs, DDCs and VDCs from the pilot districts. Consultations would
be heldwith concerned stakeholders, including project management staff, NGOs, CBOs, andpotential
beneficiaries of PAF as PAF enters a new district. The consultations would be heldat selecteddistrict
headquartersand would include representatives ofpotentialtarget groups. These consultations would be
conducted with the objective o f sharinginformation (on PAF, the Operational Manual, and the EMF),
communicating the rules o f the project and empowering communities to ensure environmental sustainability
o f proposed sub-projects.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact o fthe project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results o f the EMP?
Environmental supervision would be carried out by POs and the PAF. An Environmental Agency will be
responsible for the capacity buildingo f PAF/POs/COs, operationalizing the environmental management
tools and monitoring the efficacy o f the EA process and its impact. Supervision by the Environmental
Agency o f a sample o f subprojects would ensure that the EMF procedures are followed andmitigation
measures implemented. The EMF also suggests parameters to be examined during the independentaudit to
identifyany cumulative impact of the PAF subprojects.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
Numerous socioeconomic assessmentsand analyses emphasizeNepal's highly stratified society and the
exclusion o f certain social groups-namely      women, Dalits and certainJanajati groups. These groups are



                                                       -19-

much more likely to have low income andassets, low human development indicators andto be largely
absent from decision-malung at the community, local (VDC/DDC) andnational levels. A large body o f
macro-, sectoral-, and community-level assessmentshave documented this social exclusion, the wide
economic disparities they generateandthe way inwhich they he1the insurgency. A key development
objective o fthe PAF is to involve these disadvantagedgroups along with other members o f their
community in identifying and implementingactivities that will improve their incomes, assets, and access to
markets and basic services (health, education and dnnkingwater). Inaddition to these benefits, by
pioneering a new approach, the PAF will seek to change the way decisions are made inparticipating
communities and local bodies, so that inthe longer term currently excluded groups will have a say in
definingtheir needsandinfluencing decisions that affect them. The main social development outcome the
Project seeks i s to begin to revert the exclusionary pattern o fNepal's previous development approaches.
6.2 ParticipatoryApproach: How are key stakeholdersparticipating inthe project?
Duringthe preliminarystagesofproject preparation there havebeenwide consultations with government,
civil society anddonor stakeholdersabout the basic thrust anddimensions o f the project. InFebruary,
2002, the Bank conducted its own stakeholderanalysis as a means of assessing the degree of consensus
within govemment andbetween government and other stakeholdersas a preliminary step to the Bank's own
decision to become involved insupporting the PAF. Participationo f actual grassrootsbeneficiaries,
community-based organizations, and localbodies will occur continuously throughout the project because it
i s being built into implementation.

As notedinthe section below, the PAF as an organization will dependheavily on POs-non-governmental
organizations active at the local community level-who will be requiredto work through local facilitators
chosen inagreementwith local communities and target beneficiaries. The PAF will also work with local
bodies by providing capacity buildingsupport to them and selecting themas POs where they meet PAF
criteria.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
The PAF Secretariat i s designed to be a lean organization that will dependon contracting with a range o f
national and localNGOs to carry out field level sub-project development and implementation and a certain
amount of the PAF's supervisory andmonitoring and evaluation role. This model has worked well in
RWSSP Iand resulted in a significant increaseinthe capacity andreach ofNGOs inthe ruralwater supply
sector. Inaddition, and prior to Project Appraisal, the PAF Boardheld a round o f consultations with
NGOs to brainstorm andreceive feedback on project design andeffective approachesto reach excluded
groups. The PAF received suggestionson a wide range o f areas, including how to reach the ultra-poor and
isolated communities, the need for community contributions that are tailored to geographic conditions, and
to allow flexible application, how to work with other agencies, experience with revolving funds, needto
support non-area basedinnovations, and PAF skills mix. These suggestionshave been considered inPAF
andproject design.
6.4 What institutional arrangementshave beenprovidedto ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
Board composition, by including representativeso f excluded groups, i s explicitly designed to improve
prospectsfor reaching social development outcomes. Similarly, as an autonomous agency, PAF is more
likelyto be able to protect itselfand programs from politicaland elite capture that could negate its
objective o freaching excluded groups. An important demonstration o f this commitment is the PAF Board's
decision to contract ina senior inclusion specialist with extensive experience and track record working on
issues o f exclusion and participation. The social specialist would ensure also consistency o f PAF



                                                      - 20 -

interventions with Bank's safeguardsguidelines. Criteria for sub-project and PO selection is also designed
to ensure that benefits flow to Dalits, Janajati groups and women inthe target communities. The M&E
system will be designed to collect qualitative anddisaggregatedquantitative data to assess the degree to
which the Project is meeting its objective o f "improving the lives o f ruralpeople whose poverty, caste,
ethnicity or gender have excluded them from development benefits."
6.5 How will the project monitor performance interms of social development outcomes?
As described earlier, before initiating activities and selecting target VDCs ineachofthe first-phase district,
the PAF will carry out a district-level social assessment. Included inthis process will be: (i) assessment
                                                                                                   an
of social exclusion of marginalized and poverty groups inthe district; (ii)     evaluation o f social mobilization
andmapping o f local non-governmental andCBOs active inthe district, including their effectiveness at the
community level; (iii)   rapid inventory o f other development programs inthe district; and (iv) presentation to
target communities o f the PAF approach and eligibility criteria, and feedback from communities on the
PAF's modus operandi. As part o f its monitoring and evaluation system, the PAF will commission
baseline studies in all target DDCs and VDCs.           During the final year of the project, the PAF will
commission a comprehensive social and poverty assessment in all the VDCs concerned, designed to
quantitatively assess progress inmeeting the projectk socio-economic objectives (relative to the baselines),
and through targeted surveys, the project's impact on participatory processes, social mobilization and the
reduction o f social, caste, ethnic, and gender tensions.

7. Safeguard Policies:




7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguardpolicies.

The Operational ManualNulnerable Peoples Development Plan includes mechanisms to ensure appropriate
targeting o f beneficiaries and also highlights the process so that it is well defined, understood, implemented
andmonitored. The PAF implementationandthe pilotingof anew approach for reaching vulnerable
groups, including indigenous and ethnic minorities, is itself the key provision to ensure that the project
benefits indigenous groups. The project focuses on the rural poor by targetingdisadvantaged and
marginalized groups, operationalizing HMGN'scommitment to reach poor and excluded groups as
articulated inthe PRS, improving coordination o fpoverty programs, increasing employment and income
opportunities through community-dnven sub-projects, and buildingthe capacity o f various stakeholders,
including beneficiary groups and localbodies. Hence, economic opportunities from sub-projects are but
one o fthe project's outcomes.




                                                      -21 -

F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
Over the medium-term,the sustainability o f the PAF will depend on its effectiveness inreaching the target
population. The first phase o f the PAF, which the project supports, will be critical for its medium-term
sustainability especially inthree respects. First, to the extent that the PAF can demonstrate it is effective,
independent andtransparent, it will be able to attract additional donor finding, and HMGNwill be able to
fund any counterpart obligations by reallocating funding from less effective rural poverty alleviation
programs. Second, from an institutional perspective, PAF effectiveness will also play a key role in
attracting professional and motivated staff, thus making sustainability more likely. Third, an additional
factor that enhancesprospects for sustainability is HMGN'scommitment to the PRS and the clear
understanding that the PAF will be a critical instrument to operationalize the commitment to reach excluded
groups. At the community level, community mobilization will be sustainedifpeople are given voice, they
can influence decisions that affect them, and the PAF is able to deliver results, especially interms o f higher
incomes andbetter access to services. Over the longer term, improved service delivery, particularly for
disadvantagedareas and excluded groups shouldbecome the responsibility o f local bodies. How smoothly
the functions ofthe PAF will be integrated into localbodies and sustained by them will dependon the
progressNepal can make in decentralization and buildup institutional capacity at the local level.

2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure.of critical assumptions found inthe fourth column o f Annex 1):
                     Risk                         Risk Rating                  Risk Mitigation Measure
  om Outputsto Objective
  ccluded and disadvantagedgroups are                   M           Training o f and active participation by POs to
  )table to organize andprepareviable                               assist inparticipatory processes, group
  ib-projects that meet PAF criteria.                               formation and technical support to prepare and
                                                                    implement sub-projects. The Boardmembers
                                                                    also linkto the target groups

  x a l elections are not heldand the                   M           Inclusion inDDC development plan will be
  :velopment planning function o f DDCs                             preferable, but for many projects, this is not
  il,therebymakingitdifficulttoassure                               critical.
  Insistency o f infrastructure sub-projects
  ithDDC plans.

  o interest o f VDCs incapacity building               M           This is a longer-termrisk andwould affect
  1pport.                                                           PAF's exit strategy more than project
                                                                    implementation. Incentive o f additional
                                                                    resources flowing to communities is likely to
                                                                    assure VDC's interest inengagementwith the
                                                                    PAF.

  4F is politicized.                                    S           Relatively independent Board and competitive
                                                                    recruitment o fthe ExecutiveDirector will
                                                                    reduce the risk o f political interference. The
                                                                    highprofile of the PAF was taken inHMGN's
                                                                    dialogue with donors as a test o f HMGNs
                                                                    commitment to poverty alleviation will also
                                                                    provide some protection.



                                                      - 22 -

 ,ecurity deteriorates and conflict escalates            S           The security situation is one ofthe criteria for
 cross districts, preventing access to                               %strictselection inthe initial phase.Target
 lrget villages and beneficiaries,                                   ireas are selectedwhere security risks are
 amperingsupervision.                                                :onsidered acceptable. There is evidence that
                                                                     oca1NGOs can operate even inheavily
                                                                     .nsurgent-influenced districts provided
                                                                     :ommunities support their activities. So some
                                                                     ictivities could still take place but
                                                                     jupervisiodmonitoring would be more difficult.
                                                                     Yonetheless, security uncertainty does pose
                                                                     significant riskthat will have to be watched
                                                                     :arefully. The PAF may adjust target areas if
                                                                     security risk proves too high.

2AF Ordinance expires every six months                  M            Highcommitment to PAF makes this risk
and is not renewedor is changed.                                     mlikely; renewalofordinances inother projects
                                                                     has not beenan issue; changesto the ordinance
                                                                     would needto be consulted with IDA.
From Components to Outputs
Slow disbursement o f funds to                                       Simplified sub-project approval; expenditure
beneficiaries.                                                       tracking, constant monitoring o f the duration for
                                                                     each step inthe sub-project cycle. The system
                                                                     adoptedby the PAF has proven effective inthe
                                                                     rural water sector, thus this risk is likely to be
                                                                     limited.

No improvement ineconomic and social                     M           Technical support in sub-project design and
indicators o f target populations.                                   implementation should mitigate this risk.

Deterioration inliving conditions due to                             Selection o f six districts where security risks arc
intensificationo f conflict that more than                           acceptable should mitigate this risk, but the risk
                                                                     remains substantial as for any conflict-affected
                                                                     country.


Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), FNegligible or Low Risk)

The overall risk,despite mitigation measures, remains substantial. Most ofthe risks inthe high and
substantial category arise from the conflict, andthere are few direct mitigation measures the Bank can take.
Conflict poses risks for implementationand may make supervision difficult. The insurgents have generally
shown they are preparedto allow development activities that benefit poor communities and excluded
groups inthe areas where they have considerable control. Inchoosing the first six districts, the PAF took
into consideration the feasibility o f implementationand supervision. Inall these districts, there are local
organizations (NGOs,CBOs) that seem to be able to continue development work despite varying degrees o f
insurgency activities. Ability o f such organizations to continue work seems to vary considerably,
dependingon the degree of support they have from the local communities as well as the broad
understandingsthat exist between the communities, local organizations, and the insurgentsinthe area.
That these six districts have organizations that have been able to continue their activities suggeststhat these



                                                       - 23 -

or similar organizations may be able to serve as effective POs for the PAF. Within each district, VDCs
would also be chosen taking into consideration conflict and security. Incase during implementationcertain
districts are found too problematic, other districts would be selected. That the project aims specifically to
reach excluded and marginalized groups ina highlyparticipatorymanner should reduce the risk of security
threats. Nevertheless, ifthe insurgency becomestoo big an obstacle to implementation inany o f the 6
districts, the PAF would consider alternative districts for the initial phase. While it would be desirable to
concentrate on relatively insecureareas, which tendto be more inneed of targeted support, other districts
also have many communities that deserve PAF support. Therefore, switchingthe target areawould not
fundamentally weakenthe rationale for the Project.

3. Possible ControversialAspects:                                                                     . .

If currentpoliticalimpassebetweenHMGNandpoliticalpartiesweretoworsen,andthelegitimacyof
  the
the interimgovernment came to be questionedby a much wider range o fNepali population, the PAF could
become controversial. An effective PAF is likely to contribute to strengtheningthe political credibility o f
the government. There i s a risk, therefore, that supporting the PAF is seen to be postponing the resolution
of the constitutional crisis and strengtheningo f a multi-party democracy. Ingeneral, however, the Nepali
public seems to believe that there is an urgentneedto improve the performance o f the government
institutions regardless o f who controls the cabinet. The Bank i s broadly seen to be supporting reforms to
effect this muchneededchange, without any political agenda. Therefore, this risk i s unlikely to be
material. Over the longer term, improved service delivery, particularly for disadvantagedareas and
excluded groups, would become the responsibility o f local bodies. While Nepal is making progress in
defining a legal framework andputtinginplace key aspects of fiscal and administrative decentralization,
the process o f decentralization and capacity buildingat the local level will take considerable time. A
further uncertainty results from the fact that the term oflocal bodies expired inJuly 2002, andit is unclear
when localbody elections will take place. Thus, longer-term sustainability ofthe new service delivery
approach pilotedby PAF will be determinedby progress inthe decentralization and local capacity building
agenda. Over the mediumterm, however, the sustainability o f PAF will dependon its effectiveness in
reaching the target population.

G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
          Standardconditions o f Effectiveness.

2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]



H. Readinessfor Implementation
C 1.a) Theengineering design documentsfor the first year's activitiesare complete andready for the start
          of project implementation.
    1.b) Not applicable.

   2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
       project implementation.
ixI3. The Project ImplementationPlanhasbeenappraisedandfoundto berealistic andofsatisfactory
        quality.
04. Thefollowing itemsarelaclungandarediscussedunderloanconditions(SectionG):


                                                      - 24 -

1. Compliance with Bank Policies
ixI 1. Thisproject complies with all applicable Bankpolicies.
02. ThefollowingexceptionstoBankpoliciesarerecommendedforapproval. Theprojectcomplieswith
       all other applicable Bankpolicies.



                                                                     ,?" / /@,"


                                            ,                        !#he.*R   A
                                                                   Kekchi Ohashi          `-%
                                         Sector Director           Country Director




                                                  - 25 -

                                     Annex 1: Project Design Summary
                                 NEPAL: Poverty Alleviation Fund Project
                                     KeyIndicators
                                          Performance           Data CollectionStrategy
 Hierarchy of Objectives                                                                        Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:       Sector Indicators:              Sector/ country reports:      (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Improvedfiscal transfers to    % o fdevelopment funds          Country Reports. Bank         Peace process under way.
disadvantaged groups.          disbursed to disadvantaged      supervision reports.
                               groups.



Project Development            Outcome / Impact                Project reports:              (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                     Indicators:
An instrument, PAF, that is    (i)number o f beneficiary       Measuredby:                   (i)security situation does not
effective in reaching poor and families including from         (i)structured field visits;   affect implementation in
excluded communities.          female-headed, poor, Dalit or (ii) MISdata andbeneficiary     selected districts; and
                               Janajati households;            assessments;                  (ii) willingto
                                                                                                 donors
                               (ii)employment generated at     (iii)Baselinedatawillbe       collaborate in a successful
                               the village level by income,    establishedbefore sub-projects PAF.
                               caste, ethnic and gender
                               group;
                               (iii)increase in income of
                               beneficiary households;
                               (iv) increaseinfood security;
                               (v) social mobilization
                               processes at the village level,
                               interms o fjoint
                               decision-making, community
                               participation and excluded
                               group's ability to have voice
                               and influence decisions at the
                               community level; and
                               (vi) donor support for the
                               PAF, either allocated or
                               committed, to expand its
                              programs.




                                                           - 26 -

                                   Key Performance            Data CollectionStrategy
 Hierarchy of Objectives               Indicators                                             CriticalAssumptions
Outputfrom each               Output Indicators:             Project reports:              from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
PAF establishedand            Board, by-laws, operational    Quarterly reports.            ?AFis not politicized.
Dperational.                  manuals, staff and systems in
                              place.
Income generating subprojects Number o f income generating MIS system, structured field    Disadvantagedare able to
for the rural poor.           sub-projects by categories.    visits, baseline studies and  :ome together in a group.
                                                             ex-poste studies.
Small scale infrastructure    Number o f small scale         MIS system, structured field  Villages are able to come
subprojects.                  sub-projects by category.      visits, baseline studies and  :ogether behind subprojects.
                                                             ex-poste studies.
Innovation and special        Number o f sub-projects        MIS system, structured field  Legitimate organizations
programs.                     approved.                      visits                        interested.

Groups mobilized.             (i)Number o f groups formed;   MIS system, structured field  Capable POs across Nepal.
                              (ii)
                                 participation o f women     visits, baseline studies and
                              and disadvantaged ingroups.    ex-poste studies.

Capacity buildingfor local    Number o f VDCs receiving      MIS system, structured field  Local elections are held.
bodies.                       capacity building.             visits, baseline studies and
                                                             ex-poste studies.
Capacity buildingfor target   Numbero fbeneficiaries         MIS system                    There is sufficient demand for
groups.                       receiving capacity building.                                 capacity building.

Support to micro-finance      Number o fbeneficiary          MIS system.                   There is sufficient demand for
intermediaries.               intermediaries.                                              capacity buildingsupport.

Information, monitoring and   Population reached.            Review o f information        Conflict does not prevent fron
evaluation.                   Baseline completed.            impacts; MIS.                 reaching target beneficiaries.




                                                         - 27 -

                                  Key Performance          Data Collection Strategy
~~




  Hierarchy of Objectives             indicators                                          CriticalAssumptions
Project ComponentsI           Inputs: (budget for each    Project reports:             (from Componentsto
Sub-components:               component)                                               Outputs)
PAF established and           US$O.8 million              Financialmanagement report. Funds disburse quickly.
operational.

Income generating subprojects US$4.27 million             Financial management report. Funds disburse quickly.
for the rural poor.

Small scale infrastructure    US$9.28 million             Financial management report. Funds disburse quickly.
subprojects.

Innovative and special        US$ 0.84 million            Financial management report. Funds disburse quickly.
programs

Groups mobilized.             US$ 0.41 million            Financial management report. Funds disburse quickly.

Capacity buildingfor local    US$0.4 million              Financial management report. Funds disburse quickly.
bodies

 Capacity buildingtarget      US$0.2 million              Financial management report. Funds disburse quickly.
groups

 Capacity building            US$0.2 million              Financial management report. Funds disburse quickly.
 mico-finance intermediaries

 Information, monitoring and  US$0.2 million              Financial management report. Funds disburse quickly.
 evaluation




                                                      - 28 -

                                Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
                               NEPAL: Poverty Alleviation Fund Project


The Nepal PAF i s an autonomous and flexible organization with a small number o fprofessional staff
which will work alongside local level governments to co-finance local investment inlocalinfrastructure,
social services and social mobilization for the benefit o f the most excluded people inNepalese society,
namely women, Dalits, indigenous people and other very poor people. The proposed Project would finance
the establishment costs o f the PAF and help the PAF develop and refine its approach to reach and address
the needs o f the poorest andmost excluded groups.

By Component:

Project Component 1 US$4.27 million
                      -
A. Income generation projects targeted to the poorest and excluded groups: Exampleswouldinclude
micro-irrigation, micro-enterprises, crafts, land productivity, animal husbandry, andothers. The Project
would provide matching grants to target groups that want to take up these activities. Partner organizations
would be recruitedto work with community groups to help them develop sub-project proposals.

Project Component 2 US$9.28 million
                       -
B. Small Scale Village and Community Infrastructure: Examples would include engineeredtrails,
footbridges, schools, clinics and other "public goods" which are small scale andcan be managedby
community groups or VDCs. Preferencewould be givento those inVDC development plans where they
exist and where the VDCDDC is willing to contribute a share from its own resources. A requirementfor
approval would be the development of credible operations and maintenance plan for ensuring that PAF
financed infrastructure continues to provide services inthe longer term.

Sub-project Cycle for Components A and B.

District Targeting. Six first-phase districts have been identifiedfrom a list o f districts with low scores on
the composite index of28 socio-economic indicators andthe needto ensure some geographical
representation. These are Muguand Darchula inthe mountains, Pyuthan and Kapilbastu inTerai, and
Ramechhap and Siraha inthe hills. Four o f the six districts are inWestern Nepal, which has tended to
received less infrastructure investment and other public services.

District Assessments. The first task in each district will be to carry out a district-level social and poverty
assessment (district assessment). The district assessment will recommendtarget VDCs (about 25) based
on poverty andexclusion parametersand security considerations. For the target areas, it will:

        assess the conditions o f target groups and participatory processes;
        map the existence andactivities o fpotential localPOs and community organizations;
        map other development programs inthe area; and
        assess the security risks and how these might affect implementation and supervision.

The district assessment will be discussedat a stakeholder`smeetingat the DDC level.

Selection of Partner Organizations. By advertising inlocal media and through direct contactswith
potentialPOs, the PAF Board will invite prospective POs to submit proposals on how they would facilitate



                                                     - 29 -

community mobilization and sub-project preparation for one or more VDCs. POs would be selectedby the
PAF basedon the merit o f the proposals and experience and performance o f POs, inparticular intheir
ability to interact with target groups effectively.

Social Mobilization. POs would carry out village meetingsto informabout the "rules o fthe game" o fPAF
andassistcommunities inevaluating needs andproblems, identifyinterventions, andorganize themselves
into groups or organizations to act on those problems. These could be newly formed groups or
organizations or existing ones, as long as they genuinely representtarget groups. Group membersshould
be free to self-select themselves. POs would also report back to the PAF any concerns with "PAF rules" or
any grievances arisingfrom the operation of the PAF.

Sub-projectpreparation. Sub-project preparation would bethe responsibility of community groups.
Sevenpercent o f sub-project costs would be ear-marked for technical assistance to be procuredby the
groups themselves. Communities would needto provide contributions incash, kindor labor before all PAF
funds are releasedto them andPOs could also assistcommunities to pulltogether their contributions (e.g.
by embarking on a savings process, or applying to micro-credit). POs would also be available to assist
communities with preparation of sub-project proposals for submission to the PAF, and would work closely
with VDCs to ensure that those proposals, where relevant, are consistent with VDC plans or are a priority
for VDCs. Where applicable, sub-project proposals would needto include a credible O&M plan. Where
applicable, sub-projects would also needto identifyimplementation milestones, such as when community
contributions will be put together. POs would monitor the quality o fthe participatory decision-making
process at the group and community levels, community contributions, and sub-project implementationand
O&M. Community groups would submit their proposals to the PAF directly or by channeling them
through POs.

The project would not finance subprojects falling inthe following negative list:

              Individualprojects;
              Consumption activities;
              Religiousbuildings;
              Resettlement or construction on private lands unless there is a consensus among all;
              Land acquisition;
              Sub-projects not screenedfor environmental impacts;
              Activities likely to cause damage to wildlife, or likely to cause damage to a sanctuaryby
              setting fire, injuringwildlife, or involvingindiscriminate felling of trees or indiscriminate
              removal o f plant, animal, mineralproduce from a sanctuary;
         0    Activities located within a national park;
         0    Constructiodrehabilitation of a dam (old or new) o f 10meters or more height;
         0    Activity that could damage cultural property.

Fullinvestment costs, including materials, labor and equipment,as well as operation andmaintenance
duringaproject's critical start-up phase, are all eligible for inclusion inPAF project budgets.

Sub-project appraisaland approval. Sub-project appraisal would be carried out by the PAF. Initially all
sub-projects would be appraisedby the PAF. The PAF, however, could delegate approval o f simpler and
repetitive sub-projects to POs. PAF program officers would spend about half o f their time inthe district
and would be able to appraise andapprove (ifdelegated by the PAF Board) simpler projects duringtheir
visits.



                                                       - 30 -

FundFlow. Upon approval ofthe sub-project proposal, PAF will disburse funds for the sub-project to
bank accounts inthe name of the community group. Community groups would select among them those
responsible for managingbank accounts, for bookkeeping, for procurement, and so on. Disbursementsto
the community group accounts will be made inone tranche. Communities will be able to access funds from
their bank accounts intwo tranches, with the secondtranche to be releasedonce the agreedupon milestones
as per described inthe sub-project proposal is met with.

Implementation. Sub-project implementation wouldbethe full responsibilityof community groups. They
would be incharge ofprocuring materials, labor and technical assistance ifneeded. They would also be
responsible for puttinginplace the O&M arrangements that they choose.

Monitoring. Several actorswould be incharge ofmonitoring. Communities would conduct
self-monitoring. Through the process o f peer review, they could be called upon to review activities o f other
community groups as well. POs, VDCs and DDCs would play a critical role inmonitoring the quality o f
the decision-making process at the community level and their ability to pulltogether contributions. VDCs
andDDCs would also monitor technical aspects of subprojects. PAF staff would visit community groups
andproject sites regularlyto develop hands on experienceofthe performance o fcommunity groups and
POs, and address any issues that could arise.

Project Component 3 US$ 0.84 million
                        -
C. Innovationsand SpecialPrograms. This component wouldprovide a small amount of finds ina
demand-driven window to fmance proposals o f special merit related to PAF objectives. These proposals
could cover any district(s) inNepal. Three types o fproposals are envisioned. Innovative sub-projects
would be those that include specially innovative approachesfor targeting and improvingthe livelihood o f
excluded groups. Special sub-projects would be those proposedby organizations o f the target groups (e.g.
ex-bonded laborers or specific ethnic group) to empower and/or improve the livelihoods o ftheir
membership. Finally, proposals from communities outside the immediate target districts could be
considered ifthey face specially difficult circumstances. Proposals would describe objectives, approach to
targeting, activities to be carried out, implementationarrangements, mechanisms for monitoring and
expected outputs and outcomes. Proposals should also highlight their specially innovative aspects (where
applicable) and the credentials of the proposingagency, namely inits past history o f working with target
beneficiaries. As a rule, proposals should not exceedUS$50,000.

Project Component 4 US$1.41million
                        -
D.Capacity BuildingComponent:This will includefour sub-components.

        (i) Mobilizationof CommunityGroups.Thissubcomponentwouldcomprisetwotypesof
        activities. The first would be capacity buildingo f partner organizations to familiarize them with
        the philosophy and "rules ofthe game" for the PAF andto prepare themfor interactions with target
        groups, ifneeded. The second activity would be social mobilization activities. Here, POs would
        be selectedto work inselectedareas to mobilize the community groups andto work with them in
        order to develop proposals for funding. In some areas, VDCs or DDCs would act as POs. A
        HumanResourceAgency for POs would be recruitedby the PAF for this purpose. This
        organization would also monitor the work o f POs andprovide capacity buildingassistancewhere
        necessary.

        (ii)       Capacity Buildingfor local bodies would focus mostly on capacity buildingto help VDCs
        o f target villages performtheir core functions, with particular attention to the needs o f
        marginalized groups. The training could include financial management, accounting, participatory


                                                     -31 -

        budgeting,procurement andconducting ofmeetings. Inaddition, capacity buildingwould also be
        provided on specific thematic areas, includingexisting government programs, gender issues, health
        issues, education, nutrition, PAFprocedures, and others as may be necessary. A Capacity
        BuildingAgency would be recruited to develop a capacity buildingplanfor VDCs andmanagethe
        program, including procurement o f specialized technical assistancefor specific activities.

        (iii) CapacityBuildingof TargetGroupswouldfocusonorganizingspecialtrainingand
        related activities to enhance the skills of target beneficiaries on their chosen areas of activity.
        Examplesofareas for skill development would includetraining o fvillage health workers,
        veterinary skills, crafts slulls, introduction o f improved varieties o f agncultural produce,
        marketing, entrepreneurship, bookkeeping, andso on. The Capacity BuildingAgency wouldbe
        responsible for procuring technical assistance andorganizing capacity buildingprograms for the
        target population.

        (iv)     Support to Micro-finance Intermediaries: While the PAF will not finance micro-lending,
        it would finance capacity buildingfor micro-finance intermediaries on a demandbasis, to help
        them become more capable o f supporting the PAF's target groups. The Capacity BuildingAgency
        to be contracted by the PAF would procure support services to micro-finance intermediaries. The
        first task o f this agency would be to identifycapacity buildingneeds and demand for capacity
        building.

        (iv)     Monitoring and Evaluation System: The systemwould includemonitoring for
        supervision, monitoring for impact and monitoring for self-leaming. Monitoring for supervision
        would focus on processes on how many groups are being formed, which sub-projects are being
        financed, what i s the time lag between group formation andsub-project formation, and so on. This
        would be performedby the project MIS system. Monitoringfor evaluation would be basedon a
        base-line study, and a final study tracking the evolution o f the project impact indicators over time
        andgeographically and comparing them with control villages outside the project. This final study
        would consist o f a broader social assessmentto informthe next stage of PAF, and inaddition to
        the baseline, would develop detailed assessments o f PAF's success in empowering and improving
        the livelihood o f target people as well as pitfalls and obstacles that prevented outputs or outcomes
        from being achieved. Monitoring for self learning would consist o f structured peer reviews and
        score cards on self performance and performance of project agencies. Specifically the Monitoring
        and Evaluation system would include the following modules: (a) a standardMIS; (b) structured
        field visits to assess impact; (c) social assessments to evaluate impact on beneficiaries and
        participatoryprocesses; (d) peer reviews; and (e) impact assessment surveys starting with a
        baseline duringthe early phase andincludingbeneficiary assessments. A Monitoringand
        EvaluationAgency would be recruitedto carry out the baseline studies, impact assessments,
        beneficiary assessmentsand the overall social assessment at the endo f the project.

Project Component 5 US$0.80 million
                        -
E.Administration of the PAF. The Projectwould finance PAF staff, establishment and operating
expenses including financial, procurement and environmental management. The PAF would be established
according to the following principles: (a) limit its scope initially; (b) assure full autonomy and
transparency; (c) develop a small, results-oriented organization; (d) avoid identification with current
programs (all of which have both supporters and detractors); (e) complement the decentralization process
including fiscal decentralization; (f)assure well-designed and sustainable services; (g) avoid micro-finance;
and (h) assure ways to reach the poor.




                                                       - 32 -

                                             Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
                                      NEPAL: Poverty Alleviation Fund Project

                                                                                                     Local               Foreign                    Total
                         Project Cost By Component                                               US $million           US $million             US $million
Income Generating Subprojects                                                                          3.55                   0.00                     3.55
Infrastructure Subprojects                                                                             7.81                   0.00                     7.8 1
Innovation and Special Programs                                                                        0.57                   0.00                     0.57
Capacity Building                                                                                      1.19                   0.04                      1.23
Administration of PAF                                                                                  0.49                   0.09                     0.58
Unallocated                                                                                            0.72                   0.00                     0.72
Total Baseline Cost                                                                                   14.33                   0.13                    14.46
 Physical Contingencies                                                                                0.00                   0.00                     0.00
 Price Contingencies                                                                                   2.14                   0.00                     2.14
                                           Total Project Cost:                                        16.47                   0.13                    16.60
                                  Total Financing Required                                            16.47                   0.13                    16.60

                                                                                                     Local                Foreign                    Total
                           Project Cost By Category                                               US $million          US $million              US $million
Goods                                                                                                    0.30                      0.08                    0.38
Knowledge Sharing Activities                                                                             0.35                      0.05                    0.40
Consultancies                                                                                            0.65                      0.00                     0.65
Subprojects                                                                                             13.88                      0.00                   13.88
Training                                                                                                 0.22                      0.00                     0.22
Recurrent Cost                                                                                           0.25                      0.00                     0.25
Unallocated                                                                                              0.82                      0.00                     0.82
                                                           Total Project Cost:                          16.47                      0.13                   16.60
                                                  Total Financing Required                              16.47                      0.13                   16.60

   I
    Identifiable taxes and duties are 0.3 (US$m) and the total project cost, net of taxes, is 16.3 (USSm). Therefore. the project cost sharing ratio is 92.02% of
   total project cost net oftaxes.




                                                                       - 33 -

                                     Annex 4       Economic Analysis
                             NEPAL: Poverty Alleviation Fund Project


The PAF has beenestablishedto finance social investment andpublic infrastructure projects at the local
level throughout Nepal. While the nature o f subprojectsto be financed i s not known a priori makmga
standardfinancial andeconomic analysis impossible, evidence from other projects inNepal sheds light on
the rationality ofthe PAF option, comparedwith other approaches. The large numbero f donor and
NGO-sponsored local development projects implementedthroughout the country over the past two decades
provides a rich source o f data for such institutional comparisons.

Several studies inNepal show that the traditional model o f public investment and service delivery-in
which line ministries and central government agencies plan, finance and execute local public investments -
perform less well thanparticipative investment models centered on community organizations and local
bodies institutions, which also involve the private sector. Inparticular, modalities of investment and
service provisionwhich combines explicit social mobilizationorganizing community groups,
teachingraising consciousnessabout the potential benefits o f collective action for capturing and
maintainingnew investments,participativeplanning of investment projects basedon need, organizing
community counterparts, and training village/local groups to manage andmaintain service provision
ex-post, usually by NGOs, with the inclusion o f community organizations, VDCs and DDCs throughout
the project cycle resultedinlower unitcosts, better quality of infrastructure, greater transparency inthe use
of funds, and longer-term sustainability. This was largely the product o f greater local ownership o f project
outputs, greater transparency, more realistic scope and size o f projects so conceived, and use o fmore
appropriate technologies.

LocalInfrastructure

a) VillageRoads, Bridges and Trails

Three reports examined competing institutional delivery models inthis sector. They were an
IFAD-sponsored SAPPROS study o f service delivery systems in over 200 case studies inNepal's hill and
mountain regions, (HMGNepal/SAPPROS/IFAD, A Study of Rural Hill Potentials and Service Delivery
Systems: A Comparative Assessment of Alternative Institutional Arrangements with a Focus on the Hill
and Mountain, April 2002), a World Bank-sponsored SAPPROS study of service delivery systems in 60
case studies inthe Terai region, (HMGNepalISAPPROSlWorldBank, Delivery of Rural Development
Services: A Comparative Assessment of Alternative Institutional Arrangements with a Focus on the Terai
,October 2000), andacomparative study ofroadwork groups vs. localcontractors ineightcasestudies
camed out by the Nepal RuralInfrastructure Project (World Bank,Nepal RuralInfrastructure Project,
Review of Overall Project Outcomesand Impact, Part 11:Comparative Study of Work Performance
Between Road User Groups and Local Contractors, June 2002).

The first ofthese found that community-based models of investment and service delivery perform better
than central agency models inthe hill and mountainregions. Community approacheswere markedby high
levels o f participation and good cost effectiveness, while agency-basedmodels failed to involve users, and
sufferedfrom muchhigher costs, lower community contributions, and lower sustainability. Inthe Terai
region, models that include CBOs performbetter than agency models across the board. The former are
cheaper, more transparent, and more accountable to users. Agency models in Terai were also markedby
highcosts and, inthe authors' opinion, over-designed. Evenfor the comparatively complex case of



                                                      - 34 -

.
     suspensionbridges, participatory approaches involving users and local bodies resultedinbetter quality o f
     infrastructure and reduced implementation time, inaddition to lower costs andbetter sustainability.

     Table 1 compares unitcosts for local transport projects under different delivery models. These figures
     serve for general comparisons only, as the projects on which they are basedare very heterogeneous.
     Nevertheless, it i s clear that community-centered approachesare most cost-effective. Efficiency measures
     which the authors calculate for roads, bridges andtrails likewise show that community-based models o f
     provision score highest for bothprocess andperformance.

                           Table 1
                           UnitCost of RuralRoads, Bridgesand Trails"

                           Institutional Delivery Model         Rural Roads     Bridges      Trails
                           Central:Agency-Centered           III      UnitCost (Rs.'OOOs/km)

                                                                2,670 - 2,870    22.75       --_--
                           Intermediate:Donor-LocalBody              1000         -----      -----
                           Local: Community-Centered              240 - 640     9.3 - 11    150- 250




     The studies found that VDCs inthe hillandmountain regions worked effectively throughuser groups to
     mobilize local resources andbuildcost-effective infrastructure. DDCs, by contrast, were less effective in
     this regard, often leading to relatively higher costs and dependenceon outside involvement for
     sustainability. Very similar results were found inthe Terai. Where line agencies were pushedto operate in
     a more participativemanner, the result was "pseudo user groups" with little substanceor operational
     capacity, leading to higher project costs and long-term unsustainability.

     The third study, narrower inscopebut deeper and more detailed inits empirical treatment, found little
     difference ineither the quality o f works or the standard o f maintenancebetween community-built projects
     and those built by local contractors. Community projects, however, were more labor intensive, usingmany
     more workdays for a given value o f contract, and a greater proportion o f this labor was local. This was
     reflectedin a lower cost per workday: Rs.225 vs. 487. DDCs, VDCs and road users all reported somewhat
     greater satisfaction with community-based projects, due mainly to the employment opportunities they
     generated. The community approach was also useful for solving land acquisition and right-of-way
     problems quickly. The authors speculatethat suchprojects will ultimately prove more sustainable due to
     the training that communities receive duringimplementation, as well as a greater availability o ffunds.

     All ofthe studies underline the importance of social mobilization inachievingthese results. Social
     mobilization was especially important for catalyzing local counterparts andprovidingtechnical training in
     the maintenance of infrastructure. Because o f this, the most effective model o f institutional delivery
     involvedNGOs working alongside community organizations, providing advice and technical supervision.
     Where CBOs worked alone, supervision was often weak and project technicians did not have the time nor
     the skills to solve social problems arising duringimplementation. This ledto poorer project outcomes.
     This effect was especially pronounced for bridges.

     The power o f a participative approach i s evident inthe experience o fmany hill and mountain communities.
     Despairing o f official assistance, they have taken the initiative to buildconcrete bridges themselves by
     collecting funds from various sources andmobilizingcommunity laborers. Similarly, inthe Terai region
     CBOs have mobilizedthemselves to buildtechnically sophisticated large-span bridges. These have been




                                                           - 35 -

                                                                                                              .

completed successfully at about 1/10the cost o f agency-funded contractors. Such examples point to the
often ignoredpotential o f rural communities to contribute to their own improvement. When the goal is
clear, the process transparent and inclusive, and the benefits widespread, local organizations can become
protagonists inbuildingroads, trails and bridges that are cheaper, better and more sustainable than the
more centralized altematives which have been tried inNepal. Inthis way, the developmental impact o f
relatively small amounts o f funds can be multiplied.

b) Water & Sanitation

Two reports examined competing institutional delivery models inthis sector are: the IFAD-sponsored
SAPPROS study o f service delivery systems inover 200 case studies inNepal's hillandmountain regions,
anda World Bank-sponsored SAPPROS study o f service delivery systems in60 case studies inthe Terai
region.

Both reports found that community-based models o fbuilding and maintaining water and sanitation systems
performed best overall. This modality resulted inbetter quality infrastructure and a higher standardo f
service than central (ie., agency), private sector or donor-dnven modalities. The authors judged these
projects far more sustainable than any o f the others they studied, with private sector-built systems least
sustainable and agency and donor-built projects in-between. Community-driven water systems were also
the most cost effective -both capital and O&M -with pure community (i.e., CBO) projects by far the
cheapest, followed by private sector andthen community-NGO projects. Donor and agency-based projects
clearly had the highest unit costs. Table 2 provides more detailed information. Again, these figures serve
for general comparisons only.

              Table 2
              Rural Water & Sanitation Delivery Systems Compared*
                                                                                       Infrastructure &
             Institutional Delivery Model     IPer  Capita Cost (Rs.) Sustainability** Service Quality**
              Central: Agency-Centered        I     2,8633,750
                                                           - 4,961           4                4=
             Intermediate: Donor-Community                                   3                3
              Private Sector                            1,064                5                4=
              Local: Community-NGO                  1,759 - 2,423            1                1
              Local: Pure Community                     333                  2                2




The authors also calculated a process efficiency index, which broadly measures the inclusiveness and
participatory nature o f the different processes examined. Pure community systems didbest on this
measure, followed by community-NGO systems and donor-dnven systems. Agency-based systems were
fourth best and private sector projects came in last.

I t i s notable that both studies found a strong relationship between the involvement o f community anduser
groups inproject planning and implementation, and quality and cost efficiency. The best water systems
studied were marked by a total involvement o f user groups from the outset. NGOs acted as facilitators
only, and systems were designed with the active participation and approval o f ultimate users. Users
procured materials and handledthe construction. Minimumcommunity contributions to investment costs,
either cash or in-kind,proved themselves important to project success. Water projects which benefited
from comprehensive participation saw sustained improvements inwater supply and sanitation, resulting in



                                                        - 36 -

improved local health. Interestingly, the authors found that the quality o fworks was higher inprojects
where contractors were not used, to which they ascribe causality. Pure CBO models, lacking NGO
participation, displayed the most comprehensive community participation, but suffered from inadequate
financing mechanisms for ex-post O&M.

By contrast, all the agency-basedprojects studied inthe Terai, hillsand mountainregions were highcost
andmostly non-functional, andwith low beneficiary participation. Despite the large investments madein
these projects, or perhaps because o f the same, they hadproven unsustainable and did not work. Many
agency schemes had formed user groups only after construction was complete, or formed what the authors
term "pseudo user groups" from the start to comply with procedural requirements. Users and communities
provided no contributions, and both transparency and accountability were low. N o training was provided
to designatedmaintenance workers or caretakers inmany agency projects, andwomen were excluded from
participation, except where NGOs were involved. Technical supervision o fprojects was notably weak,
leading subsequently to numerous operational difficulties. Agency projects made more intensive use o f
contractors, andthose contractors with social or politicalpower won a disproportionate share o f contracts.
Where several sub-contractors were usedon a single project, the quality o f work was practically
guaranteedto be poor. Not surprisingly, the agency model was least preferred by community groups in
these regions.

Agency projects were more often large scale despite the fact that many includedcommunities with their
own water sourcesnearby, where much simpler technologies would have beenappropriate. This is
particularly unfortunate as the evidence inthese studies shows clearly that large and complex water
schemes didnot demonstrateeconomies o f scale, and didnot perform satisfactorily interms o f either
process or final service production. According to the authors, "in hindsight these systems should not have
been built. Rather, alternative low cost anddecentralized systems should have been considered as these
latter systems have shown far greaterpotential interms o f efficiency, equity and sustainability." (HMG
Nepal/SAPPROS/World Bank (2000), p. 61).

The authors conclude that the government ofNepal has already invested some Rs.34 billion (inpresent
value terms) inwater and sanitation. "This works out to almost Rs.1700per citizen. This amount o f per
capita investment should have been sufficient to provide safe drinking water to all Nepalese.... The status
i s that only about 60 percent o f the Nepalese people have access to drinkingwater systems. About half o f
these systems are either fully defunct or are functioning very poorly." (HMGNepaVSAPPROSAFAD
(2002), p.54). Ifthese resourceshad insteadbeen investedincommunity-based, participatory projects,
muchbetter results would almost certainly have beenobtained, and perhaps all Nepalese would today have
safe water to drink.

c) Irrigation

Fully70 percent ofirrigation systemsinNepal are community-managed, usually as Farmer Managed
Irrigation Systems (FMISs), while the remaining 30 percent are government managed. Information for this
sector is available from the Nepal Irrigation Sector Project (NISP), as well as the aforementioned
SAPPROS studies of service delivery systems inthe Terai andthe hilland mountainregions. The NISP is
an on-going World Bank-financed project which works to rehabilitate farmer-owned andmanaged systems
mostly inthe hillsand mountains, and is thus a particularly appropriate reference point for the PAF.

The SAPPROS reports found that community-based investment models were superior for irrigation, with
lower capital andmaintenance costs and a high quality o f construction. As operation and maintenance
costs were paid locally by users, suchprojects were more sustainable than those builtunder competing


                                                     - 37 -

modalities. Agency-driven projects, meanwhile, were costlier, over-dimensioned as a rule, and often of         .
poorer quality. O f all the projects surveyed, community-based projects were the highest quality and
provided the highest standardof service. This is surprising, as Table 3 shows that unitcosts were lowest
for community-based projects, andhighest for agency andprivate sector projects. As always, these figures
are for general comparisons only. Pure community projects had by far the lowest costs, butwere less well
maintained thanprojects implementedby communities inconjunction with NGOs. NGOs provedvaluable
for the training and supervision they provided, assuringhigher quality o f construction than that achieved in
CBO-only projects.




          Institutional Delivery Model      Unit Cost (Rs./Ha.)     Sustainability**  Service Quality**
          Central: Agency-Centered            64,748 - 178,953             4                  3
          Private Sector                          140,25 1                 2                  4
          Local: Community-NGO                 40,482 - 74,108             1                   1=
          Local: PureCommunity                     16,841                  3                   I=




The NISP experience generally supports these conclusions, but adds crucial subtleties. It is important to
note that the quality o f construction and maintenance carried out by communities is not always better than
that o f central agencies, andis not always highquality inabsolute terms. This is because while some rural
communities have the technical capacity to buildand operate local irrigation systems, others lack the
technical know-how. Communities are especially laclung inthe area o f financial management and
record-keeping. And some communities (notably the Terai region) suffer from poor traditions o f
cooperation and self-government, and a low capacity to mobilize members for collective action. For all o f
these problems, the NISP has found Water User Association Facilitators (WUAFs) particularly useful.
WUAFs are recruited from the community, receive technical training from NGOs involved inthe project,
and are paidmodest salariesto help communities manage their projects and facilitate community
relationships with higher levels o f government. Where such local facilitation exists, and where NGOs are
present to provide training andbroader technical assistance, the NISP experience with community building
andmanagemento f imgation systems has been quite successful. Two important points concerning
facilitation should be kept inmind: (i) inorder to beable to work successfully inclose concert withthe
community, facilitators should be chosen locally; and (ii)  facilitators require technical training, which
generally requires outside expertise.

Both SAPPROS reports found that the involvement of central agenciestendedstrongly to increase costs
and ledto performance below potential. Agency-based projects pay very little attention to the institutional
development necessaryfor sustainable system operation. They also tend to exclude poor and disadvantaged
households from participation; when agencies intrudeinFMISs, they damage trust and community
organization. Projects suffer from the illeffects of lack o f coordination between organizations underthe
same ministry. As a result, the need for rehabilitation due to deferred maintenance i s widespread amongst
agency projects. Butrehabilitation budgetsare regularly exhaustedbefore the necessarywork is done,
leading to long-term infrastructure decay.

By contrast, private sector and community-based projects feature muchgreater levels ofparticipationinthe




                                                     - 38 -

    planningand execution of investments, and accordingly higher levels ofcontributions from users duringthe
Y    O&M phase and greater sustainability. When allied to NGOs, private sector projects proved cost-effective
     and good quality, especially for groundwater irrigation systems. Community projects benefitfrom the high
     level o f trust invillage societies, which can lead to equitable and efficient operation o fthe system. And
     CBOs involved inrunning local irrigation have proven themselvesa rich source o f innovation inthe sector.
     Surveying 150 irrigation systems, the authors found that farmer-managed projects perform better than
     agency managed systems. It is important to note that appropriate, empirically proventechnologies exist for
     community irrigationinwater-scarce areas (interms o fboth irrigation and crops).

     Despite a huge investmento f almost Rs.66 billion in irrigation, the impact o f centrally-dnven projects on
     agricultural production inNepal has been minimalbecause o f the poor quality o f infrastructure and service.
     Meanwhile inthe hills,gravity schemes builtby users with their own resources have been operating
     efficiently for generations, and provide better service than most centrally-managed projects. The gains to
     efficiency andproduction from returningto a locally-based investment regime inirrigation are potentially
    huge.

     d) Education

     Inthe education sector, unlike the other sectorsreviewedabove, no comprehensive studies ofservice
     delivery systems have been conducted. Modem Nepali history, nonetheless, affords a great deal o f
     unsystematic evidence on the comparative performance o f central vs. local systems for the provision o f
     primary education.

     Education inNepalwas historically community based. Until 1972, there were few government'public
     schools. Communities raisedthe money and labor to buildand maintain new schools themselves. They
     managed school finances andpersonnel, including hiring, firing and promoting teachers, receivingonly
     token block grants from the government. Schools were accountable to the community, and functioned
     reasonably well, with good standardso f infrastructure andmaintenance inline with private village houses;
     teachers showed up to teach and pupils to leam, and schools kept regular weekly andterm schedules.

     In 1972, the central govemment assumedresponsibility for primary education. There is little
     decision-making power at the school level for curriculum, texts, staffmg or education finance. Since then,
     the performance o fthe sectorhas fallen dramatically: Classesdo not take place with regularity; teachers
     are regularly absent; and the pass rate for students sittingthe school-leaving certificate has fallen inrecent
     years to 17 percent nationally in government schools, half the pass rate for private schools. This effect can
     evenbe seen at the micro level as new schools enter the system. New schools inNepal are builtby the
     community, andonly hlly qualify to enter the government system a few years later. Inthe interimthey are
     financed andrunlocally. Upon qualifying, school performance reliably falls. There are some 3,000
     schools inthe country inthis intermediate state, and the evidence to this effect i s abundant.
     Community-run schools offer a much better service and are cheaper than central govemment schools.

     The evidence as described above is so convincing that there is currently a firm national consensus across
     central and local bodies, opposition, donors, and community organizations that central delivery has not
     worked. As a result, Nepal is currently revamping its education system inorder to returnto the community
     model. After a large national debate on the issue, the government i s returningprimary schools to the
     community. All authority for hiring,firing and promoting school staff, including teachers, responsibility
     for financial management, and responsibility to build, supply and maintain school infrastructure will revert
     to school managementcommittees at the community level. Centralgovernment will provide block grants to
     communities for textbooks and teacher salaries. These grants will hopefully be formula-based, and not


                                                            - 39 -

discretionary. Primary-school students will not be charged fees, while secondary-school students may be.

e) Health

Inthe health sector, there is even less evidence than for education oncomparative systems for service
delivery. UNICEFis sponsoring one project featuring decentralized service delivery for women and
children in 11districts inthe country. But this project only began recently, and it is too soon to judge
whether it has been a success or not. As inmany countries, the health system inNepal, such as it is, has
always been central. This i s not in itself surprising. But it does contain certain local elements which are
thought to work well.

Most notable amongst these are the Female Community Health Volunteers, present in42,000 communities
across the entire country. These support mothers' groups and provide basic health care to pregnant
women, mothers and children. Volunteers are unpaid, receive elemental training, and are given simple
health kits and small amounts o f money for eventual expenses. As a rule, volunteers are active inthe
community, and have played an important role both distributingvitaminA capsules and inreaching and
treating children with respiratory infections. Respiratory infections have as a result fallen significantly
amongst children. Also, some villages have revolving funds for emergency obstetrics care. These are
managedby VDC-level health management committees o f nine members, and financed from user fees,
central government block grants and other sources. These are also thought to work well, providing a
needed service at the local level. Lastly, a study o f 15 sub-health posts recorded that moving supervision
and monitoring to the community levelresulted infacilities opening on time, more regular attendance o f
staff, better sterilization o f equipment, greater cleanliness, and more frequent health education activities.

There is thus some evidence inthe health sector that community-based approaches work well. Inany event,
the government has announced a movement towards decentralization inthe health sector. Inits recent
Immediate Action Planto Expedite Reforms, the government has said that it will transfer authority for the
management o f sub-health posts to health management committees at the V D C level, which will have
significant responsibility for these facilities' financial and operational performance. Inthis light, and given
the evidence above, it makes sense for the PAF to adopt a community-based approach for the health sector.

f) Micro-finance

Nepal has a fairly sophisticated group o f micro-finance practitioners and donors who are well aware o f
global best practice that discourages mixing financial service delivery (where loans must be paid back
promptly) with the delivery o f grant money (which does not need to be paidback). There is a great deal o f
successful experience inNepal o f savings-led micro-finance service delivery which has proved to be both
operationally and financially self-sustaining after initial investments to build group capacity and social
capital.

One example is the Small Farmers Development Program (SFDP). Afier nearly 20 years o f the operation
the program, runby the government-owned Agricultural Bank o f Nepal, was beset by highoperating costs
and repayment rates that had fallen to unsustainable levels. GTZ's Rural Finance Nepal (RUFIN)project
began inthe early 90's to convert interested clusters o f Small Farmer Groups from their dependence on the
ADB/N Group Organizer, the Sup-Project Office and on the availability o fbelow-market, donor funded
lending capital, into independent Small Farmers Cooperatives Limited (SFCL). There are now some 107
SCFLs inthe country who have attained operational and financial self sufficiency.

Another example are the many Savings and Credit Groups, some self-instigated, but many formed by


                                                       - 40 -

NGOs and InternationalNon-Govemmental Organizations (INGOs). One o fthe leading INGO
micro-finance practitioners is Canadian Center for Intemational Studies and Cooperation (CECI) who has
supported 106 such groups who have also attained financial self-sufficiency. Inaddition, other than the
five regional government-owned GrameenBanks (all but one ofwhich are insolvent, overstaffed andbeset
with politics), Nepalhas several financially viable registeredmicro-finance intermediaries. These include
the newly established Small FarmersCooperative Bank which caters to the SCFLs mentionedabove, a
numberof successfulmicro-finance Banks, as well as anumber ofNGOswhich have registeredunderthe
Rastra Bank's legal provisions for Micro-finance NGOs. Many o f these institutions operate primarily in
the more densely populated and accessibleTerai regionwhich has muchbetter market linkages andmore
commercial opportunities than the hills and mountainregions. But several o f these organizations have also
begundelivering services inthe hills, mostly basedonthe cooperative model.

Despite Nepal's vibrant micro-finance sector, outreach to poor ruralborrowers i s still very low with
something like 6.5 percent o fpoor menandwomen estimatedto have access to micro credit through formal
public and private sector institutions. Why has coverage remained so low? There is broad agreement in
themicro-finance community that the constraints to scaling up include:

         Weak mainstream formal sector intermediaries - characterized by a cautious and rather
         bureaucratic banking culture and increasing politicization;
         Shortcomings inthe policy and regulatory framework for micro-finance. Despite the fact that
         Nepal has adopted forward-looking policies which allow development bankswith lower levels of
         capitalization, permitNGOs to register as financial intermediaries andgrant limitedbanking
         licenses to cooperatives approved by the central bank, many flaws remain inthe legislation and the
         central bank i s overstretched inits regulatory role;
         General lack for rural infrastructure and marketswhich, intum, limitthe potential for highreturn
         rural farm and non-farm enterprises and the demand for money to finance these enterprises;
         Inadequate investment in social intermediation, capacity buildingo f Micro-Finance Intermediaries
         (MFIs) and Business Support Services; and
         The security situation which has increasedthe general riskiness attachedto all economic activities
         inthe ruralareas-andhasparticularly threatenedthe operation ofmicro-finance organizations
         andprograms identifiedwith the government.

Significantly absent from the list of commonly agreedconstraints facing Nepal's micro-finance industryis
shortage o f lending capital. The remarkable success of Savings and Credit Groups shows that these small
groups do not even need outside capital intheir early stages becausethey are functioning ina largely
subsistenceeconomy. It i s often only when they reach the stage o f commercializationafter several years of
operation or when a road or some new productive technology comes in-that these groups require capital
           -
beyondtheir own member savings. Indeed, a study done by CECI reports that for many o f these groups
their usual 97 percent repayment rate actually dropped when they received even small seedcapital grants
underthe Participatory District Development Program(PDDP) andLocalDevelopment Training (LDT)
programs. There i s widespread concern among micro-finance specialists that loans or even seed money
from PAF could actually damage the discipline and sustainability o f the strong Savings and Credit Groups
whichare emergingall over Nepal.

There are several sources o frefinance available for the larger MFIswho are performing well and are able
to demonstrate good lending and riskmanagement practices. Most prominent is the RuralMicro-finance
Development Center (RMDC) which was created several years ago andhas a government-secured loan o f
$20,000,000 from Asian DevelopmentBank available for on-lending to eligible micro-finance
intermediaries. Inits first three years o f operation, RMDC has beenable to place only about $2.6 million


                                                      -41  -

o f its lending capital to some 17 borrowers. As the CEO of FWDC remarked, the problem inNepal is not
a shortage o f lending capital. Rather he and many others inthe field cite lack of capacity and poor enabling
legislationand an inefficient mainstream banking sector as the main constraints on the expansion o f
micro-finance servicesinNepal.

Butthis does not necessarily meanthat PAF hasno role to play insupporting the expansion of
micro-finance inNepal. There seemedto be broad consensus, that the PAF should provide funds to
support NGOs to cany out social intermediation, but it should not provide loans or financial intermediation
since ample lending capital i s already available inthe system as long as the groups are assistedingetting
access to it. Since social intermediation and capacity buildingare public goods, this approach avoids
requiringthe PAF to involve itselfinthe allocation offunds that will support private goods (loans to
individuals). All PAF funds can be given as grants where the main staffresponsibility is to ensurethat the
grants are used efficiently and for the purposes intended, rather thanmalungsure that the funds are paid
back on time. It i s very likely that by providing indirect support to buildcapacity among poor clients
(through social intermediation) and among the organizations delivering micro-finance services, PAF will do
more to help scale up the sector than itselfbecome another apex intermediary.

Conclusionsfrom the Review of Nepal Experience

Studies o fthe Nepaliexperience over the past few decades show that product efficiency and quality are
closely related to the process by which projects are realized. Where there i s strong participationon the part
o f community andbeneficiary groups throughout the project cycle, quality and efficiency were higher
regardless of sector. Adopting the rightprocess leads to better projects, and better levels o f service.

Ineducation, there is muchunsystematic evidencethat community-based approacheswork better, andsome
evidence exists for health. But perhapsthe more salient consideration is that inboth sectors the
government has made the decision to move towards decentralization and community-based approaches.
This is consistent with the govemment's overall decentralization program. The most reasonableconclusion
is, therefore, that the PAF should do likewise, and focus on small-scale local projects with high degrees o f
participationand community orientation.

Inthe case ofroads, bridges andtrails, water andsanitation, and irrigation, there is abundantevidence that
community-based systems for service delivery work better than centralized systems. The infrastructure so
produced, and the services that result are cheaper, better quality and more sustainable than those o f line
ministries. It i s not a trivial consideration that users at the grass roots level are more satisfied with them
andprefer themto the centralized option. Butdespite all of this, the bulkofnationalpublic investment in
these sectors continues to go through the least cost-effective, least sustainable channel. There i s great
potential for large gains inefficiency inNepal, andthe PAF should leadthe way in attaining them.

There does not seemto be anyjustification for PAF to support micro-finance inNepal through lending.
However, eventually PAF could support micro-finance indirectly through capacity buildingfor MFIs.
Eveninstitutional support to micro-finance is difficult and this should not be considered by PAF as an
option inits early stages.

PAF and Local Bodies

Ingeneral, community-dnvenprojects face a constanttension betweenreaching the poorest ofthe poor and
financing projects incommunities where the best conditions for project success exist. Over the long term,
decentralization andthe spreado f the institutions o f local governance throughout a country will tend to


                                                        - 42 -

reduce the tension between efficiency andpoverty-targeting by redressing the organizational disadvantage
of poorer communities and givingthemvoice andpolitical power. Decentralization thus marks a two-fold
stimulus to pro-poor institutions: the first directly through localbodies which is responsiveto its
constituency, the majority o f which indeveloping countries will likely bepoor; and the secondindirectly by
providingan incentive for the poor to organize themselvesto take better advantageo f local bodies's
resources (demandeffect). However, Nepal is still far from achieving such a decentralized institutional
framework. localbodies inNepal are new-bom, andthere is still a long way to go on administrative and
fiscal decentralization, on capacity buildingand on empowering constituents. Moreover, even iflocal
bodies were fully active, it would be unlikely that they would respond to the needs of the mostly
disadvantaged. This i s because local bodies often give priority to activities that benefit the largest number
of constituents or to those with the highest ability to pay local taxes. Thus, even with fully functioning
local bodies that would be a role for an instrument such as PAF to provide tied funds or matching grants
for programs that benefit the socially excluded.

While Nepal pursues its pathtowards decentralization, there i s a short-term need for emergency
interventions for poverty reduction, particularly inthe context o f the conflict situation, and PAF would play
such a role. However, as local bodies come into place, PAF should withdraw from activities that fall under
their realm, such as local infrastructure, and focus instead on targeted programs or inproviding incentives
to local bodies to address the needs o f the poor andexcluded. But it is equally important that inaddition to
its short term andtransitory emergency role inpoverty alleviation, PAF does not undermine the emerging
decentralization processnor serve as an excuse for the government not to decentralize further and to slow
the pace o f decentralization.

To contribute to the decentralization agenda inNepal, the PAF would thus follow basic rules:

         PAF shouldbe usedto sharpen the demand for local bodies by increasing the expectations o f target
         beneficiaries;
         PAF mustnot become a source o f financing for localbodies. PAF, instead, should complement a
         well established system o f fiscal transfers channeled through MOF and the budget. Support to
         PAF beyondits pilot phase would be tied to the development and implementation o f the fiscal
         framework for local bodies.
         PAF musthave a clearly spelled out exit strategy to decide from which districts, villages and
         sectors it should withdraw andwhen. PAF will withdraw from the financing of local public goods
         once transfers with incentives for poverty reduction are inplace, transparency and participation in
         budgetingare practiced at the local level, andbasic localpublic administrative capacity i s inplace;
         PAF should not compete with sources o f financing for localbodies, for example, by capturing all
         ongoing HMGNschemes under its umbrella rather than allowing some o fthese to be consolidated
         into a system of inter-governmental transfers; and
         To ensure that complementarity between decentralization and PAF are well managed and PAF
         withdraws as decentralization expands, the NationalFederations o f DDCs and VDCs are part o f
         the PAF Board.




                                                       - 43 -

                               Annex 5: Financial Summary
                          NEPAL: Poverty Alleviation Fund Project
                                     Years Ending

                                                 IMPLEMENTATIONPERIOD                   X I    z

                         IYear1  I Year2    I  Year3    1 Year4    1Year5  IYear6  IYear 7
Total Financing
Required
Project Costs
  Investment Costs           2.4        3.O         5.2        5.6      0.0     0.0        0.0
 Recurrent Costs             0.1        0.1         0.1        0.1      0.0     0.0        0.0
Total ProjectCosts           2.5        3.1         5.3        5.7      0.0     0.0        0.0
Total Financing              2.5        3.1         5.3        5.7      0.0     0.0        0.0
Financing
   IBRDllDA                  2.2        2.7         4.8        5.3      0.0    0.0         0.0
   Government                0.1         0.1        0.1        0.1      0.0    0.0         0.0
       Central               0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0      0.0    0.0         0.0
       Provincial            0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0      0.0    0.0         0.0
   Co-financiers             0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0      0.0    0.0         0.0
User FeeslBeneficiaries      0.2         0.3        0.4        0.3      0.0    0.0         0.0
Other                        0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0      0.0    0.0         0.0
Total ProjectFinancing       2.5         3.1        5.3        5.7      0.0    0.0         0.0
Main assumptions:




                                            - 44 -

                              Annex 6(A): Procurement Arrangements
                             NEPAL: Poverty Alleviation Fund Project

Procurement
InstitutionalCapacity

PAF is a newly created autonomous agency which does not have previous experience o f carrying out
procurement under Bank financed projects. However, this particular project is community drivenwhere
almost all the procurement, primarily involving small works andgoods and, to a small extent, services, will
be carried out by beneficiary groups comprised ofpoorlmarginalizedpeople. Thusprocurement capacity
needsto be built up at the beneficiaries and PO level rather than at central PAF level. Since bringinginan
external Procurement Agency at the central PAF level would not be an appropriate solution, the project will
target capacity buildingintwo ways: (i)   Undera sustainedinformation and education campaign, the PAF
will employ fmsMGOs to develop andconduct aregular series of workshops, seminars andinteraction
programs for all entities involved inthe implementation o f the project; and(ii)  PAF will hire a Procurement
Officer to work at the central PAF level. This officer shall be well versed inthe nationalprocurement
procedures as laid out inthe Nepal FinancialAdministration Regulations (FAR) for public procurement,
and also be conversant with Bank fundedprocurement specially relating to community driven projects. The
Procurement Officer shall be responsible for hiringconsultantsMGOs to prepare a comprehensive
Community Manual which shall also be translated into Nepali or the relevant local language. This manual
will be providedto all participants inthe project (communities, local bodies, NGOs, andconcernedPAF
staff), and regular workshops and seminars will be heldto disseminate its contents to all stakeholders so as
to ensure good understanding of the applicable procurement procedures.

ProcurementRisk

The bulkofthe procurement, comprising over 80% ofthe project cost, shall be undertaken at the
community level by the eligiblebeneficiaries. However, as these beneficiaries do not have experienceo f or
knowledge o f the requirementso f community procurement, there i s a potential risk from a large volume o f
contracting at the community level. Therefore, inaddition to capacity buildingmechanisms (such as
development o f a simple community manual, procurement guidance workshops); strong monitoring
mechanisms, including social audits, are requiredto be instituted. This i s all the more vital duringthe first
eighteen months of this four-year project.

The project has addressedmost ofthese needs byproviding a detailed mechanism for procurement
orientation andtraining o fbeneficiaries by NGOs, and a continuous monitoring and evaluation o f project
progress and status to ensure efficient completion o f the project andachievement o f its objectives through
the use of a monitoring agency.The Terms of Reference(TOR) for the agency conducting this monitoring
would specifically include responsibility for regular reporting and physical verification o f the assets created
by groups andthe existence of an effective O&M mechanism for the completed community sub-project.

ProcurementArrangements

1.       At the community level:

The grant would fmance small value sub-projects under the two mainproject components o fIncome
Generation Activities (which include construction o f micro-irrigation schemes; settingup o f animal
husbandry services or micro-enterprises etc.) and Community Infrastructure (covering activities such as



                                                    - 45 -

construction o f engineered foot trails and footbridges, small works inthe community school or sub-health
post etc.) Sub-projects to be fundedunder the Grant are not expectedto cost more than the equivalent o f
US$ 5,000 each. Further, for any sub-project, it is expectedthat the concernedgroups would contribute the
unskilled labor component, andmobilize and hire slulled labor themselves. Inlight o f the small values,
procurement o f works and goods shall be done through direct contracting or shopping procedures detailed
inthe instructions, standardforms andcontract formats contained inthe Community Manualthat shallbe
preparedby the PAF Boardbasedon the procedures inthe latest version o f the Nepal Financial
Regulations.

Grantsfor Community Subprojects (US$13.88 million): The project would finance grants for small
sub-projects proposed by groups o f poor people such as village approach or link roads, community halls,
watershed development, strengthening o f health care centers, improving animal health care and upgrading
breedingfacilities, drains, minor irrigation works, wells, drinkingwater arrangements, and so on. The
average value o f each sub-project would be about US$ 5,000 and the maximum would not exceedUS$
50,000.00 equivalent. There would be in all about 2,500 subprojects financed. Procurement would be in
accordancewith para 3.15 of the Guidelines relating to Community Procurement and the following:

         Works:
         (a) direct contracting with registered NGOs or local community organizations;

         (b) lump-sumfixed-pricehit rate contracts with qualifiedcontractors awarded onthe basis of
         quotations obtained from at least 3 qualified local contractors inresponse to a written invitation; or



         (c) community carrying out the works themselves and taking up technical/managerial assistance
         from government agenciesor NGOs or hiringservices o f individual experts.

         Goods:The goods estimated to cost less than US$ 1,000 per contract up to an aggregate amount
         not exceeding US$50,000 may be procuredthrough Direct Contracting procedures. Goods
         estimated to cost less than US$ 50,000 per contract would be procured under Shopping procedures
         on the basis o f at least 3 quotations usingthe forms and formats provided inthe Community
         Manual. These formats, as well as the format for contracts with community groups, have been
         agreedwith the PAF.

         Services:The subprojects may also include the hiringo f services for training of community
         members,wherever these would bemanagedby the communities themselves. Suchservices may be
         procuredon a sole-source basis through negotiations with local NGOsiPOs.

2.       At the central PAF level

Works: The project will not support any civil works construction at this level.

Goods, Equipment, Furniture and Supplies (US$0.38 million) :These shall include office equipment
such as computers, printers,furniture and furnishings, vehicle rental, and so on.

All project activities to be financed underthe Grant would beprocuredinaccordancewith the procedures
inthe Bank's Guidelinesfor Procurement underIBRDLoans andIDA Credits (January 1995, revised
January and August 1996, September 1997 andJanuary 1999) and Guidelines for Selection and
Employment o f Consultants (January 1997, revised September 1997, January 1999 and May 2002) and the
followingNCB provisions:



                                                      - 46 -

(i) thecountryspecificmodelbiddingdocumentsforNCBdevelopedjointlybytheBankandHMG,
    Only
and mandatedfor use inBank fundedprojects, (as amendedfrom time to time) shall be used; (ii)          invitation
for bids shall be advertised in at least one widely circulated nationalnewspaper, at least 30 days prior to
the deadline for bid submission; (iii)  no special preference will be accorded to any bidder, either for price or
for any other terms and conditions when competing with foreign bidders, state owned enterprises, small
scale enterprises or enterprises from any given state; (iv) except with the prior concurrence o f IDA, there
shall be no negotiationo fprice with the bidders, even with the lowest evaluatedbidder; (v) extension ofbid
validity will not be allowed without the prior concurrence of IDA (a) for the first request for extension if it
is longer than eight weeks and (b) for all subsequent requests for extension irrespective o f the period (such
concurrence will be considered by IDA only incases o f Force Majeure andcircumstances beyondthe
control o f the Purchaser or Employer.); (vi) re-biddingshall not be carried out without the prior
concurrence o f IDA. The system o f rejecting bids outside a predeterminedmargin or `bracket' o fprices
shall not be used; (vii) rate contracts entered into by any HMGor parastatal agency will not be acceptable
as a substitute for NCB procedures. Such rate contracts will be acceptable for any procurement under
National Shopping; and (viii) the two or three envelope systemwill not be used.

NCB: Goods estimated to cost less than the equivalent ofUS$50,000 per contract (e.g., furniture,
computers and peripherals, office equipment, training equipmentetc.) up to an aggregatevalue o f US$
200,000 wouldbe procured following NCB procedures inaccordancewith the provisions with para 3.3 and
3.4 o f the guidelines.
International or National Shopping :Goods (except vehicles) estimated to cost less thanUS$ 25,000 per
contract (e.g., small items o f equipment, urgent requirements o f computers, audio-visual equipment,
furniture, etc.) would be procuredby the PAF insmall lots usingNational Shopping procedures in
accordancewith paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 o f the Guidelines.

Training and Consultancies (US$ 1.27 million):Inadditionto NGOs or firms for conductingworkshops
and/or training activities, this will include hiringf m s and individuals for technical assistance, media
consultancy, studies, monitoring, quality supervisors for community works, NGOs andPartner
Organizations and so on. About fifty percent o f training expenditures would be for the training and
capacity buildingo f POs and VDCs and the other fifty percent for the training o f beneficiaries.

Consultancies and studies would be contracted on Terms and Conditions which are inaccordancewith IDA
Guidelinesfor the use of Consultants (January 1997andrevisedinSeptember 1997andJanuary 1999and
May 2002).

Technical assistance, media consultancy services would be procuredusing QCBS procedures.

For contracts with consulting firms/institutions valued below US$lOO,OOO equivalent per contract,
procurement would follow QCBS or methods basedon consultant's qualifications or Single Source
Selection dependingupon the appropriatenesso f the proceduresrelevant to the requirements.

For contracts with NGOs and CBOs estimated to cost less than the equivalent o f US$ 100,OO per contract,
the selectionmethods wouldbe either Consultants Qualificationsor Single Source Selection.
For Individual consultants, no contract shall exceed US$50,000 equivalent per contract.

The StandardRequest for Proposals and Conditions of Contract would be usedfor all contracts. For
consultancies estimated to cost US$200,000 or less, the shortlist can comprise entirely national consultants.




 Procurement methods (Table A)



                                                      -47-

 ProcurementPlanning. The PAF Board is inthe process ofpreparinga general overall procurement plan
anda specific plan for the first 18 months. The latter will indicate the amount andnumberof subprojects
targeted for this period, and provide details o f procurement activities at the central levelwith related
estimated costs andprocurement methods.

NCBProvisions. All NCB contracts shall be awarded inaccordancewith the provisions ofparagraphs
3.3 and 3.4 o f the Guidelines for Procurement under IBRDLoans and Credits issued by the Bank and
revisedinJanuary 1999(the Guidelines). Inaddition, all NCB contracts to be financed with the proceeds o f
the Credit'Grant shall follow the following procedures:

        only the modelbiddingdocuments for NCB agreedwith the Bank shall be used (as amendedfrom
        time to time);

        invitations to bidshall be advertised inat least one national newspaper with a wide circulation, at
        least 30 days prior to the deadline for submission o f bids;

        biddocuments shall bemade available, bymail or inperson, to all who pay the required fee;

        foreign bidders shall not be precluded from biddingandno preference of any kind shall be given to
        any bidders inthe biddingprocesswhen competing with the foreign bidders, state owned
        enterprises, or small scale enterprises;

        qualification criteria shall be stated inbiddingdocuments, and, ifregistration process i s required, a
        foreign bidder declared as the lowest evaluated responsive bidder shall be given a reasonable
        opportunity o f registering, without let or hindrance;

        bid shall be openedinpublic inone location, immediately after the deadline ofthe submission of
        bids;

        bids shall not be rejectedmerely on the basisof a comparison with an official estimatewithout the
        prior concurrence of the Association;

        except with the prior concurrence of the Association, there shall not be negotiation o fprice with the
        lowest evaluated responsive bidder or with any other bidders;

        contracts shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated responsive bidder;

        rebidding shall not be carriedout without the prior concurrence ofthe Association;

        all biddersicontractors shall provide bid securityiperformance security as indicated inthe bidding
        documents;

        evaluation o f bids shall be made instrict adherenceto the criteria stipulated inthe bidding
        documents, ina format andwithin a specified period agreed with the Association;

         abidder'sbid security shall apply only to a specific bid, and a contractor's performance security
         shall apply only to a specific contract under which it was hished;



                                                      - 48 -

  (xiv)   bids shall not be invitedonthe basis o fpercentagepremiumor discount over the estimated cost;

  (xv)    except in cases o f force majeure and/or situations beyondthe control of the Project, extension of
          bidvalidity shall not be allowedwithout the prior concurrence ofthe Association (i) the first
                                                                                                   for
          request o f extension ifit is longer than eight weeks; and (ii) all subsequentrequests for
                                                                          for
           extension irrespective o f the period, and

  (xvi)   there shall not be any restriction on the means o f delivery o f the bids.

                           Table A: ProjectCosts by ProcurementArrangements
                                               (US$ millionequivalent)

                                                              Procurement MethodI
      Expenditure Category                     ICB               NCB              Othe;           N.B.F.     Total Cost
 1. Works                                     0.00               0.00               1.40            0.00        1.40
                                              (0.00)             (0.00)           (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.00)
 2. Goods                                     0.00               0.24              0.12             0.00       0.36
 Equipment,vehicles for PAF                   (0.00)             (0.22)           (0.10)          (0.00)       (0.32)
 Board
 3. Services                                   0.00               0.00              1.10            0.00        1.10
 Consultants, NGOs, Partner                   (0.00)             (0.00)           (1.04)          (0.00)       (1.04)
 Organizations:costs of Training
 and Workshops
                                     ~~~~~
 4. Operating Costs                            0.00               0.00              0.69            0.00        0.69
 IncludingProject Preparation                 (0.00)             (0.00)           (0.59)           (0.00)      (0.59)
 Advance
 5. Subprojects :                              0.00               0.00             12.23            0.00       12.23
 Total cost of subprojects                    (0.00)             (0.00)           (12.23)          (0.00)     (12.23)
 under Income Generation;
 Small Infrastructureand
 Innovation Grant components
 6. Unallocated                                0.00               0.00              0.82            0.00        0.82
                                              (0.00)             (0.00)           (0.82)           (0.00)      (0.82)
     Total                                     0.00               0.24             16.36            0.00       16.60
                                              (0.00)             (0.22)           (14.78)          (0.00)     (15.00)
~




   I'Figures inparentheses are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Grant. All costs include contingencies.




       Prior review thresholds

  (i)      Procurement conducted by communities inthe course o f implementationshall be subject to post
  review, during the secondand fourth year ofthe project, by an independent agency hiredby PAF.

  (ii)     Eachcontract for goods and for works for US$ 50,000 equivalent and above, and all single
  source/direct contracts estimated at US$ 5,000 equivalent andabove.




                                                        -49-

(iii) EachcontractforconsultingserviceswithfirmsfollowingQCBS,QBSorothercompetitive
selection estimated at US$ 100,OO equivalent and above, CQ or single source contracts estimated at US$
25,000 equivalent and above, and all contracts with individuals valued at US$ 10,000 equivalent and
above.

    Overall ProcurementRiskAssessment: High

    Frequency of procurementsupervisionmissionsproposed:

i)      By the Bank: One every 4 months duringthe first year of the project, and once every 6 months
thereafter;
ii)     Special procurement supervision for post-reviewlaudits by independent review firms :during the
second and fourth year o f the project.




                                                  - 50 -

             Annex 6(B): FinancialManagement and DisbursementArrangements
                              NEPAL: PovertyAlleviation Fund Project

FinancialManagement
1. Summary ofthe FinancialManagement Assessment

Country Issues

The Nepal Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA), jointly conducted by HMGNandIDA,
was completed in2002. The assessment concludedthat the failure to comply with the impressive legal and
regulatory fiduciary framework makes fiduciary risk inNepal "High" by the standardso f that framework.
Faithful implementation o f the framework would have brought risks closer to good practices found in
developed countries. Fiduciary riskinNepal is similar to that inmost developing countries.

The government has put inplace a sound financial managementsystem, with the introduction ofa
computerized Integrated Financial Management Information System which connects 64 out o f 75 districts
(of which, 57 are currently functional) and are networkedenabling it to receive on-line expenditure reports.
The development budgetwas prioritized in2002 (as part ofa three year MTEF), andthe number of
projects/programs was significantly reduced. Priority projects are requiredto prepare trimester work plans
with detailed outputlphysicalachievement targetsandexpectedresults. Expenditurereportingand fund
releaseprocedures are now linkedto performance for priority projects which will be extended to all other
projects/activities. Information on budget allocations, expenditures and outputs are now published, and
made available to the public. A web portal for HMGNhas been created, with links to government
departments which contain information on programs and activities.

HMGNhasalso constituted the Accounting StandardsBoardandthe AuditingStandardsBoardinMarch
2003 and since then these Boards have respectively releasedfour Accounting Standards and eight Auditing
Standards. Starting from FY2004, HMGNis planning to introduce new accounting codes and
classifications departing from regular and development budget, and classifying according to recurrent and
capital budget, as per the IMF's Government Financial Statistics.

Adequacy of FMarrangements

The PAF Secretariat is an autonomous body created under the separate Ordinance No. 11, and constitutes
a 10-member Boardwhich include the Chair, the Vice-Chair, Secretary NPC, Chairperson o f DDC
Federation, VDC Federation, National Women's Commission, andNational Dalit Commission,
representative NGO Federation, andtwo (including a woman) persons contributing substantially to poverty
alleviation. The Board's role is to approve strategy, programs and operational policies o f the PAF,
mobilize resources, approve annual budget and staffing o f the PAF Secretariat, and support the
monitoringhmpact system and review results. The creation o f the PAF Boardwas approved inNovember
2003, and hence, the PAF operation is a new innovation to address poverty alleviation measures. While
designingthe operations ofPAF, similar successfuloperations elsewhere inthe world and a successful
rural water supply operations inNepal will be replicated. The PAF Secretariat will play a leadingrole in:
(a) implementing project activities inline with strategies, policies andpriorities set by the Board, (b)
designingand implementingcapacity buildinginitiatives (including for the Secretariat staff), (c) designing
targetingmechanisms, (d) defining the roles and responsibilities of DDCs and VDCs underPAF, (e)
preparing periodic progress reports including the PAF Annual Report,    (0designingandimplementing
monitoring and evaluation systems, including baseline, and (g) designing and implementing



                                                    -51 -

communications anddissemination campaign.

The PAF Boardis headedby the Prime Minister (Chairperson), and the Vice-Chair is the ChiefExecutive
o f the operations. The PAF Secretariat i s headedby the ExecutiveDirector, who functions as the Board
Secretary. The PAF Board is now settingup various system and processes for the PAF Secretariat with
the World Bank's Project Preparation Facility (PPF) assistance. Inthis context, the Secretariat i s now
preparing the Operations Manual and the Financial Management Manual leaming from the experience o f
the RuralWater Supply and Sanitation FundBoard, which i s considered a successful andinnovative
operations inNepal. Along with the finalization o f these manuals, the PAF Rules and Regulations will
also be formulated andapproved which will describe the operational modality o f the PAF to ensure
appropriate controls over PAF transactions. The duties andresponsibilities o f the key PAF Secretariat staff
will also be described so as to ensure that financial transactions are initiated, approved and executed at
different levels. The PAF Secretariatwill have a separate Finance and Administration Divisionwhich will
be headedby a Finance Analyst with at least apost graduate degree inbusiness administrationor a
chartered accountant with some experience o f handlingintemational procurement, and the incumbent will
be responsible to take charge of financial managementactivities and reporting, andprocurement activities
for the Project. Heishe will be supportedby an Accounts/Finance Officer. The FM staff are yet to be
recruited.  While recruiting these staff, the Secretariatwill ensure that they have adequateexperience in
government accounting systemand also have some experience with donor reporting. The Secretariathas
the independenceto recruit qualifiedandexperience staff on a competitive basisfrom the market.
Provided that the Manuals are finalized, rules and regulations are formulated, and finance and other
technical staff are on board as envisaged, the FMarrangements for the Project should be adequatefor
project implementation.

RiskAnalysis. Fromthe financial managementperspective, there is amediumrisk mainly because the
PAF Secretariat i s a newly createdagency andthe FMstaff are yet to be appointed. Systems are being
putinplace. Staff needto betrained onthe Bankprocedures. Training of staff should receive priority
attention. Priority commitment o f the government for poverty alleviation, highlevel representation of the
PAF Boardheadedby the Prime Minister,replication o f the process from other successful countries and
from the RuralWater Supply FundBoard, and priority focus o f the World Bank are some reasonsthat will
mitigate the risks. Exposure visit by PAF staff, leaming from the experience o f the rural water supply
operations, and close supervision o f the operations by the Bank are some other measuresthat will reduce
the possible risks. Adequate control, monitoring and safeguardmeasureswill be part o f the operation. In
this respect,the PAF Boardwill actproactively and inan independent andautonomous way to ensure that
funds are not captured or manipulated politically, and funds are utilized for intended purpose.

Strengths. The proposed operation will have the following strengths inthe area of financial management:
(i)highlevelcommitmentofthegovernmenttoimplementpovertyalleviationprograms,(ii) PAF
    a                                                                                            the
Board is an independent and autonomous body which reports directly to the Prime Minister; (iii)    the chief
executive o f the PAF Secretariatis the Vice-chairman o f the Board, who has been appointed and has an
excellent track record inplanning and managemento f various agencies including servingas the
Vice-chairman o f the NPC; (iv) the key staff o f the Secretariat will be recruited from the marketbasedon
qualifications and expertise; (v) the Secretariatwill have the autonomy to determine market based
remuneration and incentives to attract competent and qualified staff; and (vi) the Secretariat staffwill be
provided exposures to similar operations inother countries and inNepal to learn from best practices o f
similar operations.

Weakness and Resolution. The PAF Secretariat is a newly established Secretariat. The Secretariat is
now focusing in establishing a system which include the formulation o f PAF Rules and Regulations,


                                                      - 52 -

operational manual and financial management manual. Staffing is another area which the PAF Secretariat
i s placing a highpriority. The Secretariat will recruit a team o f competent and qualified staff basedon
competition from the market. Capacity buildingandtraining o f Boardmembersand Secretariat staff will
receive priority attention. The Secretariat will also give priority to training o f Partner Organizations and
Support Organizations. Capacity buildingo f support organizations inservice delivery and financial
management is critical to the success o f the project intervention. The PAF Board will include inits annual
work program substantial effort intraining the support organizations. The PAF Secretariat will also equip
the Secretariatwith moderntechnology and facilitate use o f computers for information analysis and
dissemination to monitor both technical and financial progress.

Project Budgeting

At the PAF Secretariat Level. Project programming andbudgeting will follow the PAF's budgeting
system and chart o f accounts as stipulated inthe Financial Management Manual and Rules and Regulations
o f the Board. The PAF Secretariat will prepare the annual budget inaccordancewith the annual program
and implementation plan, andwill be submittedto the Boardfor approval. The budgetwill include details
inrespectofthe investments for poverty alleviationprograms which includegrantsfor income-generating
sub-projects targeted to the poorest and excluded groups, grants for small-scale village and community
infrastructure, capacity buildinginitiatives at the grassroot level and at the central level, and
administration expenses for the PAF Secretariat. Following the approval o f the proposed program and
budgetby the Board, the PAF Board will submit its program andrequest for the budgetto HMGNvia the
Prime Minister's Office for onward submission to NPC and MOF. The MOF reviews the request and
endorsesthe budget submittedby the PAF Board inthe form as it is approved by the Board. Following the
budget approval, the MOF releasesauthorization for spendingto the Prime Minister's Office, which will
further authorize the Executive Director o f the PAF Secretariat to spend according to the approved
program andbudget. The budget andexpenditures would be monitoredby the Secretariat and reported
through the project progress reporting, designed inthe form o f Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs).

At the Community Level. The project duringthe initial phasei s targeted in six remote districts -Mugu,
Darchula, Ramechhap, Siraha, Kapilvastu and Peuthan -to enable the poor, women and the disadvantaged
to gain access to resourcesfor income generating activities and small scale infrastructure sub-projects. The
Project will also make provision for another window o f funds know as "Innovative Funds" for
implementation o f any innovative interventions, and this is open to all communities throughout the country.
Grants will be disbursed basedon proposals submitted by the community groups, and the partner
organizations will be contracted by the PAF Board to provide technical guidance to community groups.
Specific forms and evaluation criteria will be developed andwill be made transparent. They will be part o f
Operational Guidelines that will be provided to the communities. A technical review committee at the PAF
Board will review all proposals and based on eligibility criteria and soundness o f sub-project proposals,
will sanction grants against specific activities. Implementationo f suchprograms will be inthe form of
contractual agreementbetween PAF, the community organizations, and the partner organizations.




                                                     - 53 -

FundFlow Arrangements

At the Central Level. HMGNreleasesthe budget as block grants (both for IDA part and HMGN
counterpart funds) to the PAF Secretariat inthree tranches as per the fundreleaseprocedure o f HMGN.
The PAF Board Accounts createdfor the purpose of receiving all proceeds o f block grants from HMGN,
funds received directly from other organizations inthe form of assistanceor grants with prior concurrence
of HMGN, and funds received from any other sources, will be operated under thejoint signature o fthe
ExecutiveDirector and the Chiefo f the Finance andAdministrative Division. Block grants releasedby
HMGNwouldbe first depositedintothe generalfundwhichwill subsequentlybetransferred to the Project
BankAccounts. The budgetapproved byHMGNwill be indicated inthe government's budget(RedBook)
under a separate budget head inthe name o fthe Poverty Alleviation Fund. Use o f IDA resourcesis
through the Special Account. A Special Account will be establishedto facilitate quick payments o f various
activities under the project. Special Accounts funds are normally used for makingdirect payments and for
transfer o f funds to HMGN's consolidated funds for pre-financing IDA'Sshare o f expenditures. Only IDA
eligible expenhtures are transferred from the Special Accounts.

At the community Level. All grants sanctionedby the PAF technical committee are disburseddirectly to
the community groups by PAF basedon contractual agreements(subproject agreements). There will be a
close scrutiny against eachpayment transaction by the PAF Boardwhich will be based on certification o f
output by partner agencies, andby the portfoliomanagerso fthe PAF Board. Six portfolio managerswill
be recruitedby the PAF Board who will be accountable to monitor the program inprogram districts. Total
amount o f grant to community groups i s basedon specific approved proposalwhere the community groups
also indicate their counterpart share o f funding for program implementation. From expenditure viewpoint,
once the funds are disbursedby the PAF, they are treated as expenditures. Progressesare measuredbased
on agreed outputs as specified inthe proposals. There i s a direct relationship between PAF Secretariat and
the community groups without any intermediaries for fund release inorder to ensure that funds are directly
received by the beneficiaries from the PAF Secretariat.

FinancialManagement Staffing. The PAF Secretariatfinancial management is managedby the Finance
and Administration Divisionheadedby the FinancialAnalyst, and supported by one Accounts Officer and
two Assistants. The PAF Secretariat i s inthe process o f recruiting these staff on a competitive basis. The
Head o f the Division will also be accountable for managing procurement under the Project. Providedthat a
qualified and competent staff are recruited as per provisions, the financial management staffing inthe PAF
Board should be adequate for the purpose of the PAF Board requirements.

Project FinancialAccounting, Reporting and Internal Controls

The PAF Board has adopted a cash basedaccounting system. Each individualtransaction will be
processedthrough a double entry accounting system, and all major items o f income and expenditure will be
recorded. The PAF Board has its own chart o f accounts and i s presented inthe Financial Management
Manual. The chart o f accounts consists o f coding and classification o f budgetary expenditures, which
corresponds with project expenditure categories. Accounting procedures at the PAF Secretariat and at the
community level'are grouped under receipt accounting, payment accounting o f bank transfers, bank
reconciliation, accounting o f advances andaccounting o f assets. The Board will maintain separate books
o f accounts o fprogram related expenditures and operational expenditures. All standard ledgers and asset
recordwill also be maintained. Adequate controls will be put inplace concerning the preparation and
approval o ftransactions. Accounts will be initially maintained inthe computer spreadsheet system.
Disbursementsof funds for income generating activities and small scale village and community


                                                      - 54 -

infrastructure sub-projects will be basedon specific outputs definedby contractual arrangements. Funds
disbursedunder such arrangementswill be bookedas expendituresby the PAF Secretariat. Monitoring
system at PAF will enable to measure outputs of such sub-projects. Outputs of each sub-project along
with total expenditures will be disclosedpublicly. Each CO will be requiredto maintain simple accounts
o f the use o f grants received from the PAF Board. The PAF Board will publisha simple manual for COS
providing simple instructions to maintain accounts. COSwill regularly arrange for audits o ftheir books o f
accounts by the licensed auditors at the community level, andwill submit the audit reports to the PAF
Board.

PAF will produce from the outset FMRs showing the sources and uses o f funds andprocurement
management report informats to be agreedupon duringnegotiations. To matchthe government planning
andreporting cycle, the FMRswill be produced on atrimester basis and submittedwithin45 days from the
end o fthe preceding trimester.

Financial Management Action Plan. Action plansto strengthenthe financial managementcapacity o f the
PAF Secretariatwere agreedbetween the Kingdomo fNepal and IDA and are summarized below:




                                                   - 55 -

Table D1: FinancialManagementAction Plans

Action                                       Responsibility       CompletionDate
1. One Finance Analyst, one Accounts         PAF Secretariat      June loth, 2004
Officer and two Assistants to be
appointed
2. Provide training to COSandpartner         PAF Secretariat      1st Training: June 15,
organizations basedop Operations                                 2004
Manual andFinancial Management
Manual
3 Prepare accounting ledgers as per the PAF Secretariat          June 15th, 2004
Financial Management Manual, andhave
the system ready for implementation in
simple computer spreadsheets
4 Prepare program andbudgetfor               PAF Secretariat     June 15th, 2004
FY2004/05 ready for submission to
NPC/MOF
5 Define a separate identifiable budget      MOF                 July 1,2004
code for Poverty Alleviation Project.
6. Appointment of the Intemal Auditor        PAF Secretariat      August 31, 2004
(Audit Firm) for FY2004/05 through a
competitive process

SupervisionPlan:

Progresso f project implementation will be closely monitoredby the PAF Board and IDA. Since this i s a
new initiative undertakingby the PAF Board, IDA will supervise the implementationof the project from
the Nepal Country Office (by making use of anational consultant as andwhen required) for the purpose of
supervision on fiduciary aspects (both procurement and financial management). PAF Boardwill report the
progress o f the Project through a trimester report, FMR. The agreedactionplan will be closely monitored
to ensure appropriate actions are being implemented. For the purpose o f intensive supervision, a national
consultantlconsulting firm will be recruited who will report to the field basedFMS. The key FM fiduciary
work are (a) periodic visit at cost centers for ex-post reviews, and ifany ineligible expenditures are noted,
report to the FMS for further remedial action; (b) review audit reports and prepare summary o f reports;
and(c) participate insupervision missions andkeepthe Team andthe PAF Secretariat informed o f
financial managementissues or improvements.

2. Audit Arrangements

InternalAudit. The PAF Ordinance requires the PAF Boardto recruit a qualifiedprofessional accounting
firmregisteredaccording to the Nepal CharteredAccountants Act for the purpose o fthe internal audit of
the PAF Secretariat. Such an arrangement will ensure to provide necessary input to improve control
measures and overall financial management inthe PAF Secretariat. The appointment o f the intemal
auditor will be on a competitive basis, for a maximumperiod of three years ifthe appointed consulting firm
performs satisfactorily.




                                                     - 56 -

For the review o f books of accounts maintained by COSand performance review o f Support
Organizations, the PAF Secretariatwill recruit professionally qualified firms. The review will focus in
ensuringthe financial accountability ofthe SOs, andsuggest measuresto improve their capacity insimple
book keeping, accounting and reporting inaccordance to the guidelines o f the PAF Secretariat. The review
will also focus on whether the intended objectives ofthe sub-projectshave beenmet. All contractsunder
the income generating activities and the small scale village and community infrastructure will be subject to
review by such firms.

External Audit. Annual project financial statements, SOE schedule, and special account statement will be
audited by the Office o f the Auditor General, which i s considered acceptable by IDA for this purpose, and
submitted to IDA within six months after the endof the fiscal year. Entity financial statements o f the PAF
Board i s also part o fthe audit which will also be submittedto IDA within six months after the endo f the
fiscal year. Copy o f such audit report will be submitted to IDA by January 15 o f each fiscal year. A
draft TOR acceptable to IDA was discussedwith OAG.

Arrangements for performance audit will also be put inplace. Such audit will also be carried out by the
Office o f the Auditor General inclose consultation with the PAF Board and inthe time frame that will be
mutually agreed between the PAF Board and IDA, andwill be at the discretion o f the Auditor General.
HMGNwill ensureadequatebudgetto OAGNto cany out performance audit. The performance audit will
examine the challenges encounteredandtasks accomplished duringthe course o fproject implementation.


Implementing        Audit                         Auditors                       Audit DueDate
Agency
PAF Board           Project Financial             Office of the Auditor          6 months after the
                    Statements                    General (OAG)                  end o f fiscal year
                                                                                 (January 15th)
PAF Board           Entity(PAF Board)             Private Auditors (random       6 months after the
                    Financial Statements          sample)                        end of fiscal year
                                                                                 (January 15th)

Withregard to the review ofthe accounts of the COS,the PAF Secretariat will recruit a professionally
qualified accounting firm to review the accounts maintained by the COS,andprovide opinion on the use o f
the grants towards the end o f the sub-project. These reports will be reviewedby the PAF Board, and will
take actions to improve the financial managemento f the COSwhere major deficiencies are reported.
Portfolio Managers o f the PAF Secretariat will also review these reports as part o f their supervision. The
Bank supervision mission will also review suchreports.

3. DisbursementArrangements

Disbursementsfrom IDA will be made inaccordancewith traditional disbursementprocedures, which
include full documentation or statement o f expenditure (SOE).     To facilitate disbursements, Special
Accounts will be established. For large payments, exceeding the Special Accounts threshold, direct
payments will be made by IDA. For small payments, including the release o f grants by PAF,
disbursementsfrom IDA will be on a reimbursementbasis.




                                                     - 57 -

Allocation of grant proceeds (Table C)
Disbursement underproposed grant will be made as indicated inTable C, which indicates the percentageof
financing for different categories of expenditures o f the project. It i s expectedthat IDA finds will be
disbursed over a period o f five years.
                                  Table C: Allocation of Grant Proceeds

           Expenditure Category                Amount in US$million                 Financing Percentage
(1) Block Grants for:                                    12.23                    100% o f disbursedamounts

(a)      Income Generating Activities
(b)      Small Scale Infrastructure
(c)      Innovative Funds
(2) Consulting Services                                   0.46                                  85%
(3) Equipment andvehicles for PAF                         0.32               100%of foreign expenditures, and 85%
                                                                                     o f local expenditures
(4) Training and knowledge sharing                        0.58                                 100%
(5) IncrementalOperating Costs                            0.15                                  80%
(6) Refundingo f Project Preparation                      0.44               Amount due pursuant to Section 2.02 (c)
Advance                                                                                 o f this Agreement
 (7) Unallocated                                          0.82

Total Project Costs with Bank                            15.00
 Financina                                    I                             I

 Use of statements of expenditures(SOEs):
The Association may require withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on the basis o f SOE for
expenditures: (a) for all Block Grants including Innovative Grants; (b) training, knowledge sharing; (c)
incremental operating costs; (d) under contracts for equipment and vehicles, costing less than $200,000
equivalent per contract; (e) under contracts for services o f consulting firms and POs costing less than
$100,000 equivalent per contract; and (f) under contracts for services of individual consultants costing less
than $50,000 equivalent per contract, all under suchterms and conditions as the Association shall specify
by notice to the Recipient.

 Special account:
For utilization o f IDA's share o fproject expenditures, the PAF Board may open andmaintain a Special
Deposit Account inUS dollars inthe Nepal Rastra Bank underterms andconditions acceptableto IDA.
The authorized allocation to the Special Deposit Account will be limitedto 3-4 months estimated
expenditures of IDA's share of the proposedproject. The authorized allocation will be limitedto US
$600,000. The Special Accounts will be managed under the joint signatureso f the Executive Director and
the Chief o f Finance and Administration Divisiono f the PAF Secretariat.

The implementingagency will ensure that the banklcash books are reconciled with bank statements every
month. It will separately submit replenishment applications for the special account on a monthly basis, or
when 25 percent of the authorized allocationhas been used, whichever occurs first. Replenishment
applications will be accompanied by reconciled statements from the bank inwhich the account i s



                                                     - 58 -

     maintained, showing all transactions inthe special account. Supporting documentation will be maintained
"    by respective cost centers for at least one fiscal year after the year inwhich the last disbursement from the
     Grant took place, and will be available to be reviewedby IDA staff, and independentauditors.




                                                           - 59 -

                              Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
                           NEPAL: Poverty Alleviation Fund Project


 Project Schedule                                          Planned                       Actual
 Time taken to prepare the project (months)              24                             38
IFirstBank mission (identification)             I        03101l2001             I       03101I2002    I
~
 Appraisal mission departure                             02/06/2002                     02/04/2004
 Negotiations                                            0510612002                     03/19/2004

/Planned Date of Effectiveness                  I        0813012004             I       08/30/2004    I

 Prepared by:
HMGNepal


 Preparation assistance:
 Consultations and Nepal Country Department

 Bank staff who worked on the projec included:
         Name                                            Speciality
 Geeta Sethi                             Economist
 LuisConstantino                         Natural Resource Economist
 IanBannon                               Conflict Prevention and Reconstruction Manager
 Bigyan Pradhan                          Sr. Financial Management Specialist
 Kiran Ranjan Baral                      Sr. Procurement Specialist
 NaimaHasci                              Social Scientist
 Yuka Makino                             Environmental Specialist
 Nazmul Chaudhury                        Economist
 LuisCoirolo                             Community Development Specialist
 Kiran Gautam                            Project Assistant
 Yoshiko Masuyama                        Project Assistant
 Paul Jonathan Martin                    Environmental Specialist
 NawafA. Al-Mahamel                      Counsel
 Sarita Rana                             Project Assistant
 Jeffery Hammer                          Economist




                                                  - 60 -

                            Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
                           NEPAL: Poverty Alleviation Fund Project


A. ProjectImplementationPlan
Environmental Assessment;
Vulnerable People's Development Plan;
Financial Management Manual.

B. Bank Staff Assessments
Country Assistance Strategy, Report No. 26509-NEP;
Joint Staff Assessment Report, ReportNo. 26674-NEP;
Social Funds:Assessing Effectiveness, OED, 2002;
Towards a Sustainable Approach for Poverty Reduction and Decentralization, Report No. 25019-NEP;
Delivery of Rural Development Services: A Comparative Assessment o f Altemative Institutional
Arrangements with a Focus on Terai, October 2000;
Review o f Overall Project Outcomes and Impacts, Part 11:Comparative Studies o f Work Performance
betweenRoad User Groups and Local Contractors, June 2002.

C. Other
Nepal's Poverty Reduction Strategy;
TenthPlan.
*Including electronic files




                                                -61 -

                                           Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
                                           NEPAL: Poverty Alleviation Fund Project
                                                              20-Am-2004
                                                                                                                        Difference betweenexpected
                                                                                                                                 and actual
                                                                    Oriainal Amount in US$ Millions                            disbursements'
Project ID  FY    Purpose                                      IBRD          IDA                        Cancel.  Undisb.       Orig   Frm Rev'd
PO84219     2004 NP Fin Sector Restructuring(PhaseII)              0.00      68.50                         0.00     76.90        0.00      0.00

PO43311     2003 POWERDEVELOPMENTPROJECT                           0.00      50.40                         0.00     81.62        4.50      0.00

PO82646     2003 CommunitySchoolSupport Project                    0.00       5.00                         0.00      4.69        0.91      0.00
PO71291     2003 NP FinancialSectorTechnicalAssistance             0.00      16.00                         0.00     13.52       -4.43      0.00
PO50671     2002 N P TelecommunicationsSector Reform               0.00      22.56                         0.00     24.38       11.14      2.87
PO45052     2000 ROADMAINTENANCEAND DEVELOPMENT                    0.00      54.50                         0.00     31.24      48.51       0.58
PO40612     1999 BASIC8 PRIMARYED. II                              0.00      12.50                         0.00      0.10        0.38      -0.50
PO10530     1998 IRRlGSECTOR OEVT                                  0.00      79.77                         8.01      2.96       12.19       1.43

                                                       Total:     0.00      309.23                         8.01     235.42      73.20       4.37




                                                                  NEPAL
                                                            STATEMENTOF IFC's
                                                        HeldandDisbursedPortfolio
                                                               Mar - 2004
                                                           InMillions US Dollars


                                                                                Committed                                 Disbursed
                                                                              IFC                                     IFC
     FY Approval               Company                               Loan      Equity      Quasi     Partic    Loan     Equity        Quasi     Partic
     1996198                   BhoteKoshi                             3.27       0.00       0.00       0.00    3.27        0.00        0.00      0.00
     1994                      Himal Power                          22.46        0.00       3.15       0.00    22.46       0.00        3.15      0.00
     2001                      ILFC - Nepal                           0.00       0.30       0.00       0.00     0.00       0.30        0.00      0.00
     1998                      JomsomResort                           4.00       0.00       0.00       0.00    4.00        0.00        0.00      0.00
                                       Total Portfolio:             29.73        0.30        3.15      0.00    29.73        0.30        3.15     0.00



                                                                          Aoorovals PendingCommitment
     FY Approval              Company                                    Loan        Equity        Quasi      Partic


                              Total PendingCommitment:                   0.00          0.00         0.00       0.00




                                                                   - 62 -

                                                Annex IO: Country at a Glance
                                       NEPAL: Poverty Alleviation Fund Project

POVERTY and SOCIAL                                                     South     Low-
                                                              Nepal     Asia   income          Development diamond'
2003
Population,mid-year (million)                                  24.2     1,401    2,495
GNI per capita (Atlas method, US$)                              240      460      430                        Life expectancy

GDP per capita (US$)                                            238
GNI (Atlas method, US$ billion)                                 5.7      640     1,072                               T
Average annual growth, 1997-03
Population (%)                                                  2.2       1.8       1.9        3NI
Laborforce (%)                                                  2.6       2.3      2.3         3er

Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1997-03)                                          :apita

Poverty ("Aofpopulation below nationalpoverty line, 7996)        42
Urban population I%of totalpopulafiont                           13        28       30
Life expectancyat birth (years)                                  60        63       59                               i

Infant mortality (per 1,000live births)                          66        71       81
Child malnutrition (% of children under5)                        48                                    Access to improved water source
Access to an improvedwater source (% ofpopulation)               88        84       76
Illiteracy ("A ofpopulafion age 15+)                             55        44       37
Gross primary enrollment ("A of school-agepopulation)           118        97       95         ---Nepal               Low-incomegroup
    Male                                                        128       108      103
    Female                                                      108        89       87

KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERMTRENDS
                                                       1983    1993     2002     2003         IEconomic ratios'
GDP (US$ billions)                                       2.4    3.7       5.5       5.7
(inpercent)
Gross domestic investmenUGDP                           19.6    22.6      24.6     26.1
Exports of goods and serviceslGDP                      10.2    18.4      16.1     14.6
Gross domestic savings/GDP                               8.5    12.2     11.8     11.3
Gross national savings/GDP                             10.7     14.5     25.7     25.6         Domestic                          Investment
Current account baiance/GDP                             -7.4    -8.1      2.6      -0.9        savings
Interest paymentson external debUGDP                     0.2     0.8      0.4       0.4
Total external debUGDP                                 18.5    54.9      52.9     51.8                               i

Total debt service/exports                               6.5     8.8      4.6       5.2
Presentvalue of debVGDP (2001)                                           28.1                                    Indebtedness
Presentvalue of debUexports (2001)                                       74.0

                                         1983-93 1993-03       2002     2003   2003-07            *-Nepal                Low-incomegroup
(average annualgrowth)
_ _ _                                         _ .        . -     .-        _ _       . _


STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY

("9 of GDP)
Agriculture                                            603     41 3
Industry                                               128      202
    Manufacturing                                        4 6     8 6       8 1      7 9
Services                                               269      384      395      397

Private consumption                                    81 3     793
                                                                 .-      78 1
                                                                           _ _      ._
Importsof goods and services                           21 3    288       288      2 9 3       I                    - O - G D P             I

                                                    1983-93  1993-03    2002      2003
(averageannual growth)
Agriculture                                              3.4     3.3      2.2       2.1
Industry                                                 9.2     4.9      -3.3      2.3
    Manufacturing                                      10.1      4.2    -10.0       0.4
Services                     . .      .                  4.7     5.5      -1.4      2.7
                                                                                  If Anta ar- micssnn thn          .     .




                                                                   - 63 -

                                                                                                                Neval

PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
                                         1983  1993   2002  2003                r/)                                   c
Domesticprices                                                     [Inflation

(% change)                                                            15

Consumer prices                          14.0   9.9    2.9    4.7     10
Implicit GDP deflator                    12.3  11.2    3.2    3.5

Government finance                                                      5

(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                  I O
Current revenue                                       11.5   12.3               98       99    00     01      02
Current budget balance                                -0.1   -4.0
Overall surplusldeficit                               -5.7   -4.0                       GDPdeflator ' O ' C P I


TRADE
                                         1983  1993   2001  2003
(US$ millions)                                                          Export and import levels (US$mill.)

Total exports (fob)                       82    379   942    782      2,000                                           I
                                                                            T
 Food                                                   65            1,500
 Pulses                                                 56            1,000
 Manufactures                                         256
                                                                                                                      I
Total imports (cif)                      457    860  1,773  1,707
 Food                                           101     61                    97    98     99    00    01    M
  Fuel and energy                                64    338
  Capital goods                                 169    312                              Exports      .Imports      O3



BALANCE of PAYMENTS
                                         1983  1993   2002  2003
(US$ millions)                                                         Current account balance to GDP ("A)
Exports of goods and services            249    675  1,060   949
Imports of goods and services            483  1,053  1,687  1,821     ' OT
Resource balance                         -233  -378   -626  -872

Net income                                 12     8     -7     -6
Net current transfers                     36     75    777   825

Current account balance                  -185  -295    143    -53
Official transfers                         4     77    143    161

Financing items (net)                     137   380   -323  -143
Changes in net reserves (-=increase)      44   -162     36  -123     1-51
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ million$           571  1,055  1,184
Conversion rate (DEC, loca/lUS$J         13.8  48.0   75.9   77.8

EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
                                         1983  1993   2002  2003
(US$ millions)                                                          :omposition of 2002 debt (US$mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed     453  2,010  2,933  2,975
  IBRD                                      0     0      0      0                        F:S  G 3 6
  IDA                                     172   832  1,156  1,185                   A l A

Total debt service                        20     69     88     96
  IBRD                                      0     0      0      0
  IDA                                      2     10     26     30
Composition of net resourceflows
  Official grants                         94     77    143    161
  Official creditors                      68    156      4
  Private creditors                         1   -10      0      0
  Foreign direct investment                -1     6     -4     -2
  PoMolio equity                           0      0      0      0
World Bank program
  Commitments                             45      0     23     97       4. IBRD                          E Bilateral
  Disbursements                           31     69     38     27       3 -IDA    D -Othermultilateral   F Private
                                                                                                           --
  Principal repayments                     0     4      18     21       ;-IMF                            G -Short-term
  Netflows                                31     66     20      6
  Interest payments                         1    6       8      9
  Net transfers                           29     60     12     -3




                                                   - 64 -

MAP SECTIOK


