                                              Document of
                                          The World Bank
                                     FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

                                                                               Report No. 37162




                                         PROJECT PAPER

                                                 ONA

                    PROPOSEDADDITIONAL FINANCING(GRANT)

                           INTHE AMOUNT OF SDR 16.9MILLION
                               (US$25.0 MILLIONEQUIVALENT)

                                                  TO

                                               NEPAL

                                                FOR A

                        POWRTY ALLEVIATIONFUNDPROJECT

                                          October 12,2006




Sustainable Development Sector Unit
South Asia Regional Office


This document hasa restricted distribution and may beusedby recipients only inthe performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without World Bank
authorization.

                          CURRENCYEQUIVALENTS
                     (Exchange RateEffectiveAugust 31, 2006)
                               Currency Unit = NPR
                                   NPR 1.00 = US$0.013
                                    US$l.OO = NPR74


                                   FISCAL YEAR
                                      July 15 -- July 14


                      ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAS    Country Assistance Strategy                NGO        Non-governmentalOrganization
CBO    Community-basedorganization                NISP       Nepal Irrigation Sector Project
CDD    Community-drivendevelopment                N L Ss     Nepal Living Standard Survey
CECI   CanadianCenter for International Studies   NPC        National PlanningCommission
CFAA   Country FinancialManagementAssessment      OAGN       Office of the Auditor Generalof Nepal
co     Community Organization                     OPM         Office of the PrimeMinister
DDC    District DevelopmentCommittee              O&M        Operationand Maintenance
EA     EnvironmentalAssessment                    PAF         Poverty Alleviation Fund
EMF    EnvironmentalManagementFramework           PDDP       Participatory DistrictDevelopment Program
EMP    EnvironmentalManagementPlan                PO         PartnerOrganization
FAR    Financial Administration Regulations       PPF         Project PreparationFacility
FMIS   FarmerManagedIrrigationSystem              PRS        Poverty ReductionStrategy
GON    Governmentof Nepal                         RMDC       Rural Micro-finance Development Center
INGO   InternationalNon-governmental              RUFIN      Rural FinanceNepal
       Organization                               SDC        Swiss Agency for Development and
LDT    LocalDevelopmentTraining                              Cooperation
MFI    Micro-FinanceIntermediaries                SFCL       Small FarmersCooperativesLimited
MIS    ManagementInformation System               SFDP        Small FarmersDevelopmentProgram
MOF    Ministry of Finance                        TA         Technical Assistance
MOL    Ministry of Local Development              TOR        Terms of Reference
MTEF   MidTerm ExpenditureFramework               VDC         Village DevelopmentCommittee
                                                  WUAF       Water User AssociationFacilitators




                                Vice President:   Praful Pate1
                             Country Director:    Kenichi Ohashi
                               Sector Director:   ConstanceBernard
                          TaskTeamLeader:         Geeta Sethi

                                                    Table of Contents

Data Sheets
          ..........................................................................................................................                             1

I     INTRODUCTION            ..........................................................................................................................         2
I1    BACKGROUNDAND RATIONALEFOR ADDITIONAL FINANCING                                                                             .............................. 3
I11
 ...                                   ................................................................................................................
Iv.   PROPOSEDCHANGES                                                                                                                                            7
      CONSISTENCY WITH CAS                      ........................................................................................................         7
V.    APPRAISALOFSCALED-UPPROJECTACTIVITIES                                                         .........................................................    8
V I   EXPECTED OUTCOMES                     ..........................................................................................................           10
VI1   BENEFITSAND RISKS
VIII
  ... FINANCIAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR THE ADDITIONAL FINANCING
                                       .......................................................................................................................1111


                              Project Paper Data Sheet




                                           Environmental Category: B

Borrower: Nepal
Responsible agency: Poverty Alleviation Fund
Revised estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$m)




Currentclosingdate: February 1,2009


Bankpolicies?                                                       oYes XNo
Have these been approved by Bank management?                        oYes oNo



[ ] Loan  [ ] Credit  X Grant
For Loans/Credits/Grants:
       Total Bank financing (US$m.):25.0
       Proposed terms:Same as original IDA grant.


                                    1. INTRODUCTION

 1.1      The Poverty Alleviation Fund (PAF) Project (Project ID P081968, IDA Grant
HP0910-NP) has demonstrated that it i s an effective' means of getting resources to the
poorest and most excluded groups in rural Nepal. The PAF i s about to commit all its
available resources, about two years ahead of original schedule. This Project Paper seeks
the approval of the Executive Directors to provide an additional grant in the amount of
US$25 million to Nepal for the PAF Project.                 A larger, repeater operation is being
considered for further scaling up of the Project at a later stage, but the proposed
additional financing i s needed to ensure continuity of PAF activities at a critical juncture
inNepal.

 1.2      There is a larger, strategic context to this support related to the significant
political transition in Nepal since April 2006.             Following three and a half years of
derailed democracy, a new government has been formed by the Seven Party Alliance
(SPA) and Parliament has been reinstated. While there is wide public support for these
developments, there i s also considerable skepticism over whether the political parties will
be able to gc' ern the country responsibly andeffectively. Similar concerns hcd led to the
King's intervention in the political process in 2002 and lie at the heart of the unstable
political situation. A central challenge for the new government i s therefore to establish
the credibility of the state as an effective institution, especially in terms of delivering
development results. The government is aware of this challenge and recognizes that it
must deliver tangible development impact to a broad segment of the population ina short
time. Thus, in its FY06/07 budget (which covers mid July 2006 to mid July 2007), the
government has made a set of successful community-based programs the centerpiece of
its effort to extend rapidly its developmental reach to the more remote and poorer areas of
the country. Among them, PAF i s seen as especially important because it has already
proven to be effective in targeting the poorest and marginalized communities.                    Other
community-based programs are also important, but most are adequately funded with
significant donor support, including several IDA operations. PAF, however, faces a
critical funding gap because of the speed of implementation which it has achieved.

1.3       The international community has been supportive of the new government and the
political transition in Nepal, while emphasizing that it hopes to see clear demonstration
by the government of a renewed focus on more effective and inclusive development. As
discussed below, the Bank supports the priorities reflected in the recently announced
FY06/07 budget of the new government, including its focus on PAF as a key instrument
to deliver quick development impact. Providingadditional funding for PAFwill not only
allow expansion of a successful pilot, but will also signal support for the larger effort by
the new government to emphasize inclusive development and sustainable poverty
reduction. Additional financing for the successful PAFpilot i s particularly well suited in


1 "Effectiveness" means generating high economic returns in sub-projects, disproportionate benefits
accruing to excluded groups and increased participation and innovation on the part of communities in the
designof sub-projects. The details of suchimpacts are discussedinsection 11.


                                                   2

 this regard as it can quickly and effectively expand coverage to very poor and
 marginalizedcommunities.

 1.4      The proposed additional grant would help finance the costs associated with
 scaling up the geographiccoverage of a well-targeted project that is reaching the intended
 beneficiaries and providing them opportunities for increasedincome generation, decision
 making, and accessing better services. The Government of Nepal (GON) received a
 grant of US$15 million for the ongoing pilot project insix of the least developed districts
 as defined by GON's district deprivation index. Additional financing of US25 million is
 hereby requestedto scale up project activities to 19 more districts, also rated among the
 poorest. This would increase PAF coverage to one-third of Nepal's 75 districts. Recent
 supervision confirms very satisfactory performance of the current Program. As discussed
below, the pace of implementation has accelerated significantly over the last year. As of
July 31st, 2006, the disbursementratio was 31%, although 80% of the funds had already
been committed by the PAF to specific projects selected and designed by beneficiary
communities2. It is expected that all funds for the current project will be fully committed
by end November, 2006. The additional financing will not involve any changes to the
profile of beneficiaries, implementation arrangements, menu of choice for the
beneficiaries or safeguard requirements.



  2. BACKGROUND AND RATIONALEFORADDITIONAL
                                             FINANCING

2.1       Program Obiectives and Scope: The original grant of US$15 million was
approved by the Board of the Directors on June 1, 2004 and became effective on
December 13, 2004. The key development objective was to support GON in initiating a
new poverty alleviation approach that could subsequently be scaled up, providing direct
and indirect benefits to people who had been excluded by reasons of gender, ethnicity
and caste, as well as to the poorest groups in rural communities in the selected districts,
by: (a) creating infrastructure, employment and income-generating opportunities; (b)
enhancing the capacity of local bodies, particularly the Village Development Committees
(VDCs), to provide better services for poor and socially excluded groups; and (c)
improving government efforts to better coordinate support targeted towards poor and
excluded groups. This objective i s being achieved by using a targeted instrument-the
Poverty Alleviation Fund. Under the additional financing, the objective would remain
unchanged, as would the components of the project, which include:                            (a) Income
Generation Sub-projects; (b) Infrastructure Sub-projects; (c) Innovation and Special
ProgramsWindow inany district that meetsthe agreedcriteria; and (d) Capacity building


 The large difference between commitments (80%) and disbursements (31%) can be explained by the
internal controls that have been put in place as part of the fiduciary management system. The money is
considered committed as soon as a sub-project agreement has been signed and money is released from the
PAF account into the community bank account. It is considered disbursed once the sub-project outputs are
certified by the PAFpersonnel in the districts and the money has paid for goods and services.


                                                     3

 for: (i)social mobilization; (ii)local bodies; (iii)target groups; (iv) micro-finance
 intermediaries; and (v) project administration, information, monitoring and evaluation.

 2.2      Proiect Performance to Date: Supervision ratings have been fully satisfactory
 throughout the life of the project, both for Development Objectives and Implementation
 Progress. As of mid-July, 2006, the PAF has signed grant agreements with 2,450
 community organizations, covering about 62,000 households (over 314,000 persons) in
 334 VDCs. In the six original target districts, about one-half of the VDCs have been
 covered. Of the grants approved, slightly over 60 percent are for income generating
 activities, with the balance supporting small-scale infrastructure investments. In total,
 about US$10.3 million has been disbursed into community bank accounts. Some 465
 sub-projects have been fully completed, and the others are in varying stages of
 implementation. Sub-projects for income generation (usually for investments for which
the communities have established revolving funds) include livestock and poultry
production (by far the category for which demand has been heaviest), off-season
vegetable production, establishment of small businesses such as retail shops (often the
first such shops in many villages), rickshaw transport (again, often the first and only
businesses that link remote villages to the outside world, including in some instances
taking on the additional role of an ambulance) and carpet making. Infrastructure sub-
projects to date have beer mainly small waterworks, roads and culverts.

2.3      Impact: The effectiveness of the project to date can be assessed interms of equity,
efficiency, andempowerment.

2.4      Equity. Direct beneficiaries of the project include a very high proportion (over-
representation) of the poorest and most vulnerable communities inNepal - dalits (former
low caste groups), janajatis (a range of ethnic minorities) and women. For janajatis, the
success in targeting i s due to the geographic distribution of the chosen project districts.
More remarkable has been the degree to which dalits have become members of
community organizations. The difficulty in reaching dalits i s that they do not live
geographically separate from other castes. Therefore, to reach them it is necessary for the
communities themselves to identify the lowest caste members as well as the poorest. The
social mobilization feature of the PAF has been particularly successful in achieving this.
To date, 94% of PAFbeneficiaries are classified as poor, as determined by the well-being
ranking assessed by the communities themselves. Thus far, 43% of beneficiaries are
dalits and 35% are janajatis; although these two groups account for only 15% and 23%
respectively, of the actual population in the six PAF districts. Furthermore, a review by
the Bank of a sample of approximately one-fourth of all PAF Community Organizations
(CO) and their settlements found that while 53% of the settlement populations were "hard
core poor," 66% of the CO members in those same settlements were "hard core poor".
Within the same communities, over 76% of the "hard core poor" were in fact covered by
the program. This evidence suggests that the PAF has been quite successful in avoiding
the risks of elite capture.

2.5      Efficiency. Given that PAF has only started to reach the beneficiaries over the
past 12 months or so, it i s difficult to measure its economic impact very precisely. The
latest Nepal Living Standard Survey (NLSS) and current PAF Management Information


                                              4

 System (MIS) data have been used to estimate the return to livestock purchases - the most
 common income generation sub-project selected by COS, representing about one-quarter
 of all PAF sub-projects. The results estimate a sustained increase in income to these
 households of about 10%-12%, which translates to about a 20%-25% rate of return. If
 there were no PAF, the only finance available to these households would be through
 informal credit markets charging interest rates close to 30%-40%, as reported by the
 Bank's latest Poverty Assessment. So, PAFhas helpedpoor people who would otherwise
 be blocked from undertaking highly productive investments through limited access to
 rural finance.     Furthermore, the sub-projects were chosen by the communities and
 therefore likely correspond better to local priorities than many nationally designed
 projects, a dimension of efficiency rarely captured instandard "analyses".

 2.6      Empowerment. Although more difficult to measure than efficiency and equity,
 there are indications that PAF is also having an impact on empowerment. As indicated
 above, partial data collected by PAF shows that excluded groups ( d a h andjanajatis) are
 strongly represented inthe leadership structure of COS. The same i s true of women, who
 account for over one-third of Chairpersons, 43% of Secretaries, and 60% of Treasurers
 (the latter's signature i s required to open a CO bank account).

 2.7     Again, there i s a direct connection between empowerment and efficiency. For
water sub-projects in particular, local participation in planning an appropriate location
and undertaking timely maintenance improves performance. In Darchula district, water
 sub-projects undertaken by the District Development Committee (DDC) regularly fail
within three months of construction either because they were inappropriately planned or
inadequately maintained. In contrast, all of the PAF water sub-projects are functional.
Consultation and ownership increase the sense of empowerment, responsibility and
ultimately the efficient functioning of the sub-projects.

2.8      Boxes 1and 2 below illustrate anecdotally how all three goals - efficiency, equity
and empowerment - have been furthered by the PAF. Efficiency i s captured by high rates
of return, equity by disproportionate benefits accruing to women and marginalized
groups, and empowerment by the ability of communities to come together to solve their
collective problems and needs.

Box 1: Collective Action and Water inMugu

Some sub-projects observed during supervision suggest quite high rates of return. For example, one
particularly remote village (Murma - a six hour walk from district headquartersat Gamgadi which is itself
only accessible by helicopter) decided to builda water collection and distribution system-that they had been
requesting from the District Department of Water Supply for the past eight years. Inthis community o f 62
households, water available in the village saves each woman (one per household) plus some children six
hours per day - one to three trips of two hours apiece. The project took seven months (not involving
continuous labor) and has already led to the substitution of water collection by farm work. Ifevaluated at a
woman's agricultural wage, the rate of return to this project is well over 70%. The next project to be
undertaken will be to repair a wall around the village to protect crops from destruction by wild animals.
With these losses on the order of 50% of total crop production, the rates of return, even under very
expensive construction techniques are still inrange 20-70%. The water system is universally shared within
the community, and the wall i s apurepublic good.




                                                     5

 Box 11: ElectrifyingDarchula

 In Darchula district, three micro-hydro projects were observedina recent supervision mission. Darchulais
 also a very remote area that is very hard to serve with standard line ministry budgets, norms and
 procedures. The variation in remoteness (influencing materials transport costs), topography, water table and
 mountain spring availability make design and cost extremely village specific. The three projects provided
 electricity to entire settlements of 110, 256 and 152 households at $320, $230 and $500 per household
 respectively. These amounts are far lower than GONstandardshad these settlements e.ven been considered
 for electrification at all.

 Had electrification been the only outcome of the project, it would have been sufficient justification.
 However, irrigation from the water (not the operation of pump sets allowed by electrification) has increased
 food availability and allowed some village members to stay in the village for longer periods each year
 insteadof migrating seasonally to India. It has also led to fewer disputes over water. Food self-sufficiency,
 which has improved as well in these PAF villages is both an economic benefit as well as a social benefit in
keeping families together for more of the year.




2.9        A Pilot to aNational Program: Another important aspect of PAFis that, from the
very beginning, it has been designed to be a national program, rather than a pilot. There
have been many small initiatives similar in nature to PAF, often implemented by NGOs,
sometimes with financial support of donors. Because they typically cover only a few
communities, however, the selection of beneficiaries is more vulnerable to elite capture,
and often perpetuates a sense of inequity and reinforces the notion that without
 `connections', poor communities cannot access either governmental or non-governmental
assistance. PAF i s fundamentally different inthis regard. Within the target districts, any
community meeting the objectively defined criteria i s eligible for PAF support. With the
proposed scaling up of coverage, the expanded list of 25 districts will match the bottom
25 of Nepal's 75 districts in terms of aggregate `well being'. Never before in Nepal has
such a systematic approach been followed to roll out a targeted poverty program. At a
subsequent stage, when resources permit, the government intends to roll out the program
to the remaining 50 districts, which also include many poor communities that would
likely meet the same eligibility criteria.

2.10       Rationale for the Borrower's Request: Given the rapid pace of execution, with
tangible evidence of targeted communities receiving benefits from the Project, there i s
increasing pressure for such demand-driven activities from communities outside the
current six pilot districts. GON therefore wishes to extend the current PAF program into
an additional 19 districts (which are also rated very low on the aggregate development
index) without changing the profile of the beneficiaries, implementation arrangements,
menu of choices available to beneficiaries or safeguard requirements. The PAF
Secretariat has begun preparing for this scaling up and GON has requested the Bank to
proceed as expeditiously as possible in processing the second phase support.                           If the
current pace of resource utilization i s maintained, we anticipate no difficulty inPAFfully
utilizing the additional financing within three years, prior to the Project closing date of
February 1,2009.




                                                      6

2.1 1 In terms of overall targeting, the first six districts were chosen for two main
reasons: they all ranked low on the government's aggregate index of deprivation; and
they represented a range of geographic zones (an important consideration for the pilot
phase). Of the country's 75 districts, the six pilot PAF districts rank 54th, 55th, 56th,
60th, 64th and 75th. As indicated previously, the additional 19 districts take up the rest of
the rank positions between 51st to 75th. Table 1provides additional information on some
independent poverty measures. Compared to the national average, the indicators are
worse in all of the current six and 19 additional districts.



        Indicator                    Current6               Additional 19              NationalAverage
                                      Districts                 Districts

Poverty                                  39%                      40%                           31%

Child stunting                           54%                      58%                           50%

Literacy (>lo yrs.)                      39%                      37%                           59%

Share of dahs inthe          I            14%                     14%                           11%




                               3. PROPOSEDCHANGES

3.1     Neither the original project objectives nor the components will change with the
proposedadditional financing. The implementation arrangementswould also bethe same
as for the ongoing project, and are working well. Overall project management will
continue to be the responsibility of the PAF Board.

3.2     The only change is the expansion of geographic coverage-i.e.,                     from the current
six pilot districts to a total of 25 district^.^. The increase in project costs and the closing
date would be included inthe Financing Agreement.



                           4. CONSISTENCYWITH CAS

4.1     The original PAF Project and the proposed additional financing are fully
consistent with the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Nepal, in particular with the
CAS pillar of social inclusion andtargetedprograms.

 As with original PAF program, the Innovations and Special Program window can be accessed by any
groups of beneficiaries in any districts inNepal that meet the objectively defined criteria for PAF support.


                                                      7

4.2     The CAS identifies PAF as an appropriate instrument to reach marginalized
groups that tend to be overlooked by existing institutions and programs. The proposed
additional financing would continue IDA'Songoing assistance to PAF and ensure that
rising demand can be met without a break in funding. Continuity infunding is especially
important at a time when Nepal i s facing a political transition, peace negotiations are
underway andthere are high expectations for the current new government to demonstrate
greater development effectiveness, especially in reaching marginalizedgroups.

4.3     The national budget provides a credible framework for the government to pursue
inclusive growth and poverty reduction. The proposed additional IDA grant financing of
US$25 million to PAF would provide a strong signal of support for the new
government's broad development efforts, but especially for the need to better target
benefits towards the poor, marginalizedandexcluded groups.



   5. APPRAISAL OF SCALED-UPPROJECTACTIVITIES

5.1    Institutional: The PAFi s an autonomous body created under a separate Ordinance
(2003 Ordinance No. 11). The existing Ordinance was slated to expire on August 17,
2006 but an Executive Order has been issued to extend PAF until the law i s in force to
ensure continuity of the institution.

5.2    The PAF has many management strengths, including: high commitment from the
new government to implement poverty alleviation programs, as reflected in the
FY2006/07 budget (about US$17 million has been allocated with the anticipated
additional funding); (b) solid institutional structure and scope, with well established
operational procedures and an internal control framework for program implementation;
(c) a competent and dedicated team of original Board members who have set high
standards of independence and professionalism; (d) a competent and effective Executive
Director who has proven experience and a strong track record working on community-
based programs; (e) a strong team of experienced and qualified staff in the PAF
Secretariat exposed to best practices from similar operations in other countries and in
Nepal; and (f) an innovative demand-driven community-based approach which i s
demonstrating clear results on the ground.

5.3    Overall project management responsibility will continue to be with the PAF
Board. The institutional set-up which allows PAF to operate in an independent,
autonomous and professionalway has been vital for the successful implementation of the
program. In anticipation of scaling up to an additional 19 districts, the PAF Secretariat
has already recruited 19 additional Portfolio Managers and has started the ground work
for identifying target communities and assisting them in preparing sub-project proposals.
A review of staffingneeds and recruitingof additionalstaff inadministration, finance and
monitoring i s underway, and a PAF Human Resource Strategy (training, performance-
based incentives, etc.) i s being prepared to maintain the commitment, motivation and
professionalism of PAF staff.


                                            8

 5.4      Financial Management (FM) and Procurement4: In a short period of time, PAF
 has established a credible financial management system with processes and procedures
 stated in its Operations and Financial Management Manuals, with a dedicated team of
 staff supplemented by the use of outsourced consultants. The proposed FMarrangements
 are adequate for the additional funding levels and from the fiduciary perspective, the FM
 riskrating is Modest. The fiduciary tasks of procurement and financial management are
 detailed in Operations and Financial Management Manuals of the PAF, which have all
 been reviewed and approved by IDA. These manuals have already been updated for the
 purposes of carrying out the expanded activities under the additional financing. Audit
 reports and reviews during supervision missions attest to their effectiveness, and these
 arrangements will be continued under the additional financing.

 5.5      Technical: While PAF sub-projects are fully demand-driven, and are formulated
 and implemented by communities themselves, Partner Organizations (POs) assist in a
 number of aspects including social mobilization, and writing and submittingof proposals
 to PAF for funding. For more complex appraisals involving engineering inputs, COS
 procure technical assistancefrom the NGO or private sector. Experience to date indicates
that such arrangements are working well and technical capacities exist to cover the kinds
 of sub-projects that PAFsupports.

5.6       Environment and Other Safeguards: The additional financing would fund
community sub-projects similar in scale and scope to those implemented under the
original project. The ongoing project has a Category B environmentalclassification, with
no significant potential environmental impacts on human populations or ecologically
important areas. No sub-projects are approved or funds transferred until the
environmental viability of the investment i s determined, with environment compliance
clauses contained in the sub-project agreements between the PAF and the COS. PAF
works with an environmental agency to ensure that PAF-supported operations are in
compliance with their Environmental Management Framework (EMF). A recent IDA
mission reviewed EMF implementation status and complimented PAF efforts to: (a)
simplifyEMF guidelines; identify likely risks and potential solutions, and strengthen the
screening process; and (b) promote environmentally beneficial sub-projects. Inaddition, a
Vulnerable People's Development Plan i s in place under the ongoing project and the
Project Operational Manual defines the guidelines and specific procedures for engaging
indigenous populations inproject activities. These are working well.

5.7      Sustainability Project sustainability i s demonstrated by: (a) this being the
cornerstone of the new government's development agenda in line with the national
poverty reduction program; (b) the program is a priority expenditure in the new budget
and US$17 million has been earmarked for PAF; (c) an executive order has been passed
to ensure continuity of the PAF framework until the legislation i s in force to ensure
progress and continuity; and (d) as communities are the center of the decision-making,
infrastructure investments chosen are small-scale and expected to be self-managed. There
i s also a high level of community ownership which makes the program sustainable. This
is demonstrated by willingness to provide matching grants of close to 20% compared to


  Further details on the financial management and procurement issues are provided in the annex.


                                                    9

an average mandatory requirement of own source financing of 10%. Income generating
activities to date have been profitable, and therefore sustainable. The revolving funds are
solvent without further infusionof outside money.



                          6. EXPECTEDOUTCOMES

6.1     Expected outcomes will remainlargely unchanged innature, althoughthe scope
will increase. The original target of reaching 90,000 households (495,000 individuals)in
six pilot districts by the end of the four-year project periodis likely to be achieved within
the first three years. Withinthe first 15 months of project effectiveness (December 2004
to March 2006), PAFhad already benefited 62,000 households (314,000 persons).
Additional financing for the scaling-up i s expected to reach an additional 150,000
households.

6.2     The project monitoring system i s both comprehensive anddetailed. Inaddition to
tracking the project cycle and implementation status of each sub-project, PAFmonitors
targetingefficiency and intermediate wtcomes. Its MISidentifies beneficiaryhouseholds
by poverty status and caste/ethnicity. It also disaggregates the composition of CO
membership andleadership by gender andexcluded groups. Moreover, a formal
independent impact evaluation of PAFinterventions i s currently underway. It uses a
randomized design andhas completedthe baseline household survey in more than 140
communities insix interventionand three control districts. As a result, inthe future,
impact indicators on increases inemployment, income, food security and social
empowerment will be available.




                                              10

                          7. BENEFITSAND RISKS

7.1     Risks. Scalingupof the PAFfaces two main risks that needto beaddressedbut
are consideredmanageable.

Risk                       Mitigation

Resumption of the conflict Although conflict resumption i s real risk in Nepal, this i s mitigated
and its impact on PAF by the fact that the proposed additional financing supports
operations                 expansion of a project which is being successfully implemented in
                           districts where conflict already has posed a high risk. Hence the
                           project design, including selection of high-quality staff members
                           within the PAF secretariat and the POs, has proven to be
                           sufficiently robust to achieve results even in a conflict environment.
                          Continued emphasis on equity, participation and inclusion
                          contributes to the strong sense of ownership at the local level,
                           something that is extremely important in conflict-prone areas. IDA
                          will continue to closely monitor adherence to these principles and
                          features of project design.

Political interference in Government accepts the importance of an independent and credible
PAF                       Board and is aware that IDA support i s tied to that. It i s actively
                          considering appointment of new Board members who would
                          maintain the level of professionalism and integrity that the original
                          Boardmembersenjoyed.



     8. FINANCIALTERMSAND CONDITIONS FOR THE
                          ADDITIONAL FINANCING

8.1    Same as the original IDA Grant.




                                            11

Annex: Fiduciary Risk Assessment                1


                                                 Annex
                                      FiduciaryRiskAssessment

Summary of ProjectDescription

1. The objectives of the project will remain unchanged, that i s to support the Government of Nepal
(GON) in implementing the Poverty Alleviation Fund (PAF) to reach poor and excluded communities.
The proposal is to scale-up PAF activities from six pilot districts by adding an additional 19 districts to
broaden PAF coverage within the existing framework. To manage this program PAF has a robust
financial management system in place. All operational and control systems are described in the PAF
Rules and Regulations, the Operations Manual, and the Financial Management (FM) Manual to guide
sub-project implementation and help ensurenecessary fiduciary control.

2. The PAF i s an autonomous body createdunder the separateordinance (2003 Ordinance No. 11). The
existing Ordinance was slated to expire on August 17,2006, however an Executive Order has been issued
to extendPAFuntilthe law is inforce to ensure program continuity. The PAF Board's role i s to approve
strategy, programs and operational policies of the PAF; mobilize resources; approve the annual budget
and staffing of the PAFSecretariat; support the monitoring system: and review results.


Adequacy ofFiV Arrangements

3. After some recent clarifications and strengthening, the project FM arrangements are adequate. In a
short period of tiae, PAF has established a good FM system with processes and procedures stated in its
Operations and Financial Management Manuals, a dedicated team of staff and use of outsourced
consultants to help in these endeavours. To support the additional financing level, the FMarrangements
will need to be expanded to include more staff and upgraded systems. Given the strong government
commitment to the program, PAF has agreed to a time-bound action plan with IDA to mitigate the
perceived risks. Most actions inthese plans are nearing completion for program scale up.

4. The proposedFM arrangementswill be adequate for the additional fundinglevel. From the fiduciary
perspective, the FMriskratingi s modest. Attachment 1provides the FMRisk RatingSummary.


Strengths

5. The PAF has many management strengths (i) government commitment to implement poverty
                                                   high
alleviation programs as reflected in the US$17 million allocation in FY2006/07 budget; (ii)           high
government commitment to remedy identified weaknesses; (iii) organization structure, scope and
                                                                   solid
procedures; (iv) a competent Board that was put inplace and have set high standards of independenceand
professionalism; (v) a competent and effective Executive Director who has proven experience and a
strong track record working on community-based programs; (vi) a competent team of experienced and
qualified staff in the PAF Secretariat exposed to best practices from similar operations in other countries
and in Nepal; (vii) an innovative demand-driven community-based approach; and (viii) well established
operational procedures and internal controlframework.

Annex: Fiduciary Risk Assessment                  2


WeaknessesandResolution

6. PAF has several weaknesses which needto be addressed in order to scale up, largely related to delays
in compliance with financial covenants. Interimfinancial reports were acceptable but received late, as is
the case with several projects in the Nepal portfolio due to systemic factors. The PAF Secretariat i s
committed to reducing these delays in the future.              With interim measures and the ongoing
computerization efforts, reports are now expectedto be submittedon time.

7. Similarly, the first requiredexternal audit report was received three months late. Two of the key audit
issues raised in the report were: (i) insufficient controls to reduce excessive advances, and (ii)
                                                                                                 incorrect
expensing of equipment and vehicles. To remedy these, PAF will apply procedural controls to reduce
excessive advances; no new advances will be provideduntilthe previous ones are cleared. PAFhas also
agreed to adjust its FY2005/06 balance sheet to accurately reflect its capital equipment. Key internal
audit findings noted missing documentation and a weak contract management system. New procedural
controls have beendeveloped to remedy these weaknesses both inthe medium and long term.

8. Going forward, the PAF Secretariat will ensure that internal audits are completed on time, financial
statements are prepared on a timely basis, and external auditors are invited on time. Achieving the
required six months' time frame might still be a challenge for external audit reports due to systemic
issues, butthe PAFSecretariatwill make every effort to reducethe delays.

9. Untillast year, program implementation was advelsely affected by delays in sending authorization by
the Ministry of Finance to release funds. This has been corrected this current fiscal year with
authorization being sent on the first day of the fiscal year, and reviewed duringthe assessment. This i s a
welcome step, and is expected to continue in the future. With timely authorization and timely release,
PAF will be able to approve sub-projects on time which would eventually better coincide with the
seasonalnatureof rural investment opportunities. Improvedplanningand timely monitoring would help
to ensurethat these weaknesses are rectified.


Disbursements

10.Current IDA disbursements are $4.62 million or 31% of the total grant of $15.0 million. After
considering a recentPAFreplenishment application for US$1.9 millionanda new application in process,
the disbursementsare expectedto be 54%.

11.ForCategory 1sub-projectsfor which $12.0 million hasbeenallocated, 100%of the funds arealready
committed as budgeted for FY2006/07. To meet the new demands from the communities from the
additional 19 districts, new funds are needed.

12. Category-wise, the breakdown will remain the same as in the ongoing PAF. The allocation of the
amounts of financing to each category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible
Expenditures ineach Category i s as inTable A 1   .

 Annex: Fiduciary RiskAssessment                 3



                  Category                     Amount of the Financing         Percentageof
                                               Allocated(expressedin        Expendituresto be
                                                        USD)                     Financed

   (1) Block Grantsfor:                                                       100% of amounts
                                                                                 disbursed
      (a) IGSPs                                       [$12,300,000]

      (b) SSIPs                                        [$7,800,000]

      (c) Innovative Grants                  I           [$670,000]      I
   (2) Consultants' services                           [$2,300,000]                100%

  (3) Equipment and vehicles for PAF                     [$130,0001                100%

  (4) Trainingandknowledge sharing                     [$1,000,000]                100%

  (5) Incremental Operating Costs                       [$800,0001                 80%

  TOTALAMOC"".'T                                      [$25,000,000]



 13.     Eligible financing will remain the same as in the ongoing PAF since PAF will continue to
maintain one account for PAF inclusive of additional financing. Disbursements will also continue to be
transactions-based.

 14.    PAF will continue with the same Designated Accounts without creating an additional Account,
butfor the purposeof separationfor additional financing, this will be separateinthe ledger.

 15.    The thresholds for SOEs will remain the same as described in para 4 of Schedule 1 of the
Development Grant Agreement (H091-NEP)dated September 14,2004.

Gapbetween Commitmentsand Disbursements

16.     After sub-project proposals are approved, PAF advancesthe full commitment amount to the Non-
operating Account at the village which i s pre-financed by the government. These funds are to be
disbursed intwo or three tranches based upon specific sub-project outputs over three to 24 months. The
timingandfundingdetailsfor each sub-project arepresentedinaFinancingAgreement.

17.     Although funds allocated under Category 1for ruralcommunities are fully committed, funds are
disbursed from the Bank only when the sub-project outputs are certified by the Portfolio Manager. Only
then are approved funds transferred from Non-operating Accounts to Operating Accounts. Actual Bank
disbursements do not take place until the communities are paid for delivery of sub-project outputs thus
leading to perceived disbursement lags. This funding arrangement was put into place to ensure districts
that agreed upon funding would indeed be available over the life of each approved sub-project. Thls is a
key success factor for the credibility of the PAFprogram.

Annex: Fiduciary Risk Assessment                 4


Project Budgeting andFundsFlow

At the PAF Secretariat Level

18.        GON has placed a high priority on this program which is subject to close monitoring. To
expedite this program, the Ministry of Finance (MOF) has already provided the authorization letter to
PAF on the first day of the fiscal year to implement the program - a quite unusual step. This action in
itself i s expectedto address fundreleasedelays andi s expectedto continue inforthcoming years.


At the Community Level

19.        Grants to sub-projects are disbursed based upon signed financing agreement submitted by the
community groups and approved by PAF.               Contractual agreements between PAF, community
organizations, and partner organizations are used to implement the projects. Community budgets are
basedupon the total project funds committed by PAF. Disbursements of funds to communities are made
against specific outputs.


FundFlowArrangements

At the Central Level

20.        GONreleasesthe budget as block grants wth for IDA part and counterpart funds) to the PAF
Secretariat inthree tranches as per the GON's fundreleaseprocedures. The approved budget i s indicated
in the government's budget (Red Book) under a separate budget head in the name of the Poverty
Alleviation Fund Board. IDA resources flow through a Designated Account that has facilitated quick
payments in the form of reimbursements to the treasury on account of actual IDA eligible expenditures
made to the communities, and for makingdirect payments to suppliers and consultants. The fund flow
process at the central level is working well.

At the Community Level

21.        Unlike the normalpublic sector system, PAF has adopted an innovative approach whereby funds
are made available directly to the communities bypassing intermediaries. PAFhas used the services of a
national commercial bank--the Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBB) that has branches in almost all districts to
transfer funds to the communities. The fund transfer mechanism established between PAF and RBB i s
working well.


22.       Inthe nameof eachcommunity receiving sub-project grants, two accountsare openedinthe RBB
branch: (i) Non-operating Account, where amounts committed for the year are deposited as an
              the
advance; and (ii)   the Operating Account where amounts are transferred only after the payments are due
after PAF tranche release criteria have been met. The system i s working well and has been a model for
other community-based programs, Learning from implementation experience, however, there is some
scope for modification mainly to reduce delays in fund release that a few districts have experienced.
Modifications are now being implemented and the same mechanism will be used for the additional
financing.


Reconciliation of Accounts

Annex: Fiduciary Risk Assessment                   5



23.     The PAF Secretariat reconciles their accounts with the balances released to the Non-operating
Accounts on a monthly basis. Only amounts that are paid to communities after the delivery of specified
outputs linked to tranche release are eligible for IDA financing. Because the GON i s pre-financing all
community-based expenses, only amounts that are transferred to Operating Accounts are claimed from
the Special Account after verifying and ascertaining expenditure eligibility. Funds releasedto Operating
Accounts and total funds transferred from the Special Account to the treasury are also periodically
reconciled. There is minimal risk to IDA funds because the GON i s pre-financing all community
expenditures.


FinancialManagementStaffing

24.     The PAFSecretariatAccounts and Administration Uniti s currently staffed with a Unit Chief who
i s supported by an Accounts Officer and an Assistant. In the context of scaling up, PAF will add two
more finance staff to accommodate the additional funds and to increase project and financial monitoring
efforts.


InternalControlandAudit

25.     To strei,,then   the internal control framework, PAF has already applied new prLdedura1controls to
improve management of advances and transaction documentation and will: (i)           increase staffing; (ii)
update the Opemtions andFinancial Management Manual; (iii) training for POs and COSsimilar
                                                                  conduct
to the on-going programs; and (iv) implement the Management Information System (MIS). The PAF
Secretariat will ensure that internal audits are completed on time, financial statements are prepared on a
timely basis and external auditors are invited on time.

26.     To perform internal audits, the PAF Board appointed a professionally qualified firm on a
competitive basis for three years. The firmhas been performing well, and submits its report three times a
year. PAFi s now in the process of recruitingan internal auditor to begin work for FY2006/0?. Through
current and proposedmodifications in the Operations andFinancial Management Manual, internal control
weaknesses will be rectified. In addition, an interim procedural control to perform fortnightly desk
reviews of all contracts will be implemented.

ExternalAudit

27.     The Office of the Auditor General audits the accounts. The FY2004/05 audit was submitted three
months late. PAF has committed to submittingPAF FY2005/06 audit report on time. The due date is
January 15, 2007. The following audit reports are monitored in the Audit Report Compliance system
(ARCS):


Implementing
    Agency                     Audit                       Auditors              Audit DueDate
PAFBoard             Entity (PAF Board)           Office of the Auditor        6 months after the
                     Financial Statements and     General (OAG)                end of each fiscal
                     Project Financial                                         year (January 15")
                     Statements

Annex: FiduciaryRisk Assessment                   6


28.     Social audits of the community accounts take place in the form of displays in the Board or
summaries in community meetings. Final audits of community activities (carried out by local registered
auditors) are required after sub-project completion. These audits are not yet available for Bank review.
POs are also requiredto submit audit reports. This is also a selection criteria for POs to participate inthe
project. These reportsare regularly beingsubmitted.


FinancialMonitoringReports (FMRs)

29.     Currently, there are no outstandingFMRs. In general, FMRs have been of acceptable quality but
are submitted about one month late. Recently, the third trimester progress report for FY2005/06 was
submitted within the due date for the first time. As stated above, PAF is now developing the FMIS to
computerizethe accountingsystem and generate FMRs through the system. PAFi s planning to integrate
this system with the MIS so that physicaland financial progress can be monitoredjointly. Inthe interim,
the current processesand financial reports are adequate.


Transparency

30.     PAF has established its own website: http://www.pafneDal.org.nD. It includes the operational
guidelines, proposed formats, and other key information about the program. Work is in progress to
update the website with other relevant informatioil. On the website PAF has posted the list of all
approvedsub-projects with details, descriptionsandapprovedamounts.


Procurement

31.     Existingprocurementarrangements areadequate. TheestablishedPAFprocurement system, will
be adequate to handle the scaled up level of activities. However, the PAF Secretariat will need to: (i)
update the ProcurementPlan in view of proposedadditional financing; and (3)designate a Procurement
Assistant.

32.     Because there are several signed contracts with COSand PQs, the PAF Secretariat will be
required to develop a contract monitoring system to monitor each contract against expected targets and
payment schedules. PAFhas committedto develop such a systemto strengthentheir contract monitoring
capability. In the interim, additional fortnightly desk reviews of contracts will be performed. With these
changes, the arrangements are adequateto scale up.

PAFFiduciaryAssessment                            7


FinancialManagementAction Plan

33.     Inthe context of scaling up, PAFhas committed to completing these activities ina time-bound
action plan. Most o f the activities are extensions o f past activities and many o f the enhancements are now
nearing completion.


                                    FinancialManagementAction Plan

                                                                 Responsibility      CompletionDate
                                                                PAF Secretariat       January 31,2007




                                                                                         Comdeted
                                                                PAFSecretariat          Completed

     arrangements inthe revision o f PAF Rules and
     Regulations, taking into consideration the lessons



                                                                PAFSecretariat          1St Training:
                                                                                    November 30,2006

                                                                PAFSecretariat December 31,2006


                                                                PAFSecretariat December 31,2006
                                                                                   ~~




                                                                PAF Secretariat         Completed


                                                                PAF Secretariat         Completed

                                                                PAFSecretariat       October 30th, 2006




Conditionality

34.     Because the current FMarrangements are working well, interim fiduciary arrangements will be in
place to accommodate any additional funds before key actions are completed, and the additional funds
will be committed well in advance of Bank disbursements. There are two FM-specific conditions: (i)
submission of annual audited financial statements; and (ii)submission o f FMRs each trimester.
Currently, there are no outstanding audited financial statements and trimesterly FMRs.

Annex: Fiduciary Risk Assessment


Supervision

35.     In the early stages, FM supervision activitieswill focus on the adequacyof
implementationof action plan items designed to scaleup for the additional funding. As project
implementationmoves forward, deskreviews of internal, external, and social auditreports will be
conducted. To help ensure transparency, the PAF website will be reviewed for timely and correct
postings of sub-project details vis-a-vis informationcontained in the project FMRs. Sitevisits
will be planned as needed to review internal controlprocedures and practices.

     PAFFiduciary Assessment                   9


                                                                                   Attachment 1

                                           RiskRatingSummary

                                       Risk     Previous
                                      sessment     Risk    Risk MitigatingMeasures      Residual
                                               Assessment                                Risk


                                                    H                                     M
 - Quality ofPFMinstitutions                             Implementation of CFAA,
(see PEFA-PMF,CFAA, CPAR,                                CPAR action plan; PFM
                                                                                     r-
CPIA and other diagnostics),                             sector work and
standardof financial accounting,                         implementation of actions;
reporting and auditing, quality of                       country dialogue
FMmofession.
Entity level                                        M
- Independenceo fentity's                                Approval o fPAF Bill;
                                                         Appointment Of
management, appropriateness of                           Boardpositions
the   organizational structure,

                                                   M                                  I   M

type of lendinginstrument,
complexity oftheproject(e.g.
sectorsinvolved,numberof
implementkga d sub-
implementingentities,mu&&
donor etc.)                        j
OWRALLAWERENTIUSK                 !
                                  i                      hpkmentation                     M
                                                         ofActionPlan
CONTROLRBSKS
Budget                                                                               I    L
Accounting
Internal Controls                   t


Fundsflow                                                                                 L
Financial ReDortim                II                                                      L
                                                                                     I    M




     H-High          S - Substantial      M-Modest         L-Low

