Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
GRANT NUMBER H258 -NEP 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Additional Financing for Poverty Alleviation Fund Project) 
 
between 
 
NEPAL 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated  March 9, 2007 
 
Page  2
GRANT NUMBER  H258-NEP 
 
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated  March 9, 2007, between NEPAL (
“Recipient”) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (“Association”) for the purpose 
of providing additional financing for activities related to the Original Project (as defined 
in the Appendix to this Agreement).  The Recipient and the Association hereby agree as 
follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
–
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement.  
 
ARTICLE II – FINANCING 
 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a grant in an amount equivalent to 
sixteen 
million 
nine 
hundred 
thousand 
Special 
Drawing 
Rights                        
(SDR 16,9
00,000) (“Grant”) to assist in financing the project described in 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
 
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the 
Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per 
annum. 
 
2.04. 
The Payment Dates are June 15 and December 15 in each year. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Currency is Dollars. 
 
ARTICLE III 
–
PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this 
end, the Recipient shall cause the Project to be carried out by the Project 
Implementing Entity in accordance with the provisions of Article IV of the 
General Conditions and the Project Agreement. 
Page  3
-
2
-
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient 
shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
–
REMEDIES OF THE ASSOCIATION 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following: 
 
(a) 
The Project Implementing Entity’s Legislation has been amended, 
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and 
adversely the ability of the Project Implementing Entity to perform any 
of its obligations under the Project Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE V 
–
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
 
5.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following: 
 
(a) 
The Subsidiary Grant Agreement has been executed on behalf of the 
Recipient and the Project Implementing Entity. 
 
(b) 
The Project Implementing Entity has prepared the Operational Manual 
and the Financial Management Manual in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Association. 
 
5.02. 
The Additional Legal Matter consists of the following: 
 
(a) 
The Subsidiary Grant Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by 
the Recipient and the Project Implementing Entity and is legally binding 
upon the Recipient and the Project Implementing Entity in accordance 
with its terms. 
 
5.03. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
 
5.04. 
For purposes of Section 8.05(b) of the General Conditions, the date on which the 
provisions of this Agreement shall terminate is twenty (20) years after the date of 
this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE VI – REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
 
6.01. 
The Recipient’s Representative is the Secretary, Ministry of Finance. 
 
Page  4
-
3
-
6.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
Government of Nepal 
Singha Durbar 
Kathmandu 
Nepal 
 
Facsimile: 
 
(977-1) 4259-891 
 
6.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(1-202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
AGREED at Kathmandu, Nepal, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
NEPAL 
 
By /s/ Vidyadhar Mallik 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By / s/ Kenichi Ohashi 
Country Director 
Nepal 
Page  5
-
4
-
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objective of the Project is to carry out demand- and community-driven 
approach to improve access to income-generating Sub-Projects and community 
infrastructure, benefiting groups excluded by reasons of gender, ethnicity and caste, as 
well as the poorest groups in rural communities. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
 
Part A:
Income Generating Sub-Projects
Provision of Block Grants to Beneficiaries to carry out IGSP in the areas, 
inter 
alia, 
of: (i) micro-irrigation; (ii) micro-enterprises; (iii) crafts; (iv) land productivity; and 
(v) animal husbandry. 
 
Part B
:
Small-Scale Village and Community Infrastructure Projects (SSIP)
Provision of Block Grants to Beneficiaries to carry out SSIPs in the areas, 
inter 
alia, 
of: (i) engineered trails; (ii) footbridges; (iii) schools; and (iv) clinics. 
 
Part C
:
Innovation and Special Programs
Provision of demand-driven Innovative Grants to selected Beneficiaries for the 
carrying out of: 
 
(i) 
Sub-Projects requiring innovative approaches for targeting and 
improving livelihoods; and 
 
(ii) 
Special Sub-Projects proposed by Beneficiaries. 
 
Part D
:
Capacity Building and Implementation Support 
1. 
Mobilization of Community Groups
(i) 
Carrying out social mobilization activities through POs, to create an 
enabling environment among Beneficiary groups for the development of 
funding proposals; and 
 
(ii) 
Provision of consultants’ services to build the capacity of the POs, and 
assist them in monitoring implementation of Sub-Projects. 
Page  6
-
5
-
2. 
Capacity Building for Local Bodies
Provision of consultants’ services to build the capacity of selected VDCs and 
DDCs, and assist them in implementing Sub-Projects.  
 
3. 
Capacity Building of Beneficiaries
Provision of consultants’ services to build the Beneficiaries’ capacity in areas 
including: (i) training of village health workers; (ii) veterinary skills; (iii) crafts skills; 
(iv) introduction of improved varieties of agricultural produce; (v) marketing; 
 
(vi) entrepreneurship; and (vii) bookkeeping. 
 
4. 
Support to Micro-finance Intermediaries
Provision of consultants’ services, on a demand basis, to build the capacity of 
micro-finance intermediaries.  
 
5. 
Monitoring and Evaluation System
Provision of consultants’ services to monitor, supervise and evaluate the 
implementation of the Project. 
 
Part E
:
Administration of the PAF
Strengthening the operational capacity of PAF through the provision of 
equipment, vehicles, studies and training and technical assistance to improve information 
management, financial systems, procurement and environmental management. 
 
Page  7
-
6
-
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Subsidiary Grant Agreement; Institutional and Other Arrangements
A. 
Subsidiary Grant Agreement 
 
1. 
To facilitate the carrying out of the Project by the Project Implementing Entity, 
the Recipient shall make the proceeds of the Financing available to the Project 
Implementing Entity under an amendment, with terms and conditions approved 
by the Association, to the subsidiary grant agreement entered into between the 
Recipient and the Project Implementing Entity under the Original Project (as so 
amended, 
“Subsidiary Grant Agreement”). 
 
2. 
The Recipient shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Grant Agreement in 
such manner as to protect the interests of the Recipient and the Association and 
to accomplish the purposes of the Financing.  Except as the Association shall 
otherwise agree, the Recipient shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the 
Subsidiary Grant Agreement or any of its provisions. 
 
B. VCDP 
 
The Recipient shall maintain, in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Association, the VCDP, and implement it in accordance with the objectives, 
policies, procedures, time schedules and other provisions set forth therein, to 
ensure that vulnerable people in the Project Area shall benefit fully from the 
activities financed under the Project. 
 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting, Evaluation
A. Project 
Reports 
 
The Recipient shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and cause 
Project Reports to be prepared in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.08 
of the General Conditions and on the basis of the indicators set forth in Schedule 
3
to the Project Agreement.  Each Project Report shall cover the period of a 
Fiscal Year trimester, and shall be furnished to the Association not later than 
forty-five (45) days after the end of the period covered by such report. 
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits 
 
1. 
The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.09 of the General 
Conditions. 
Page  8
-
7
-
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Recipient shall 
cause to be prepared and furnished to the Association as part of the Project 
Report not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of each Fiscal Year 
trimester, interim un-audited financial reports for the Project covering the Fiscal 
Year trimester, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association. 
 
3. 
The Recipient shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 4.09(b) of the General Conditions. Each audit of the 
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one Fiscal Year of the Recipient. 
The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the 
Association not later than six (6) months after the end of such period.
 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. General
 
1. 
Goods and Works
.
All goods and works required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance 
with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement 
Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Schedule. 
 
2. Co
nsultants’ Services.
 A
ll consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance 
with the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the 
Consultant Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Schedule. 
 
3. Definitions.
 The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Association of 
particular contracts, refer to the corresponding method described in the 
Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works 
 
1. 
National Competitive Bidding
.
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 
below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of National Competitive Bidding, subject to the following additional procedures: 
 
(i) 
Bid opening at only one place and immediately after the deadline 
of bid submission shall be mandatory; 
 
(ii) 
Local institutions where the Recipient has fifty percent (50%) or 
more of the capital shall not be exempt from submission of bid 
and performance securities; 
 
Page  9
-
8
-
(iii) 
Local bidders shall not be eligible for any preference when 
competing with foreign bidders; 
 
(iv) Bidders
’
qualification criteria shall be formulated in accordance 
with the Bank’s Standard Bidding Documents; and 
 
(v) 
There shall be no restrictions for foreign bidders to participate in 
National Competitive Bidding procedures. 
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works.  
The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than National Competitive Bidding, 
which may be used for goods and works. The Procurement Plan shall specify the 
circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
 
(a)  Shopping 
 
(b)  Direct Contracting 
 
(c) Community Participation procedures acceptable to 
the Association 
 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
.Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 
below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection.
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
.
The following table 
specifies methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, 
which may be used for consultants’ services. The Procurement Plan shall specify 
the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
 
(a)  Quality-Based Selection 
 
(b)  Selection under a Fixed Budget 
 
(c)  Least-Cost Selection 
 
(d)  Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications 
 
Page  10
-
9
-
Procurement Method 
 
(e)  Single-Source Selection 
 
(f)  Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines for the Selection of 
Individual Consultants 
(g) Sole Source Procedures for the Selection of
Individual Consultants 
D. 
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions 
 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Association’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review 
by the Association. 
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Financing
A. General 
 
1. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section and such 
additional instructions as the Association may specify by notice to the Recipient 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated       
May 2006, as revised from time to time by the Association and as made 
applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible 
Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Financing (“Category”), the allocations of the 
amounts of the Financing to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to 
be financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category: 
 
Category 
Amount of the 
Financing Allocated 
(Expressed in SDR) 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
Financed 
(1)  Block Grants for: 
 
(a)  IGSPs 
 
(b)  SSIPs 
 
(c)  Innovative Grants 
 
8,280,000 
5,300,000 
450,000 
100% of amounts 
disbursed 
Page  11
-
10
-
Category 
Amount of the 
Financing Allocated 
(Expressed in SDR) 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
Financed 
(2)  
Consultants’ services 
1,550,000 
100% 
(3)  Equipment and vehicles for 
PAF 
90,000 100% 
(4)  Training and knowledge 
sharing 
680,000 100% 
(5)  Incremental Operating Costs 
550,000 
80% 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
16,900,000 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period 
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that 
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $2,000,000 equivalent may 
be made for payments made prior to this date but on or after July 17, 2006, for 
Eligible Expenditures under Categories (1)(a), (1)(b) and (1)(c).
 
2. 
The Closing Date is February 1, 2009. 
 
Page  12
-
11
-
APPENDIX 
 
Definitions 
 
1. 
“Beneficiary” means, within the Project Area, Community Based Organization 
(CBO), village organization, self-help women group, credit group or any other 
group eligible pursuant to Part B.1 of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement and 
other eligibility criteria as set forth in the Operational Manual. 
 
2. 
“Block Grants” means grants made or proposed to be made by the Recipient, out 
of the proceeds of the Grant, to Beneficiaries to finance the costs of goods, works 
and services for Sub-Projects under Part A, B or C of the Project. 
 
3. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
 
4. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004. 
 
5. 
“DDC” means a District Development Committee established in each district of 
the Recipient’s territory under the Local Self Governance Act, 2055 (1999). 
 
6. 
“Environmental Assessment” means the Recipient’s environmental assessment, 
in form and substance satisfactory to the Association, dated March 7, 2004, 
which was prepared for the Original Project and shall also be used for the 
Project, including, 
inter alia
:
(i) the identification and assessment of the potential 
environmental impact of activities to be carried out under Sub-Projects; (ii) an 
evaluation of alternative measures; (iii) the EMF detailing the appropriate 
mitigation, monitoring, institutional and management measures required for the 
implementation of Sub-Projects with a view to ensuring compliance of the 
activities referred to in sub-paragraph (i) herein with said measures and to 
eliminating adverse environmental impacts, offsetting such impacts, or reducing 
them to acceptable levels. 
 
7. 
“EMF” means the Recipient’s Environmental Management Framework which 
sets out, 
inter alia
:
(i) key principles for environmental management of Sub-
Projects; (ii) procedures to screen and process Sub-Projects for significant 
environmental impacts, and to assist in mitigating impacts; and (iii) procedures to 
ensure that these principles and procedures are properly applied. 
 
8. 
“Financial Management Manual” means the Financial Management Manual to be 
prepared by PAF pursuant to Section 5.01 of this Agreement, containing 
financial management guidelines for the Project, as the same may be amended 
from time to time with the agreement of the Association. 
 
Page  13
-
12
-
9. 
“Fiscal Year” or “FY” means the twelve (12)-month period corresponding to any 
of the Recipient’s and PAF’s fiscal years, which period commences and ends in 
mid-July of each calendar year. 
 
10. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association 
General Conditions for Credits and Grants” dated July 1, 2005. 
 
11. 
“IGSP” means an Income Generating Sub-Project financed or proposed to be 
financed under Part A of the Project. 
 
12. 
“Incremental Operating Costs” means, salaries, per diem, and fringe benefits of 
staff appointed to posts in PAF and engaged on a full-time basis for the purposes 
of the Project, including conveyance, travel and boarding/lodging allowances 
when on tour, and operating and maintenance costs of vehicles, fuels, equipment 
and offices acquired under and used in the carrying out of the Project, including 
the costs of advertising, media projections, newspaper subscriptions, periodicals, 
insurance, printing, stationery, rent and utilities. 
 
13. 
“Innovative Grants” means Block Grants made by PAF to selected Beneficiaries 
under Part C of the Project. 
 
14. 
“Nepalese Rupee” and the sign “NRs” mean the currency of the Recipient. 
 
15. 
“Operational Manual” means the Operational Manual to be prepared by PAF 
pursuant to Section 5.01 of this Agreement, containing PAF’s eligibility criteria 
and appraisal, approval and supervision rules and procedures for POs, 
Beneficiaries and Sub-Projects, as well as EMF, VCDP and negative list of Sub-
Projects, and the Financial Management Manual, as the same may be amended 
from time to time with the agreement of the Association. 
 
16. 
“Original Financing Agreement” means the Development Grant Agreement for 
the Poverty Alleviation Fund Project between the Recipient and the Association 
dated September 14, 2004 (Grant Number H091-NEP), as amended to the date of 
this Agreement. 
 
17. 
“Original Project” means the Project described in the Original Financing 
Agreement. 
 
18. 
“PAF” means the Poverty Alleviation Fund, an autonomous institution 
established pursuant to the Recipient’s Poverty Alleviation Fund Ordinance, 
2004. 
 
19. 
“PO” or “Partner Organization” means a Non-governmental Organization 
(NGO), VDC, DDC, CBO or private sector institution or entity, involved in 
Page  14
-
13
-
poverty alleviation work, which meets the eligibility criteria for POs set forth in 
the Operational Manual. 
 
20. 
“PO Agreement” means an agreement to be entered into between PAF and a PO 
pursuant to Part A of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement. 
 
21. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004. 
 
22. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Recipient’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated September 14, 2006, and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
23. 
“Project Area” means: (i) the six (6) districts that have been identified for the 
purpose of carrying out the Original Project, namely, Darchula, Mugu, 
Kapilvastu, Pyuthan, Ramechchap and Siraha; (ii) the nineteen (19) districts that 
have been identified for the purpose of carrying out the Project, namely, 
Achham, Baitadi, Bajhang, Bajura, Dadeldhura, Dailekh, Dolpa, Doti, Humla, 
Jajorkot, Jumla, Kalikot, Mahottari, Rasuwa, Rautahat, Rolpa, Rukum, Sarlahi 
and Sindhuli; and (iii) any other districts that may be identified from time to time 
by agreement between the Recipient and the Association for the purpose of 
carrying out the Project. 
 
24. 
“Project Implementing Entity” means PAF. 
 
25. 
“Project Implementing Entity’s Legislation” means the Recipient’s Poverty 
Alleviation Fund Ordinance, 2004. 
 
26. 
“SSIP” means a Small-Scale Community Infrastructure Development Project 
financed or proposed to be financed under Part B of the Project. 
 
27. 
“Sub-Project” means an IGSP, SSIP or a development project or scheme to be 
carried out by a community under Part A, B or C of the Project, which meets the 
eligibility criteria to receive financing in the form of Block Grants. 
 
28. 
“Sub-Project Grant Agreement” means an agreement to be entered into between 
PAF and a Beneficiary pursuant to paragraph 3(b) of Part B of Schedule 2 to the 
Project Agreement. 
 
29. 
“Subsidiary Grant Agreement” means the agreement referred to in Section I,  
Part A of Schedule 2 to this Agreement pursuant to which the Recipient shall 
make the proceeds of the Financing available to the Project Implementing Entity. 
 
Page  15
-
14
-
30. 
“VCDP” means Vulnerable Communities People’s Development 
Plan/Operational Guidelines dated March 7, 2004, which was prepared by the 
Recipient for the Original Project and shall also be used for the Project, 
describing a program of actions, measures and policies designed to maximize the 
benefits accruing to vulnerable people, as the same may be revised from time to 
time in agreement with the Association. 
 
31. 
“VDC” means a Village Development Committee established within the 
Recipient’s territory pursuant to the Local Self Governance Act, 2055 (1999). 
 
