                                                                          97308
Nepal: Rural Communities Take the Driver’s Seat in Development September 15, 2010




 NEPAL: RURAL DEVELOPMENT

 Rural Communities Take the Driver’s Seat in Development




Overview
The Poverty Alleviation Fund is a community-driven development project designed to address
the root causes of Nepal’s conflict – poverty, inequality, and lack of services. Recent studies
show that household consumption in districts served by this fund has increased 23 percent and
household incomes have grown 18 percent. Food sufficiency has increased by up to 3.5
percent in some areas. These households now have more to spare for the health and
education needs of their children.


Challenge                                            MULTIMEDIA
Nepal is a landlocked country of 28 million
people with a per capita income of about
US$340, among the lowest in the world. Political
turbulence and a Maoist insurgency have
dogged its recent history (1996-2006), imposing
high costs in terms of foregone growth and
poverty reduction. Nepal has highly stratified
societies with many marginalized social groups
and these groups are much more likely to have
low human development indicators and largely
live in remote rural areas. Low economic
development, landlessness and poverty are
widespread. The poverty rate in rural areas is
much higher (35 percent) than in urban centers
(10 percent), and evidence suggests that inequality and           More Results
regional disparities are increasing. Nevertheless, Nepal has
made important progress in bringing its overall poverty rate
down to 31 percent from 42 percent over the last ten years,

                                                                  32,000
although the gains in urban areas have been greater than
those in rural areas.
                                                                  Number of residents benefiting
                                                                  from improved roads, bridges,
Approach                                                          water supply, and sanitation

The Poverty Alleviation (PAF) program, financed by the
International Development Association, is addressing both
income and non-income dimensions of rural poverty                 MORE INFORMATION
throughout the country, with special attention to groups that
                                                                    Feature Story
have traditionally been excluded by reasons of gender and
ethnicity. The project focuses on the rural poor by: (a)            World Bank in Nepal
targeting disadvantaged and marginalized groups; (b) taking
action on the commitment to reach poor and excluded
groups as articulated in the Poverty Reduction Strategy
Paper; (c) improving coordination of poverty programs; (d) increasing employment and income
opportunities through community-driven sub-projects; and (e) building the capacity of various
stakeholders, including beneficiary groups and local bodies.


Results
Through income-generating activities and community infrastructure projects, the PAF has
reached over one million rural Nepalese in 25 districts since it began operations. Incomes for
beneficiary families have increased by some 15 percent. More than 15,600 households now
have road access for the first time, and water supply, bridges, and sanitation have been
provided for more than 32,000 households.
Communities have reported multiple benefits, in both tangible (i.e. physical and financial) and
intangible (social and institutional) assets. They have also reported increased income
generation through livestock purchases, increased local employment opportunities and higher
income, mainly through vegetable production, and the rehabilitation of community assets such
as trails, foot bridges and tap stands.
Income Generation: The results estimate a sustained increase in income to these households
of about 15 percent, which translates to about a 20 percent-25 percent rate of return. If there
were no PAF, the only finance available to these households would be through informal credit
markets charging interest rates close to 30 percent-40 percent.
Twenty-five percent of beneficiary households have increased their incomes by at least 15
percent since 2004 by end of 2007.
Thirty percent of beneficiary group members come from targeted female-headed, which are the
poorest of poor households.


Voices
For years, Min Bahadur Magar, a 48-year old farmer in the remote Ramechhap district in
eastern Nepal, had to borrow money from a local money lender – paying a 50 percent interest
rate - to make ends meet.
Today his life has fundamentally changed. With training and money given by the World Bank-
funded Poverty Alleviation Fund (PAF), Magar started a vegetable business. He now earns
nearly US$100 a month from selling vegetables alone.
.




       I am able to feed my family all year round, and send all of my
    eight children to school.” said Magar. “Now I am borrowing
    from my community organization paying a small fee. Instead of
    collecting money, the man I used to borrow from comes over to
    buy vegetables.
                                                      — Min Bahadur Magar



Bank Contribution
Total project cost for the first phase was US$15 million. The second phase of the program,
backed by IDA, was approved on December 6, 2007, with a total project cost of US$100
million. The project is now expanded to cover all of Nepal’s 75 districts, benefiting around one
million households.


Toward the Future
The first phase of the PAF was intended as a pilot operation, and many lessons have been
learned in its implementation in the six original districts. The second PAF phase drew on
international and regional experience in the design and implementation of rural community-
driven development (CDD) programs and lessons from rural development projects in Nepal
itself (e.g., rural drinking water). The CDD approach adopted by the project focuses on building
village level institutions and transferring decision-making responsibilities and resources to
communities. Global experience suggests that sustainable community development is a long-
term process, with the need for consistent inputs and support over time in order to build
capacity and leave behind workable ‘capital’ (human, social, financial) at the local level.
