DOC_NIt of
The World Bank
FOR OMCAL USE ONLY
MICROFICHE COPY
Report No. 10326
Report No. 10326-TU   Type: (PCR)
ANDERSON, / X31676 / T9 111/ OEDD2
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TURKEY
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT FOR STATE ECONOMIC ENTERPRISES
(LOAN 2400-TU)
FEBRUARY 11, 1992
Industry, Trade and Finance Division
Country Department I
Europe and Central Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Turkish Lira (TL)
(annual average)
1981  US$1 -   TL  110.24
1982  US$1 -   TL  160.94
1983  US$1 -   TL  224.03
1984  US$1 -   TL  364.85
1985  US$1 -   TL  518.34
1986  US$1 -   TL  669.39
1987  US$1 -   TL  855.69
1988  US$1 -   TL 1420.76
1989  US$1 -   TL 2120.78
1990  US$1 -   TL 2607.62
1991  US$1 -   TL 4100.00
ABBREVIATIONS
BCG      -     Boston Consulting Group
EDM      -     External Debt Hanagement
GOT      -     Government of Turkey
PCR      -     Project Completion Report
PPF      -     Project Preparation_Facility
SEE      -     State Economic Enterprises
SPO      -     State Planning Organization
SAL      -     Structural Adjustment Loan
TOR      -     Term of Reference
TKI      -     Turkiye Komur Isletmeleri
TCDD/
ADVAS    -     Turkish Railways
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



THE WOR'LD BANKE              FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Washington, DC. 2043.
US.A
Office of Drectom-Genieal
Op.atmnk tvaluAs1kn
February 11, 1992
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:     Project Completion Report on Turkey -
Technical Assistance Project For State Economic Enterprises
(Loan 2400-TU)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Turkey - Technical Assistance Project For State Economic
Enterprises (Loan 2400-TU)" prepared by the Industry, Trade and Finance Division
of Country Department 1 in the Europe and Central Asia Region with Part II of the
report contributed by the Borrower. No audit of this project has been made by
the Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
mY
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT FOR STATE ECONOMIC ENTERPRISES
(Loan 2400-TU)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
Evaluation Summary. .. .   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  iii
PART I.     PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE. . . . . . . .    1
Project Identity. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Background. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . .         1
Prolect Obiectives and Descri2tion. . . . . . .   . . . . .  . .   2
Objectives. .              . . . . . .   . . . . . I  .   . . .    2
Project Components.  . . . . .          .    . . .  . . . . . .    2
Project Design and Organization . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    3
Prolect Implementation.       . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            4
Major Revisions.       . . . . . .  . . . . . . . .          . .    5
The June 1984 Decree . . . . ...... .   ........    5
Prolect Results         . . . . . . .          . . . .  . . . . . .    6
Transfer of Responsibility for Project . . . . . . . . . . .   6
ZDM Component.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    7
Overall Assessment . . . . . . .... . ......... .    7
Prolect Sustainabilit  .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                  7
Bank's Requirements.       . . . . . .  . .       . . . . . .  ...  8
Role of Bank Staff ...   .       .... ...........                   8
Coordinating Committee ....  .       .  .  .  .  .    ............  .  8
Focus on Restructuring/Privatization . . . . . . . . . . .          8
Sup.rvision.   . ...  ...  . . . . .  . . . ... . . . . . . .    9
Use of Loan Funds. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    9
Lessons of Experience for Bank . . . . . . . .... .  ..             9
Borrower Performance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   11
Lessons of Experience for Borrower . . . . . . . . . . . . .   11
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Proiect Relationship.         . . . . . . . . . . . . . .              12
Consultinzt Senrvices . . . . . . . .   s. . . . . .         . . ..   12
Proiect Documentation and Data ................ .    13
PART II.    PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE. . . . . . 14
PART III.   STATISTICAL INFORMATION . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TURKEY
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT FOR STATE ECOtIOMIC ENTERPRISES
(Loan 2400-TU)
PREFACE
(i)   This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Technical Assistance
Project for State Economic Enterprises, for which Loan 2400-TU in the amount of
US$7.6 million was approved on March 27, 1984.  During implementation, $3.9
million of the loan was cancelled and $2.4 million was reallocated from one of
the intended beneficiaries to a broader category. Total disbursements at project
closing amounted to $2.5 million, and the balance of $1.2 million was cancelled.
(ii) The PCR was prepared by the Industry, Trade and Finance Division of Country
Department 1 in the Europe and Central Asia Region (Preface, Evaluation Summary,
Parts I and III), and the Borrower (Part II).
(iii) Discussions concerning the preparation of this PCR were held with the
Borrower during a mission to review progress of the ongoing SMI project (Loan
3067-TU). The PCR is based, inter alia, on the Report and Recommendation of the
President; the Loan and Project Agreements; Supervision Reports; correspondence
between the Bank and the Borrower; internal Bank memoranda; and interviews with
various Bank staff who were actively involved in the project during its
identification/preparation/appraisal and various stages of implementation.



_ lit _
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT FOR STATE ECONOMIC ENTERPRISES
(Loan 2400-TU)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
(i) The Bank approved the Loan (2400.-TU) tor the above Technical Assistance
project on March 27, 1984. The project was intended to assist three selected
State Economic Enterprises (SEEs) in improving their performance through a
comprehensive program aimed at raising their operational efficiency. It also
included a component to improve the country's external debt management (EDM)
system. Futds were also provided for assisting at a later stage other
eligible SEEs which had not yet been identified.
(ii) Loan 2400-TU was processed in the context of a program of structural
adjustment which tha Govertment (GOT) began to undertake in 1980 and which was
supported by the Bank through a series of structural adjustment loans (SALs)
during FY81-85. The reform of SEEs whose operational deficiencies and
consequent losses had led to substantial claims on scarce budgetary resources
was the centerpiece of a GOT Statement on Development Policies in the context
of SAL III. A TA operation focussed on selected SEEs was a requirement for
SAL IV.
(iii) While SALs III and Iv' provided an appropriate setting for the project,
the processing of Loan 2400-TU was unavoidably linked to that of SAL IV.
While this firmed up the timetable for Loan 2400-TU, it also pushed the Bank
to play a stronger role in project identification and preparation. In order
to assist prompt implementation, the Bank was also required to play an active
role in preparing terms of reference for consultants who were to recommend
specific actions for SEE improvemene. Because of the very active role of the
Bank, the involvement of the SEEs was somewhat limited. Within the Bank,
there were also some disagreements about the rationale of the project, and on
its suitability to serve as an instrument for SEE reform.
(iv) With the exception of the EDM component, which was successfully
executed, the project as originally designed did not become operational. The
project's limited objectives - specifically the demonstration effect for other
SEEs - were overtaken by a sweeping Decree pertaitiing to SEEs enacted in June
1984 by a new government which assumed power at the end of 1983. While the
theme of the 1984 Decree (SEE reform) was similar to an earlier decree enacted
in 1983, the former aimed at a drastic restructuring of SEEs including
streamlined management, immediate closure or phasing out of inefficient SEEs
with no prospects for improvement, sales of shares in SEEs to the -eneral
public and, possibly, privatization of some SEEs. The timing as well as the
strong commitment which characterized the new decree came as somewhat of a
surprise, but the Bank regarded this essentially as a strong affirmation of
the new government's interest in addressing SEE issues on a high priority
basis. Nevertheless, the 1984 Decree created much uncertainty for the
selected SEEs concerning their own future. There was little or no activity
before the Loan became effective in December 1984 or in the following six
months. During an eleven month period between May 1985 and April 1986 GOT



- iv -
requested tho cancellation of the three SEE components, and concurrently
requested that the amount originally allocated to one SEE (Sumerbark) be
reallocated to another category to finance studies on restructuring and
px    .zation.
(v) rjhile the original projaot was virtually at a standstill following the
June 1984 Decree, the focus on restructuring and privatization brought new
parties both in GOT and the Bank into an active relation. SPO was now vested
with the responsibility to oversee the restructuring/privatization studies,
while the initiative within the Bank now passed to a new unit of IND (a
department operating on a Bank-wide and non-regional basis), where expertise
on industrial restructuring had now been established. Staff of IND liaised
for several months with ministers and senior officials of GOT. As a result of
a massive and fairly continuous offort by IND staff in a receptive
environment, a program was agre',d with GOT for restructuring/privatization
studies to be undertaken by internationally reputablp con-u'Lancs, and
financed out of Loan 2400nTUl by agreement with the Bank. Based on TOR
prepazed with the assistance of Bank Staff, GOT invited consultant proposals
for undertaking the studies. Three consultants were selected to undertake the
restructuring studies on the textiles, fertilizer and cement subsecrors
respectively, and a fourth on privatization, and the studies were completed
more or less within the original timeframes.
(vi) The conclusions and recommendations of the studies were presented to a
joint audience of GOT officials, SEE representatives and Bank staff, and were
generally well received. When the studies were launched, it had been expected
both by the Bank and GOT that they would provide a basis for four or five
restructuring projects, each costing about $250 million, and would be
supported by the Bank and other cofinanciers. However, this expectation did
not materialize as planned and, while GOT continues to be interested in SEE
reforms and privatization, few concrete actions have emerged.
(vii) Loan 2400-TU offers several lessons of experience for the Bank and the
Borrower. The major part of the original project (TA to three SEEs) was no-t
implemented because it was superseded by the June 1984 Decree. Even if there
had been no Decree, the prospects for implementation would have been
significantly better if the beneficiary SEEs had been more closely involved in
project conceptualization/identification/preparation, and if the processing of
the project had not been linked to that of SAL IV.  When the project had a new
focus following the June 1984 Decree, the Bank responded with considerable
enthusiasm because of the growing emphasis in the Bank at this time on
restructuring inefficient public enterprises and/or their possible
privatization; there was therefore a coincidence of interest between the Bank
staff and GOT representatives most closely involved in these discussions. The
massive effort of Bank staff in getting the consultant studies underway did
not eventually bear fruit. It is probable that the enormous interest shown by
certain quarters of GOT in restructuring/privatization were not shared more
generally within the country, and hence the major new initiatives did not have
adequate backing at the time of decision. In retrospect, the Bank could have
been somewhat more circumspect before committing its staff to this exercise on
such a vast scale, particularly sihce it had the benefit of a longstanding
relation with the Borrower and had observed the process by which major



-v -
decisions were made, and also because expectations concerning the substantial
restrueuring investments which would follow were not fully shared by all
concerned Bank staff.
(viii) The lessons for the Borrower are the need to "-volve intended
beneficiaries fully in any discussion of programs in- dded for their benefit,
to establish more effective coordinating mechanisms to clear implementation
roadblocks and facilitate smoother project execution, and promptly recognize
signs when a project begins to falter and hence has little prospects for
implementation as planned.
(ix) Both GOT and the Bank should have given serious consideration to closing
the oroiect when it became clear that it was no longer imnlementable in its
originAl fom   By retaining the Loan, but also by using funds available under
it virtually as a line of credit (except for the funds intended for the
external debt management component, which proceeded as planned), the focus and
integrity of the original project was lost and replaced by ad hoc decisions
concerning fund use. The result was that there were few tangible results
attributable to the $2.5 million disbursed although the Loan had been in
effect for almost reven years.



PROJECT REVIEW FRON BANK'I PERSPECTIVE
Proiect Idenaity
Project Name:  Technical Assistance Project for State Economic
Enterprises
Locn No:       2400-TU
RVP Unit:      EHENA
Country:       Turkey
Sector:        Industry
Backg,roMsd
1.    A period of high economic growth in Turkey from 1970 through 1977, which was
maintained by raising tho share of investment in. GDP, and financetd initially by
workers' remittances and later by short-term borrowing, came to a halt towards the
end of 1977. The principal reasons for the rather abrupt halt were the massive
external debt burden (with a consequent decline in creditworthiness), a severe
shortage of imports, disruption in industrial production and growing unemployment.
High domestic inflation had also become a critical factor. Faced with an acute
crisis, the Government of Turkey (GOT) undertook a major revision of its development
strategy beginning in 1980, the principal themes of which were a.. external
orientation to development, an increased reliance on market forces, augmentation of
domestic savings, and restraining public investment as well as directing it towards
priority objectives such as quick gestation and positive balance of payment impact.
An adjustment program which reflected the new strategy was supported by the Bank
through five Structural Adjustment Loans (SALs) in each of FY81 through FY85 for a
total amount of $1.556 billion.
2.    Among the various key measures which were to be promoted under SAL III (FY82),
the reform of State Economic Enterprises (SEEs) was deemed to have special
significance. The SEEs, some of which were established in the 1930s, had assumed
considerable importance in the Turkish economy, in varied fields ranging from
manufacturing, public utilities, transport and agricultural marketing. In 1983,
SEEs accounted for 52X of public investment (31% of all fixed investment), 8X of GDP
and 10 of non-agricultural employment. While some SEEs were both well managed and
profitable, several others were not, and hence SEEs as a whole had vast accumulated
losses through 1980.
3.    While it was GOT's objective that SEEs should operate efficiently and
profitably, this was often compromised by a lack of consistency in the measures and
directives governing their operations, and also a lack of clarity between the
economic, social and political goals which they were expected to pursue. Because of
the massive financial requirements of the SEEs and the heavy demands they were
making on scarce budgetary resources, it was vital that they become self-reliant,
and that all constraints to their efficient functioning be removed. During 1980-
82, GOT began to take steps to deal with the major longstanding problems of the



- 2 -
SEEs, particularly government imposed price controls, uneconomic and sometimes
excessive investments, overstaffing, lack of autonomy, frequent changes in
management, inadequate salaries for managerial and technical staff,-and excessive
centralization of decision-making.  While not all of these measures were pursued
with equal vigor, GOT's policy of allowing SEEs to set output prices began to have a
positive effect on their profitability. However, this was the result more of
charginS prices well above competitive levels, often in a monopolistic setting,
rather than any marked productivity er'--ncement. Thus the burden of technical and
econouiic inefficiency was merely tr.  :red from the budget to the consumers and
the private sector generally. At an), ate, the profitability of the SEEs was short
lived, and SEE deficits became a major concern in the latter half of the 80s.
4.    The reform of SEFs through new legislation was to be the centerpiece of GOT's
program for SEEs in SAL III. The Statement on Development policies which GOT
forwarded to the Bank in the context of SAL III noted that the operations of all
energy and manufacturing units would henceforth be profit-oriented, a High Planning
Council would provide operational and personnel guidelines to SEEs, direct control
over SEEs by individual ministries would end, there would be greater continuity in
the boards and senior management of SEEs, and that SEE would WeA expected to mobilize
their own financial resources (to supplement GOT's equity contribution), in part
through sales of shares to the public. These and other related provisions were to
be incorporated into a comprehensive SEE reform decree which was originally expected
to be introduced in 1982. Following some delays, the Decree Law was finally enacted
in May 1983. The Bank considered the SEE reforms as a major step not only in
improving the operational efficiency and profitability of the enterprises but also
as an important means of dealing with growing budget deficits, a longstanding policy
of import substitution which not only caused allocative inefficiency but militated
against a free market mechanism, and distorted factor aneA product pricing. Thus SEE
reform was expected to be responsive both to sectoral and macroeconomic objectives
which the Bank was supporting in Turkey.
Proiect Qbiectives and Description
5. Objectives. The SEE reform decree provided a framework for improving the
financial, managerial and operational efficiency of SEEs. However, C-T recognized
that its operationalization depended on how readily the SEEs would avail of their
new managerial autonomy and take steps to change the deep-rooted attitudes of their
manag    and boards.  Against this background, GOT and the Bank had agreed in the
context of SAL III that a project for technical assistance aimed at improving the*
operational efficiency of selected SEEs would have an important demoastration effect
for other SEEs.  The criteria for the selection of participating SELs were:  (i)
receptivity of the SEE management to the objectives of technical assistance; (li)
ongoing direct or indirect relation between the Bank and the SEE; and (iii) possibly
the role of the SEE in expanding exports. The proposed project was to complement
ongoing Bank efforts to assist some SEEs in their rationalization/modernization
programs.
6.  Project Com2onents.  Over a three-year period, the project, for which the Bank
provided a loan of $7.60 million, was to finrnce technical assistance in support of



3 -
the identified programs of three SEEs selected by GOT' as noted below: (i) TKI
(Turkiye Komur Islatmeleri or Turkish Coal Corporation - $2.95 million)   for
improved management information system, streamlining of procurement of
equipment/spares, training and manpower planning, and improved management of lignite
mines; (LL) Sumerbank (a conglomerate with operations in banking, manufacturing and
retailing - $2.45 million) - for reorganization and rationalization of sales and
retail organization, improvement of management and data processing systems,
feasibility study for the rationalization and modernization of Sumerbank's wool
textile operations; and (iii) TCDD/ADVAS (one of the three main
workshops/manufacturing establishments of Turkish Railways - $0.98 million) - for
improved cost estimation through appropriate breakdown of operations, improvement of
operations planning and scheduling, including a management information system to
facilitate monitoring, strengthening, planning, design and research to improve
product quality, improving manual inventory management and control through the
introduction of automated systems, and improved work organization and layout in
production and repair facilities. Among the three selected SEEs, the Bank was
assisting ongoing operacions for TKI, TCDD and Sumerbank, but had no direct relation
with ADVAS. In addition to the three SEEs noted above, the project provided funds
for technical assistance ($0.93 million) for other potential beneficiaries.  The
project also included an External Debt Management (EDM) component ($0.26 million)
which provided for the services of consultants and equipment to better define user
needs, establisn standards of data accuracy, set up an operational data flow system,
and undertake a substantial amount of training of local counterparts. The Bank loan
was to be channelled to the SEEs chrough DYB (State Investment Bank), which had
previously been supported by the Bank.
Proiect Desij and Ortanization
7.    The project was designed to demonstrate that by fully availing of the powers
and flexibility within the prevailing GOT rules and procedures, and concurrently
seeking assistance to enhance their operational efficiency, SEEs could significantly
improve their overall performance. Whereas several SEEs, particularly those with
which the Bank had an ongoing relationship, recognized the need for operational
improvements, the precise nature of the additional changes to be promoted under the
proposed project, and their scope and timing may not have been the subject of a
fully participatory discussion within Turkey. Within the Bank also there was less
than full agreement among the various units involved in the project concerning its
objectives and scope, particularly on the question whether a project based on three
SEEs was an effective means of addressing the whole range of issues and problems
facing SEEs in general.
8.    The initiative for the project was taken largely by the Programs Division
responsible for Bank operacions in Turkey, not only because it was a prevailing
practice in the Bank that Programs Divisions process freestanding TA operations, but
GOT initially nominated fiv. SEEL- Apart froe the three SEEs which were finally selected, the
list also included TEX (Turkish Electric Company), and TY? (Wool and Mohair Company). There were
suggestionS in the Bank that an SEE f:=m the agriculturs sector should be considered. The final decLsion of
GOT was to the select three SEEs based on crLteria agreed with the Bank.



-4.
in this case also because the proposed TA was in support of a policy initiative
agreed with GOT as part of SAL III, and a requirement for SAL IV. The Programs
Division viewed tha project as a limited operation, with a particular focus on its
demonstration effect, whereas Regional Projects as well as IND (Industry Department
in the Central Operations Complex which was assigned responsibility for project
supervision) staff felt that the project was too circumscribed, and would therefore
have a rather limited impact. Moreover, some staff felt that by focussing on three
SEEs which had already initiated substantial rehabilitation/modernization efforts,
the Bank might give some new and possibly confusing signals as to the purpose of the
proposed operation. It was also their view that, in order to start implementation
promptly, TORs for consultants should be finalized and agreed with GOT and its
agencies, and consultants should also be selected, where feasible, ahead of, and not
following, Board ap;roval. There were also questions about the precise role of DYB
(the State Investment Bank, and financial intermediary for the project) in
"managing' the project, and whether it should be appraised separately by Regional
Projects staff. While these matters were the subject of continuing discussion
within the Bank, the need to link the processing of the project with SALs imposed a
deadline for its presentation to the Board. SAL III, whose second tranche release
was conditional upon the enactment of the SEE reform decree, had already been fully
committed after the Decree Law was passed in May 1983, and work on SAL IV had begun.
This may have precluded a fuller discussion within the Bank to reach a consensus.
9.    On the GOT side, while Bank staff (both Programs and Projects staff) made a
strong effort to keep the selected SEEs involved, the latter probably perceived that
in view of GOT's commitment to t' e Bank in the context of SAL III, their
participation in the project was a requirement rather than a voluntary decision.
Nevertheless, Sumerbank was already involved in active and productive discussion
with Bank staff. While the Bank had not previously dealt with ADVAS, it had an
ongoing relation with TCDD, ADVAS' parent organization. The TKI component, while
being eminently sensible, was being promoted in a not too congenial setting because
of disagreement between the Bank and TKI over technical issues in the context of
other projects.2 However, TKI was not averse to participating in the project.
While it is moot whether the three selected SEEs would have volunteered to subject
themselves to major reform without the project, it is also clear that they had no
major misgivings about the project either, and they cooperated with Bank staff in
project preparation. However, because of the Bank's desire to finalize the SEE
Reform project ahead of SAL IV, which was being processed as a FY84 project, the
Bank's role in the conceptualization, desigr and preparation of the SEE project
became unavoidably dominant, and may have contributed to the SEEs' somewhat passive
role.
PgoJect Implementation
10.   The project (Loan 2400-TU) was approved by the Executive Directors in March
1984, and was signed about three weeks later. This was about a year later than was
originally planned because of the delay in enacting the Decree law (initially
2 Disagroment between TKI and the Bank centered on three Ltes. The first pertained to tho use of bucket
wheal excavators being promoted by consultants in the Elbistan Lignite mine despite TIXI's reservations concerning
their suitability. Tb. *scond related to the Bank s position that individual coal mine oporations should be
a*Weated from TKV s day-to-day control. and that TKI should be free to est the day-to-day price of coal; TKI
contended that thase matters were decided by GOT and not TIC. Finally. TI:S did not accept the Bank's position that
the Soma-aiklar mine shouLd not be expanded through further investmnt.



. 5 -
expected about March/April 1983), which delayed negotiations. The original date of
effectiveness was July 16, 1984, but this was extended three times before the Loan
became effective in December 1984 in order to secure SEE compliancef with the legal
agreement on matters such as obtaining a legal opinion and finalizing TOR for the
studies.
11.   With the exception of the EDM component (see para. 17) the implementation of
the project encountered delays and serious problems from the outset, and there was
little or no activity pertaining to the three SEEs for several months ( see para.
14). There were delays in finalizing consultant short lists and letters of
invitation (TCDD-ADVAS and Sumerbank), and terms of reference for studies (TKI).
The problem concerning TKI (para. 9) proved particularly intractable since it
suspended any action regarding its TA component pending resolution of issues in
ongoing Bank-assisted
projects.
12.   The Coordination Committee (CC), a vehicle designed to monitor the progress of
the project and resolve any problems which surfaced proved ineffective because it
was never built up to full strength, replacements were not promptly found for
departing members, and the first Chairman was preoccupied with other pressing
matters. Efforts by the Bank to invoke the assistance of the CC to restore momentum
to the project were not productive.
13. Maior Revisions. Starting about the middle of 1985 the project began to
undergo a major transformation. In May 1985, GOT (Treasury) proposed that,
following a request from Sumerbank, the amount of $2.45 million originally allocated
in the project to Sumerbank be cancelled since the latter had arranged with a local
consultant to conduct the studies which were to be financed by the Loan. The GOT
also requested that the sum of $2.45 million intended for Sumerbank be reallocated
to category E (unidentified SEEs) to finance the industrial restructuring studies,
which had now become the subject of active discussion between the Bank and GOT. in
July 1985, GOT advised the Bank that TKI had decided to finance its component from
its internal sources and requested that the sum of $2.95 million originally
allocated for TKI be cancelled. While both Sumerbank and TKI undertook studies, the
scope of the studies was much narrower than was planned under the project, and there
was no follow up. In April 1986, GOT also advised the Bank that it had decided to
include ADVAS in a list of enterprises for possible privatization, and requested
cancellation of the $0.98 million originally allocated for TCDD/ADVAS. Thus during
an eleven month period between May 1985 and April 1986, $3.93 million of the
original loan of $7.60 million had been cancelled and a major reallocation effected.
Of the remaining loan amount of $3.70 million, about $3.40 million (the original
amount of $0.93 million in category E and the amount of $2.45 million reallocated
from Sumerbank) was now earmarked for industrial restructuring and privatization
studies.
14.  The June 1984 Decree.  In retrospect, the drastic changes affecting the project
should be viewed in the context of a major new Decree dated June 8, 1984. The new
Decree (KHK/233) which superseded the May 1983 Decree provided for sweeping
administrative, legal and organizational changes affecting SEEs. The timing as well
as the strong commitment which characterized the new decree had not been anticipated



6-
at the time; whlle the thrust of the June 1984 Decree was not substantially
dlfferent from the May 1983 Decree, the scope of the former was broader and Lt was
clearly intended to bring about major changes ln the structure, ownership and
operational orlentation of SEEs. The new Decree also envisaged a reduced role for
the State in the management of SEEs. The Decree was the handiwork of a new
government which came to power at the end of 1983, and which clearly wanted to put
its own stamp on the SEE reform issue. The Decree aimed at a major overhaul of the
bureaucracy to enhance the efficiency of the civil service and the SEEs. Among
other provisions, the Decree shifted responsibility for the major energy and
industry SEEs to the Prime Minister's office and reduced the authority of the
Ministry of Industry and Trade and other ministries in the oversight of SEEs. The
Decree also provided for increased public participation in SEEs and placed a new
emphasis on privatization. In this radically transformed environment, the
significance of Loan 2400-TU based on three SEEs for the purpose of a demonstration
effect was significantly diluted. In the months following the Decree, there was
much uncertainty among SEEs, including those being supported by the project,
concerning their own future. On the other hand, there was feverish activity within
the governmen- in furtherance of the changes proposed in the new Decree, and this
had the unavoidable result of shelving ongoing plans for any limited SEE reform
pending a clearer understanding of the scale and scope of the reforms being promoted
under the new Decree.
Project Results
15.   The scope of the transformation proposed in the June 1984 Decree could not
have been ernvisaged in 1982 when project preparation started.  It turned out to be
broader than the May 1983 Decree which essentially provided a basis for completing
SAL III and also for the TA project which was a requirement for SAL IV. During the
12-18 months following the June 1984 Decree, when the three SEE components were
cancelled from Loan 2400-TU at GOT's request, and funds for the Sumerbank component
were reallocated to restructuring studies, there was little or no action pertaining
to the original project components. However, there was considerable activity
involving both high-level GOT personnel and Bank staff directed towards
operationalizing the philosophy and program of the new Government, particularly with
regard to industrial restructuring and privatization. At this time, the initiative
for concinuing the dialogue with GOT shifted within the Bank to staff in a different
unit within IND; on the Turkish side SPO became a major factor, and pushed hard for
sweeping changes - particularly privatization - although there were some indications
that GOT's overall position concerning privatization had not fully crystalized.
However, because of SPO's very activist role, the Bank had to take cognizance of the
important new directions which the former was promoting.
16.  Transfer of ResDonsibility for Project.  At this stage, barring the EDM
component, the project ceased to exist in its original form, and the responsibility
both at the Bank and Turkish ends shifted to new personnel. SPO assumed
responsibility for promoting studies on the textile, fertilizer and cement
subsectors, and Bank staff (principally from IND) worked closely with SPO staff in
designing the studies, drawing up TOR for consultants who would undertake the study,
and providing a timetable for completing the studies. SPO also promoted a study on
privatization which, along with the restructuring studies, were undertaken by



- 7 
reputable international consultants. Bank staff were actively involved in a review
of the studies at all stages from inception to final reporting. It was the
expectation both of GOT and the Bank that, based on the findings and recommendations
of the studies, large investments aimed at drastically restructuring the three
subsectors would be promoted by GOT, with possible substantial Bank participation.
When the studies wore completed, albeit with some delay, their conclusions were
presented to a joint audience of GOT/SEE/Bank personnel, and were generally
well received. Implementing the conclusions and recommendations of the studies and,
in particular, launching specific subsector restructuring projects has, however,
proved slow and elusive, and the expectation of fast and sweeping changes in the
industrial structure has not materialized.
17. £DM Coonent. The EDM component (computerization) was successfully completed.
The 24 staff months of consultancy for the Treasury envisaged at the time of
appraisal proved unnecessary since the performance of the staff of the External Debt
Section exceeded expectations, principally because the Section was provided with the
right calibre of staff and needed equipment. The two phases of the computerization
program   first, the design of a system of information flows and development of
input-output formats, and second, testing, installation and running a system which
lists all official loans and private external debt have been completed; a part of
the first phase had already been launched ahead of Loan 2400-TU with assistance from
IMF.  Since consultancy services proved unnecessary on the scale originally
envisaged ($206,000) the major portion of the funds allocated to the EDM component
have been spent on computers and related equipment (originally $61,000).3
18. Overall Assessment. The drastic changes affecting the project preclude an
assessment based on the original objectives, except for the EDM component. On the
other hand, the restructuring studies as well as the one on privatization which GOT
laumched with consultant assistance should be viewed as a major initiative which
could potentially have brought far-reaching changes to the SEEs and to the
environment of Turkish entrepreneurial activity generally. The proposed reforms
could have transformed SEEs, first, by reducing the scope of the public sector, and
second, by bringing to it the operational norms and standards of the private sector.
The reforms could have also introduced a new dynamism into Turkish industry by
tackling the inertia of some of the SEEs.  In the event, none of these results
materialized as planned. Since there has been continuity in the country's political
leadership from the time the reforms were announced until today, the lack of (or
very limited) follow-up on restructuring and privatization should be viewed less as
a weakness of the measures proposed and more as the lack of consensus in a socio;
political system which resists sudden and drastic change from the long-held etatist
beliefs.
Project SustainabilitX
19.   The project in its original form is not sustainable simply because it was not
implemented as envisaged.  In its modified form where the focus tas shifted to
3 Of tho S2t7.000 originally allocated to the EDM component, only about S100,000 had been utilized when it
was copleted. for the reason noted above. About 3150,000 could have been cancelled at this atage. Nowvor. the
Sank acceded to several ad hoc requeata from GOT to utilize these finds. so" of which, while being useful, were
only peripherally related to DM.



- 8 -
restructuring studies and privatization, the follow-up has been slow.4 Selling
shares to the public and/or oucright privatization may require a prLor restructuring
of a rather drastic nature to enhance the attraction to prospective buyers.
Moreover, some aspects of restructuring such as dealing with labor redundancy way
raise broader social concerns. Evidence hitherto suggests that quick and drastic
action cannot be expected because of political and social sensitivity surrounding
the issues involved in any major restructuring and privatization.
20. Bank's Requirements. The task of the Bank in the design and
implementation of the project proved particularly difficult because of the
timing and other related constraints arising from the project's initial link
with the release of the Second Tranche of SAL III and the processing of SAL
IV. The Bank's management was clearly seeking proof of GOT's commitment to SEE
reform. However, there was less than full agreement at the staff level as to what
the burden of proof should be, and also the specific means of delivering it. As
noted in paragraph 8, the management of the project became a multi-divisional
exercise, with each unit pursuing its agenda which, while not being divergent,
nevertheless was not fully coordinated.5
21. Role of Bank Staff. Following appraisal, there were discussions within the
Bank concerning the need to firm up the TORs for each of the TA components, to have
these and the draft contracts for consultants ready in time for negotiations, and
possibly line up some of the needed consultants as well. However, the task of
preparing TORs within a relatively short time unavoidably devolved on Bank staff
with little involvement of the concerned SEEs except for the formality of their
endorsement. The commitment of the SEEs to the TA could have been stronger if they
had been required to play a more active role in this regard.
22.  Coordinating Committee.   After the project became effective in December 1984,
it encountered various implementation delays. While the Bank recognized during
field supervision that the Coordinating Committee which was intended to resolve
problems and facilitate implementation was not proving effective and made
representations to GOT, it does not appear to have followed it up with much resolve
so that a vacuum was allowed to develop on the Turkish side.
23.  Focus on Restructurina/Privatization.  When the project's limited objectives
and components were overtaken by the June 1984 Decree, the Bank recognized the need
for important departures involving SEEs and for changing the project's focus to
induscrial restructuring. The Bank made a considerable effort to facilitate the
restructuring studies, including preparing TORs for the studies, recommending the
type of expertise needed, and reviewing the studies after completion. The lack of
follow-up on the studies, which were completed within the original time-frame of 6-
9 months, had little to do with the Bank and far more with COT's policies and
internal decision making.
4 GOT decided in 1989 to privatize several state-owned cement manufacturing companies. However, after the
sales were concluded with an overseas company, the Turkish courts have declared tho sale to be unconstitutional on
tha ground that whtle sales to the Turkish public are permissible, outright sales to overseas enterprises are not
ADVAS has had various discussions with foreign and domestic companies concerning possible acquisition of its assets
and/or collaborative arrangements, but no firm results have yet been achieved. GOt is also exploring possible sales
of some publicly-owned fertilizer plants to the privete sector, but progress has been slow.
Dicusasions within The Bank concerning the proposed role of DYB exuplify this point. As late as two
weeks prior to appraisal there was lack of egreoemnt on the role of DY!. One view was that the project be used as a
_ams of strengthening DY!. that DYB be entrusted with the responsibility of maaging the project, and tbat the DYB
component be appraised by staff who had an ongoing relation with it. Others felt that this would shift the focus
from the *elected SEEs to DYD and hence be unacceptable to GOT. The project as finally appraised provided for DYB
to serve onLy a a conduit, for the Bank loan, with no other responsibility towards the SEEs.



9.
24.  SuorrvzJton.  The Bank's supervision of the project reflects the various
vicissitudes through which the project passed during its implementation. During the
first twelve months after Board approval, the project was supervised three times in
the field. Implementation delays were reviewed, corrective measures discussed with
the concerned agencies, and GOT's attention was drawn to the need for strengthening
the CC. Following the June 1984 Decree when the SEE part of the project was
inactive, the need for supervision decreased considerably. When the project's
emphasis shifted to the restructuring/privatization studies, the Bank's role shifted
from supervision (except for the EDM component which was closely monitored and
reported upon, although no formal supervision report was filed) to preparation,
since it was planned that the studies should lead to potential projects. There was
therefore some unavoidable discontinuity in formal supervision, except for the
purpose of updating information in the context of dealing with requests for
extension of cLo5ing dates. The limited supervision of the few ongoing activities
was undertaken in conjunction with other tasks in the field, and pro forma Forms 590
were filed. The shift of the project's emphasis also led to some discontinuity in
the personnel handling project-related matters, which again occured at the time of
the Bank's rtorganization. While the time devoted to supervision over a seven year
period was small, it was adequate to keep track of what remained of the original
project. As noted in paragraph 25 below, the Loan could have been closed at least
three years (possibly four) before the actual closing date, in which event further
supervision would have been unnecessary.
25. Use of Loan Funds. Towards the end of 1986, the restructuring and
privatization studies had been completed and reviewed, and the EDM component had
also been completed. At this stage, the Bank should have reached a judgment as to
the prospects of any follow-up by GOT. When several months elapsed without any GOT
initiative on restructuring and/or privatization, serious consideration could have
been given to the closing of the Loan. Instead the Loan was kept active, and
various items proposed by SPO and the Treasury which, while being useful from their
viewpoint, were nevertheless only tangentially related to the project, were financed
by Loan 2400-TU. Once a precedent was set, and undisbursed funds were still
available, it became awkward not to accede to SPO/Treasury requests for the use of
the loan funds for miscellaneous purposes. During the last four years of the
project, only $343,161 were disbursed ($1,459,125 in FY 85-86 and a further $691,726
in FY87-88), antd a sum of $1,175,938 was cancelled when the books were closed.'
26. Lessons of -Exerience for the Bank. The project offers several lessons of
experience that are relevant not only for other TA projects, but for any project in
the conception and elaboration of which the Bank either tends to, or is required to
(bec.-use of the borrower's constraints), play a dominant role. Some of the lessons
noted below have also emerged in the context of other completed projects, but it is
nevertheless useful to restate them:
(i) Whatever the merits of the TA for SEEs operation may have beer., the
fact that a statemenc on SEE reform wab a requirement for the release of the
I ln June 1969, SP0 requested the Bank's approval for utilizing about $1.0 million to acquire computer
hazrdwars, softtwre and reasted equipment to strengthen its rnvestment and Export incentives Department, and an
extension of the closing date to 12/31/90. Given that SP0's computerization requirements had already been met
substantially undes nother projcet (Loan 2585-TU), that the cloing date had been extended twice, end also the
relatively *hort time available to prepare bidding documents and award contracts aecording to procedures
tattsfact@rJ to the S k. SP0 was advisd of the Bank's concerns. although the closing date was extended as
oequsted. SPO v entatlly doelded to bave an initial pilot project costing about 656.000 to test out the .7stm.
and the proposed 61.0 dlllom project was not undertaken as planned.



- 10 -
Second Tranche of SAL III, and the decree itself for the processing of SAL IV,
may have led to a feeling on GOT's/SEEs part that this was a price which they
were required to pay for the SALs. In this situation, the voluntary nature of
their participation may have been somewhat compromised (para. 9).
(ii) The acceptance of the project's concept (and the need for the project
itself) was more at the level of central agencies (Treasury/SPO) than the
individual SEEs. The direct and more active involvement of the intended
beneficiaries in defining the project concept and details would clearly have
contributed much to the success of the project. (para. 9)
(iii) When the Bank has an ongoing and well established relation with any
agencies, it is preferable not to subject them to a new initiative,
particularly if the latter duplicates any current features. Both
Sumerbank and TKI were already working with the Bank on matters pertaining
to rationalization and modernization (para. 8). Consideration could have been
given to the selection of some new SEEs which met the criteria of strong
coimitment, but had no ongoing relation with the Bank. This was precluded,
however, by a lack of volunteers.
(iv) The role of the Bank staff should be to support and not substitute
beneficiary agency effort. If agency skills are weak, the pace of
preparation should be adjusted so that the Bank and the beneficiary move in
tandem, unless the agencies themselves urge that the Bank should play a
stronger role. (para. 9).
(v) The Bank must remain fully sensitive at all times to the socio-
political setting of the borrower. It should have a judgement whether any
major new intitiative emanating from a particular quarter of the government
fully reflects the country's traditional beliefs and attitudes. In retrospect
there is much to be discerned from the fact that the fanfare and publicity
surrounding the June 1984 Decree and the hectic activity (studies) on
restructuring/privatization which followed in 1985-86 led to few concrete
actions. The Bank's activism may have been influenced to some extent by its
recent addition of expertise in industrial restructuring to its staff and the
availability of a ready opportunity in Turkey to deploy it. Bank Staff who
were involved in restructuring/privatization discussions were getting some
strong signals from GOT counterparts at high levels that major changes were
planned. In this situation, and given the Bank's own emphasis on industrial
restructuring, its enthusiastic support for GOT's plans was, on balance,
both understandable and justified. Nevertheless, it should be recognized that
Turkey remains a "social state", not only with a strong sense of the rightness
of public ownership of assets which produce goods and services, but a sense of
social obligation of SEEs to employees and consumers.  In the circumstances,
the Bank would probably have contributed more by assisting GOT to enhance the
efficiency of SEEs within the existing framework governing their operations,
since both GOT and the SEEs appeared to be identifying with this objective.
On the other hand, while the push for privatization came from some GOT
circles, overall GOT commitment was less firm. Before the Bank becomes
solidly committed to supportiag privatization efforts by borrowers, it must
have unqualified evidence of borrower commitment.  Otherwise the Bank might
find itself in the middle of those who favor privatization and those who do
not and, in the process become embroiled in controversy and lose some of its
leverage. In a less conspicuous way the Bank could always support those who
are calling for sensible changes to rigid and outmoded systems (para 14).



X 11
(vi) When a project undergoes radical changes, and responsibility within the
Bank devolves upon new managers and staff, a consensus should be reached both
on the new objectives and the precise organizational means of supporting it.
There were obviously continuing reservations about the vastly expanded agenda
of IND with regard to the restructuring studies and privatization, but it
would have been preferable to review this thoroughly within the Bank before
committing staff time and resources on a substantial scale. If IND staff were
indeed given a mandate to pursue the restructuring agenda following such a
review, they should have been given unqualified authority to do so, subject
only to the Bank's normal procedures for further processing.
(vii) If a project appears to be faltering despite the best efforts of
the Bank, and despite major changes to the original concept in response to the
government's or the concerned agency's thinking, it may be preferable to urge
the borrower to request closing rather than continue without a well-defined
agenda. In the event, of the project's remaining loan amount of $3.67 million
(after cancellation of $3.93 million), little was disbursed during FYm8-91
(i.e. after the restructuring/privatization studies were completed) during the
four extensions of closing dates, and not much of it for the purposes as
defined earlier. While keeping the loan open may have been justified in terms
of country relations, the continued lack of withdrawals during the extended
period rendered this to be of limited advantage.
27. Borrower Performance. The borrower's (GOT/SEEs) role during project
preparation was somewhat muted for reasons noted in paragraph 9, particularly the
obligation stemming in the context of the SALs. Whereas the scope and thrust of the
June 1984 Decree which came in the wake of the approval of Loan 2400-TU created much
uncertainty for the designated beneficiary SEEs because of expectations concerning
restructuring, there was perhaps inadequate effort to clarify the situation within
GOT. The result was some disarray among the SEEs and their eventual withdrawal from
the project. The reasons given by GOT (para. 13) were not entirely persuasive
particularly when so much effort had been made to bring them on board, but it is
clear that there was somewhat of a vacuum on the Turkish side, and an understandable
desire on the part of SEEs to await the outcome of the Decree.
28.   There was also an unsatisfactory situation with regard to the Coordinating
Committee, a GOT mechanism designed to monitor the project, intervene, as needed, to
clear implementation roadblocks, and facilitate decision-making at higher levels.
In practice, however, the CC never became an effective instrument. It is
conceivable that the CC may also have been sidetracked by the June 1984 Decree, but
because of the CC's ineffectiveness, the original project began to suffer somewhat
from the lack of a sense of ownership.
29.   Following the June 1984 Decree which shifted the emphasis to industrial
restructuring and privatization, the management of the project (other than the EDM
component) now became the responsibility of SP0. SPO pursued its mandate with vigor
and dedication, and had numerous contacts with Bank staff who were very active in
this area. While it seemed for a while that restructuring and privatization had
been assigned high priority by GOT, there was little follow-up after the subsector
studies were completed at high cost.
30. Lessons of Experience for Borrower. The principal lessons for the borrower are
noted below.
(M) When a loan is contracted on behalf of other beneficiaries who are



- 12 -
not under the direct control ot. the contracting agency - in this case the
Treasury - it is vital that the beneficiary is given every opportunity
afforded by the system to react, accept, modify or reject the- proposed
couponents. Conditionality stemming from a SAL may not always be well
understood or appreciated by agencies outside the mainstream of economic
decision-making. Therefore, it is important to involve the SEEs in all
aspects of project design and implementation. The effectiveness of Loan 2400-
TU had to be extended a few times because of delays in compliance with the
Loan Agreement by beneficiaries (para. 9).
(ii) Coordination Committees can only serve their purpose if they
have the right personnel carrying appropriate authority and sufficient time to
devote to the work of the Committee. Representatives of agencies should
preferably be selected on a personal basis i.e. for the specific contribution
which each of them is expected to make, rather than simply as members of the
agencies concerned. They should, when necessary, be able to work through
their own system quickly and seek decisions from those empowered to make them.
(para. 12)
(iii) When undisbursed funds are available from unallocated categories
of ongoing loans, their utilization for purposes other than those of the
project should be the subject of exceptionally careful judgement. In Loan
2400-TU, funds were used for a Pulp and Paper Industry Study, to make up
shortfalls in funding from another loan (due to its closing) to support SPO's
computerization, to strengthen SPO's Investment and Exports Incentives
Department, and to equip the Government's Commercia'l and Economic Counsellor's
Offices in various overseas centers. While each of these items may have a
justification in its own right, it is nevertheless important to ascertain
whether they are a proper charge on the project's funds which would otheewise
begin to lack definition as to their end use (para. 25).
Proiect Relationship
31.   The context for the project was the process of structural adjustment which was
enshrined on GOT's Development Policies which were supported by the Bank through a
series of SALs. The project had, therefore, a good foundation, and its components
reflected what GOT and the Bank believed to be an effective way of contributing to
the adjustment process through SEE reform. When GOT announced new initiatives with
far-reaching implications through the June 1984 Decree, the Bank responded in ample
measure. The Decree and the casks stemming from it necessitated the interaction
among various organizational u11its and personnel in the Bank and GOT, and the
process was accomplished smoothly. From mid-1984 through the end of 1985 there was
a massive presence of Bank staff in Turkey, including meetings with ministers and
high level officials of GOT, and a substantial gearing up of SPO to promote
industrial restructuring and p,rivatization studies. While there was no follow-up by
GOT after the studies were completed, this was not because of any disagreement
between GOT and the Bank abouc the studies' conclusions and recommendations. Rather
it reflected on the Turkish side a more cautious testing of the new initiatives
against established values and beliefs, and a slower, and more thorough process of
consensus building. The continued need for such a process may have been temporarily
obscured within Turkey, and perhaps not recognized fully by the Bank.
Consultina Services
32.   Following the withdrawal. of the three original SEE beneficiaries and the shift



13 -
in emphasis to industrial restructuring/privatization, the Bank duscussed with GOT
the need to retain consultant services to undertake restructuring studies on three
subsectors - textiles, cement and fertilizers. The Bank assisted GOT considerably in
preparing TOR for the studies as well as letters of invitations to potential
consultants, and also agreed that the cost of the studies could be met from funds
available in Loan 2400-TU. The invitations were sent out in January 1985. GOT
received four proposals for a study of the textile subsector, four for the cement
subsector and five for the fertilizer subseccor. Separately, GOT also sent letters
to seven consulting firms to forward proposals for the study on a Privatization
Master Plan. GOT finally selected Boston Consultancy Group (BCG) for the textile
Subsector Study, Sema Metra for the cement subsector study and Arthur D. Little for
the fertilizer study. Morgan Guarantee Trust Company was selected among the
respondents for the study on privatization.
33.   Final reports on the textiles and cement subsector restructuring were
presented by consultants towards the end of 1985 and the fertilizer report in
January 1986, both within the agreed timeframe. The consultant reports made
detailed recommendations concerning comprehensive subsector development plans,
closure of public and mixed sector plants and privatization, training, product
standards and their monitoring, research, and government liaison services. The
report on privatization was presented by consultants in May 1986, and included a
list of SEEs recommended for privatization and specific action plans in this regard,
and an outline of Method of Privatization. The general assessment of the consultant
reports on industrial restructuring was favorable both in GOT circles and the Bank.
Prioect Documentation and Data
34.   The Loan and Project Agreements for Loan 2400 were quite adequate for the
project, except that Loan funds were not availed of for the intended purposes
because of the major changes affecting the project. Similarly, the Report and
Recommendation of the President (there was no Staff Appraisal Report) was a
comprehensive document which, particularly with the detailed TOR for the TA to the
three SEEs, would have proved entirely adequate for the project, but for the changes
noted above. Operational files were, by and large, adequate for the purpose of
preparing the PCR. Because of the vast changes affecting the project and the
diffused responsibility among various units for filing the relevant information,
there is occasionally some discontinuity in the information flow. There are some
cases when incoming communications referred to in o':troing letters and telexes are
missing, but this is not serious enough to create gapis in knowledge. Some thought
needs to be given to the improvement of filing documents, particularly when staff
from several units become involved in an operation, resulting in a multilateral
exchange of communications. Further, maintaining continuity of filing during an
event such as a major reorganization of the Bank also needs attention.
35. Operational files do not provide a clear indication as to why there was no
prompt follow-up by GOT on the recommendations of the subsector studies or the one
on Privatization, particularly when much time, energy and funds were expended on the
studies, and expectations were also high in some GOT and also Bank circles thae
specific investments would follow. While GOT expressed some reservation about a
Bank proposal that a further TA project costing some $4-5 million would be needed
before undertaking any specific subsector investment, this does not appear to have
been a decisive factor or even a major element in the lack of a follow-up. There
was no communication from GOT to the Bank to indicate that it had decided to call
off or postpone the proposed investment in subsector restructuring.



PART II
BQOIROE'S COQKTNS ON THE PCR PREPARED BY THE WORLD BANK
Generally, the findings of the Bank are reflecting the sluggish
implementation of the Project and the main problems faced within this process.
Within this respect, you'll find below somewhat different presentation of the
implementation, surely reflecting the Borrower's approach and understanding of
the situation at that time, and some comments and results derived from and
based upon these findings.
In the case of Sumerbank, as one of the beneficiaries of the loan, with
the power and flexibility given by the SEE Decrees both in 1983 and 1984, the
new management found it easier to handle the prevailing problems. First, they
had enough financial resources and were not in need of external financing for
these studies; second, they had already started and were about to finish some
of the necessary consultancy studies; and third, with the confidence they had
in their in-house skills, Sumerbank considered it can carry out any further
studies, maybe with the employment of some additional consultants, within the
company. Besides, the World Bank credit was bearing foreign exchange risk,
due to the high depreciation of TL against foreign exchange, which eventually
makes the cost of financing burden higher.
In the case of TXI, there were more widespread issues between the Bank
and TKI. TKI had been in close cooperation with the Bank since a Project
Preparation Facility (PPF) of 950,000 had been provided by the Bank for its
Soma-I*iklar coal fields Project in 1981. After the completion of feasibility
study in 1982 and a hydrogeological research on the water supplies of the
region in 1984, and even carrying out tenders for machinery and equipment
purchases in cooperation and conformity with the Bank in 1984, the Bank
decided to defer its decision on the extension of a loan to TKI until August
1985 and finally, in March 1985 decided not to extend a loan to TKI on the
basis of privatization expectations of the coal fields and informed TKI that a
loan support would be provided when privatization turns into reality.
Afterwards, TKI found necessary sources for the Project from another foreign
financier and partially from its own equity. TKI then regarded the Bank loan
(Technical Assistance for SEEs - 2400-TU) unnecessary as a consequence of the
Bank decision about the unavailability of a Bank loan for its Soma-Iliklar
Project and besides, informed the Treasury that their equity was sufficient to
carry out such consultancy studies _nvisaged under LN 2400-TU.
In the case of TCDD-ADVAS, there became delays in the implementation of
the project; however, at the same time another project was being prepared by
the Bank for the rehabilitation of TCDD throughout 1985, also comprising the
major aspects of the LN 2400-TU. As the negotiation of this new loan was
expected to be completed in March 1986, to avoid some repercussions in both
projects, abolishment of the first project was preferred since there was no
utilization, as well. Besides, it was also felt that extra financial burden
of the consultancy studiies could adversely affect the marketability of the
company under the privatization process, which the company was considered as



15  -
one of the first candidates by that time.'
Based on above, some comments on the Bank's findings are stated below:
1) The effects of June 1984 Decree (KHK 233) has been much smaller on
SEEs on the implementation of the Project, in contrast with the findings of
PCR. Besides, the objectives of KHK 233 had not changed the main thrust of
government for SEEs and did not constitute an obstacle for the managers of
SEEs  to carry  out  the  Project.2   Actually,  objectives  of  the  Project were  also
compatible with the KHK 233 and not lessened the dedication of neither the
maragements nor the Government to the Project.
The above stated cases about the beneficiary institutions, we believe,
are evidencing this situation. To summarize the key points in above cases, it
is worth  to mention  once  again  that:
a) SEEs were already dedicated to the objectives of the studies,
with or without the Bank financing and they were pursuing these
ends.
b) Introduction of new project ideas, at a time when similar
projects with the Bank were being carried out, may have been
unnecessary.3
c) These SEEs had enough equity, which were making these subloans
expensive. Probably, if the size of the sub-loans could have been
kept at a symbolic level and these SEEs had been encouraged and
volunteered in designing the terms of reference and owning the
study with all its conclusions, this could have much easily lead
to realization of the ends of Project.'
d) And, especially with regard to TKI's case, the Bank's over-
Banks Coc=onC The Bank notes the points made by the Borrower with regard to the SEEs. Trh
Borrower's observations reinforce the view advanced in Part I that either the need for a subproject for each
of the SEEs had not boen clearly and conclusively established or that adequate consultation had not been
held with the SECs about the need for ezternal assistance to undertake their components. Given the
circustances surrounding each of the three selected SEEs - availability of resources and in-house capacity
in Sumerbank, unresolved issuas between TrI and the Ban. privatization expectations concerning ADVAS - it
is possible that the SEEa would not have volunteered to participate in the project. It is noted in Part I
that a major factor leading to the withdrawal of the SEEs was that a firm basis for their participation had
not been created at the time of Loan approval.
2 Bank's Commnt.  The Bank agrees that there was no major difference between the May 1983 and June
1984 Deerses with regard to their spirit or thrust (Para. 14 of Part I). Both aimed at improving SEE
performance, but the June 1984 Decree set the tone for operationalizing some of the SEE reforms such as
massive restructuring, sales of shares to public and possible privatization. There is no suggestion in Part
I of the PCR that the June 1984 Decree reduced the commitment of the SEEs or the Government for SEE reform,
but only that the Decree unavoidably created uncertainty for the SEEs concerning their own future.
3   mank's gommi nt.  The Bank agrees, as noted in Para. 8 and para. 26 (iii) of Part I.
4 Bank's Comnmnt. The Bank agrees that the prospects for implementation would have improved if the
concerned SEEs had been more closely involved in project conceptualization and details as noted in Pars.9
and psra.26 (ii) of Part I. However, if there was roally no need for Bank financing of the SEE components,
it implies that Loan 2400-TU may not have been required. Financing at a 'symbolic lsveal would probably not
have contributed much and, at any rate, would have randered the project to be largely unnecessary.



16  -
emphasis on the interrelations between macro policies and micro
projects may have lead to the loss of confidence of TKI in the
Bank, and as a side effect to the abolishment of LN 2400-TU.5
2)   The  imposition of the  Project as a partial  conditionality  set  forth
for the provision of SAL-IV was also another issue which further complicated
the project implementation. This also have resulted in lesser participacive
efforts on the Turkish side.'
3) The extension of the original closing date of the Loan for three
times should be basically explained by the decision that had already been made
between the Bank and one of the implementing agencies in 1988 for reallocation
of funds for this agencies computerization, even before the Treasury's
approval. So, the following extensions and disbursements should be explained
within this context.7
5 Bank's Coment. The difficulties concerning the 7KI component have been fully documented in Part
I as noted in pareg. The TXI component was probably the Least firm among the three SEEs.
5ank's Coment. This point is recognized in paras.8 and 26 (i) of Part I.  It was the Bank's
understanding, however tenuous it may have been, that GOT was fully supportive of the project's objectives,
and that the SEEs would become actively involved. It is acknowl4dgsd that a fully voluntary partictpation
by SEEs would have enhanced the prospects for implementation.
7 Bank's Comment. There can be no question that the Bank fully approved the *xtensions of the closing
date at the Government's request. rhe point made in Part I is that the project's funds were being *llocated
for purposes not closely related to the project's objectives, and also that, despite the extensions, only a
small part of the funds were availed of during the extended period.



PARTL III1
1. Related Bank Loans and/or Credits
Loan/Credit                              Year of
Title             Purpose            Approval      Status      Comments
Loan 1023-ru         Thermal power         FY74      completed   Serious delays
Elbistan Power       generation based                             encountered in
and Lignite Mine    on lignite, and                               project completion
associated increase                          owing to a variety
in lignite produc-                           of problems both in
tion                                         power and mining
aspects.
Loan 1847-TU        Increased produc-      FY80      completed   Objectives
Sumerbank           tion volume, cost                             successfully
Textiles           reduction, upgra-                             accomplished.
ding product mix                              Some delay in
and improving                                 completion
product quality
Loan 1985-TU        Rationalization/       FY81      completed   Despite delays in
Fertilizer         modernization of                               implementation,
Rationalization    old fertilizer                                 capacity utilization
plants to improve                             improved from 40Z to
and            capacity utilization                           75%.  About 10% of
Loan 1985-TU and a
Loan 2131-TU                               FY82      completed   third of Loan
Second Fertilizer                                                 2131-TU was cancelled
Rationalization                                                   because of cost
savings and modified
project scope.
Loan 2158-TU        Improved macro-        FY82      completed   Major improve-
SAL III             economic manage-                              ment in economic
and            ment, export pro-                              performance, big
Loan 2321-TU        motion, control-                              gains in exports,
SAL IV              ling budget defi-                             SEE reform slow
cits, market-based                            and weak.
economy, SEE reform



18 -
2.  Poiect Timetable
Item                Date             Date               Date
Planned         Revised           Actual
Identification                                                 Dec. 82
Preparation                                                    Dec. 82 - Mar. 83
Appraisal Mission                                              Mar./Apr. 83
Loan Negotiation            May 83                             Feb. 84iV
Broad Approval              June 83                            March 84V
Loan Signature                                                 April 84
Loan Effectiveness          July 84                           Dec. 84V
Loan Closing                Dec. 87            2              Dec. 90§
Loan Completion             June 87                            Dec. 90
1  Delay in passing Decree Law on SEE reform.
3 Loan effectiveness date was extended four times to August 16, 1984,
September 16, 1984, December 3 and December 27, 1984 respectively.
E Loan Closing date extended three times to December 31, 1988, December 31,
1989 and December 31, 1990.



- 19 -
3.  Loan Disbursements
Disbursements ($ million)
Bank                          Estimated         Actual             Actual as Z
Fiscal Year                      Cumulative         Cumulative11     of Estimatedil
FY85                             2.4              0.086
FY86                             5.9              1.459
FY87                             7.5              2.150
FY88                             7.6V             2.398
FY89                                              2.433
FY90                                              2.460
FY91                                              2.494V
± Any comparison of actual with estimated disbursement is not meaningful
because (i)  the major part of the project as originally appraised did not
materialize, and (ii) new studies on restructuring which were financed by the Loan
through reallocation of funds from an original category had no disbursement
schedule, were different in scope, scale and thrust, and had a different time
horizon. Hence, no conclusions can be derived from the above table regarding Loan
2400-TU.
I/' Of the original Loan amount of $7.6 million, $3.9 million was cancelled
before the end of FY86. Of the remaining amount of $3.7 million, about $2.5 million
had been disbursed at closing, and the balance was cancelled.



- 20
4. Proiect I nlementation
Appraisai
Indicator                          Estimate                    Actual
TA for TKI                      219 staff-months
of consultancy                   v
TA for Sumerbank                205 staff-months
of consultancy                   1/
TCDD/ADVAS                      80 staff-months
of consultancy
EDM                            18 staff-months
of consultancy                   2/
g Since GOT withdrew the TKI, Sumerbank and TCDD/ADVAS components following
effectiveness, none of the consultancy services originally planned for these SEEs
was availed of. The funds originally allocated to Sumerbank were later reallocated
at GOT'3 request to Category E (unidentified SEEs) to be used for restructuring
studies on the fertilizer, textiles and cement subsector.
uI The proposed consultancy of 18 staff-months for EDM was not availed of
since the unit's local staff were able to complete the task.



21  -
5. Project Costs and Financina
A. Prolect Costs (USS Ml
Revised
Aooraisal Estimate                  Estimate             Actual
Local      Foreign                                Local       Foreign
Iteflm        Costs   Exchange Costs       Total                Costs       Exchange
Cgsts           Total
TKI           0.60          1.73            2.33      NA                                      1/
Sumurbank     0.62          1.66            2.28      NA
ADVAS         0.24          0.69            0.93      NA
EON           0.07          0.22            0.29      NA                                    0.293/
Additional
Studies      -            0.75            0.75      NA                                     V
Contingencies 0.36          1.30            1.66      NA
8.  Prolect Financing (USS M)
Planned                                   Actual
So = Local   Foreign   Total               L       Foreian   Total
loRD          0.7      6.9       7.6                       U       2.49     2.49
SEEs/GOT      1.2       -         1.2                      U         -       U
Total        1.9      6.9       8.8                       U       2.49     2.494/
I/ Component was cancelled at GOT's request
2t Component cancelled at GOT's requests and funds reallocated to additional studies.
/  The major part of the original cost of EDH was consultant services, and oquipment accounted for only a small
part.  In fact. equipmant accounted for al*  but a very small part of the actual cost.
NA - not applicable
4/ As noted in footnote 2 of Table 3, of the original loan of 57.60 million, $3.9 million was cancelled.
leaving a balance of S3.7 million which, barring the EDM component, was now intended for studies (including the
original provision of $0.75 million). Since expenditures were almost entirely for consultancy services (for the
restructuring studies) and equipment, both of which wore 100l reimbursable, the Bank very probably financed ICOZ of
the cost of the modified project.
U - Unavailable



- 22 -
6.  Proiect Results
D. Studies
Purpose
Agency                             of Study                                        Status!/                          Impactr/
TKI                              Improve Management Information
System
Develop Manpower
Planning and Training
Sumerbank                       Analyze Sumerbank's sales
and retail organization and
recommend action program to
improve organization and
management structure
Improve Management Information
System
Feasibility Study for
rationalizing wool textile operations
TCDD/ADVAS                      Improve operations
Planning and schedu'ing
Strengthen planning,
design and research departments
Sections A,B, and C of Table 6 i.e. Direct Benefits, Economic Impact and Financial Impact respectively
are not included because the project was not implemented as planned.
v None of the above studies was conducted because GOT asked the Bank to cancel the components at the request
of the SEEs concerned.
(Note: At the request of GOT, S 2.45 million originally Lntended for Sumerbank was reallocated to Category E -
unidentified SEEs and, including the original amount of $0.93, a total sum of S3.4 was now made available for tb:ee
restructuring studies on the fertilizer, textiles and cement subsectors, and a study on privatization. These four
studies were completed by internationally recruited consultants, and their findings and recommendations were
presented to representatives of GOT, the SEEs and the Bank. However, contrary to earlier expectations, there was no
follow-up to the studies, despite GOT's continued interest in restructuring.



- 23 -
7. Status if Covenants
Covenant              Subject                  Compliance            Status
Loan Aereement
Section 3.02         Employ cor.sultant            NO             Consultant services
to carry out Part D                          deemed unnecessary
of the Project (EDM)                         because concerned
unit was able to
perform needed task.
Section 3.03           Appointment of a              YES            While nominally a
Project Coordination                         committee was esta-
Committee                                    established, it did
not prove effective.
Section 3.04           Conduct Annual                NO             Project not imple-
Review of Project                            mented as planned,
and hence review was
unnecessary.
Schedule 2-Part E      Agree on other                NO             Deemed unnecessary
beneficiaries not yet                        because project was
identified, by June 30, 1985                overtaken by the
June 1984 Decree.



- 24
8. Use of Bank Resources
A. Staff tnouts (Staffweeks)
Stage of
Pro1ect Cycle          Planned'"        Revised'/       Final          Comments
Through Appraisal                                         21.9           None
Appraisal through
Board Approval                                            7.9           None
Board Approval
through Effective-
ness                                                      7.8           Delays in obtaining
Beneficiary Compliance
Suoervisorn                                               3?r12,
Total                                                   69.7
B. Missions
Stage of        Month/   No. of    Oays in    Speciali-    Performance   Types of
Project Cycle    Year       Persons   Field       zation31      Rating         Problems4/
Throuah Aooraisal
11/82         1         7       A(1)                -
1/83        3          7       B(2), C(M)         -
3/83        3          S       A(1), B(2)
4/83         5         7       A(2). B(l).
C(I). D(l)
Appraisal through
Board Approval
11/83        2          7       B(1), G(1)
11/83         1         7       B(1)
12/83         1         5       A(1)
Board Approval
Throuch Effectiveness
5/84         1         5       C(I)
10/84         1         3       C(1)
12/84         1         7       E(1)
Supervision
5/84         1         7       B(1)               1
9/84         1         3       8(1)               2       DIS, MAN.
4/85        2          5       8(2)               2       DIS. MAN. REP
10/85         1         7       B(1)               2       OIS. MAN,
REP, COM
10/85         1         7       F(1)               2           -
8/86         1                 0(1)2'             2 
3/87         1         5       0(1)'              St         2l
8/87         1         5       0(1) '             V
5/88         1         4       0(1)V              P i
5/89         1         4       0(1)1'             P          V
6/90         1         4       D(1)2/             P 



25-
1. Not available or applicable
2. Not including time spent on deatmn. TOR. consultant selection and rcview of studies connected with
propomad Industrial Restructuring project. originally planned for FY88.
3.  SDe§nialantion.  A   Loan Officer: B - ndustry Specialist & C - Mining Specialist; D - Financial
Analyst; E - Lawyer; F - Economist; 0 - Railway Specialist (Figures in parenthosis show number of persona).
4.  TS of  rablems.  DIS - Disburaaments, MAN - Management, REP - Reporting, CCt - Project Completion.
5.  Because original project was already completed or modif ed, minimal supervision was undertaken with
other taak*. A proforma 590 was issued.
6.  From about the middle of FY87. both Porformance Ratings and Types of Problem  cease to have relevance
because of major changes in project.



