OFFICIAL      LOAN NUMBER 2400 TU
DOCUMENTS
DYB Agreement
(Technical Assistance Project for State
Economit Enterprises)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
DEVLET YATIRIM BANKASI
Dated           /  , 1984


﻿LOAN NUMKBER 2400 TU
DYB AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                      , 1984, between INTER-
NATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter
called the Bank) and DEVLET YATIRIM BANKASI (hereinafter called
DYB).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
the Republic of Turkey (hereinafter called the Borrower) and the
Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the Borrower an
amount in various currencies equivalent to seven million six
hundred thousand dollars ($7,600,000), on the terms and condi-
tions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that
DYB agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are
hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and DYB, part of the proceeds of the Loan
provided for under the Loan Agreement will be made available to
DYB on the terms and conditions therein set forth;
WHEREAS by finance agreements to be entered into between DYB
and TKI, Sumerbank, TCDD-ADVAS and any other state economic
enterprise as may be agreed pursuant to Part E of the Project,
respectively, the proceeds of the Loan made available by the
Borrower to DYB will be relent by DYB to TKI, Sumerbank, TCDD-
ADVAS and any other state economic enterprise as may be agreed
pursuant to Part E of the Project, respectively, on the terms and
conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS DYB, in consideration of the Bank's entering into
the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in the
Loan Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have
the respective meanings therein set forth.


﻿-2-
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. For the purpose of carrying out Parts A, B,
C and E of the Project described in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agree-
ment, DYB shall make available to TKI, Sumerbank, TCDD-ADVAS and
any other state economic enterprise as may be agreed pursuant to
Part E of the Project, respectively, the proceeds of the Loan
made available to DYB by the Borrower under a finance agreement
to be entered into between DYB and each such Beneficiary under
terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank,
including that: (a) the proceeds relent to each such Beneficiary
shall be repaid over a term of seventeen years, including four
years of grace; (b) each Beneficiary shall pay interest on such
proceeds at the rate of 0.5% above that applicable to the Loan;
(c) each Beneficiary shall pay commitment charges on such pro-
ceeds at the rate applicable to the Loan; and (d) TKI, Sumerbank
and TCDD--ADVAS shall pay DYB a fee, on the Effective Date, on
the amount of the proceeds relent by DYB which is proportionate
to the fee paid by the Borrower under Section 2.05 of the Loan
Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the guods and services to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan made available by DYB to the Beneficiaries
shall be governed by the provisions set forth or referred to in
Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.03. DYB shall duly perform all its obligations
under the DYB Subsidiary Loan Agreement and under the Finance
Agreements. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, DYB shall
not take or concur in any action which would have the effect of
amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement or the Finance Agreements or any provision thereof.
Section 2.04. DYB shall: (a) at the request of the Bank,
exchange views with the Bank with regard to the progress of the
Project, the performance of its obligations under this Agreement,
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement and under the Finance Agree-
ments, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan;
and
(b)  promptly inform the Bank of any condition which inter-
feres or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project,


﻿-3-
the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, or the perfor-
mance by DYB of its obligations under this Agreement, under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement and under the Finance Agreements.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of DYB
Section 3.01. DYB shall at all times manage its affairs,
maintain its financial position, plan its future expansion and
carry on its operations in accordance with sound managerial,
administrative, business and financial practices.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. DYB shall maintain records adequate to
reflect, in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices, its operations and financial condition
related to the Project.
Section 4.02. DYB shall: (a) maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of Parts A, B, C and
E of the Project (including the cost and the benefits to be
derived from such Parts), to identify the goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan for such Parts and to
disclose their use in such Parts;
(b) furnish to the Bank at. regular intervals all such
information as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning such
Parts of the Project, the cost and, where appropriate, the
benefits to be derived from such Parts, the expenditure of such
proceeds of the Loan and the goods and services financed out of
such proceeds; and
(c) assist the Borrower in furnishing the report referred
to in Section 3.05 (d) of the Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes
effective.


﻿Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank
and of DYB hereunder shall terminate on the date on which the
Loan Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its terms, and
the Bank shall promptly so notify DYB thereof.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancella-
tion or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT),
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For DYB:
Devlet Yatirim Bankasi
Milli Mudafaa Caddesi No. 20
Ankara, Turkey
Cable address:                     Telex:
YATIRIMBANK                       42606 DYB TR
Ankara


﻿-5-
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of DYB may be taken or executed by its
General Manager or such other person or persons as DYB shall
designate in writing, and DYB shall furnish to the Bank suffi-
cient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen
signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
DEVLET YATIRIM BANKASI
By
Authorized Representative


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this          day of        198
FOR SECRETARY


