OFFICIAL        LOAN NUMBER 2400 TU
DOCUMENTS
Loan Agreement
(Technical Assistance Project for State
Economic Enterprises)
between
REPUBLIC OF ITURKEY
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated          /   ,1984


﻿LOAN IMBER 2400 TU
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated            / L-    , 1984, between REPUBLIC
OF TURKEY (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the
Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the BanK to assist
in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement by making the Loan as hereinafter provided;
(B) by an agreement of even date herewith between the Bank
and Devlet Yatirim Bankasi (hereinafter called DYB), DYB has
agreed to undertake certain obligations in respect of the Project
(hereinafter called the DYB Agreement);
(C) part of the Project will be carried out by Turkiye
Komur Isletmeleri (hereinafter called TKI), Sumerbank (herein-
after called Sumerbank) and Turkiye Cumhuriyeti Devlet Demir-
yollari-Adapazari Vagon Sanayii Muessesesi (hereinafter called
TCDD-ADVAS) with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such
assistance, the Borrower will make available to DYB for relending
to TKI, Sumerbank and TCDD-ADVAS part of the proceeds of the Loan
as hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the
foregoing, to make the Loan available to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth hereinafter, in the DYB Agreement,
and in the Project Agreement of even date herewith between the
Bank and TKI, Sumerbank and TCDD-ADVAS (hereinafter called the
Project Agreement).
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Gua-
rantee Agreements of the Bank, dated October 27, 1980, with the
same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agree-
ments of the Bank being hereinafter called the General Condi-
tions).


﻿-2-
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth .A     the following addi-
tional terms have the following meanings:
(a)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and DYB pursuant to Section
3.01 (d) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time
to time;
(b) "Beneficiaries" means TKI, Sumerbank, TCDD-ADVAS and
any other state economic enterprise as may be agreed pursuant to
Part E of the Project;
(c) "TCDD" means Turkiye Cumhuriyeti Devlet Demiryollari,
the Borrower's state railway enterprise; and
(d) "Finance Agreements" means the agreements to be entered
into pursuant to Section 2.01 of the DYB Agreement, as such
agreements may be amended from time to time, between DYB and each
of TKI, Sumerbank, TCDD-ADVAS, and any other state economic
enterprises as may be agreed pursuant to Part E of the Project.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or
referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to seven
million six hundred thousand dollars ($7,600,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for ex-
penditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree: (a)
procurement of the goods and services required for Parts A, B, C
and E of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of


﻿-3-
the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of the Schedule to
the Project Agreement; and (b) procurement of equipment required
for Part D of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan, in an amount not exceeding $61,000, shall be through
comparison of price quotations from at least three established
and reliable suppliers in accordance with procedures acceptable
to the Bank.   Prior to submission to the Bank of contracts for
equipment procured pursuant to paragraph (b) of this Section, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank two conformed copies of such
contract, together with an analysis of the comparison of price
quotations, recommendations and such other information as the
Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines
that the contract was not consistent with paragraph (b) of this
Section, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for
such determination.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1987 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee
equivalent to eighteen thousand nine hundred fifty-three dollars
($18,953).
(b) On or promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account
and pay to itself the amount of the said fee in such currency or
currencies as the Bank shall determine.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commit-
ment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.07. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time at a rate per annum for each Interest Period equal to one
half percent per annum above the Cost of Qualified Borrowings for
the last Semester ending prior to the commencement of such
Interest Period.
(b) As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings for such Semester.


﻿-4-
(c) For purposes of this Section:
(i)  "Interest  Period" means   the  six-month  period
commencing on each date specified in Section 2.08
of this Agreement, including the Interest Period
in which this Agreement is signed.
(ii) "Cost" of Qualified Borrowings means the cost,
expressed as a percentage per annum, as reasonably
determined by the Bank, provided that the amount
of $8,520.5 million referred to in (iii) (B)
hereunder shall be reckoned at a cost of 10.93%
per annum.
(iii) "Qualified   Borrowings"  means:  (A) outstanding
borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
1982; and (B) until July 1, 1985, the amount of
$8,520.5 million (representing borrowings of the
Bank between July 1, 1981 and June 30, 1982) less
any part thereof repaid earlier than July 1, 1985.
(iv) "Semester" means the first six months or the
second six months of a calendar year.
Section 2.08. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on JanuarPy 15 and July 15 in each year.
Section 2.09. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.10. Except for the amount of the Loan allocated
under Categories (10) and (11) of the table shown in paragraph 1
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, DYB is designated as represen-
tative of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action
required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section
2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out Part D of the


﻿- 5 -
Project through its Undersecretariat of the Treasury and Foreign
Trade with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative and financial practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the purpose.
(b) Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its
other obligations under the Loan Agreement, the Borrower shall
cause: (i) DYB to perform in accordance with its respective
obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, the DYB Agree-
ment and the Finance Agreements; and (ii) the Beneficiaries to
each perform in accordance with its respective obligations under
the Project Agreement and the Finance Agreements, and shall take
or cause to be taken all action, including the provision of
funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or
appropriate to enable DYB and the Beneficiaries to perform such
obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken, or permit
any of its agencies or enterprises to take, any action which
would prevent or i,nterfere with such performance.
(c) Without limitation to paragraph (b) of this Section,
the Borrower shall cause TCDD to take all measures necessary to
enable TCDD-ADVAS to fulfill its obligations under the Project
Agreement.
(d) In order to carry out Parts A, B, C and E of the
Project, the Borrower shall relend an amount equivalent to the
proceeds of the Loan, except the amount allocated for Part D of
the Project, to DYB under a subsidiary loan agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and DYB, under terms and
conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank which shall
include that: (i) such proceeds shall be repaid over a term of
seventeen years, including four years of grace; (ii) DYB shall
pay interest and commitment charges at the rates applicable to
the Loan; and (iii) DYB shall pay the Borrower a fee, on the
Effective Date, on the amount of the proceeds relent to DYB which
is proportionate to the fee paid by the Borrower under Section
2.05 of this Agreement.
(e) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsi-
diary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests
of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of
the Loan, and except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Bor-
rower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.


﻿- 6 -
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying
out Part D of the Project, the Borrower shall employ a consultant
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank, such consultant to
be selected in accordance with principles and procedures satis-
factory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use
of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by The World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall establish and maintain
until completion of the Project a Project coordination committee
with representation and terms of reference satisfactory to the
Bank.
Section 3.04. Commencing in 1985, the Borrower and the Bank
shall carry out an annual review of the Project to examine, inter
alia, the application of the experience gained to other state
economic enterprises of the Borrower.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and work schedules for Part D of the
Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower shall: (i) maintain records and proce-
dures adequate to record and monitor the progress of Part D of
the Project (including its cost and the benefits to be derived
from it), to identify the services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan under said Part and to disclose their use in said
Part of the Project; and (ii) furnish to the Bank at regular
intervals   all such information as the Bank shall reasonably
request concerning the Project, its cost and, where appropriate,
the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure of the
proceeds of the Loan and the goods and services financed out of
such proceeds.
(c) Upon the award by the Borrower of any contract for
services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank
may publish a description thereof, the name and nationality of
the party to whom the contract was awarded and the contract
price.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such


﻿- 7 -
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare, with the assistance of
DYB and the Beneficiaries, and furnish to the Bank a report, of
such scope and in such detail as the Bank &hall reasonably
request, on the execution and initial operation of the Project,
its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from it, the
performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their respective
obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment of
the purposes of the Loan.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of
such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any
public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any
external debt, which will or might result in a priority for the
benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation,
realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall,
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no cost
to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in
creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot be
made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of its
political or administrative subdivisions, the Borrower shall
promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on
other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property;
and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking
transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year
after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets"
means assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative


﻿- 8 -
subdivision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or
operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any such
subdivision, including gold and foreign exchange assets held by
T. C. Merkez Bankasi or any institution performing the functions
of a central bank or exchange stabilization fund, or similar
functions, for the Borrower.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the Gen-
eral Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) DYB shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under the DYB Agreement or the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
(b) Any of the Beneficiaries shall have failed to perform
any of its respective obligations under the Project Agreement or
any of the Finance Agreements.
(c) As a result of events which have occurred after the
date of the Loan Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have
arisen which shall make it improbable that DYB will be able to
perform its obligations under the DYB Agreement or the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement.
(d) As a result of events which have occurred after the
date of the Loan Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have
arisen which shall make it improbable that any of the Bene'ficia-
ries will be able to perform its obligations under the Project
Agreement or any of the Finance Agreements.
(e) Any law pertaining to the establishment or operations
of DYB, TCDD or any of the Beneficiaries shall have been amended,
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect mate-
rially and adversely the ability of any of them to perform any of
their respective obligations under the DYB Agreement or the
Project Agreement.
(f) The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of DYB or any -of the Beneficiaries or for the suspension of
the operations of any one of them.


﻿-9-
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the Gen-
eral Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) Any event specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of Sec-
tion 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a
period of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given
by the Bank to the Borrower and DYB or one of the Beneficiaries,
as the case may be.
(b) Any event specified in paragraphs (e) and (f) of Sec-
tion 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General
Conditions:
(a) the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on
behalf of the Borrower and DYB; and
(b) the Finance Agreements have been executed on behalf of
DYB and each of TKI, Sumerbank and TCDD-ADVAS, respectively.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:
(a) that the DYB Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by DYB and is legally binding upon DYB in accordance
with its terms;
(b) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized
or   ratified  by   each   of  TKI,   Sumerbank   and   TCDD-ADVAS,
respectively, and is legally binding upon each of TKI, Sumerbank
and TCDD-ADVAS, respectively, in accordance with its terms;
(c) that TCDD has issued all approvals and authorizations
necessary for TCDD-ADVAS to carry out its obligations under the
Project Agreement;


﻿- 10 -
(d) that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly autho-
rized or ratified by the Borrower and DYB, respectively, and is
1egally binding upon the Borrower and DYB, respectively, in
accordance with its terms; and
(e) that the Finance Agreements have been duly authorized
or ratified by DYB, and each of TKI, Sumerbank and TCDD-ADVAS,
respectively, and are legally binding upon DYB and each of TKI,
Sumerbank and TCDD-ADVAS, respectively, in accordance with their
terms.
Section 6.03. The date                           , is hereby
specified for the purposes of S tion       12,04 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Undersecretariat of the Treasury and
Foreign Trade is designated as representative of the Borrower for
the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions.
For the Borrower:
Basbakanlik
Hazine Ve Dis Ticaret Mustesarligi
Mithatpasa Cad desi No: 18
Yenisehir-Ankara
Turkey
Cable address:                     Telex:
MALIYE                            821-42285
Hazine                           821-42689
Ankara
For the Bank;
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿- 11 -
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT),
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of amounts of the
Loan to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for
items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated            % of
(Expressed in          Expenditures
Category            Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
Part A
(1) Equipment and                 530,000        100% of foreign
materials                                   expenditures
and 100% of
local expendi-
tures (ex-
factory)
(2) Consultants'                2,380,000        100% of foreign
services                                    expenditures
for consultants
domiciled out-
side Turkey and
85% of total
expenditures
for other
consultants
(3) Training                       40,000        100% of foreign
expenditures
Part B
(4) Equipment                     750,000        100% of foreign
and materials                               expenditures
and 100% of
local expendi-
tures (ex-fac-
tory)


﻿- 13 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated             % of
(Expressed in           Expenditures
Category            Dollar Equivalent)       to be Financed
(5) Consultants'                1,650,000         100% of foreign
services                                     expenditures
for consultants
domiciled out-
side Turkey
and 85% of
total expen-
ditures for
other consul-
tants
(6) Training                       50,000         100% of foreign
expenditures
Part C
(7) Equipment and                 250,000         100% of foreign
materials                                    expenditures
and 100% of
local expendi-
tures (ex-
factory)
(8) Consultants'                  700,000         100% of foreign
services                                     expanditures
for consultants
domiciled out-
side Turkey
and 85% of
total expen-
ditures for
other consul-
tants
(9) Training                       30,000         100% of foreign
expenditures


﻿- 14 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated            % of
(Expressed in          Expenditures
Categog              Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
Part D
(10) Consultants'                 206,000         100% of foreign
services                                     expenditures
(including                                   for consultants
support                                      domiciled out-
staff)                                       side Turkey
and 85% of
total expen-
ditures for
other consul-
tants
(11) Equipment                     61,000         100% of foreign
expenditures
and 100% of
local
expenditures
(ex-factory)
Part E
(12) Consultants'                 934,047         100% of foreign
services                                     expenditures
for consultants
domiciled out-
side Turkey and
85% of total
expenditures
for other
consultants
Other
(13) Fee                           18,953         Amount due
TOTAL                 7,600,000


﻿- 15 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan
shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied by, or
in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or on the
importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to that
end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect of
any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan decreases
or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, increase
or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable to such
item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned policy
of the BaTik.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for ex-
penditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent
of $150,000, may be made in respect of Category (5) on account of
expenditures made before that date but after February 1, 1984.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
I above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of
the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Cate-
gory, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to
such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to
another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are not
needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if such reallocation
cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disburse-
ment percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order
that further withdrawals under such Category may continue until
all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.


﻿- 16 -
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the pro-
curement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expen-
ditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under this
Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the
Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the amount
of such expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist in improving the
efficiency of selected state economic enterprises of the Borrower
through the development and application of a number of organiza-
tional and operational reforms.
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:   TKI
(1) Redesign and improvement of management information systems,
including training of TKI personnel in the use of such
systems;
(2) Improvement of procedures for procurement of equipment and
spare parts;
(3) Preparation of a study on manpower planning and training
needs; and
(4) Improvement of mine operations management.
Part B:   Sumerbank
(1) Preparation of a study on reorganization and rationalization
of Sumerbank's sales and retail operations, including train-
ing of Sumerbank's marketing and sales personnel;
(2) Design of improved management information systems and subse-
quent implementation of such systems in selected pilot units
in Sumerbank, including training of relevent Sumerbank per-
sonnel;
(3) Preparation of a feasibility study for the rationalization
and modernization of wool textile operations; and
(4) Provision of selected data processing, communication and
office equipment in connection with (2) above.
Part C:   TCDD-ADVAS
(1) Improvement of productivity and efficiency in selected areas
of operations based on studies and related training of
TCDD-ADVAS personnel; and


﻿- 18 -
(2) Provision of support equipment, including a computer system
and associated software, and training of TCDD-ADVAS person-
nel in the use of said items.
hart D:   External Debt Management
Establishment of improved procedures for the Borrower's
external debt management, including support staff and office
equipment, as needed.
Part E:   Additional Beneficiaries
Studies for improving the efficiency of such other Benefi-
ciaries as may be agreed among the Borrower, DYB and the Bank by
June 30, 1985.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1987.


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date of Payment Due                        (Expressed in dollars)*
On each January 15 and July 15
beginning July 15, 1988
through   July 15,2000                         295,000
On January 15, 2001                                  225,000
*    The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as of the respective dates of withdrawn; see
General Conditions, Section 3.04.


﻿- 20 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                          Premium
The interest rate (ex-
pressed as a percentage
per annum) applicable to
the balance outstanding
on the Loan on the day
of prepayment multiplied
by:
Not more than three                            .18
before maturity
More than three years but not                  .35
more than six years before
maturity
More than six years but not                    .65
more than eleven yers before
maturity
More than eleven years but not                 .88
more than fifteen years before
maturity
More than fifteen years before                1.00
maturity


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this      -   day of, 1984.
FOR SECRETARY


