Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 22222-CO
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(CPL-36150)
ONA
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$50.0 MILLION
TO THE REPUBLIC OF
COLOMBIA
FORA
MUNICIPAL HEALTH SERVICES PROJECT
October 10, 2001
Country Management Unit for Colombia, M6xico and Venezuela
Human Development Sector Management Unit
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective )
Currency Unit = Colombian Peso
$ 2,387.97 = US$ 1.00
US$ 1.00 = $ 2,387.97
FISCAL YEAR
January 1  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ALADINO                          Standard Municipality Accounting System
FIS                              Social Investment Fund
IMF                              International Monetaxy Fund
IBRD                             International Bark for Reconstruction and
Development
PSMS                             Municipal Health Services Project
MOH                              Ministry of Health
PAB                              Basic Health Plan
SIAGHO                           Standard Facility-level Accounting System
SIRES                            Information System for the Management of the
Subsidized System
Vice President    David de Ferranti
Country Manager/Director:   Olivier Lafourcade
Sector Manager/Director:   Xavier Coll
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   Magdalene Rosenm6ller



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
COLOMBIA
MUNICIPAL HEALTH SERVICES LN. 3615-CO
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                          1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                         I
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry              2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                 4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                    8
6. Sustainability                                                                        9
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                        10
8. Lessons Learned                                                                      I 1
9. Partner Comments                                                                     I 1
10. Additional Information                                                             14
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                    15
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                    18
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                   20
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                   21
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                   23
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                      24
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                  25
Annex 8. ICR Mission Aide Memoire                                                      26
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P006854                                       Project Name: CO- MUNICIPAL HEALTH
SERVICES
Team Leader: Magdalene Rosenroller                        TL Unit: LCSHH
ICR Type: Core ICR                                        Report Date: October 12, 2001
1. Project Data
Name: CO- MUNICIPAL HEALTH SERVICES                  LIC/TFNumber: CPL-36150
Country/Department: COLOMBIA                                             Region: Latin America and
Caribbean Region
Sector/subsector: HC - Primary Health, Including Reproductive
Health, Chi
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:  06/29/1987                              Effective:  12/29/1993         01/31/1994
Appraisal:  12/02/1992                                MTR: 01/14/1997            01/14/1997
Approval:  06/08/1993                              Closing: 12/31/2000           12/31/2000
Borrower/lImplementing Agency: GOV OF COLOMBIA LA/MINISTRY OF HEALTH
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President:      David De Ferranti
Country Manager:     Olivier LaFourcade
Sector Manager:      Xavier Coll                                Julian Schwitzer
Team Leader at ICR:   Magdalene Rosenmn6ller                    Eleanor Schrieber
ICR Primary Author:   Magdalene Rosemn6ller
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: M
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry: S                      S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The Municipal Health Services Project (3615-CO) was envisioned as the first stage in a 10 to
12-year program to reorient the public health system in Colombia. The project (known by its
Spanish acronym, PSMS), financed with a combination of a US$50 million loan and US$33.1
million in national counterpart, sought to strengthen management and support municipal provision
of a basic package of primary health services targeted to the poor. The objectives were: (i) in
nine departments, to enhance municipal capacity to plan and manage provision of primary health
care; (ii) to improve the quality, efficiency and coverage of primary health services in
municipalities in the participating departments; and (iii) to support development of effective
primary care by strengthening the design and execution of key policy measures, as well as
evaluation. In short, the project sought to establish, for later replication, an effective municipal
model for public sector delivery of improved basic health services, with a focus on the poor.
At the time of identification and appraisal, Colombia had started a very ambitious health care
reform, although key legislation has not yet been passed. The economic modernization program,
set in place in the early 1990s, comprised wide-ranging trade, financial and social reforms. Despite
social gains in the '80s, 40 percent of population was still classified as poor in the early '90s.
Thus, upgrading and expansion of primary care services was regarded as an important part of
strengthening social programs and services.
Part of the overall reform was the decentralization of management and fiscal responsibilities for
public sector programs, including primary health care, to the 33 departments and 1,029
municipalities. As a result, while the project design foresaw few changes in the functions of the
Ministry of Health (MOH), substantial changes were anticipated at departmental level (planning
and managing higher level services, and supporting municipal planning and management), and at
the municipal level (planning, operating, and financing of primary services). The project originally
fit well with the Government strategy of achieving improvements in health services through
decentralization, and concomitant strengthening of municipal capacity to plan and provide primary
health care under Law 10 - the political decentralization.
3.2 Revised Objective:
At the time of appraisal, additional key policy measures were foreseen with an uncertain timing
and impact, such as Law 60 (financial decentralization), and particularly Law 100 (financing and
management of health care), which passed in December 1993, a few months after project
appraisal. Law 100 proposed a major change in the health system, in the context of
decentralization, transferring responsibilities to the municipalities not only for provision, but also
for purchasing of health care. Thus, Law 100 added to the political and fiscal decentralization
processes in Colombia and drastically changed the role of the MOH.
The project made a major effort to adapt to the changing context. Project objectives were
reinterpreted, but not changed with a formal restructuring, in response to the new reform context
and consequent change in government priorities. While the original emphasis on improving
provision of primary health care was diminished, the project still provided indirect support to the
improvement of primary health care.
-2-



3.3 Original Components:
The project consisted of two sequential components, Institutional Development and Service
Development, and a third component, Policy Management and Evaluation.
The Institutional Development Component (expected to represent 11% of total costs) was
designed to support municipal capacity to provide effective primary health care services through
(a) introduction of a municipal health management information system for planning, monitoring,
and evaluation of primary care services; and (b) provision of related training and technical support
for municipal administrative authorities, health administrators and community representatives.
The Service Development Component (expected to represent 80% of total costs) was designed to
improve quality, efficiency and coverage of primary health care services through the
implementation of (a) municipal subprojects centering on the introduction of a basic package of
primary health care services; the provision of supplies and equipment to support the package; and
the rehabilitation, expansion, construction and furnishing of selected primary care facilities; and
(b) provision of training and technical support for municipal health practitioners.
The Policy Development and Evaluation Component (expected to represent 9% of total costs)
was intended to support the design and implementation of selected policies, including measures
for the introduction of systematic pricing, cost recovery and quality control for primary health
care, and for the development of a unified employment system for public health personnel; and to
undertake an evaluation of project impact.
3.4 Revised Components:
The project adapted to radical contextual changes motivated by the 1990s health care reform.
Explicit changes were recorded in 1996 (midterm evaluation), 1998 (attempt to refocus), and
1999 (premature end of the project).
The loan agreement was signed in June 1993, and effectiveness was reached in January 1994. The
project suffered from a very slow start-up, due in part to the lack of support by an incoming
administration. In December 1994, a study was commissioned to assess the need to restructure
the project, in light of the changed context. The study concluded that technical assistance and
investment as defined could support the implementation of health care reform, and no
restructuring was required.
The project continued to lag in disbursements, although it was a key policy instrument. By late
1996, only 10% of the loan proceeds had been disbursed due to the necessity of additional
preparatory work for reform implementation. The project supported key analytical activities for
the implementation of Law 100, including a new program of integrated technical assistance to
support the development of municipal management.
The midterm review in late 1996 documented a reorientation of project support. In addition to the
change in focus, the project geographic scope was broadened to include 19 departments, instead
of the original nine.
-3 -



In accordance with the new framework, the Institutional Development Component was changed
to focus on development of a national infornation system (instead of a municipal system).
Support to the planning and management of primary care services was changed to support
municipal management: training of local health authorities and the elaboration of the Plan de
Atenci6n Basica (Basic Health Plan, or PAB), and support for development of municipal
management capacity.
In the Service Development Component, the focus changed to the preparation of the
municipalities for the approval of the financial criteria (certification) under Law 100. The project
supported the MOH, departments and municipalities in the planning and development of human
resources in management capacity, and training and workshops for social security personnel in the
implementation of the new health system. Infrastructure support was provided to improve the
physical quality of health services, largely contracted through the Social Investment Fund (FIS).
In the Policy Development and Evaluation Component, the focus was changed to supporting
studies for the implementation of the new health system.
The new political administration, which took office in summer 1998, did not fully accept the
program. In absence of a good monitoring and evaluation system, the project failed to fully justify
its benefits. Adjustments were made, but tensions persisted.
In January 1999 a large earthquake affected Colombia's economically vital coffee producing
region. In light of a precarious macroeconomic situation and IMF restrictions on further
indebtedness, both the Bank and Borrower decided to respond to post-earthquake rehabilitation
needs by reorienting several existing loans. The remaining US$22.7 million of the PSMS project
was reallocated.
3.S Quality at Entry:
Quality at entry was satisfactory. At the time of design, the program fit well with both Bank and
Borrower strategies. However, one significant shortcoming was the Bank's failure to identify the
pending health sector reform as a risk and to foresee the development of contingency measures.
Documents from the time of appraisal indicate considerable uncertainty about the timing and
implications of the futures reform. An additional shortcoming at entry was the fact that
monitoring and evaluation systems were mentioned in the project design, but no provisions were
included to ensure that they would be fully embedded in the implementation.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The change in context and the subsequent reinterpretation of the project makes it difficult to judge
the achievement of the objectives, which were quite openly defined, allowing for a flexible
interpretation when this need arose. But there is little information about project impact as
monitoring and evaluation systems were weak-ad hoc at best, and nonexistent at worst.
Despite these limitations, it is possible to conclude that the project was satisfactory in
strengthening management and planning at the municipal level for financing and coverage of the
- 4 -



population; contracting of health care providers; and supporting policy work at national level.
While formally working only in the 270 'PSMS' municipalities, the project had a substantial
spill-over effects, as the developed material (manuals, guides etc.) was made available by the
MOH to all reforming municipalities. This and the support to reform implementation at national
level meant that the project proved to be a key instrument in the implementation of Law 100.
At the same time, it is important to note that because of the change in government's priorities, the
project did not fulfill the original vision of directly improving municipal provision of primary
health care, developing health information systems or monitoring and evaluation.
Infrastructure upgrades surely contributed to an improvement in quality of health care provision,
but was not accompanied by the originally foreseen clinical training in primary health care, as the
training component was used for increasing management capacity at municipal level. In absence of
a monitoring system, there is little evidence of a real rise in quality, efficiency and coverage of
services provided.
4.2 Outputs by components:
4.2.1. The Institutional Development Component
This component, which is judged to be satisfactory, supported municipal capacity by introducing
health management information systems, and providing training and technical support to
strengthen institutional capacity. The project contributed in more limited ways to the development
of health management information systems by creating management accounting systems, but
performed well in providing training and technical support.
In training and technical support for municipal administrative authorities, the program provided a
wide range of capacity-building tools, including manuals, seminars and on-the-job technical
assistance. While 19 elected municipalities-demonstration centers-received a full package of
technical assistance, 270 PSMS municipalities were given critical elements of the technical
assistance package. In the new focus, the project strengthened management of health systems with
courses and manuals for financing, affiliation and contracting: the identification and selection of
beneficiaries, methodology for calculating costs of the Basic Package (PAB), and models of
contracting health care providers and payment methods. The support directed to health provision
included subjects such as budgeting and accounting, use of information systems and preparation
of investment projects such as construction, equipment and maintenance. The manuals and
courses were developed for and directed to the PSMS municipalities, but the MOH adapted them
on a national level and made them available to all municipalities, thus allowing for considerable
spill-over effects.
With respect to the health management information system, consistent with the project's change
in focus, the project centered on financial and management accounting systems, where important
achievements were made: a standard facility-level accounting system (SIAGHO) was installed in
63 primary level institutions and 163 public institutions of low complexity level. A standard
municipality accounting system (ALADINO) was implemented in six institutions. The information
system for the management of the subsidized system (SIRES) was installed in 98 municipalities.
Information technology support was provided to the departmental function of health management;
- 5-



and a system was designed and equipment provided to monitor the advances of 10 demonstration
centers. Support was provided to the design of the Ministerial internet page. In addition, US$5
million were applied to Y2K compliance in a total of 69 hospitals. The inclusion of level 2 and 3
hospital was indicated in the situation, but not in the original scope of the project.
Health management information systems were not developed, but funds earmarked for computer
equipment were used for managerial capacity-building at municipality level. The lack of a health
management information system was the main hindering factor for monitoring and evaluation.
Although some indicators and studies were developed on an ad hoc basis, such as the
'Centinela-study' (some of the indicators can be found in Annex 1.1), no consistent system of
indicators of evaluation of primary care service was elaborated.
Community involvement was not consistently developed, although some good examples stand
out, as in the municipality of Fonseca in the Guajira Department, where the indigenous
community has been actively involved, running their own primary care center connected to the
municipal services.
4.2.2. Service Development Component
Overall, this component is rated as satisfactory. It included the provision of a basic package of
primary health care services; the upgrade of selected facilities; and the provision of training and
support to health practitioners at the municipal level. The project performed well on the
investment side, but less so on the conceptual and training side.
The project supported the development of the basic package ofprimary health care, which under
Law 100 was to be defined at the municipal level. But its implementation was inconsistent, as
municipalities seem to be preoccupied with certification and managing new responsibilities, rather
than with performing the primary health care and public health functions. Overall, there is
evidence that the public health care function has suffered during the reform: health data collection
has been neglected, vaccination coverage has dropped, and health promotion programs have been
discontinued in the country. There is some evidence that this tendency has been countered by the
project in the PSMS municipalities. Vaccination coverage, for example, decreased less in the
poorer PSMS communities than in other municipalities (cf. Annex 1.1).
Where PSMS investments, such as construction or rehabilitation of health facilities were made,
they have been successful. A total of 106 projects were carried out in 14 departments, 71
municipalities and 201 institutions (total value $20.6 million, of which $13.2 million from IBRD
credit). However, the level of investment depended in part on the availability of municipal
co-financing; thus, improvements of infrastructure were made where there was a high level of
political commitment, which were typically not the worst off areas. An additional problem was the
synchronization of funds. When municipalities finally allocated co-financing, the national
co-financing often was not on hand, or there was a delay in the availability of Bank funds through
the bureaucratically cumbersome FIS.
-6 -



Where problems of availability of funding were overcome, investments were very welcomed. A
special unanticipated positive effect was noted in the zones with major security problems.
Observers report that in those areas the provision of new investments gave citizens a renewed
(and welcome) sense of state presence.
Related to the change in focus, the provision of training and technical support for municipal
health practitioners has not been done and there is no evidence of the implementation of a
consistent package of clinical training and development of the basic primary care functions, as
originally intended.
4.2.3. Policy Development and Evaluation Component
This component, judged to be satisfactory, was intended to support the design and
implementation of selected policies, including measures of systematic pricing, cost recovery and
quality control of primary health care; development of a unified employment system; and
evaluation of the project impact. This component's original intentions corresponded well to the
eventual priorities of the government, and the project contributed to policy development with a
set of studies, manuals and other materials for the launching of the reform under Law 100. In
total, 18 studies were realized and 51 instruments designed. Examples of these are: a guide to
reach certification, the definition of the content of the PAB, contracting manuals, and construction
and equipment at the municipal level. Technical assistance under the project supported policy
makers in the MOH in critical reform implementation issues, such as the definition of a
communication strategy for the promotion of the reform; orientation of the education of human
resources; and guidance for the management of the subsidized system. These studies were
beneficiary not only to PSMS municipalities but also used by the Ministry for the national
implementation of Law 100.
One indisputably unsuccessful part of this component was project evaluation. In the project
definition some indicators were defined, but with the change in the project's orientation, the
project failed to redefine them and follow up. Interesting ad hoc studies were done, like the
"Centinela" study in 2000, which originally had not made a difference between PSMS and non
PSMS. The Informe de Cierre took the original data set and tried this comparison. It showed
some advances in the PSMS municipalities. However, there was no consistent evaluation of the
project.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
N/A
4.4 Financial rate of return:
N/A
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project had a moderate impact on institutional development. See assessment of Institutional
Development Component, above.
-7 -



5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Several external factors constituted challenges to project implementation. Throughout the period
of project execution, Colombia suffered from a precarious security situation, which made
implementation particularly difficult in affected municipalities. In addition, the 1997-98
macroeconomic crisis came about when investments were fully underway, and funds were the
most needed. A plan agreed with the IMF foresaw the decrease of indebtedness and the lowering
of debt ceilings. Thus, when in January 1999 the earthquake in the "Eje Cafetero" hit, no
additional borrowing was possible, and thus the entire portfolio was reoriented. In the light of this
strong alternative demand for funds and the lack of good project indicators, the project was not
able to justify its existence.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Three important factors that were subject to some degree to the government control strongly
affected the project. First, decentralization and the related health reform process (Law 100),
mentioned in the project appraisal document, had a profound impact on the organization and
implementation of all project components. Second, project implementation suffered from multiple
changes at the political level (frequent change of the Minister of Health (six ministers between
1993 and 2001), at the project level (seven project directors) and at municipal level (through four
elections). The effect of these changes was particularly noted in the first two years of its
execution, as the incoming administration in 1994 did not support the ongoing implementation of
the reform; this put the project in a difficult, ambiguous situation, and is responsible in part for the
slow start of the project.
Third, access to both loan funds for civil works and counterpart was limited, resulting in the slow
execution that was cited as one of the grounds for early termination of the operation. Using funds
through the FIS for civil works was excessively bureaucratic and slow. Poor macroeconomic
conditions, particularly in 1997-98, reduced overall availability of counterpart funding at central
and municipal level.
On the municipal side, there was a chronic problem with co-financing. The municipalities were
chosen for their investment needs. This put poor municipalities with little co-financing abilities at
a distinct disadvantage. On the other hand, where political will was high and health was
recognized as a priority, funds were made available, often to the detriment of education and social
protection. An adjusted co-financing scheme, based on categorization of municipalities, partially
addressed this risk, but in the end the municipal co-financing arrangements significantly delayed
the investment component, and directed investments to richer municipalities.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The main factor subject to control of the implementing agency that affected the PSMS was the
lack of use of monitoring and evaluation tools for decision making, and for better planning. At
the same time, this shortcoming in part was a reflection of a quality at entry shortcoming. Only
general project evaluation was noted in the project design, and monitoring was focused on
advances at the level of the municipalities rather than at project level.
- 8 -



5.4 Costs andfinancing:
Overall, project resources were reduced by US$22.7 million (or 27 percent of the original total)
when it was decided in 1999 to use remaining funds for post-earthquake reconstruction, rather
than to continue activities in the health sector. For the funds spent before that period, there had
been large shifts in the allocation of resources across components as a result of the evolution of
project focus. In the end, the institutional development component accounted for 43 percent of
the total (up from 11 percent projected originally); the development of services component
represented 41 percent of actual spending (down from the predicted 80 percent); and policy
development and evaluation accounted for 6 percent (down from the original 9 percent).
The problem of co-financing at the municipal level added to problems of availability of
counterpart funds at national level. Additionally the uncertainty of the availability of the national
counterpart funds hindered implementation of the project as much as the weak administrative
handling of funds at the FIS. These problems put the project in an unsatisfactory status in
1996/97.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
T'he sustainability of the benefits of the program is very difficult to assess. The sudden closing of
the project prevented it from making adequate provisions for sustainability. However, overall it
can be said that sustainability is likely.
With respect to the financial sustainability, those municipalities that decided in favor of
infrastructure investments showed strong political commitment by dedicating local counterpart
funds. Based on this strong commitment there is evidence that they have taken ownership of the
investments made in the physical infrastructure and it is very likely that those will be adequately
maintained.
Regarding capacity-building, the material and manuals of the project are available and accessible
in the Ministry, although the project failed to build up a corresponding inventory. The project' s
training activities responded to the intensive training needs of the reform implementation at the
time, and it is unlikely that training demand will continue to be as high. Personnel trained under
the program continue to work in the health system at different levels: central, departmental and
municipal. Some technical assistance activities that had been initiated were interrupted by the
project's sudden liquidation, and could not be consolidated.
With respect to institutional sustainability and borrower ownership, the project raised the
importance of the municipal level in the provision of health at the central level. But it is unlikely
that the municipal "advocacy" function will be carried on as the "decentralization" department in
the Ministry was recently closed.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
When the project was prematurely ended in January 1999, the project assured the finalization of
the implementation of infrastructure investments. As most of the activities are now part of the
- 9-



usual health system, no specific arrangements were made, but an inventory of all material
developed under the project for future use is lacking.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
In general, the Bank's lending performance was satisfactory. However, there are several design
shortcomings (mentioned earlier). Most important among these are the lack of contingency plan
for identified risks at entry and the need for a more structured mechanism for systematic
evaluation at regular intervals, to assess the effectiveness of the activities being supported under
the PSMS.
7.2 Supervision:
There was considerable continuity in task management-the same task manager was in place from
1994 until the end of the project-and this stability counterbalanced frequent personnel turnover
in the country. The Bank was flexible in the face of changing conditions, ranging from reforms to
natural disasters. Project progress was monitored on a regular basis and procurement issues were
closely attended. Supervision missions were properly staffed and timeliness respected.
Two points are worth mentioning. First, as noted earlier, a decision was made at the time of the
midterm review (late 1996) to acknowledge and support a substantial reorientation in project
activities. In hindsight, this decision came somewhat late in the project's development. Second,
while procurement issues in the liquidation period were correctly taken care of, more attention
could have been given to project content, especially in preparing the future use of the materials
developed under the project.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Satisfactory.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The borrower was fully engaged in the preparation of the operation, participating actively in all
aspects of design work.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
Despite frequent changes in the MOH, the government performed in a satisfactory matter. The
government complied with the loan's legal covenants, all of which dealt with routine planning and
administrative issues.
7.6 ImplementingAgency:
The implementation agency performed well, given the high turnover in leadership, as well as all
the challenges imposed by the changing reform context. This is attributable to the dedication and
commitment of the technical personnel responsible for implementing activities under this project.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Satisfactory.
- 10 -



8. Lessons Learned
1. Flexibility yields benefits. In this case, continuous evolution in the interpretation of the
project objectives permitted adaptation to radical changes in the policy context.
2. Project success depends on monitoring and evaluation systems with measurable,
understandable indicators. This is particularly the case, when a project is being flexible and
adapting to contextual changes. Ad hoc, highly focused evaluation activities cannot replace
the existence of solid overall project indicators, which follow the project over its life. This can
be an important tool for the project's survival in a changing political and economical
environment. It is also essential for rigorous post-evaluation.
3. Projects supporting the health and social sector can have a reconciliatory effect in
countries suffering from difficult security problems. The project investments and
improvement of municipal response to health needs showed state presence at the local level
and gave hope to people, especially in the areas with precarious security.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Translation of both ICR comments orizinally received in Spanish
1. From the Ministry of Health
With regards to comments on the Implementation Completion Report of the Municipal Health
Systems Program - PSMS, I would like to present the following observations:
-  The document presents a quite complete synthesis of the development of the Project, in
relation to the objectives, achievements, difficulties and experiences in its implementation.
- In general terms, the ICR picks up the results presented in the "Informe de Cierre" of the
PSMS, prepared by the Program's Liquidation Team of the Ministry of Health. Nevertheless, it
should be said that this report differs from the report on "Results and Impact Evaluation of the
Program". This is due to the different methodologies used in the preparation, resulting in
different figures.
-  According to the "Informe de Cierre", the total infrastructure and endowment projects
implementation was 56.6%, reduced by a 76.7% in infrastructure and a 38% in endowment;
therefore not all of the 106 projects were successfully finished.
- With regards to the actions taken for Y2K, the Evaluation Document indicates that 143
hospitals benefited with upgraded biomedical equipment and 156 with suitable computation
equipment, and not the 69 hospitals referred to in the Bank's document.
- 11 -



-   The document in its overall analysis points as external factors affecting the program's
development and results, changes in the administration at the national and territorial level, the
macroeconomic crisis and the problems of public order, facts which we consider were totally
predictable and subject to planning.
- With regard to the changes in the administration, the "Result's Evaluation" document does not
mention problems of this type for the beginning of the project, but rather related to the
administrative procedures of the "Banco de la Repuiblica" and the legalization of the agreements
with the fiduciaries.
- In the result's evaluation no serious inconveniences related to law and order in the departments
or municipalities were evidenced as difficulties for the development of the PSMS.
- With regards to the flexibility and extent of the objectives of the Program, we consider that
these allowed its adaptation to the changes derived from the sector reform, but at the same time,
in some instances let to a deviation and lack of faithfullness to the guidelines initially defined, with
approval of the Bank.
- Contrary to what is expressed in the document, we consider that the sustainability of the actions
undertaken was affected fundamentally by the lack of processes and instruments in the territorial
entities which would have allowed the development and consolidation of the activities of the
Program.
- The departments as intermediaries between the Nation and the municipalities and in charge of
coordinating sector policies in their jurisdiction and to provide technical assistance to the
municipalities, should have received continuous, systematic and aggressive actions of institutional
strengthening. In view of the sustainability of the actions of the PSMS, these territorial entities
could contribute a lot.
Cordially,
MARGARITA JARAMILLO GIVES BOATMAN
General Director of Sector Policies
Analysis and Planning
2. From the National Planning Department
Comments on the evaluation document of the Municipal Health Systems Project
1. In relation to the results of the project, we believe that the project can hardly be qualified as
satisfactory. The comparative evaluation among municipalities that benefited from the project and
those that did not, carried out by the "Municipios Centinela" project, didn't reveal significant
favorable differences for the first ones. The best result was assessed in the development of policies
component that allowed, while the project was under implementation, to strengthen the technical
and administrative capacity of the Ministry of Health in this area.
-12 -



2. The impact in the institutional development, in spite of the delivery of management tools to the
municipalities and of the investment of resources for the improvement of the delivery of services,
does not correspond to beneficiaries of the project.
3. The inconveniences generated by the changes in the context of the health system and mainly by
the lack of continuity and consistency in the policies and sectoral strategies for the implementation
of the health social security system, affected the development of the project notably, leading to a
less than satisfactory borrower's performance. In addition, the capacity of support, advise and
technical assistance to the decentralized administration in the Ministry of Health has weakened,
affecting the consolidation and improvement of processes initiated at the start of the project.
4. For these mentioned reasons, the sustainability of the project could not be guaranteed, which
led to its liquidation.
5. Finally, it's important to point out the contributions of the project in the diffusion and training
of human resources and in the development of administration tools that did somehow introduce
changes in the local culture at the institutional level.
Sincerely,
Jos6 Fernando Aryans Duarte
Counsel, Secretariat of Health
National Planning Department
(b) Cofinanciers:
N/A
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
N/A
- 13-



10. Additional Information
The Implementation Completion Report (ICR) team consisted of
-     Magdalene Rosemn6ller (Task Team Leader)
-     Cesar Granados (Team Assistant)
-     Patricia Bernedo (Program Assistant)
Comments were received from
-     Eduardo Velez Bustillo
-     Jose Augusto Carvalho
-     Charles Griffin
-     Ruth Levine
-     Juan Pablo Uribe
-     Patricio Marquez
-     Maria Luisa Escobar
- 14 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Annex 1.1. Performance Indicators
PSMS NON PSMS
Indicators originally defined, 1993
Numbers of new patients by socio-demographic status                N/A      N/A
% catchment population registered at health facilities             N/A      N/A
Immunization coverage of official to subsidized regime
DPT                                                    80% /86%        72% / 88%
Polio                                                  83% /89%        74% / 92%
#Women seeking prenatal care first trimester of pregnancy (Polio)  N/A       N/A
Deliveries attended and delivery fatalities                        N/A      N/A
Child mortality (upper respiratory infections & diarrhea)          N/A      N/A
Qualitative information in surveys                                 N/A      N/A
Indicators as defined in 1997 redefinition
% affiliation to the subsidized regime (1998)                    56.9%      57.5%
%Certification of municipalities (March 2001)                    59.0%      48.7%
% Transformation of public institutions in ESE                   57.8%
Population with knowledge on the rights and duties of the Law 100/93
Obligation                                                   20%       24%
IPS                                                           7%       10%
Family coverage                                               6%       8%
CENTINELA Study (2000)
Development DLS (Direcci6n Local de Salud)
Certified                                                    63%       50%
with local health plan                                      100%        100%
with DLS organized and functioning                           63%       33%
with information systems                                    100%       100%
Development of Information Systems
Insurance operating / automatic                         63% / 25%      75% / 8%
Service Network Operating / automatic                   100% / 50%     92% /8%
Invoicing operating / automatic                         25% / 63%      42%18%
Invoicing IPS designed / automatic                     100% / 54%      100% /47%
Transformed in ESE                                            86%             57%
Financial Sustainability                                      39%             17%
- 15 -



Annex 1.2 Project Products
PSMS NON PSMS
Project Products
Institutional Development
Information Systems
SIAGHO (Accounting System)                                    63       163
SIRES (Management Subsidized System)                          98
ALADINO (Municipality Accounting System)                       6
Equipments                                                    69
Computers                                                    177
Biomedical equipment                                          97
Institutional Development DLS                             Municipalities  Departments
Technical Assistance                                         270        19
Follow up institutional development                          115
Capacity Building Accounting Plan                            400
Service Development
Investment Projects                                         Approved    Executed
IPS - Infrastructure                                          12       72
IPS - Equipment                                              107       75
IPS - Infrastructure                                          82
Studies
Completed studies                                             18
Developed methodology                                         51
Completed I programmed actions
Institutional development                                     50.9%
Service development                                           53.4%
Development of policies and evaluation                        49.2%
Total                                                         51.4%
Source: Evaluation Study PSMS, POAS. Ministry of Health, Colombia.
- 16-



Annex 1.3 Change of Project Focus
Products by Component
SAR                                   New Focus
A. Institutional- Development
1. Development of a municipal health     1. Development of a national information
information system.                      system.
2. Planning of administrative support and  2. Support to municipal management: Local
services: training to staff and community  health directories and delivery of PAB.
representatives in planning and primary health
care services management; technical
assistance, study tours for staff; training in
service; and improvement to public health
training infrastructure.
3. Support to institutional management
development: restructuring, quality, inventory
and register.
B. Services Development
1. Supply a basic package of primary health    1. Support the delivery of POSs and defining
services.                                PAB.
2. Subprojects of investment in infrastructure,   2. Support to municipal authorities to prepare
equipment and inputs to guarantee quality,  projects for approval and financing by FIS.
efficiency and coverage of the primary health
care package.
3. Human Resources development: training  3. Support to the Ministry of Health,
and supervision of doctors, nurses,      departments and municipalities in planning and
bacteriologist, dentists, auxiliaries, promoters;   developing human resources, information to
scholarships and study trips for central level    IPS and EPS, about the training and
staff, departmental and municipal.       continuous study requirements.
4. Production of manuals about content and  4. Training of SGSSS staff; seminars with
supply of primary health services, support to    specific objectives oriented towards the
the curricular revision of operational   implementation of the health system.
investigation programs in 4 universities in
Bogota and Barranquilla.
5. Induction, training and supervision programs
for temporary staff.
C. Policy and Evaluation Development
1. Policy development: study in prices, cost  1. Support studies: single methodology to
recovery, databases, organization and    define POS, requirements and information flow,
establishment of accreditation and quality  up-to-date attention and service protocols,
control entities.                        update UPC structure, co-payments and
moderating quotes, financing, contracting
models, payment mechanisms, subsidy
transformation.
2. Development of a national information
system and an obligatory system to guaranty
the quality of health services.
3. Development of a system to follow and  3. Development of a system to follow and
evaluate the proiect impact.             evaluate the proiect impact.
- 17 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost b Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Irn m~t r~ea CO,imPn _
Institutional Development                              7.80           16.70             52
Service Development                                   54.70           10.10             40
Policy Development and Evaluation                      3.10            1.80              4
Project Coordination                                   2.50            3.90              4
Total Baseline Cost                                   68.10           32.50
Physical Contingencies                                0.40                              1
Price Contingencies                                  14.70                             22
Total Project Costs              83.20           32.50
Total Financing Required              83.20           32.50
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
1. Clvil Works                  0.00           12.80         10.00         0.00        22.80
(0.00)         (3.80)        (3.00)        (0.00)      (6.80)
2. Goods (Computers and         3.40            0.60          0.10         0.00         4.10
Audio Visual
Equipment)
(3.20)         (0.50)        (0.00)        (0.00)      (3.70)
3. Services                     0.00            0.00         20.30         0.00        20.30
Medical Equipment            (0.00)          (0.00)       (14.20)       (0.00)      (14.20)
(including supplies)
4. Fumiture                     0.00            0.00          4.00          0.00        4.00
(0.00)         (0.00)        (2.80)        (0.00)      (2.80)
5. Technical Assistance         0.00            0.00         21.80          0.00       21.80
and Training*                (0.00)         (0.00)       (14.50)        (0.00)      (14.50)
6. Training Materials           0.00            2.00          1.00          0.00        3.00
(0.00)         (1.40)        (0.70)        (0.00)      (2.10)
0.00           0.00           3.8          0.00         3.8
7. Studies                     (0.00)          (0.00)        (3.80)        (0.00)       (3.8)
8. Project Administration       0.00           00.1**         3.2           0.00        3.3
(0.00)         (00.1)         (2.0)        (0.00)       (2.1)
Total                        3.40            15.50         64.20         0.00        83.1
(3.20)          (5.8)        (41.0)        (0.00)       (50.0)
* Including training materials, provided under service contracts
For vehicles
- 18 -



Project Financing by Component
(in US$ million equivalent)
Component                            _            SAR 1/*                    Implementation 21
Total  %  Parl-passu             Total  %  Part-passu
IBRD      Counterpart            IBRD      Counterpart
USS  %    USS  %                  USS %   USS %
Institutional Development             35.8 43%  18.2   51 17.5    49 16.7  51% 11.3  68 5.4          32
Technical and Training Assistance  31.5 38%  14.5   46 16.9    54  14  43%   9   64  5            36
Computers and Audio-visual equipment  4.3   5%  3.7   86  0.6    14 2.7   8%  2.3  85 0.4         15
Services Development                  33.7 41%  20.3   60 13.4    40 10.1  31%  5.7  56 4.4          44
Eligible Expeditures through FIS   33.7 41%  20.3   60 13.4    40 10.1  31%  5.7  56 4.4          44
Policies and Evaluation Development  3.9  5%  3.4   87 0.5       13  1.8   6%  1.7  94 0.1         6
Consulting Services Part C of the Project    3.9  5%  3.4   87  0.5  13  1.8   6%  1.7  94 0.1     6
Project Coordination                  4.7   6%  3.1   66  1.6       34 3.9  12%  2.5  64 1.4         36
Unallocated                         5    6%   5    100
Total                                 83.1       50    60 33.1    40 32.5         21.2  65 11.3      35
*After 1997 Project Restructuring
- 19-



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Not applicable for this project
- 20 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                 No. of Persons and Specialty           Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)   Implementation Development
Month/Year    Count           Specialty                     Progress     Objective
Identification/Preparation
03/24/1992                  3   Health Economist, Health Spec.,
Consultant
Appraisal/Negotiation
12/16/1992                  2   Health Economist,
Consultant
Supervision
06/03/1994*                 1   Public Health Specialist           S             S
12/17/1994                  5   Administration/Financial Spec.,    S            S
Consultant, Public Health
Specialists, Health Economist
05/19/1995                  4   Adminstration/Financial Spec.,     S             S
Consultant, Public Health
Specialists
04/24/1996                  5   Administration/Financial Spec.,    S             S
Country Officer, Consultant,
Health Specialist, Task Manager
01/23/1997                  6   Administration/Financial Spec.,    S             U
Country Officer, Consultant,
Health Specialist, Task Manager,
Health Economist
01/27/1998                  6   Task Manager, Consultants,         S             U
Procurement Spec., Financial
Spec., Operations Officer,
06/20/1998                  4   Procurement Spec., Financial       S             S
Spec., Consultant, Task Manager
09/19/1998                  5   Health Spec., Procurement Spec.,   S             S
Consultants
12/16/1998**                                                       S             S
05/04/1999                                                         S             S
12/17/1999                                                         S             S
06/20/2000                                                         S             S
11/30/2000                                                         S             s
ICR
04/27/2001                  1    Health Economist                  S             S
* Board approval June 1993, Effectiveness January 1994
** PSR Updates, regular visits by procurement specialists to supervise infraestructure investments
(b) Staff:
- 21 -



Stage of Project Cycle                  Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks             US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation               5.4                       58.5
Appraisal/Negotiation                   23.5                      216.2
Supervision                           126.94                      415.3
ICR                                     6.81                       31.7
Total                                 162.65                      721.7
-22-



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
O Macropolicies                          O H  O SU * M  O N  O NA
E Sector Policies                        O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
l Physical                               O H  O SU * M  O N  O NA
EJ Financial                             O H  OSU*M  O N  O NA
L Institutional Development              O H  * SU O M  O N  0 NA
L Environmental                          O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Social
E Poverty Reduction                O H  OSU*M  O N  O NA
El Gender                          O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
E Other (Please specify)           O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
El Private sector development            0 H  O SU *M  0 N  0 NA
El Public sector management              0 H  * SU O M  0 N  0 NA
E Other (Please specify)                 O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
- 23 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                  Rating
O Lending                                             OHS*S OU OHU
O Supervision                                         OHS *S   O  U  O HU
[O Overall                                            OHS *S  O u O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                               Rating
II Preparation                                        OHS*S   O u   O HU
O  Government implementation performance              O HS O S   0  U  0 HU
O Implementation agency performance                   O HS O S  0  U  0 HU
gI Overall                                            OHS OS  OU  O HU
-24 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
1. Mission reports:
Preparation BTO/aide-memoire, March 26-April 7, 1992 (Schreiber)
Pre-appraissal/BTO, June 19- July 3, 1992 (Schreiber)
Appraisal/aide-memoire, December, 7-16, 1992 (Schreiber)
Supervision/BTO April 21-26, 1994 (Homedes)
Supervision BTO/aide-memoire, May 16-June 3, 1994 (Homedes)
Supervision/aide-memoire, December 12-16, 1994 (Marquez)
Supervision BTO/aide-memoire, May 8-19, 1995 (Marquez)
Supervision BTO/aide-memoire, December 9-13, 1996 (Wallentin)
Mid-term Review aide-memoire, January 14-23, 1997 (Marquez)
Supervision BTO/aide-memoire, September 14-18, 1998 (Marquez)
Closing mission/aide-memoire, April 17-26, 2001 (Rosenmoller)
2. Staff Appraisal Report
3. Informe de Cierre Final (prepared by executing agency) (May 2001)
4. Centinela Study (prepared by the executing agency) (December 2000)
5. "Evaluacion de Resultados y Efectos del Programa Sistemas Municipales de Salud PSMS "(Ministerio
de Salud)
- 25 -



Annex 8. ICR Mission Aide Memoire
AYUDA MEMORIA
MISION DEL BANCO MUNDIAL
Proyecto de Apoyo a los Sistemas Municipales de Salud
Ministerio de Salud de Colombia
Misi6n de Elaboraci6n del ICR - (Implementation Completion Report) del Banco Mundial
Bogota, 17 al 26 de abril de 2001
I. INTRODUCCION
Un equipo del Banco Mundial visit6 Colombia del 17 al 26 de abril de 2001 para realizar el ICR -
Implementation Completion Report - del Proyecto de Apoyo a los Sistemas Municipales de Salud
(PSMS). Los objetivos principales de la misi6n fueron de: (a) obtener informaci6n acerca del
desempeflo, resultados e impacto del Programna de Sistemas Municipales de Salud para la
elaboraci6n del ICR, que esta por complementar para Junio 30, 2001. Los temas centrales
mvestigados fueron: (a) ver si la operaci6n se centro en problemas de alta prioridad en el sector
salud; (b) estudiar el papel del proyecto en apoyar al gobiemo Colombiano, los entes territoriales
y las instituciones aut6nomas en la mejora de la gesti6n, la financiaci6n y prestaci6n de servicios
de primer nivel; (c) ver como el programa se adapt6 a cambios en la reforma Colombiana; (d)
identificar los puntos fuertes y debiles de la implementaci6n, y si se adoptaron soluciones de
menor coste, (e) ver si las mejoras son sostenibles desde el punto de vista financiero y de las
instituciones; y (f) determinar las lecciones que se pueden aprender para mejorar el diseino y la
implementaci6n de operaciones futuras en Colombia y otros sitios.
El equipo estuvo compuesto por Magdalene Rosemn6ller, Economista de Salud. A lo largo de la
visita se ha reunido con los integrantes del equipo liquidador del proyecto, Gloria Soraya Ulluoa
(Gerente Liquidadora del programa PSMS), y los consultores del equipo: Jorge Luis Ardila,
Freddy Mendoza, Patricia Delgado, Maria Cristina Cruz, Ana Edith Sanchez, Economista.
Se han hecho reuniones con Luis Carlos Sandino, Exdirector General de Descentralizaci6n del
Ministerio de Salud; Antonio Mendoza Pino, Exdirector de Descentralizaci6n del Ministerio de
Salud; Diana Casadiego y Lyda Miranda, funcionarias del Ministerio de Salud; con Hugo
Valenzuela Jefe Divisi6n de Desembolsos Credito Publico del Ministerio de Hacienda; y
ejecutivos de la OEI, la Organizaci6n de Estados Iberoamericanos y de la Secretaria Ejecutiva del
Convenio Andres Bello - SECAB, y con Paulo Bacci, Consultor del Fondo de Inversi6n Social -
FIS.
Ademas se han realizado visitas de estudio al campo. El equipo liquidador ha acompafando la
misi6n en la visita de estudio del campo. Desgraciadamente no se ha podido ir a todos los sitios
- 26 -



por razones de seguridad del pais. Se han hecho encuentros en Santa Marta con la Secretaria del
Departamento de Magdalena, y los representantes del municipio de Fundaci6n (alcaldia y
hospital), con el Secretario de Salud del Departamento de la Guajira, y los directores de los
hospitales de Barrancas (Guajira) y Fonseca, (Guajira). En Baranquilla se encuentro con la
Secretaria de Salud del Departamento de Atlantico, con los Secretarios departamentales de Salud
y Obras y los funcionarios de ambas dependencias. En Cartagena la misi6n y el equipo se
encontraron con la Secretaria de Salud del Departamento de Bolivar y los representantes de los
municipios de Santa Rosa y San Pablo (alcaldia y hospital).
Una entrevista con la Ministra de Salud, Doctora Sara Ordofiez Noriega tuvo lugar el Jueves, 19
de abril, en compafiia del Secretario General, Francisco Arciniegas Andrade, y la Directora
General de Analisis y Planeaci6n, Margarita Jaramillo de Botero.
La Misi6n agradece la cooperaci6n y apoyo profesional brindados por el equipo liquidador del
programa y el Ministerio de Salud y los distintos actores encontrados durante la visita. La Misi6n
quiere agradecer de manera especial el apoyo de la Ministra de Salud, la Dra Sara Ordofiez, los
integrantes del equipo de liquidaci6n y funcionarios del Ministerio de Salud, que han aportado su
conocimiento y analisis del proyecto. Pero sobre todo el equipo liquidador ha sido decisivo en su
apoyo a esta misi6n, organizando las entrevistas, el viaje de estudio de campo. Ademas, la
evaluaci6n y el futuro ICR han ganado mucho en los sesiones en equipo donde las diferentes
percepciones y conocimientos se han podido contrastar.
F. Pr6ximos Pasos -
Calendario de elaboraci6n del Informe de Cierre y del ICR
Finalizaci6n del Informe de Cierre
Avance del Informe de Impacto y Factores    9 de Mayo
Informe Final completado                    20 de Mayo
Elaboraci6n del ICR
Circulaci6n del borrador ICR                             8 de Mayo
Revisi6n informal borrador ICR (Banco y Gobierno) Videoconf.  10 de Mayo
Revisi6n borrador ICR (Banco)                           18-30 Mayo
Revisi6n oficial del ICR (Gobiemo)                      4-7de Junio
Finalizaci6n ICR                                        15 de Junio
Se recuerda que no es implicito que existe un total acuerdo sobre el contenido del ICR y la
evaluaci6n del proyecto.
- 27 -



Futuros posibilidades de apoyo del Banco Mundial
En la reuni6n con la Ministra se han evocado algunos temas de como el Banco puede apoyar la
implementaci6n de la reforma de salud en Colombia en el futuro. Una posible pr6xima misi6n de
identificaci6n del Banco se podria realizar en julio / agosto de 2001
Los detalles y conclusiones de la visita y la evaluaci6n se podrian consultar en el ICR -
Implementacion Completion Report.
SARA  ORDONEZ                                     MAGDALENE  ROSENMOLLER
Ministerio de Salud                               Banco Mundial
SantaFe de Bogota, 25 de abril de 2001
-28 -



IBRD 24769
78-                                                     74-                                                   'U A
JA0AqAcAwltN
C O  L O  M  B I A                                                                es   s               MONt^S Cihb..e Soo                          Ocecn
MUNICIPAL HEALTH
SERVICES PROJECT                                                                                                                s ^                LAEZU E LA 
It, ho                              *~~~~d. Bgofd  n-     - (ok 
ATLAnW   KDII 
Carea4  Validu9,                 / \                         a   \                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~BRAZIL
> 5  i>.  >zs';/2 )           /aA6                               kRu=f)t'o'Y    l   R
tts  \     t              f/                   ereeWs}Pe>z A                                 BOLIVIA 
t;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ PANR' ~Y
PANAj                                                                                                   i                                        EAMA  Z_U_ELA         //
4.~~~~~IN
Boenonento r 6i/                        /                                                                            UVae j                 
I~~~~~~~~~SI
'~X t,i,,J,a |  )
E C U A  D 0                                                                                                     C
4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~w'- mio*  010 5
Urbrn  Poovitratin oi Center Towns         Elevantions (nreters): (t                                     <                                        If t     Sp    |  
~5,00~50 00,00  persons                                           0><                                         o              w             50   100   150   200   250
t ~~~~2,000,0003,0  >>  ILMTR
\   soooo                   o                       >8                                                        !   B  R A  Z  I L~~?A   3 
500,0
100 000~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                  o         0          5
506,00
CAVCA   Project Departments
6 Nationol Capital r
o     Cities and Towns with Population Over 40,000                                           *- Trop    hcs on prepored
Main Highways                                                E                                         (           clusioely fo, the co-venience
I  r     E       S RooUrsIod is for the
- s_r  Rivers                                     s   p      E      R      U                 j       j       ~    iPnter-oo use of The Wvrid Book
G,O, Th. deoo.n.nti-n -od
Department Boundaries                                                     ,.R/nd the bo,,dor,Ts hown
International Boundories                                                                                                Th /  /  no   re  do nt rpltB  ok  tGhep
~~   I                    of The World Book~~~th Igop.1
01k  fOYtritory or ony
_                                                                                                X      )      st~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~notusoerventV or occeptooce of    4
IL              7Ei                                                       7,40        g                                                             o-,  uch bouvdorieo._
APRIL 1993



