Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 11743-CO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
COLOMBIA
MUNICIPAL HEALTH SERVICES PROJECT
MAY 14, 1993
Country Department III
Human Resources Operations Division
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit  =  Colombian Peso (Col$)
ColS1.00   =  US$0.0013 (March 1993)
US$1.00   =  Col$750 (March 1993)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
DANE        National Department of Statistics
DNP         National Planning Departnent
DS          Departmental Health Service
EDP         Essential Drugs Program
FIS         Social Investment Fund
FNH         National Hospital Fund
ICB         International Competitive Bidding
ICBF        Colombian Institute of Family Welfare
IDB         Inter-American Development Bank
IMR         Infant Mortality Rate
ISS         Social Security Institute
LCB         Local Competitive Bidding
MHIS        Municipal Health Information System
MOH         Ministry of Health
NGO         Non-governmental organization
SOE         Statement of Expenditure
TFR         Total Fertility Rate



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
COLOMBIA
MUNICIPAL HEALTH SERVICES PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
BASIC DATA              ...............................  iii
LOAN AND PROJECT SUtMMARY .................... iv
I.  SECTOR BACKGROUND ........................ 1
A.  The Economic and Social Setting .................. 1
B.  Population and Health Status .................... 2
C. The Health Care System ....                                          3
D.  Main Issues in Primary Health Care .................... 6
E.  Govemment Strategy ........................ 10
F.  Bank Strategy and Participation .................. 11
II-  THE POECT.13
H.   HEPROJEC   .............................. 1
A. Introduction ................                                       13
B. Project Content ................                                    14
C.  Costs and Financing ..... .................... 21
D.  Project Management and Implementation  ....              ........ 23
E.  Procurement  ............................. 27
F.  Disbursements, Accounts and Audits .....              .......... 30
G.  Project Benefits and Risks ..................... 31
mH. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENATION ... 31
This roport is basd on the findings of preparaiion ant pre-apprail mi wion which visited Colombia
during 1992, led by Mr. Xavier Coll and Ms. Elanor Schreiber (LA3HR), and an appraisal mision
in December, consisting of Mmes./Mr. Eleanor Schreiber (iion Leader, LA3HR), Carol Collado
(Consultant, Human Resourcos Planner), Cornelis Koatermans (Consultant, Public Health). Ms.
Nuria Homede" (Consultant, Public Helth), Ms. Mafa Victoria titer  R3HR) and Mr. Scott
Quehl (Consultant, Public Sector Management) participated in oarlier mision and contributed to
the preparation of the report Poor reviews were undertaken by Mr. Jacqus F. Baudouy (AF3PH)
and Ms. Denie A. Vaillancourt (PHRPN). Mes. Jacques van der GOag and Yoshiaki Abe were,
respectively, the manai ng Division Chief and Department Director.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their offcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



LIST OF ANNEXES
Annex 1:          Health Status in Colombia
Annex 2:          Health System Organization and Management
Annex 3:          Public Health Financing
Annex 4:          Bank Involvement in the Health Sector in Colombia
Annex 5:          Characteristics of the Project Area
Annex 6:          Project Subcomponents
A.   Municipal Health Information System
Monitoring, and Evaluation Indicators
B.    Staff Development
C.   The Basic Package of Services
D.   Terms of Reference for Policy Studies
Annex 7:          Project Costs
Annex 8:          Project Management
A.   Organization and Responsibilities
B.    Guidelines, Criteria and Implementation
Procedures for Municipal Subprojects
C.   Flow of Funds
D.   Supervision Schedule
Annex 9:          Estimated Schedule of Loan Disbursement
Annex 10:         List of Documents Available in the Project File



- mi -
COLOMBIA
MUNICIPAL HEALTH SERVICES PROJECT
BASIC DATA SHEET
COUNTRY DATA
Area (km2 thousands)  ........................................   1,139
Population (millions)   .........................................  32.3
Annual Growth Rate, 1989-2000 (%) ................................. 1.5
% Urban  ........................................   70
Total Fertility Rate *   ........................................   2.9
ECONOMY
GNP per capita (US$) ........................................   1,260
Average Annual Growth Rate, 1965-1990 (%) .......             .................. 2.3
Health Expenditures (% of GDP) .................................... 6.1
Poverty Line (annual income in US$ per family of five) ......         .............  2,050
Population in Absolute Poverty (%) .     .................................  40
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
Life Expectancy at Birth (years)
Male  ......................................   66
Female                     ...................................... 72
Infant Mortality Rate 1990 (per 1,000)  ...........          ....................  37
Child Mortality Rate 1990 (per 1,000)
Male  ......................................   49
Female  ......................................   40
Births Attended by Health Personnel 1985 (%) ........          .................. . 51
Maternal Mortality, 1980 (per 1,000) .    .................................  1
Children Aged 1 or Less Fully Vaccinated (%) *  .......           ..................  68
Pregnant Women Fully Vaccinated Against Tetanus (%) * ......            ..............  34
Physicians per 10,000 Population (1985) ...........          .................... 5.8
Low Birth Weight Infants (%) ......................................  15
Malnourished Children under 5 Years (%) ..........           ....................   13
Daily Calories per Capita ......................................   2,598
Access to Safe Water (%)
Urban ................................................  6
Rural ................................................ 33
EDUCATION
Adult Literacy Rate
Male (%) ................................................   88
Female (%)  ..............................................   86
Net Primary School Enrollment (%)   ................................  90
Data from the World Bank's World Development Report 1992 and other World Bank reports.
Data marked with * have been drawn from Colombia, Demographic and Health Survey, for
1990; Profamilia and Institute for Resource Development, Bogota, 1991.






- iv -
COLOMBIA
MUNICIPAL HEALTH SERVICES PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:          The Republic of Colombia
Beneficary and
Executing Agencies: Ministry of Health
Social Investment Fund
Municipalities
Loan Amount:       US$50.0 million
Terms:              Repayment in 17 years, including a 5-year grace period, at the Bank's
standard variable interest rate.
Project Objectives:   The project would represent the first phase of a 10-12 year program to
reorient the public health system, with emphasis on primary health care. It
aims to strengthen management and provide incentives, in the form of grants,
to support municipal provision of a basic package of primary health care
services. Specific objectives are to: (a) enhance municipal capacities, in nine
areas (encompassing 220 municipalities), to plan and manage provision of
primary health care; (b) improve the quality, efficiency and coverage of
primary health services in those municipalities; and (c) strengthen key policy
measures and evaluation activities designed to support development of
effective primary health care.
Project Description:  The project would consist of three components, designed to:
Institutional Development (11 percent of project costs): (a) introduce a
municipal health management information system to support planning and
monitoring of primary health care services; and (b) provide related training
and technical support for municipal administrative authorities, municipal
health administrators and community representatives, numbering about 6,000
in the project area.
Service Development (80 percent): (a) implement municipal subprojects, to
be co-financed by the municipalities and the central government, to support a
basic package of primary health care services by: providing medical supplies
and equipment; and financing rehabilitation, expansion, construction and
furnishing of selected primary health care facilities; and (b) provide related
training and technical support for some 13,000 municipal health practitioners
in the project area.



- v -
Policy Development (5 percent): support the design and implementation of
selected policy measures for introducing systematic pricing and cost-recovery
for primary health services in the public system and for quality control for
primary health care, and for strengthening employment systems for public
health personnel; and provide for an impact evaluation for the project. The
project would also finance project management costs (4 percent).
Benefits:           The project would contribute directly to human resources development in
Colombia by providing improved basic health services to about 8 million
existing and potential users in the project area, with priority given to reaching
the estimated 6 million persons classified as poor. It would also provide the
experience required to replicate effectively the model on a national basis over
the next decade. Community involvement in provision of the services, to be
achieved through municipal health boards, health facility committees and local
promotion and education activities, should contribute to sustainable gains in
service relevance and quality. Local participation should also strengthen
municipal accountability for the health care provided. The project would
further strengthen management and implementation capabilities within the
public health system, with a focus on effective resource use and municipal
planning and management of primary services.
Risks:              The main implementation risks relate to institutional weaknesses. To reduce
these risks and mitigate the complexities of evolving financing practices and
procedures, the project will incorporate and build upon an ongoing process of
decentralization in Colombia, but not depend upon the outcomes of that
process. Rather, the project would focus on developing effective management
and implementation capacity for delivery of primary health services at the
municipal level. The implementation risks will be reduced by the limited
geographic scope of the project, the application of guidelines and criteria to
ensure, as possible, adequate institutional and financing capabilities of
municipalities before launching municipal investment subprojects, and the
provision of technical assistance and support for project implementation.
Additional risks are that municipal interest in participating in the project, and
municipal demand and cofinancing capacity for subprojects, would fall short
of expectations. These risks have been minimized by selecting departments
committed to project objectives, that would promote and support the
municipalities; by setting limits on subproject size based in part on municipal
revenues; and by the incentive provided through central grants. The project
further includes mechanisms to review changes in municipal financing capacity
and the adequacy of the grant mechanism as an incentive for municipal
investment.



- vi -
Estimated Costs:
-         US$ million 
Local       Foreign    Total
Institutional Development          5.2          2.5        7.8
Service Development               33.6         21.1       54.7
Policy Development and Evaluation  3.1          0.0        3.1
Project Coordination               2.4          0.1        2.5
Total Baseline Costs              44.4         23.6       68.0
Physical Contingencies            0.4          0.1        0.4
Price Contingencies              11.2          1,        14.7
Total Project Costs               56.0         27.1       DA
(Estimates exclude taxes and duties,
which are negible, totals may not
add due to rounding)
Financing Plan:
IBRD                    US$50.0 million  (60 percent of total)
Central Government      US$ 8.7 million   (11 percent)
Municipalities          US$24.4 million  (29 percent)
Estimated IBRD Disbursements:
IBRD FY        1994   1995  1996   1997  1998  1999   2000  2001
------------------------US$ million -------------
Annual         3.0      8.0  10.0   10.0  10.0   6.0    2.0  1.0
Cummulative    3.0    11.0  21.0   31.0  41.0   47.0  49.0  50.0
MAP: IBRD No. 24769






COLOMBIA
MUNICIPAL HEALTH SERVICES PROJECT
I. SECTOR BACKGROUND
A. The Economic and Social Setting
1.1          Despite the world-wide recession and price swings for major commodities, Colombia
maintained an annual growth rate of 3.4 percent throughout the 1980s. The Economic
Modernization Program was set in place in 1990 to support continued growth by improving the
efficiency of resource allocation and use. Medium-term objectives of the Program center on
sustaining growth in a competitive environment and moving towards upper-middle income status. To
pursue these objectives, the Government initiated trade and financial sector reforms to remove price
distortions and support private sector development. It must now initiate measures to address
systematically institutional and infrastructure bottlenecks, and to upgrade skills of the labor force, to
raise productivity.
1.2           Colombia also achieved impressive social gains over the past three decades. Between
1965 and 1990, the population growth rate declined from 3.7 percent to 1.5 percent, and infant and
maternal mortality declined from 80 to 40, and from 2.5 to 1 per 1,000 births, respectively. Over 90
percent of the relevant age group now attends primary school and nearly 50 percent of the age group
attends secondary school. Enrollments are equally divided between boys and girls. However,
marked disparities persist in key social indicators and in the provision of related social services -
health, water supply and sanitation, education - across regions and among rural, peri-urban and
urban areas.
1.3          The distribution of the economic and social benefits of growth remains highly skewed.
Incomes of the wealthiest 20 percent of households are six to seven times that of the lowest 20
percent. The National Department of Statistics (DANE) currently classifies about 40 percent of the
population as poor, corresponding with annual household incomes of US$2,050 or less.1/ To
achieve desired improvements in productivity and employment, and to ensure that the poor share in
the benefits of development, the Government plans to strengthen and better target its social programs
and services. The upgrading and expansion of primary health care services figures prominently in
this strategy.
1/    DANE indicators include three measures related to shelter and sanitation and two related to
income. Households with less than satisfactory conditions in one category are classified as the
absolute poor (40 percent of the population); and households with less than satisfactory
conditions in two or more categories are classified as the critically poor (20 percent of the
population).



- 2 -
B. Population and Health Status
1.4          The total population of Colombia is estimated at 32.3 million. Some 70 percent of
the population is urban; 67 percent lives in the four largest cities in the country (Bogota, Medellfn,
Cali, and Barranquilla). In parallel with rapid urbanization and expansion of social services in recent
decades, the fertility rate declined, from 7.3 children per woman in 1960 to 3.0 by 1985. Increasing
female participation in the educational system and the labor force, and effective family planning
programs contributed to this decline. Age structure of the population is as follows:
0-14 years  : 37 percent
15-64 years  :  59 percent
65 and over  :   4 percent
Life expectancy at birth rose from 56 years in 1960 to 69 years at present and compares favorably
with life expectancy in other low middle-income countries, but is less than the average for the most
developed Latin American countries (e.g., Argentina, Chile, Costa Rica - all with average life
expectancies exceeding 70 by the mid-1980s). The proportion of persons aged 60 or more is expected
to increase from about 6 percent at present to 9 percent by 2010.
1.5          The overall health status of the Colombian population has also improved appreciably
over the past several decades. However, the number of years of life lost was 7,380 per 100,000
persons in 1986.2/ This is twice the U.S. and Canadian levels, and the second highest in Latin
America after El Salvador (9,921 per 100,000). Some 40 percent of early deaths are due to violence,
27 percent to chronic diseases, and 12 percent to infectious diseases. Premature deaths affect males
more than females (65 percent versus 35 percent, respectively).
1.6          Perinatal conditions account for a high share of infant deaths (nearly 50 percent),
followed by infections; and malnutrition continues to affect 13 percent of children under the age of
five. For children, infectious diseases, chronic diseases and accidents are the most frequent causes of
death. Violence and accidents account for the highest share of mortality among teenagers and adults
aged 15 to 44 (homicides account for 55% of the deaths in this age group). Mortality rates for the
age group between 45 and 59 decreased from 9 to 7 per 1,000 between 1973 and 1980, due to
reduced incidence of tuberculosis and respiratory infections. Non-infectious, chronic diseases are the
major contributors to mortality and morbidity for this group. While the incidence of AIDs in
Colombia is low (3,000 reported cases) the situation is being monitored closely.
1.7          Despite the overall gains, the average health status of the population masks wide
variations. Differences, across regions and socio-economic groups reflect, and influence, the extent
of poverty. Differences are evident in the polarization in disease patterns resulting from the
epidemiologic transition underway: Colombia is experiencing a gradual shift towards increasing
levels of non-communicable diseases of adults and the elderly, while maintaining high levels of
infectious diseases and malnutrition among the poor. The 1990 Demographic and Health Survey
2/    The number of years of life lost is an index that measures the years lost due to death after the
first year of life and before reaching the life expectancy age.



- 3 -
(DHS)3/ (Annex 1, Table 1) data indicate that the poorest departments (states) on the Pacific Coast
(Choco, Cauca, Nariflio) have, on average, twice the infant mortality rate of the better-off coffee-
growing region (Caldas, Risaralda, Quindio). The level of education of the mother is an important
determinant of infant mortality: the rate among women with no formal education is four times that of
women with higher education (60.5 versus 11.4 per thousand). Malnutrition, often associated with
infectious disease, remains pervasive, though differences among regions are modest (Annex 1, Table
2). During the late 1980s, 13.1 and 20.8 percent of children under five showed low weight for age,
or low height for age, wasting and stunting, respectively. The relation between degree of
malnutrition and socio-economic status is more striking (Annex 1, Table 3). Malnutrition levels for
children of women lacking formal education are nearly three times those of children of women with
secondary education; and children from families living on less than one minimum salary are seven
time more likely to be underweight and four times more likely to be stunted than those in families
with incomes exceeding 4.6 minimum salaries. The total fertility rate (TFR) for women in the
Atlantic Region was 3.6 children in the late 1980s, about one child over the national average; in
contrast, women in Medellfn and Cali had a TFR of only 2.1 (Annex 1, Table 4). The DHS
estimates that some 20 percent of women of reproductive age living in poor Pacific Coast departments
report an unsatisfied need for modem contraceptive methods, by comparison with about 9 percent in
Cali. The persisting gap in health status between the poor and the non-poor reflects, inter alia,
deficiencies in access to basic services of adequate quality.
C. The Health Care System
1.8          Organization. Colombia's health system comprises three major parts: (a) public
health services; (b) social insurance services, provided by the Social Security Institute (ISS) for
private sector employees, CAJANAL for public sector employees, and other social security programs
for specific groups, e.g., the military, the police, and the oil industry (about 300 funds); and (c)
private services. The public sector is the largest health services provider, responsible for an estimated
65 percent of the population. Social security and private providers serve 18 percent and 17 percent of
the population, respectively. The current public health structure at the central level includes the
Ministry of Health (MOH) and three semi-autonomous institutes: the Colombian Institute of Family
Welfare (ICBF), the National Institute for Health, and the National Cancer Institute. A fourth
institute, the National Hospital Fund (FNH), set standards for health facilities and managed
investments in the public sector until it was replaced at the end of 1992 by the newly created Social
Investment Fund (FIS). The FIS will be responsible for cofinancing investment operations in both the
health and education sectors. At the department level, the MOH is represented by Departmental
Health Services (DSs). At the municipal level, the sector is represented by an administrative structure
under the mayor and by health establishments.
1.9          Health care is provided at three levels in the public sector: a) local health posts,
centers and hospitals (level one, in terms of complexity); b) departmental hospitals (level two); and c)
specialized and university hospitals (level three). Infrastructure in the public sector includes over
4,000 health posts and centers, 500 local hospitals, 124 level two, and 27 level three hospitals. Level
3/     Colombia, Demographic and Health Survey, for 1990; Profamilia and Institute for Resource
Development, Bogota, 1991.



-4-
two hospitals provide services in the basic specialties (including internal medicine, surgery, obstetrics
and gynecology, and pediatrics), generally not available at the first level. The tertiary level hospitals
are equipped with advanced diagnostic and treatment technologies, and staffed with specialists. The
ISS has several health centers and 40 hospitals. Health personnel in public and private sector
employment included some 30,000 physicians in 1990, yielding a ratio of 9.4 to 10,000 population,
but only 2.5 per 10,000 in the public health system. Some 50,000 nurses and nurse assistants (of
which 8,000 are graduates), and about 8,000 health promoters are employed at the local level in the
public health system. The ratios per 10,000 population in the public health service are 1.3 for nurses,
12 for nurse assistants and 3.8 for promoters. While overall numbers are acceptable, the distribution
is skewed in favor of higher level institutions; nurse assistants and promoters are often the only staff
available at health posts and smaller rural centers. NGOs, both national and international, play an
important supporting role in the provision of public services at the primary care level.
1.10         Management Responsibilities and Decentralization. The MOH, together with the
National Planning Department (DNP), is responsible for guiding health sector policy. The MOH is
also responsible for providing technical support and supervision to lower administrative levels of the
system and to health institutions, and for monitoring and evaluating performance of the system.
Colombia is in the process of decentralizing management and fiscal responsibilities for public sector
programs to the country's 33 departments and 1,029 municipalities. With the decentralization, each
municipality will become responsible for the provision of primary health care. The departments will
become responsible for the provision of secondary and tertiary services. While the key functions of
the MOH, for policy and implementation support, would require considerable strengthening, they
would not change. In contrast, the increase in DSs responsibilities for planning and managing higher
level services and for supporting municipal planning and management, and in municipal
responsibilities for planning, operating, and financing primary services, will be substantial (Annex 2).
1.11         To streamline the MOH structure, and support directly the decentralization process,
the Ministry was reorganized in December 1992. Key features of the revised structure, which would
be functionally replicated in the DSs, are the consolidation of policy and planning functions under the
Office of the Vice-Minister and of administrative functions under the Office of the Secretary General.
Technical and support functions are allocated among three Directorates General for: Decentralization
and Institutional Development; Disease Prevention and Control; and Development of Health Services.
The Directorate General for Decentralization and Institutional Development will play a critical role in
preparing prototype programs for providing technical assistance and training to departments and
municipalities to enable them to undertake decentralized functions. The MOH restructuring also
includes provisions for reducing staff to improve administrative efficiency and enhance remuneration
to a smaller group of well-qualified central staff.
1.12         The revised MOH/DS structure is designed to give priority to improving basic health
services at the municipal level and to broadening the concept of health management to include active
community participation. These priorities are reflected in recent legislation for the health sector and
for decentralization: Law 12 of 1986 provided for a transfer of increasing shares of the national sales
tax to local governments for investment activities; Decree 77, of 1987, transferred to the
municipalities responsibility for selected public services, including the construction and maintenance
of health posts, health centers and local hospitals; Law 10 of 1990, a health sector reform law,
complemented Law 12 by providing for the transfer of central budget allocations to the local level,
and created new opportunities for local resource mobilization (principally a health lottery); and the
Constitution of 1991 legitimized the decentralization process and provided guidelines for the



decentralization of responsibilities and transfers of resources to subnational levels. A draft law,
detailing criteria for the transfer of funds as well as responsibilities by administrative level is under
preparation and is expected to be approved in the course of 1993.
1.13          Currently, the central Government still controls budgeting and revenue allocation in
the majority of departments and in over 90 percent of municipalities. Budget allocations flow through
the DS to regional and local hospitals. Local hospitals pass funds for recurrent and investment
expenditures to health centers and posts. Under the decentralization guidelines, those departments and
municipalities that fulfill standard requirements for fiscal autonomy will receive national transfers
directly. Under the draft law (para. 1.12), funds would be transferred based on formula designed to
reflect each locality's current and potential demand for services, cost-efficiency of service delivery,
and degree of fiscal effort and administrative efficiency. From the departmental level, transfers will
be directed to municipal health funds under the control of local health boards. The health boards,
appointed by mayors, will consist of representatives from the municipal administration and from
community groups and health institutions.
1.14          Law 10 incorporates a five-year timetable (1991-95) for achieving departmental and
municipal decentralization in the health sector, which appears to be overly optimistic in view of
progress to date. Municipalities are to be decentralized sequentially in accordance with indicators of
social, demographic and economic development. The largest and most developed municipalities,
were to be decentralized in 1991. The least developed, mainly rural, municipalities, would be
expected to decentralize by 1995, with departmental DSs assuming control of municipalities unable to
meet requirements for decentralization by that time. Based on Law 10, the criteria for certifying
municipal health systems center on: (a) the definition of a municipal health plan; (b) the
establishment of a health administration authority; (c) the creation of a health fund (to receive national
transfers and other revenues for health); (d) the establishment of a municipal service for health
workers and affiliation of health workers with benefit funds; (e) the creation of boards and committees
to facilitate community participation, including the municipal health boards (para. 1.13) and health
committees for each primary care facility; and, (f) the clarification of the juridical nature of health
institutions (public or private) operating within the municipality.
1.15          Finance. Colombia's health expenditures declined as a share of GDP from 7.4
percent during 1981-85 to 6.1 in 1990, with public health expenditure representing about 2.4 percent
of GDP. However, overall expenditure grew in real terms by about 5 percent annually during 1985-
90. Four primary sources finance health services. Within the total, private expenditure represents
the largest source of financing, accounting for some 44 percent. The average household devotes 12
percent of its income directly to health, with two-thirds of the total allocated for drugs. Social
security contributions are the second largest source for health financing, equivalent to 20 percent of
total. Only 19 percent of the total consists of government revenues used to finance the direct services
of MOH providers. Cost-recovery for public services provides 7 percent of funding, and a mix of
other sources, including external credit, contributes 10 percent.
1.16          The public health system receives about 60 percent of its funding from national
transfers. National financing is augmented by departmental taxes on alcohol and gambling (25
percent), sub-national government expenditures (4 percent), and cost-recovery for services (12
percent) (Annex 3, Chart). Central finance for public health derives from two main sources: a share
of current revenues designated for health and education; and a value-added tax, recently renamed the
social investment transfer. Additional central revenues are provided on an A hIg basis.



- 6 -
Departmental and municipal revenues, derived mainly from taxes on liquor and cigarettes and from
lottery proceeds, are also allocated in part or whole for health. The central government transfer from
current revenues constitutes a small share of revenues for health in the largest cities but nearly all of
revenues available in smaller, poorer municipalities. The current revenue transfer represents 12
percent of total current revenues at present and is projected to rise to 19 percent by 1999. Of the
total transfer, a minimum of 15 percent would be allocated for recurrent expenditures on health, with
priority extended to primary health care. The Constitution mandates that the social investment
transfer constitute 14 percent of current revenues in 1993, increasing annually to 22 percent by 2002.
The municipalities will be required to spend at least 70 percent of this transfer, primarily intended for
investment, on health, education, water supply or subsidies provided for other services to poor
households.
1.17         In 1990, total public expenditure on health (including expenditure on the public
system, ICBF, Social Security and CAJANAL but excluding departmental and municipal
expenditures) represented nearly 22 percent of the central government budget. Of the total, an
estimated 73 percent was allocated for recurrent and 27 percent for capital expenditures (Annex 3,
Table). An estimated 40 percent of recurrent expenditure is allocated for the public health system
(responsible for 65 percent of the population) and 60 percent for social security systems (catering for
some 17 percent of the population). This split highlights a high degree of inequity in expenditure per
capita for the relevant population groups and inadequate funding for the public system: social
security expenditure per capita represented 5.8 times the expenditure per capita in the public health
system in 1990, or about US$69 versus US$12; and per capita expenditure for private services runs
about 10 percent below that for ISS services, indicating inefficiencies in the ISS system. Increases in
civil service salaries, accounting for some 70 percent of all central government expenditures on
health, and in overall costs at the secondary and tertiary levels of the public health and social security
systems, have constrained resources available for basic health services.
D. Main Issues in Primary Health Care
1.18         Public policy emphasizes a pivotal role for primary health care not yet reflected in
services provided. Some 65 percent of total population represents the target group for public health
services. However, effective coverage is limited to about 35 percent of the population, and quality
and efficiency of services are poor. An estimated 30 percent of the population lacks access to health
services. In order to provide appropriate health care for the full target group, the public health
system requires a major overhaul, with primary health care forming the centerpiece of the effort. The
particular issues facing primary health care in the public sector center on:
a)    Institutional Constraints. Weaknesses in municipal health information, and in
related administrative capacity for service planning and management.
b)     Service Weaknesses. Poor quality and efficiency attributable largely to inadequate
definition and provision of a standard set of services and supporting inputs;
inefficiencies and inequities in coverage, reflected in imbalances in provision of
infrastructure; and staff weaknesses.



- 7 -
c)    Policy Management Shortfalls. Incomplete development of key policies and policy
support measures in the areas of service pricing and cost recovery, standards
enforcement, and employment systems.
Institutional Constraints
1.19         Information. The MOH has the mandate to manage a national health information
system, but has not succeeded in introducing a coherent system to support planning, monitoring and
evaluation of services. As a result, the quality of demographic, epidemiologic and health service data
varies widely across departments. Advanced metropolitan areas, e.g., Cali and Manizales, employ
comprehensive information systems; and selected DSs have demonstrated success in collecting and
analyzing municipal information. However, most departments have limited management information
capacity and poor quality data (e.g., Atlantico and Santander, where mortality statistics are incomplete
and facility utilization and referral data are not systematically maintained). Planning, still carried out
primarily at by the departmental DSs, is based largely on incremental adjustments to the prior year's
program.
1.20         Under the decentralization process, the municipalities, with support from the DSs,
will take on responsibility for planning and monitoring first level health services. The DSs would set
guidelines for this planning and prepare related departmental plans. The MOH will therefore need to
develop a municipal-based health information system centering on key indicators of demographic and
health status, and of health system performance. Facilities status, location and use data, together with
personnel and service costs data, will be priorities for planning, and the MOH has already begun
work on design of a health services mapping system to collect this information. Linkages with
information required for managing the secondary and tertiary levels of the health system would also
need to be included. Building on the improved information base, the regular monitoring and
evaluation of the outputs and outcomes of primary health care would follow. A premium should be
given to simplicity in design of the information and monitoring systems.
1.21         Management Capacity. The weaknesses in health information form part of a broader
pattern of constraints to effective planning and implementation of primary health care. These
problems will likely be magnified in the early stages of the decentralization process since the
municipalities largely lack experience with systematic planning, programming and monitoring of
services. The recent reorganization of the MOH, particularly the creation of the Directorate for
Decentralization and Institutional Development and of its counterparts at the DS level, is designed to
facilitate the development of municipal capacity to plan and manage primary health care and the
ability of the DSs to support this process. The MOH will thus need to develop mechanisms for
strengthening DS guidance and for providing municipal training and technical support. Local training
institutions, universities, foundations and non-governmental organizations (NGOs), with experience in
municipal management and primary health care, could usefully participate in this effort.
1.22         The need to hold local authorities (mayors and health authorities) accountable for
effective service provision requires special emphasis in the design and provision of municipal training
and support. Municipal health boards and committees should play an important role in this process.
Active community participation in the health sector has been limited to date. Mayors and other
political forces may tend to discount community input. Mechanisms for encouraging community
participation, including use of beneficiary assessments to determine health priorities, should reduce
the limitation.



-8 -
Services Weaknesses
Quality, EMciency and Coverage
1.23         Systematic evaluation of the quality of primary health services is not available. With
the exception of more advanced departments, however, poor average quality of primary health care is
indicated. Services provided directly through the public health system vary among health institutions
and municipalities making it difficult for the average user to rely on primary services as the entry
point into the system. The system's development has emphasized curative over preventive care, and
provision of higher level institutions over primary care institutions. Primary services are mainly
institution-based and out-reach to the community has been limited largely to immunization programs,
managed centrally. As a result of quality problems, primary care facilities are often by-passed for the
higher-cost secondary and tertiary level facilities. In 1990, primary level hospitals reported an
average occupancy rate of only 35 percent, compared to 59 percent and 77 percent at the secondary
and tertiary health levels, respectively.4/ A lack of effective referral among the primary, secondary
and tertiary levels of care, also contributes.
1.24         Sevice Content. The effectiveness of primary health care in the public sector is
reduced by the generally limited and incomplete set of services provided. A standard package of
primary care services, including health education and promotion, as well as curative and emergency
services, has not been provided. The definition and systematic provision of a basic package of
services, based on common municipal needs for primary services, is critical for the improvement of
health care quality as well as the efficiency of resource use.
1.25         Service Support. The ability to respond to the population's needs and to emergencies
is further limited by inadequate provision of supporting inputs. Most facilities cannot adhere to
standard diagnostic and treatment protocols due to shortages in supplies and equipment. Notably,
equipment to manage neonatal problems is often lacking; and staff, supplies and equipment required
to care for trauma patients or resolve minor surgery cases may not be available.
1.26         Drugs are also in short supply. Each health establishment is responsible for providing
pharmaceuticals and supplies. The financial situation of first level establishments is so precarious that
physicians reuse sutures and other disposables, and patients must often provide drugs and supplies
before treatment can be initiated. An essential drugs program (EDP) has recently been initiated by
the MOH and 1,500 community pharmacies established. A list of 420 basic drugs, about 10 percent
of those currently available in the country, has been prepared; and 60 of these are assigned to the first
level of the system. The drugs, which are centrally financed, are purchased in bulk by the DSs and
community health committees manage the pharmacies. Continued central government support for the
EPD and its expansion is programmed. However, first level hospitals, where needs extend beyond
the 60 assigned drugs, would remain vulnerable under the EDP. Most do not participate in
cooperative purchasing arrangements and continue to buy at high cost from private pharmacies. The
provision of basic equipment and supplies for first level institutions, extension of the EDP, and
establishment of cooperative buying arrangements for drugs for first level hospitals are required to
raise service quality.
4/    MOH, hiSandal Analysis of the  elth Sector, Bogoti, 1991.



- 9 -
1.27         Facilities. The shortfall in coverage of the population requiring access to primary
health care in the public sector results, in part, from excessive emphasis on provision and staffing of
hospitals. Hospital construction absorbed the highest share of investment resources over the past
decade, and secondary and tertiary level hospitals, nearly 60 percent of routine expenditures,
compared with about 20 percent for primary care. With the advent of decentralized management, an
increasing desire to upgrade first level hospitals and to provide municipal emergency and 24-hour care
services has emerged. To extend coverage, some municipalities will require additional facilities and
most, rehabilitated or expanded facilities. To avoid over-construction, however, sound facilities
mapping and planning criteria should guide efforts to meet needs; and cooperative use arrangements
between neighboring municipalities and among public and private sector providers, should be
pursued.
Staff
1.28         Weaknesses among technical staff in the public system contribute to the problems of
low productivity and coverage in primary health care. Professional training institutions (for medicine
and nursing) place emphasis on curative care at the higher levels. Students' exposure to practices of
prevention, promotion, and community involvement, required at the first level of services, is limited.
At sub-professional levels, courses vary in orientation and quality and promoters receive only in-
service training, primarily limited to induction courses. Regular in-service training for all staff is
lacking and technical support and supervision on-the-job are minimal. Supervision tends to be
equated with administrative control rather than with improved performance and problem resolution.
To prepare new health professionals and subprofessionals for providing effective primary care, the
MOH will need to take the lead in setting appropriate standards for pre-service training programs. In
accordance with decentralized responsibilities, the DSs will need to be strengthened to guide
continuous in-service upgrading for municipal practitioners. DS supervision of municipal health care
providers will also need to be strengthened and redefined as a support mechanism.
1.29         Service weaknesses also derive from high levels of turnover of professional staff at
the municipal level, where employment conditions have been least attractive historically. Moreover,
40 to 50 percent of professionals staffing primary health facilities are new graduates with limited
experience, pasantes, completing a mandatory year of social service required for licensing. The
pasante system, in Colombia and elsewhere in Latin America, is associated with low efficiency, high
levels of absenteeism, and inadequate supervision of lower-level health workers. Within overall plans
to develop and supervise primary health care personnel on-the-job, strengthened incentives and career
support at the primary health care level should receive particular emphasis.
Policy Management Shortfalls
1.30         The lack of a strong MOH policy capacity explains, in part, the absence of a long-
term policy framework for managing reform in the health sector. The relocation of the policy
management function in the MOH, within the Office of the Vice-minister, is intended to elevate the
status of the policy process within the Ministry and improve policy development. Effecting
improvements in the productivity and coverage of primary health services will necessitate
improvements in resource allocation and use within the public system. Key policy support measures
are currently required to ensure efficient pricing of public services, to enhance cost recovery, and to
strengthen quality control and employment systems.



- 10-
1.31         Service Pricing and Cost Recovery. Service pricing standards have not been
established for primary care and complete cost data are not readily available in the public sector. The
lack of standard pricing reduces potential for improving efficiency as well as for cost-recovery.
Charges to patients are determined at the departmental level, within MOH guidelines. Fees are pro-
rated by income level, but not collected uniformly. Municipal health centers charged US$0.30 for a
consultation in 1992, on average. The total average revenues generated through fees in the 1980's
fell 9 percent, in direct proportion to a 9 percent increase in central government transfers.
Nonetheless, available data suggest that cost recovery at the municipal level varies widely (from 0 to
50 percent of local hospital costs) and more than can be explained by differences in average income.
Variations in billing, means testing, and use of facilities, as well as political considerations explain the
differences. Strengthened standards for pricing and cost recovery, which include differentials to
discourage use of higher level services for standard primary health care consultations or treatments,
are required.
1.32         Quality Control. At present, the quality control function in the public health system,
assigned to the MOH, is weak. Licenses are granted mainly to private sector providers requesting
accreditation, as a formality. To enhance the effectiveness of primary health care in the public
system and to foster initial integration and competition between public and private sector providers,
standards setting and enforcement mechanisms require development.
1.33         Employment Systems. The majority of current tertiary and secondary-level
employees were hired through the national and departmental civil service systems. At the primary
level, personnel include national and departmental civil servants and municipal employees. Under the
ongoing decentralization, all public sector employees at the first level of care will become municipal
employees. Municipalities will have to guarantee maintenance of current benefits for those already
employed. The average effect of this change will be to increase the cost per employee. It should also
improve incentives for retaining staff, includingpasantes, for primary health care (para. 1.29). Over
the medium-term, it will be necessary to introduce a unified personnel policy in the public sector,
which will provide municipal health employees benefits comparable to those at other administrative
levels. The policy would need to consider mechanisms for supporting poorer municipalities to
establish employment systems, in the event that costs exceed financing capacity.
E. Government Strategy
1.34         The Government's overall strategy in the social sectors is to improve the efficiency of
resource use while increasing expenditure on priority services to expand coverage and improve
quality. In addition, the Government aims to focus expenditures on social services with the highest
social rate of return and services which benefit most those who can least afford to pay. In the health
sector, evidence worldwide suggests that effective primary health care provides the most cost-effective
way to contribute to an improved standard of living. The Government is thus giving priority to the
expansion and improvement of primary health care and to the rationalization of services provided at
higher levels. Improved competitiveness of public services in terms of quality and costs is also an
aim. The Government intends to achieve improvements in health services through the process of
decentralization, and the concomitant strengthening of municipal capacity to plan and provide primary
health care.



- 11 -
1.35         The Government has not yet taken decisions on all key economic and financing policy
measures required to support its health sector strategy. It has, however, commissioned a study I/
to assess alternatives for the future of the social security system, including, a single insurance fund
linked with associations of personal service providers and hospitals; a system of numerous insurers,
contracted services, and a government fund to subsidize low-income users; and a public-private option
which would subsidize services for the poor through the existing public health network and utilize a
prepaid, competitive system for the non-poor. Each of the proposals emphasizes the need for equity
and improved efficiency. Timing on changes in the social security system is uncertain, owing both to
political and cost constraints; once decisions are taken, implementation would be expected to be
gradual, for the same reasons. Plans are underway to support pilots for prepaid insurance programs
for those not participating in the present ISS system. The Government also aims to introduce
systematic pricing of health care services and recognizes the needs for strengthened cost recovery
practices, improved health sector regulation and public service reform.
F. Bank Strategy and Participation
1.36         Strategy. The Bank's strategy aims to assist Colombia to consolidate gains of recent
structural reforms and to redress persisting constraints to development, with emphasis on the private
sector. Chief among these are an inefficient regulatory environment; human resources gaps; poverty;
infrastructure bottlenecks; and weak public sector agencies and implementation capacities. In the
social sectors, priority is given to targeting resources to reduce poverty through the strengthening of
basic services, in particular in health, education, water supply and sanitation. The Bank supports the
Government's development strategy for the social sectors, and seeks to ensure that the strengthening
of basic social services is developed within a viable macroeconomic and sustainable fiscal framework.
It aims also to focus on improving management and implementation capabilities in the public sector.
1.37         The Bank completed an assessment of the Government's poverty alleviation program
in late 1988 and is embarking on an in-depth review of poverty issues during 1992. For the health
sector, in particular, an analysis of the impact of decentralization is nearing completion and results
have been incorporated in design of the proposed project.6/ At present, the Bank is supporting the
development of primary education to achieve coverage and quality improvements, and a child care
and nutrition program in low-income urban areas. An initial basic health project, which faced design
and implementation difficulties, is nearing completion; and the Bank is supporting a shelter policy and
program which would cater directly for the needs of the poor. In 1993, the Bank plans to extend a
loan to assist with the strengthening and expansion of basic education through the secondary cycle.
The proposed project would support the effort to strengthen basic social services. It would represent
the first phase of a longer term program to develop municipal management and service delivery
capabilities for first level health care. It is designed within the framework of the ongoing
decentralization.
I/     Carlos Molina and Juan Pablo Trujillo, La Refonna del Sistema de Seguros de Salud: Una
Comparaci6n de Tres Propuestas, FEDESARROLLO, Bogota, April 1992.
Colombia - Towards Increased Efficiency and Equity in the Health Sector - Can
Decentralization Help?, draft, IBRD, March 1993.



- 12 -
1.38         The proposed project would be complemented by an operation to be assisted by the
Inter-American Development Bank (IDB), and supported by a loan of US$40 million. That project
would assist in the strengthening of institutional capabilities at the second and third levels of the
public health system. Key elements of the proposed operation include improved information and
administrative systems for higher level hospitals and an assessment of requirements for infrastructure
consolidation and upgrading at those levels in the future, and including facilities mapping for the
primary level. The interface between the two operations, chiefly in the need for effective referral
systems, for facilities assessment and mapping, and an integrated information system, have been
agreed in principle. Moreover, the IDB would begin its project activities in departments and selected
subdistricts of Bogota to be supported under the Bank-assisted operation.
1.39         Participation. The Bank has supported three health, or health-related operations in
Colombia since the late 1970s (Annex 4). Included are the Integrated, Nutrition Project (Loan 1487-
CO of 1977); the Health Services Integration Project (Loan 2611-CO of 1986); and the Community
Child Care and Nutrition Project (Loan 3201-CO of 1990). The Integrated Nutrition Project
supported Government's integrated rural development programs. The main components included the
provision of rural health, water supply and sanitation facilities; a food coupon program; and an
evaluation system. While most physical targets were met, the direct benefits of the food coupon
program (calories delivered) were low. Implementation experience underscores the importance of
effective monitoring and evaluation for guiding and measuring project outcomes. The Health
Services Integration Project, scheduled to be closed in mid-1993, aimed to rationalize and
consolidate public health services at the local level, including health, nutrition, water supply and
sanitation. This project suffered from limited implementation progress owing to fragmentation of
components and management responsibilities among several agencies, and more generally to
weaknesses in institutional and counterpart financing support. The project was restructured during
1990; US$19 million, about half of the loan, were cancelled and the project reoriented to provide
support to the Government's recent efforts to reorient public health services. Outcomes of this
project, which is the operation most closely linked to the proposed project, emphasize the advantages
of maintaining simplicity in project design and management, in particular where implementation
capabilities are weak. The Child Care and Nutrition Project supports a home-based day-care and
feeding program for poor children aged two to six. The main objectives of the Bank's support are to
maintain adequate quality and efficiency as the program expands. Implementation is proceeding on
schedule. Efforts to develop an effective program evaluation system should help to avert the
problems encountered under the earlier nutrition project. The Municipal Development Project
(Loan 3336-CO of 1991) is also of relevance for the proposed project. It aims to support municipal
development and local resource mobilization and provides a line of credit for municipal infrastructure
development, including primary health care facilities. It also includes a large training component for
municipal administrators in service management and planning.
1.40         Results of a recent review of 37 Bank-assisted health projects are also useful._/
They confirm the difficulties of complex design in the context of institutional and implementation
limitations and political turnover. Of particular relevance for the proposed project is a characteristic
of the more successful of these projects: flexibility in project design, which allowed for adjustments
in the course of implementation.
7/     Chile, Health Sector Reform Project, Staff Appraisal Report, No. 10987, October 23, 1992.



- 13 -
1.41         The Colombian experience to date in the health sector conforms with the broader
outcomes and lessons of experience of the Bank's larger portfolio in the sector. The proposed
operation therefore places a premium on simplicity and flexibility in design. Monitoring and
evaluation would form an emphasis of the operation, to keep major objectives of providing effective
municipal health care on track and to allow for adjustments as warranted. The project further would
be limited in geographic scope, representing a first phase of a broader national effort; and it would
focus on developing management and implementation capacities.
1.42         Rationale for Bank Involvement. The proposed project would underpin a priority
program of the Government and continue the Bank's strategy of supporting the development of
improved social services to reduce poverty and to support human resources development. The main
value-added of the project would be to establish, for later replication, an effective municipal model
for delivery of improved basic health services, with a focus on the poor. The main value-added by
the Bank's participation would be its emphasis on building management and implementation
capacities, strengthening the framework for policy development for the health sector, and evaluating
project outcomes.
II. THE PROJECT
A. Introduction
2.1          The project was prepared by the MOH during 1991 and 1992, based on inputs from
local consultants financed under the ongoing project assisted by Loan 2611-CO. The preparation
document was submitted to the Bank in October 1992. The project was preappraised in two stages,
during May-June 1992 and during October 1992. Appraisal was carried out during December 1992.
Negotiations were held in Washington, D.C. during April 28 - May 11, 1993. The Colombian
delegation was headed by Mr. Wolfgang Munar, Vice Minister of Health, and included Ms. Nora
Alvarado, Chief, Credit Division, DNP; Mr. Luis Fernando Duque, Director, Project Coordinating
Office; and Ms. Martha Laverde, Director, Project Coordinating Unit for the ongoing health project
assisted by Loan 2611-CO.
2.2          Objectives and Content. The project would represent the first phase of a 10-12 year
program to reorient the public health system. It would strengthen management and provide
incentives, in the form of grants, to support municipal provision of a basic package of primary health
services targetted with priority to the poor. The objectives of the project are to:
(a)   enhance municipal capacities, in nine departments, to plan and manage provision of
primary health care;
(b)   improve the quality, efficiency and coverage of primary health services in
municipalities in the participating departments; and
(c)   strengthen the design and execution of key policy measures and evaluation to support
development of effective primary health care.
The project would consist of two largely sequential components, Institutional Development and
Service Development, and a third component for Policy Management and Evaluation, designed to:



- 14 -
Institutional Development: strengthen municipal capacity to provide effective primary health
care services through: (a) introduction of a municipal health management information system
to support planning, monitoring, and evaluation of primary health care services; and (b)
provision of related training and technical support for municipal administrative authorities,
municipal health administrators and community representatives.
Service Development: improve the quality, efficiency and coverage of primary health care
services through implementation of (a) municipal subprojects centering on (i) introduction of a
basic package of primary health care services; (ii) provision of supplies and equipment to
support the package; and (iii) rehabilitation, expansion, construction and furnishing of selected
primary health care facilities; and (b) provision of training and technical support for municipal
health practitioners, as required to deliver the package.
Policy Development and Evaluation: support the design and implementation of selected
policies, including measures for introducing systematic pricing, cost recovery and quality
control for primary health care, and for developing a unified employment system for public
health personnel; and undertake an evaluation of project impact.
2.3           The Project Area. The project area includes eight departments (Atlantico, Bolfvar,
Cauca, Choc6, Cdrdoba, Nariflo, Sucre and Vaupes) and six subdistricts of Bogota, which encompass
220 municipalities (including the BogotA subdistricts). The total population in the area is 9.8 million.
These areas were selected on the basis of interest and institutional potential for participating in the
project, as well as overall level of poverty as identified through DANE data and criteria. Six of the
departments represent the poorest areas in Colombia, with rates of absolute poverty ranging from 61
to 93 percent. Of the total population in the area, about 6 million are identified as poor, and
represent the priority target group for the project interventions. Within the area, 32 percent of the
population is rural or indigenous; 68 percent is peri-urban. Annex 5 presents an overview of
demographic, poverty, health, and health service and facility data based on a preliminary survey of 20
percent of municipalities in the project area.
B. Project Content
Institutional Development
(Proposed Outlay US$9.4 millions, Including Contingencies)
Institutional Development
2.4          Information. To strengthen the planning, monitoring and evaluation of primary
health services, the project would include introduction of a municipal health information system,
MHIS (Annex 6A and Project File). Three subsystems, based on health institution data, would form
the core of the MHIS: (a) resource data - availability, use and status of personnel, equipment,
supplies, drugs and facilities; (b) service data - direct services and patient records, outreach services
and patient records, and community services, each provided by type of service; and (c) financing data
- revenues by source, including fees, and costs by type of service and category of expenditure. The
MHIS would be complemented by demographic and socio-economic data, available at the municipal
level, including information on environmental health; and a health facilities mapping and planning
system, which will be financed with IDB assistance (para. 1.38).



- 15 -
2.5          Based on the MHIS, a set of key indicators for monitoring primary health services at
the municipal level has been constructed. The indicators (Annex 6A) are designed to track changes in
demand and use of resources as well as productivity of primary health care. Monitoring indicators
for the service subsystem, for example, would include: average number of prenatal care visits per
pregnancy; number of births attended; numbers of children immunized; and morbidity and mortality
distribution by cause, sex and age. The MHIS and the monitoring system would provide sufficient
information to support municipal planning for health services and to enable the departmental and
central levels of the MOH to aggregate and analyze trends in demand and set targets for these
services. It would further be linked to the information system to be established for second and third
level hospitals, with the assistance of the IDB. As the main planning tool for the municipalities, the
design of data collection forms would place a premium on simplicity; computerization would be
compatible with the new MHIS but not a requisite for its operation at the municipal level. The
project would include technical assistance (36 man-months) for the development, testing and
introduction of the MHIS and the monitoring system, and for the printing and distribution of forms
for municipal use. Computers, primarily for DS use, would also be provided. During negotiations,
an understanding was reached that the MHIS, would be developed and introduced, giving priority to
data for municipal planning. The schedule for introduction of the MHIS would be incorporated in the
operations manual for the project (para. 2.40).
2.6          Service Planning and Management Support. To improve information use and
capacity for planning and implementing primary health care services more generally, the project
would provide training and administrative support for municipal health authorities, for administrators
of primary health facilities, and for community representatives involved with primary health care
(Annex 6B). At the outset of the project (years one and two), orientation to primary health care
would be provided, followed by a focus on municipal responsibilities and procedures for providing
and financing primary health care services. Subsequent emphasis would be given to the introduction
and use of the MHIS for municipal planning, programming and monitoring of services. Continued
training and administrative support, geared to particular municipal and community needs identified
increasingly by the municipalities, would be provided after the start-up period, as part of a permanent
human resources development program for primary care.
2.7          Training and support methodology would emphasize work sessions (to carry out
particular tasks) and also include more formal short courses and workshops. Problem solving, in the
context of regular responsibilities, would be emphasized, and training and support would be provided
as close as possible to the workplace. Task-specific support would be included for municipal staff
responsible for service planning and financing, based upon procedural manuals and job descriptions to
be prepared in the key functional areas. Planning techniques would incorporate user, and potential
user, needs assessments. Expected outputs from the training and support would include the
preparation of medium-term municipal health plans and budgets, which would be updated and revised
on an annual basis, and introduction of systematic monitoring for primary health services. Municipal
health board and health committee members would participate, as well as selected health practitioners,
to help ensure support for the process as well as the plans and budgets produced. The training would
be complemented by more general programs for municipal administrators, offered by the Government
to support the decentralization process.
2.8          The on-the-job support and training activities would be developed by the DSs under
guidelines prepared by the MOH. To assist them, training and technical support teams would be
assigned to each DS in participating departments. Each team would comprise four consultants with



- 16 -
expertise in one of the following areas: management information, planning and finance; community
participation, communication and health education; content and delivery of primary health care
services; and techniques of competency-based training and support. Ten public health training
facilities, previously responsible for assistant nurse training, have been permanently assigned to the
DSs in the project area, and would be strengthened selectively to work in consortia and with
universities and NGOs to develop training and technical support. Guided by the DSs and their
consultants, these groups which would serve several departments each, would prepare training and
support programs, materials and trainers, and assist with municipal delivery of training and support
on a continuous basis. Initial workshops, to orient DS staff and consultants, staff of the departmental
training centers and potential departmental contractors, are scheduled to begin in August 1993. (A
detailed list and schedule for municipal courses and workshops is included in the Project File). The
training and support would be provided for all relevant municipal and health administrators in the
project area, and for community representatives on health boards and committees and selected
municipal health practitioners (approximately 6,000). The project would finance the DS consultant
teams, and the design and delivery of training and support for the municipalities. Consultant services,
fellowships and study tours would also be provided for human resources staff of the MOH, the DSs
and the departmental training centers. (Technical training and support for health practitioners
responsible for delivery of primary health care in the municipalities is described under the Service
Development component, below.)
Service Development
(Proposed Outlay US$66.3 million, Including Contingencies)
Quality, Efriciency and Coverage
2.9          Service Content. The project vehicle for improving the overall quality and
efficiency, as well as coverage of primary health care, would be the systematic provision of a basic
package of primary health services. The package of first level health services would be supported by
municipal investment subprojects which would follow satisfactory completion of initial institutional
development activities under the project, including preparation of an acceptable investment plan. The
investment subprojects, to be co-financed through central grants and municipal funds (para. 2.35),
would provide physical inputs to support the basic package, and include equipment, furniture,
supplies and the upgrading, expansion and construction of health facilities.
2.10         The service package consists of basic health interventions which address highly
prevalent health conditions in Colombia, and for which effective preventive, curative or palliative
solutions can be provided. The services are designed to promote and prevent disease through
community information and education; and to provide ambulatory and simple in-patient care,
including surgical and emergency care (Annex 6C). The package focuses on:
(a)    Maternal and Infant Care, including prenatal care, safe delivery, postnatal
consultation, breast feeding, growth monitoring, immunization and family planning;
(b)    Child Care, including diagnosis and treatment of infections, visual and hearing
screening, growth monitoring, and nutrition and hygiene monitoring;



- 17 -
(c)    Adolescent and Young Adult Care, centering on preventive education on health risk
factors (smoking, alcohol, drug abuse, sex education), sexually transmitted diseases
and diagnosis and treatment of infections;
(d)    Adult Care, focussing on prevention, monitoring and treatment of chronic diseases;
(e)    Older Adult Care, centering on early detection and treatment of chronic diseases.
In view of high rates of accidents, political, drug-related and family violence in Colombia, emergency
services would form an additional part of the basic package; and health promotion would emphasize
the importance of resolving water and sanitation problems to reduce the incidence of communicable
diseases. Ongoing programs for endemic disease reduction (e.g., for tuberculosis) should continue to
be delivered through the package. Other desirable services, which could be added to the package
pending management capacity and availability of resources, include: education for parenthood, early
cancer detection, fluoridation of water, environmental and occupational health.
2.11         The organization for the provision of the basic services would vary by demographic
status of the municipalities in terms of equipment, facilities and personnel required. Four models for
delivery have been identified. All services included in the package would be delivered according to
standard protocols. These protocols would include the corresponding instructions for referral. All
municipalities should have (or have access to) vehicles and a working communication system to
facilitate transport of emergencies, and an outreach service to follow-up clinic defaulters and patients
who for different reasons do not seek needed attention. Outreach would be especially important for
increasing coverage of maternal and child services, and of the elderly.
2.12         Service Support. To ensure appropriate support for the basic package,
complementary inputs would be provided. Based on standard MOH lists (included in the Project
File), medical equipment, and supplies for municipal health posts, centers, and hospitals would be
provided. Replenishment of supplies and equipment, and maintenance of equipment, would be the
responsibility of each facility and the municipality. Investment subprojects would incorporate local
budget commitments to cover these needs. The project would provide financing for estimated
equipment, furniture and initial supply requirements needed to operate facilities at the municipal level.
The subprojects would not finance drugs, which would be provided separately under the EPD (para.
1.26), with early priority extended to the project areas, and through cooperative purchase
arrangements for hospitals.
2.13         Facilities. The project will extend coverage of primary health care in the project area
giving priority to unserved or underserved segments of the population, identified through the planning
process. Improved access will derive from the focus on primary care at the municipal level, on
supporting and strengthening community participation in the system and on the provision of outreach
as well as institution-based services. Provision of adequate facilities will also contribute. Expansion
of infrastructure will be based upon standard facilities planning criteria, including service-population
ratios and physical access criteria. To further rationalize provision of facilities, in particular to avoid
duplication of first-level hospitals and emergency services, criteria for inter-municipal agreements on
provision, financing and use of facilities (including social security facilities) and, on a pilot basis, for
service agreements with private sector providers and NGOs would be included in the criteria.
Minimum adequate staffing would need to be guaranteed to enable a municipality to have its
infrastructure plan approved.



- 18 -
2.14          The project would include funding for the rehabilitation, upgrading and expansion of
health facilities at the municipal level and for related furniture requirements. Routine maintenance of
facilities and acceptable staffing arrangements would be required as complementary municipal inputs.
An operations manual for the project, currently being finalized, includes the facilities planning
criteria, as well as other subproject design guidelines, criteria and procedures (Annex 8B and Project
File).
Staff Development
2.15          To further support the delivery of the basic package of services, the project would
introduce regular in-service training, and technical support and supervision for municipal health
personnel. The program would build on and expand the system introduced during the initial period of
project implementation for municipal health planning and management (paras. 2.6-2.8 and Annex 6B):
methodologies and resources would be shared.
2.16          In view of the high level of turnover of nurses and physicians, introductory training,
including orientation to the principles of primary care, responsibilities for delivery of the basic
package, techniques for involving the community, and use of basic information would be provided
continuously. Training and follow-up support would focus on strengthening leadership functions and
an interdisciplinary approach in the provision of quality care. Key features of post-induction training
and support would focus on the following areas:
(a)    Health Promoters. Health promoters will be an important link with the communities
to be served under the project. Training and support would center on outreach to
promote and ensure access to the basic package of primary health services; techniques
for enhancing community participation in the identification and resolution of health
problems; use of print and other materials for transmitting health information in
different settings (e.g., clinics, schools, child-care settings); and provision of basic
first aide.
(b)    Nurses and Nurse Assistants. Training and support for nursing staff would
incorporate capacity-building in the areas described for promoters, adapted to reflect
the higher level of training and responsibility of these staff, including preparation of
materials for community promotion and education. It would, in addition, focus on
strengthening diagnostic skills, use of standard protocols for treatment, use of drugs
and laboratory tests, management of effective referral, and management of health
posts and resources, including basic data and records management; and provision of
preventive and basic curative care, including prenatal services, basic nutrition,
sanitation and hygiene, growth monitoring, vaccinations, vision and auditory screening
and first aide, including simple suturing; management of effective referral; and
orientation and skills training in trauma management and management of community
or municipal hospital pharmacies.
(c)    Physicians. The focus of training and support for physicians would be on the
management and delivery of primary care services, leadership in promotion and
community participation efforts, monitoring of epidemiologic patterns and service
performance, diagnosis of developmental needs for staff, and participation in the



- 19 -
assessment of the impact of services and strategies for basic health in the community
served.
2.17         Manuals are under preparation on the content and procedures for delivery of the basic
health package (on diagnosis and treatment protocols, emergency treatment, referral practices,
appropriate use of drugs, procedures for setting up community pharmacies and cooperative purchase
arrangements for hospitals; and on outreach, community promotion and education activities). These
would form the core materials for training and on-the-job follow-up for municipal health staff. The
manuals would be complemented by reference materials provided through the regional training
centers. Updated information on departmental experience with community involvement, service
designs for improving efficiency and coverage, and working with special ethnic groups and traditional
practitioners would be included. Materials for about 10 mass media campaigns for public education
on topics related to the promotion of primary health care and community involvement in promotion,
prevention and identification of local needs would also be provided. The materials for these
campaigns would be prepared by the MOH with municipal participation.
2.18         The development program for health workers would further incorporate improved
coordination and support of pasantes. A departmental coordinator, selected from technical staff, and
a municipal coordinator, where capacity exists, would be responsible for overseeing the induction
process and training and supervision for pasantes. Guidelines and standard performance criteria for
monitoring pasantes would be developed in collaboration with regional universities; and incentives for
continued service beyond the year required, in the form of rotational assignments, accelerated post-
service promotion possibilities in public service, and fellowships for post-graduate studies in public
health and family medicine, would be introduced.
2.19         As part of a longer term effort to orient and interest professionals in the principles of
primary health care and community involvement, the project would also support the development of
revised curricula and operations research programs for universities and professional schools. These
programs would be introduced in about four universities in Bogota and Barranquilla.
2.20         The project includes financing for the design, preparation and provision of materials,
and delivery of training and support for all municipal health personnel in the project area, numbering
nearly 13,000. Included are 3,700 professionals (physicians, nurses, bacteriologists, dentists) of
whom 2,000 are working in the subdistricts of BogotA included in the project, and nearly 1,000 are
pasantes, serving a years' social service; about 7,000 are assistant nurses and 2,000, promoters.
Financing is also included for the mass communication campaigns, the development of standards for
coordinating the social service staff, the development and selective introduction of revised curricula
and operations research oriented towards primary health care, and fellowships and study tours for
selected technical staff at the central, departmental and municipal levels.
Policy Development and Evaluation
(Proposed Outlay US$4.1 million, Including Contingencies)
2.21         Policy Development. To strengthen the policy development function within the new
MOH structure, and to improve resource use and management for the public health system, the
project would support an initial set of action-oriented studies. Included would be studies to: (a)
establish a system for pricing public health services; (b) standardize cost recovery for primary



- 20 -
services; (c) develop, improve and unify employment systems and conditions in the public health
system; and (d) establish an autonomous quality control and accreditation body for the health sector,
initially for primary health facilities.
2.22         The cost recovery study would focus in part on experience with the use of differential
fees for primary health services provided at the primary, secondary and tertiary levels of the system,
which would be required under guidelines for municipal subprojects under the project (Annex 8B and
Project File). The introduction of differential fees would complement and provide useful information
for the policy work on cost-recovery for the public health sector. The fees would not be used to
increase charges among those least able to pay. The monitoring indicators for the project would
incorporate data which would permit an ongoing assessment of results of the application of differential
fees and improved referral practices.
2.23         The project would include financing for consultants to carry out this initial set of
policy studies under guidance of the MOH. Additional studies, related to preparation of future
projects or policy measures in the health sector, could also be incorporated. The terms of reference
for the studies identified were developed and reviewed during appraisal and appear in Annex 6D.
The preliminary design of the pilot programs for pre-paid insurance has been completed (and appear
in the Project File) and the final plans would be reviewed by the Bank. During negotiations, the
Government agreed to carry out the four identified project studies in accordance with terms of
reference and schedules satisfactory to the Bank, to review results with the Bank, and, for the
cost recovery study, that Bank comments be considered and changes introduced in the project
operations manual to ensure that provisions for cost recovery are induded in each subproject
agreenent (para. 3.1 a). Prior to completion of the study, existing MOH guidelines on cost
recovery would be followed under the subprojects.
2.24         Evaluation. The project would include an impact evaluation, which would build on
the monitoring indicators of the MHIS, adding both longitudinal and comparative dimensions.
Baseline and annual data would be collected for the impact evaluation. Changes in key monitoring
indicators would be assessed annually as part of the evaluation design. Emphasis would be given to
changes in the following key indicators of impact: percent of catchment population served at health
facilities (primarily to measure coverage); immunization coverage; numbers of women seeking
prenatal care during the first trimester of pregnancy (an indicator of success of community education),
share of deliveries attended and delivery fatalities; and child mortality due to upper respiratory
infections and diarrhea (more general indicators of infant or child mortality would likely not be
significant at the municipal level, but would be included for aggregated analysis at the departmental
and central levels). The measurement in change of quantitative indicators would be complemented by
qualitative information based on structured observations of services by trained personnel and by
surveys designed to document user perceptions of the services provided. The evaluation model will
also draw on data collected through national surveys conducted periodically by DANE (e.g., a
thirteen city households survey) as well as regional health surveys. Additional data sets would be
added to these surveys, as necessary, e.g., data drawn from comparable municipalities inside and
outside the project area. The project would finance consultant services (36 man-months) to design
and carry out the evaluation. During negotiations, the Government agreed that the evaluation of
project impact would be carried out in accordance with terms of reference, and incorporating
key indicators, satisfactory to the Bank (para. 3.1b).



- 21 -
C. Costs and Financing
2.25         Project Costs. The total cost of the project is estimated at US$83.1 million
equivalent, net of taxes and duties. Base costs are calculated at US$68 million equivalent, and
contingencies at US$15.1 million equivalent. The foreign exchange component would be US$27.1
million, or 33 percent of total project costs. The breakdown of costs by component is shown in Table
4.1, and by type of expenditure in Table 4.2. Detailed cost tables are presented in Annex 7.
Table 4.1: COST SUMMARY BY COMPONENT
-~US$ million
Local     Foreign  Total
Institutional Development            5.2       2.5      7.8
Service Development                 33.6       21.1    54.7
Policy Development and Evaluation    3.1       0.1      3.1
Project Coordination                 2.4       0.1      2.5
Total Baseline Costs                44.4       23.6    68.0
Physical Contingencies              0.4       0.1      0.4
Price Contingencies                11.2       35      14.7
Total Project Costs                 56.0       221      81
(Totals may not add due to rounding)
2.26         Basis of Cost Estimates. Project costs are estimated at October 1992 prices. Civil
works estimates are derived from current contracts for similar facilities in the project areas. Costs of
equipment, materials and supplies are based on agreed lists of items and on the CIF prices of similar
items procured recently by the MOH. Costs of training and consultants reflect local rates.
2.27         Contingency Allowance. Physical contingencies (averaging under 1 percent of base
costs) are estimated at 5 percent for training and technical assistance, and are expected to be sufficient in
light of the programmatic nature of the project. Price contingencies (averaging 22 percent of base costs)
were estimated on the basis of expected annual international price increases of 3.1 percent a year for the
life of the project, and local price increases, adjusted for expected changes in the exchange rate, of 24
percent for 1993, 16 percent for 1994, 22 percent for 1995, 20 percent for 1996, 18 percent for 1997,
16 percent for 1998, and 10 percent thereafter.
2.28         Foreign Exchange Costs. Direct and indirect foreign exchange costs are estimated at
US$27.1 million equivalent including contingencies. Based on a detailed analysis of similar types of
expenditures under the ongoing health project, the foreign exchange component for the major categories
was estimated as follows: training 10 percent; civil works 30 percent; equipment 85 percent; materials
and supplies 25 percent; and vehicles 100 percent.



- 22 -
Table 4.2: PROJECT COST SUMMARY BY CATEGORIES
(USS million)
% Total
% Foreign      Base
Lol Foreign Toal Exchange         Costs
A. Technical Assistance       7.5   0.0      7.5    0           11
B. Training                   8.0   0.9      8.9   10           13
C. Civil Works               13.2   5.7    18.9   30            28
D. Equipment                  2.5   14.1    16.6   85           24
E. Furniture                  2.3   1.1      3.4   30           5
F. Materials and Supplies     5.6   1.9      7.5   25            11
G. Studies                    2.9   0.0       2.9    0           4
H. Project Coordination       2.4   0.0       2.4    0           4
Total BASELINE COSTS         44.4  23.6      68.0   35          100
Physical Contingencies        0.4   01.1      0.4   25            1
Price Contingencies          1L2   3.5       14.7   2A           _2
Total PROJECT COSTS          56.Q  27.1      831  3.             122
(Excluding taxes and duties, which are negligible; totals may not add due to rounding)
2.29         Project Financing. Total project costs are estimated at US$83.1 million. A Bank loan
of US$50.0 million would finance the foreign exchange costs and 41 percent of local costs, excluding
taxes. The financing plan would be as follows:
IBRD                US$50.0 million  (60 percent of total)
Central Government   US$8.7 million   (11 percent)
Municipalities       US$24.4 million  (29 percent)
2.30         Recurrent Costs. At completion, the project would be expected to generate incremental
recurrent costs of about US$9.0 million equivalent (1993 prices), equal to about 4.3 percent of MOH
recurrent expenditure on the public health system in 1990. Of the total, approximately US$5.5 million
would be attributable to incremental salaries for health personnel and maintenance of new, expanded or



- 23 -
rehabilitated facilities, and borne by the municipalities. Commitments to this end would be incorporated
in municipal subproject agreements. The remaining US$3.5 million would be primarily attributable to
continuing requirements for staff development (training and supervisory support), and financed by the
MOH and DSs, in line with revised responsibilities. A gradual post-project build-up of municipal
financing for training would also be expected.
D. Project Management and Implementation
2.31         Project Management Structure. Overall authority for project planning and execution
would be vested in the Vice-Minister of Health, reporting to the Minister of Health. The Minister would
be supported by a Coordinating Committee, comprising the heads of the MOH's three general
directorates (for decentralization, services, and prevention and promotion) and a Project Coordinating
Office, and one representative each from the Ministry of Finance and the DNP. The Coordinating
Committee would be responsible for providing policy and implementation guidance for the project, with
a view to ensuring effective use of project resources and efficient implementation. Day to day project
management would be the responsibility of the Project Coordinating Office, composed of a Coordinator
and units for administrative and technical coordination and control, which would be financed under the
project (US$3.3 million including contingencies, for consultant fees, travel, supplies and vehicles). The
Administrative Unit would be staffed by professionals responsible for coordinating disbursements,
procurement, and financial management and control under the project. The Technical Unit would be
charged with oversight responsibilities for monitoring the content and implementation of project
components. The central Project Coordinating Office would report to the Vice-Minister through the
directors of the MOH directorates on technical matters and directly on administrative and financing
matters. A qualified Project Coordinator and the heads of the Technical and Administrative Units of the
Project Coordinating Office have been named by the MOH. A condition of effectiveness would be the
appointment of the remaining personnel to the Project Coordinating Office (para 3.2a). At
negotiations, an understanding was reached that these would include a minimum of 12 professionals
distributed among the technical, administrative/financial management, and legal specialties. At
negotiations, the Government agreed that personnel satisfactory to the Bank would be maintained
in the three key posts, for Project Coordinator, the Technical Subcoordinator and the
Administrative Subcoordinator, throughout project implementation (para. 3.1c).
2.32         At the departmental level, existing staff of the DSs would be named as project
coordinators. Included would be a director, a planner, and an administrator. The DS project
coordinators would be supported by the team of consultants selected to assist with training and technical
support in each department (for Bogota, the project coordinating unit and the consultants would be
assigned at the municipal level) (para 2.8). The departmental units would carry out coordination and
oversight for implementation at the municipal level. At the municipal level, the project would be
managed through the normal administrative structure for health, under the mayor.
2.33         Project Management Responsibilities. In line with revised institutional responsibilities
under the decentralization effort, management and coordination responsibilities for principal project
components would be as follow: the MOH/DSs would be responsible for the institutional and policy
development components, and for all staff training and support; the municipalities would be responsible
for service development subprojects. Project monitoring and evaluation activities would be managed by
the central Coordinating Office, with inputs from the lower administrative levels (Annex 8A).



- 24 -
2.34         Implementation Phases. The project would be implemented in two stages, on a
municipal by municipal basis. The first corresponds with the implementation of the institutional
development component, including the initial phase of human resources development (average duration
two years). Implementation support would give emphasis to:
(a)    promoting municipal commitment to participate in the project and clarify requirements
for participation;
(b)    completing agreements between the MOH and the departments stipulating financial and
administrative responsibilities under the project, and between the departments and the
municipalities interested in participating in the project;
(c)    strengthening municipal management capacity, in particular to complete and refine
assessments of public health requirements and prepare investment plans and subprojects;
The second stage of implementation (three years per municipality on average) would coincide with the
service development component of the project. During this stage, municipalities would finalize and
undertake investment subprojects, while continuing in the staff development program.
2.35         Criteria for Municipal Subprojects. The municipal subprojects would be drawn from
municipal health plans for primary services prepared with departmental support in accordance with
pyoject guidelines and criteria, as follow (Annex 8B):
(a)    Guidelines on municipal participation would ensure incorporation of both advanced and
less advanced municipalities, in accordance with coverage and quality objectives of the
project. Requirements would center on participation in the institutional development
activities of the project, preparation of a municipal health plan, and commitment to co-
finance subprojects. The DS project coordinators, in consultation with municipal
authorities, would be responsible for determining appropriate levels of support for
meeting these requirements.
(b)    Criteria for subproject approval stipulate four broad sets of standards for subproject
approval. Managerial criteria focus on assessing municipal capacity for subproject
implementation. Financial criteria incorporate requirements for recurrent financing
(e.g., for appropriate staffing and facilities' maintenance) and for cost recovery, once
systematic practices are established (para. 2.22). Technical criteria are based on MOH
standards for facilities design, and lists for equipment, supplies and furniture, and on
standard access and service-to-population ratios. Economic criteria would include
assessment of alternative arrangements, as relevant (e.g., inter-institutional or inter-
municipal sharing of services versus providing new facilities).
(c)    Guidelines for subproject financing incorporate cofinancing shares for the municipalities
(70 percent of costs of workcs and 30 percent of costs of goods) under subprojects. Limits
for subproject costs by type of municipality have also been set. In accordance with
DANE methodology, municipalities are ranked from most (evel one) to least Qevel 5)
developed based on revenues, institutional capacities and other indicators. On a
population basis, a disproportionally high share of subproject grants would be directed to



- 25 -
middle-income municipalities with comparatively developed local fiscal and institutional
capacity. These municipalities (categories two, three and four) account for about half the
poor (about 2.9 million) in the project area, and have reasonable potential for successful
implementation of subprojects and limited resources. Subproject limits for grant
financing would be US$3,300,000 for the three large metropolitan areas included in the
project area (BogotA, Cartagena, Barranquilla); US$420,600 for the 80 municipalities
classified at levels 2, 3, and 4; and US$81,000 for each of the category 5 municipalities
(the least developed and most sparsely populated). It is expected that about 80 percent of
the 220 municipalities in the project area would implement one subproject. (It is not
expected that all requirements of participating municipalities would be met under the
subprojects).
2.36         Municipal Finandng Capacity and Demand. Based upon a pre-implementation survey
of 20 percent of project municipalities, sufficient revenues would be available to permit all municipalities
in the project area to participate in investment subprojects, pending satisfactory adherence to project
guidelines and criteria. Central government transfers, by law, would not be less than past central
allocations destined for primary health care, and will increase annually (Annex 3, Tables; Tables on
resources available to the municipalities in the project area for 1992 are included in the Project File).
Further, those municipalities least able to pay should benefit from revised allocation formula to be
introduced through the planned law on transfers (para. 1.12). These will incorporate criteria for
determining allocations on the basis of target population not yet served, in addition to shares based upon
total population and population served, and used in the past to determine the variable share of the
transfer. Additional revenues would also be available through the new health lottery; and contributions
in kind Oand, construction materials, labor) would be acceptable forms of municipal cofinancing.
Municipal demand for participation in cofinancing of health investments managed through the FNH has
exceeded the central government grant-financing available over the past two years. About 200 municipal
projects were approved during 1991 and 1992, compared with several thousand requests. Total financing
amounted to about US$35 million, including municipal cofinancing at 25 percent of total. Average
project cost was US$175,000. In view of this high demand, it is expected that the incentive planned
through the central government's share of cofinancing under this project would also be sufficient to
ensure full use of the cofinancing grants for subprojects.
2.37         Subproject Processing. Subprojects would be proposed by the municipalities, based on
local health plans approved at the department level, and reviewed at the department level to verify
conformity with project criteria and guidelines. The subproject would then be submitted for approval at
the municipal level (i.e., through the local health board to the mayor and municipal council). Ex post
review and control of approved subprojects would be carried out by the new social sector cofinancing
agent, the FIS, to provide assurance that resources are being used as intended.
2.38         Finandng Flows and Control. Project funding would be handled in accordance with
administrative responsibilities assigned to the MOH and the FIS (Annex 8C). Financing for the
centrally-financed components of the project (institutional and staff development activities, as well as
project monitoring, evaluation and policy studies) would flow from the Ministry of Finance to the MOH,
or, for departmental health funds, through the MOH. The Project Coordinating Office would be
responsible for monitoring the flow and use of these funds. A condition for disbursement under the
institutional development component, for departmental or municipal activities, or MOH activities
directly affecting the departments or municipalities, would be the signing of corresponding



- 26 -
agreements between the MOH and the department, and the department and the municipality (para
3.3). The signing of such agreements, between the MOH and three departments, reflecting the
departments' commitment to overall project objectives, would be a condition of loan effectiveness
(para. 3.2b).
2.39   For the municipal subprojects, grant funds would flow from the Ministry of Finance through the
MOH to the FIS, and from the FIS through fiduciaries, to the municipalities (the law establishing the FIS
mandates its use of fiduciaries). Fiduciary agents, private and public, are commonly used in Colombia
to administer funds. They are regulated by the Banking Superintendency under legislation and
Presidential decrees dating from the 1920's to the present. The Superintendency ensures that fees
conform with limits established (for fiduciaries operating non-income earning funds such as those to be
managed through the FIS, current fees for service range between 2 and 3 percent of the value of the
funds managed), and that fiduciary arrangements maintain transparency for users and the public,
generally. (Annex 10 includes a summary of the legislation on fiduciaries). It would select and
supervise fiduciaries to be used under the project in accordance with MOH criteria. The FIS would
enter into service contracts with the fiduciaries; and the FIS and the departments would enter into
subproject agreements with the participating municipalities. The fiduciaries would make payments to
contractors and providers of goods and services. The fees charged by the fiduciaries would be paid by
the municipalities, through their contribution to subproject financing, which would be deposited in
advance in a local FIS account. The FIS would be directly responsible for monitoring the flow of funds
and maintaining control. Upon the signing of contracts for goods, copies would be submitted to the
relevant fiduciary, which would effect mobilization payments to the contractors equal to 30 percent of the
price. Prior to subsequent disbursements, works supervisors, retained by the FIS and reporting to the
FIS fiduciaries, would confirm that the contractors had performed adequately. Procurement of
equipment an.d supplies would be managed similarly when carried out at the municipal level, with
additional support for procurement provided through the MOH-Project Coordinating Office to the
municipalities. A single system for accounting and control of project funds would be adopted by the
MOH and the FIS for purposes of project management. Conditions for loan disbursement under
municipal subprojects would be the operationalization of the FIS, including appointment of a
Director General and a Board of Directors, issuance of by-laws, and signing of a contract between
the MOH and the FIS; and the signing of subproject agreements among the municipality, the FIS,
and one or more fiduciaries (para. 3.3).
2.40         Implementation Schedule, Monitoring, and Review. The project would be
implemented over six years, with start-up scheduled for late-1993. Project promotion and orientation,
training of MOH stuff and general project design activities would be excluded from this requirement.
The Government has provided a detailed work program for the first year of implementation, including
terms of reference for selecting five municipal investment projects which meet project standards, to pilot
project processing procedures and criteria. The work program is satisfactory to the Bank. For project
implementation, the Project Coordinating Office has consolidated guidelines, criteria, and procedures for
project management and implementation in a project operations manual which was reviewed with the
Bank in March 1993, as a condition for negotiations. Procedures for financial management and control
would be added to the manual, together with procurement procedures and prototype bid documents.
These items are currently being developed by the MOH using consultant services. A condition for
effectiveness would be submission, for Bank review, of the final project operations manual,
including prototype bid documents and procurement procedures, and a detailed plan and system



- 27 -
for financial reporting, accounting and auditing for the project, acceptable to the Bank (para.
3.2b).
2.41         The project would incorporate annual progress reviews, including an in-depth review at
mid-implementation, as the principal monitoring tool. These will be conducted jointly by the
Government and the Bank. The programmatic approach to investments under the project provides a
flexible mechanism for periodic adjustments to the pace or scope of the program, as may be required.
Decisions on annual project investment levels, project budgets and content would be based on: (i)
availability of resources; progress achieved towards implementing investments agreed upon for the
previous year; and advances made toward achieving institutional objectives. The execution of the
municipal subprojects - including the implementation of cost-sharing arrangements, and effectiveness of
the implementation process - would form a particular focus of the annual reviews. This would enable
adjustments, as needed, to adapt the cofinancing mechanism to any changes in central government's
revenue-transfer formula and to judge the adequacy of the grant mechanism as an incentive for municipal
investment. The policy component would also be assessed annually, as a mechanism to promote
informed dialogue on the health sector. At mid-implementation, the annual review would also give
emphasis to project monitoring, initial evaluation results and replicability of the primary health care
model supported through the project. During negotiations, the Govermnent agreed to carry out
jointly with the IBRD: an annual review of the project by Septembee 30, and to complete, for
purposes of that review, the proposed budget and implementation plan the following calendar year;
and a mid-implementation review in 1997 to assess overall progress towards project objectives, and
incorporating key indicators of project impact (para. 3.1d). (Key indicators for measuring impact are
provided in Annex 6A). The annual reviews would serve as the Bank's main vehicle for project
supervision. They would be supplemented by a project launch workshop and intermediate supervision
missions with a particular focus (e.g., on a component, on physical implementation, etc.). Annex BD
provides a schedule and projected requirements for supervision.
E. Procurement
2.42         Customary provisions taking into account discrepancies between local legislation and the
Bank's guidelines for ICB and LCB have been incorporated in the Loan Agreement. Under the ongoing
health project (assisted by Loan 261 1-CO), bid documents for central agency procurement of goods
through ICB and LCB were developed in consultation with the Bank to incorporate Bank guidelines.
These documents would continue to be used under the proposed project. Standard bid documents for
municipal works, and for procurement of goods at the municipal level, are being prepared in accordance
with Bank guidelines as part of the operations manual for the project (para. 2.40). Procurement
expertise, developed in the now defunct FNH during implementation of the current project, would be
retained through transfer of ex-FNH staff to the MOH and the FIS. In view of the decentralized
implementation structure for the project, however, it is planned that procurement consultants would also
be retained by the MOH-Project Coordinating Office, primarily to assist the municipalities. Table 4.3
summarizes procurement arrangements for the Bank loan.
2.43         Civil Works. As a result of the decentralized nature of the project, procurement of civil
works, which will be scattered geographically and in time, and comprise mainly rehabilitation of small
buildings, will be carried out under LCB procedures at the municipal level, using standard bid documents
and procedures acceptable to the Bank. The maximum value of works to be carried out under a single
contract, would be US$200,000 equivalent. Works valued at US$50,000 or less, subject to an aggregate



- 28 -
limit of US$10 million, could be carried out using local shopping procedures based on a minimum of
three quotations.
2.44         Equipment and Furniture. Computers (total estimated value US$2.7 million) included
in the project would be procured centrally by the MOH using ICB procedures. Audio-visual equipment
(total estimated value US$1.4 million) would be procured by the MOH in packages valued at US$250,000
or more using ICB procedures; packages of audio-visual equipment valued at less than US$250,000 would
be procured using ICB procedures, subject to an aggregate limit of US$600,000; packages of audio-visual
equipment valued at US$25,000 or less could be purchased through local shopping, subject to an
aggregate limit of US$100,000. Vehicles (estimated value US$0.1 million) would be procured centrally
by the MOH using LCB procedures.
2.45         It is proposed that medical equipment and supplies be procured through two sets of
arrangements, to be confirmed at negotiations. The first would involve direct contracting with UNICEF
to provide standard packages of equipment and supplies through its UNIPAC pre-packaging system for
items subject to bulk purchase, which need to be pre-packaged for delivery to the end user. This
procurement would be based upon aggregated municipal orders to be placed annually (total estimated
value US$12.2 million). Miscellaneous items available locally, and estimated to cost less than US$25,000
per contract, would be procured by the municipalities using local shopping procedures, subject to an
aggregate limit of US$8.1 million. Guidelines and limits by municipality for this procurement would be
determined at negotiations and incorporated in the operations manual. All furniture (maximum expected
contract value US$25,000) would be procured by the municipalities using local shopping procedures.
2.46         Traning Materiax. Paper and printing for training materials (estimated value US$3.0
million) would be packaged at the departmental level and by the MOH to the extent practicable. The
maximum estimated value per package would be US$250,000. Packages valued at US$250,000 or less
would be procured using LCB procedures. Miscellaneous packages, not exceeding US$25,000 each,
could be procured using local shipping procedures subject to an aggregate limit of US$1.0 million.
2.47         Technical assistance, training services and studies required for the project would be hired
following the Bank's Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the
World Bank as Executing Agency dated August 1981.
2.48         Prior Bank review would be required before bids are invited and before a final decision
on contract award is made for the following procurement actions by the Borrower: (a) for the first LCB
contracts for goods and works irrespective of value; (b) for all contracts for goods and works valued at
US$100,000 equivalent or more; (c) for all contracts awarded using ICB procedures; and (d) for all
annual contracts with UNICEF. Other contracts and bid evaluations would be subject to random ex pos
review by Bank staff. The proposed procurement procedures are expected to provide a prior review
coverage of about 50 percent in value of Bank-financed contracts for goods and works. Although this
coverage appears to be low, it is considered acceptable given the decentralized nature of the project and
the need for extensive use of shopping procedures under small municipal subprojects. Contracts under
municipal subprojects which require prior review by the Bank would be submitted at the evaluation stage
by the municipality to the FIS, and from FIS to the MOH-Project Coordinating Office for transmittal to
the Bank. Other contracts requiring prior Bank review would also be submitted through the central
Coordinating Office.



- 29 -
Table 4.3: PROCUREMENT METHODS
(US$ million)
Procurement Methods                 Total
Project Element                                       LCB         Other          Co
Civil Works                                             12.8          10.0  [a1    22.8
(3.8)        (3.0)        (6.8)
Computers, and Audio Visual                 3.4           0.6          0.1  1aJ     4.1
Equipment                                 (3.2)        (0.5)        (0.0)         (3.7)
Medical Equipment (including                 -            -           20.3  [a]    20.3
supplies)                                               -          (14.2)       (14.2)
Furniture                                                 -            4.0  jaj     4.0
-           (2.8)        (2.8)
Technical Assistance                         -            -           21.8  bi'    21.8
and Training */                            -            -          (14.5)        (14.5)
Training Materials                           -            2.0          1.0  a1]      3.0
(1.4)        (0.7)        (2.1)
Studies                                                   -            3.8  bii      3.8
-           (3.8)        (3.8)
Project Administration                                    0.1 ./       3.2           3.3
0.1         (2.0)         (2.1)
TOTAL                               3.4         15.5          64.2         83.1
(3.2)        (5.8)       (41.0)        (50.0)
Note: Figures in parenthesis are the respective
amounts to be financed by the Bank loan.
* Including training materials, provided under training service contracts
** For vehicles.
[a] Local shopping, based on a minimum of three price quotations, and, for a share of medical
equipment and supplies, through direct contracting with UNICEF.
[b] These services to be procured using Bank guidelines on use of consultants.



- 30 -
F. Disbursements, Accounts, and Audits
2.49         Disbursements. Disbursement of the Bank loan would be at 100 percent of the FIS
share for municipal subprojects and 100 percent for medical equipment and supplies procured through
UNICEF; 100 percent of foreign and 85 percent of local expenditures for computers and audiovisual
equipment; 65 percent for technical assistance and training (100 percent in the case of eligible
expenditures under pilot subprojects); 100 percent, for studies and evaluation; and 65 percent for project
coordination.
2.50         Withdrawal applications for goods with a contract value of US$100,000 or more and for
works valued at US$100,000 or more, would be supported by full documentation. Disbursements for
contracts of less than US$100,000 and disbursements against activities not undertaken by contract will be
made on the basis of Statements of Expenditure (SOEs), for which supporting documents would be
maintained by project authorities and the municipalities, and would be made available for Bank staff
review and the auditors.
2.51         Disbursements are expected to be completed by June 2001, about 7-1/2 years after loan
effectiveness (Annex 9), in line with the disbursement profile for Colombia. The project completion date
would be December 31, 2000, and the project closing date would be June 30, 2001. A special account
would be opened in the Banco de la Repiiblica with an initial deposit of US$3 million, corresponding to
about four months of project expenditures. The project includes provision for retroactive loan financing
for expenditures incurred after December 15, 1992, for start-up activities under the institutional
development and policy development and evaluation components, to a limit of US$2.0 million.
Disbursement from the Bank's loan would be made retroactively for municipal subprojects, based upon
advances made by the FIS. Disbursements for contracts for other items would be made through direct
payments, or through the Special Account.
2.52         Accounts and Audits. The MOH, the FIS and the respective municipalities would keep
separate accounts for project expenditures in accordance with internationally accepted accounting
procedures. Audits for ongoing health and education projects have suffered delay due to scheduling
difficulties of the National Controller as well as difficulties encountered in auditing the accounts
attributable to inadequate systematization. To overcome these difficulties under the proposed project,
independent auditors would be financed under the project to carry out the audit function and a system of
accounts is being developed by consultants to the MOH in conjunction with the preparation of the project
operations manual. During negotiations agreement the Government agreed that the accounts will be
audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, and that copies of the audited
statements would be sent to the Bank within six months of the end of each fiscal year (para. 3.1e).
The auditor's report would include an opinion and comments, as necessary, on the project accounts and
on methods employed in compiling statements of expenditure, including comments on accuracy,
relevance of supporting documents, eligibility for financing in terms of the project's loan agreement, and
standards of record-keeping and internal control. It would also include comments on the appropriateness
of procurement procedures used.



- 31 -
G. Project Benefits and Risks
2.53         Benefits. The project would contribute directly to human resources development in
Colombia by providing improved basic health services for approximately 8 million existing and potential
users in the project area, with priority given to reaching the 6 million persons classified as poor. It
would introduce an improved model for the provision of primary health care at the municipal level,
focussed on provision of a standard package of services, and provide the experience required to replicate
the model effectively and on a national basis over the next decade. Community involvement in provision
of these services, to be achieved through municipal health boards, health facility committees and local
promotion and education activities, should contribute to sustainable gains in service relevance and
quality. Local participation should also increase municipal accountability for the health care provided.
The project would further strengthen policy development and management within the public health
system, with a focus on effective use of resources and development of municipal planning and
implementation capabilities.
2.54         Risks. The main implementation risks relate to institutional weaknesses. To reduce
these risks and mitigate the complexities of evolving decentralized management and financing practices
and procedures, the project will incorporate and build upon the ongoing process of decentralization but
not depend upon the outcomes of that process. Rather, the project would focus on developing effective
management and implementation capacity for delivery of primary health services at the municipal level.
The implementation risks will be reduced by the limited geographic scope of the project, the application
of criteria to ensure adequate institutional and financing capabilities of municipalities before launching
municipal investment projects, and the heavy focus on provision of technical assistance and supervisory
support for project implementation. An additional risk is that municipal interest in participating in the
project would fall short of expectations. This risk has been minimized by selecting departments
committed to project objectives that would promote and support municipal participation. A final risk,
that municipal cofinancing demand and capacity would be insufficient, has been reduced by establishing
limits for subproject size which consider municipal revenues, and by the incentive provided through
grants for subproject cofinancing. In addition, cofinancing guidelines would be monitored and adjusted
as necessary to adapt to any changes in the Government's revenue transfer formulas and to ensure the
adequacy of the grant mechanism as an incentive for municipal investment.
III. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
3.1
During negotiations, the Government provided assurance that:
(a)   the four project studies would be carried out in accordance with terms of reference and
schedules satisfactory to the Bank, results be reviewed with the Bank, and, for the cost
recovery study, Bank comments be considered and changes introduced in the project
operations manual to ensure that standard provisions for cost recovery are included in
each subproject agreement (para. 2.23);
(b)   the evaluation of project impact be carried out in accordance with terms of reference, and
incorporating key indicators, satisfactory to the Bank (para. 2.24);



- 32 -
(c)    a central Project Coordinator and Technical and Administrative Subcoordinators,
satisfactory to the Bank, be maintained throughout the implementation period (para.
2.31);
(d)    an annual review of project implementation be carried out jointly with the Bank by
September 30, and that the proposed budget, financing and implementation plans for the
following calendar year be prepared for that review; and a mid-implementation review,
assessing overall progress towards project objectives and incorporating key impact
indicators, be carried out in 1997 (para. 2.41); and
(e)    project accounts be audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, and
the copies of the audited statements would be sent to the Bank within six months of the
end of each fiscal year (para. 2.52).
3.2          Conditions of effectiveness would be:
(a)    appointment of a minimum of 12 technical, administrative and legal staff to the Central
Project Coordinating Office (para. 2.31);
(b)   signing of three MOH-departmental contracts for project start-up activities (para. 2.38);
and
(c)   submission, for Bank review, of the final project operations manual, including prototype
bid documents and procurement procedures, and a detailed plan and system for financial
reporting, accounting and auditing under the project, satisfactory to the Bank (para.
2.40).
3.3    A condition for disbursement under the institutional development component, for activities
directly affecting the departments or municipalities, would be the signing of corresponding agreements
between the MOH and the departments, and the departments and the municipalities (para 2.38).
Conditions for disbursement under municipal subprojects would be the operationalization of the FIS,
including appointment of a Director General and a Board of Directors, issuance of by-laws, and signing
of a contract between the MOH and the FIS; and the signing of contracts among the FIS, fiduciaries and
municipalities (para. 2.39).
3.4   Subject to the above conditions, the proposed project constitutes a suitable basis for a Bank loan
in an amount of US$50.0 million equivalent to the Government of Colombia.



Anne 1
_ 33 -                                        Table 1
COLOMBIA
MUNICIPAL HEALTH SERVICES PROJECT
HEALTH STATUS IN COLOMBIA
-- -NEONATAL INFAT, AND UNDER 5
MORTALITYRATES FOR DIFFERENT GROUPS IN COLOMBIA
Characteristic                               Neonatal       Infant mortality        Under S
mortality                              mortality
AREA
Urban                                            16.3            *"" 29.1                36.0
Rural                                            13.0                22.8                33.0
REGION
Atlantic                                         11.3                22.9               34.0
Eastern                                          22.6                27.9                33.7
Central                                           9.3                24.2                30.7
Pacific                                          19.7                39.5                47.3
Bogoti                                           17.7                22.6                31.4
SUBREGION *
Subregion 1                                      11.2                30.8                50.0
Subregion 2                                       6.1                 10.0               20.7
Subregion 3                                      13.1                20.2                26.9
Subregion 4                                      26.9                29.0                36.4
Subregion S                                      18.8                26.8                31.3
Subregion 6                                       7.5                23.3                24.6
Subregion 7                                      13.4                22.6                35.3
Subregion 8                                       8.9                26.4                36.0
Subregion 9                                      22.7                43.4                57.1
Subregion 10                                     16.9                35.0                37.1
Subregion 11                                     17.7                22.6                31.4
Subregion 12                                     14.8                24.6                27.3
Subregion 13                                     13.4                22.4                28.4
EDUCATION LEVEL *
No education                                     28.5                60.5                74.4
Primary school                                   14.3                27.2                36.5
Secondary school                                 14.4                21.9                26.5
Higher education                                 10.8                 11.5               19.0
MCH CARE
No care during pregnancy
or delivery                                     187.5                187.5              187.5
Some care                                        15.2                21.9                33.5
Full care                                         9.5                 14.5               20.5
TOTAL                                               15.2                26.9               34.9
*     Subregions: 1 Guajira, Csr, Magdalena, 2 Adlntico, 3 Bolivar, Sucre, C6rdoba, 4 Norte do SantanderSantander,
5 BoyacL, Cundina   , Meo, 6 Antoquia, 7 Caldas, Risalda, Quindfo, 8 Tolima, Huilh, Caqueti, 9 Choc6,
Cauca, Nariho, 10 Val.o do Cauca, 11 Bogoti, 12 Medellin metropolitan ara, 13 Cali metropolitan area.
**    Education level of the mother.
Source: Tables 1-4 of Annex 1 are taken from Colombia, Demographic and Health Survey (data from 1990),
Profamilia and Institut for Resource Development, Bogoti, 1991.
*** The lower mortality rat in the rural ar  lkey reflects under-reporting.



-34 -                                   Annex 1
Table 2
COLOMBIA
MUNICIPAL HEALTH SERVICES PROJECT
DISTRIBUTION (IN %) OF MALNUTRION
::    0   fAMONG CHlILDREN < 5YEARS IN 1            {; EREN:TREGIONS        y: :
GENERAL MALNUTRITION *                CHRONIC MALNUTRITION
REGION       at risk   light    mod/    total    at risk    light    mod/    total
sev**                                 sev**
Atlantic     16.4    10.9      1.6      12.5      16.7      14.3      4.3      18.6
Eastern      12.6    11.4      1.7      13.1      14.8      22.4       4.5    26.9
Bogota       11.6    11.5      0.9      12.4      14.4      14.3       2.6     16.9
Central      14.6      8.3     4.4      12.7      17.2      13.0       5.4     18.4
Pacific      17.2    12.7      2.0      14.7      13.6      13.5       8.3     21.8
Total         14.8    10.8      2.3      13.1      15.6     15.6       5.2     20.8
8    General malnutrition: The relation between the observed and the expected weight for age.
e*   Moderate to severe malnutrition.



- 35 -
Annex 1
Table 3
COLOMBIA
MUNICEPAL HEALTH SERVICES PROJECT
...... ......
General Malnutrition %    Chronic Malnutrition
FAMILY SIZE
Less than 4 members                                   9.6                    15.9
6 or more members                                    15.1                    24.2
NUMBER OF CHILDREN
1 child                                              10.9                    18.9
2 or more children                                   15.3                    32.9
LEVEL OF URBANIZATION
Disperse or <2500 inhabitants                        17.4                    27.8
2500 -99.999 inhabitants                             10.7                     8.7
> 100.000 inhabitants                                11.5                    13.5
EDUCATION OF THE MOTHER
No education                                         20.8                    33.2
Primary school                                       10.8                    24.0
Secondary school                                      9.8                    12.7
University                                            5.8                     5.8
FAMILY INCOME
s Minimum salary                                     16.2                    28.1
1.1-2.5 x minimum salary                             10.5                    15.2
3.6-4.5 x minimum salary                              8.1                    11.0
> 4.6 x minimum salary                                2.5                     6.5
BASIC SANITATION
Piped water                                           9.6                    15.4
No piped water                                       17.5                    27.7
Sewerage                                              9.8                    14.7
No sewerage                                          18.3                    30.3
Water treatment                                      11.2                    19.6
No water treatment                                   15.7                    21.8



-36-                                          Annex I
COLOMBIA                                       Table 4
MUNICIPAL HEALTH SERVICES PROJECT
Table 8.    TOTAL FERTILITY RATES FOR TEE PERIOD 1987-1990 AND 1984-198S
PER REGIOCW AND SUBREGION AND EDUCATIONAL LEVELS
Period 1987 - 1990 *          Period 1984 - 1985 **
Characteriutic    Total       Urban      Rest     Total      Urban      Rest
Atlantic          3.5        3.0       5.4        3.7       3.2        5.0
Eastern           2.8        2.6       3.3        3.4       2.9        4.4
central           2.6        2.4       2.9        3.0       2.5        4.3
Pacific           2.9        2.4       4.2       3.1        2.6        4.5
Bogota            2.4        2.4        .        2.5        2..
SU3REGION *'
Subreglon 1       4.4        4.4       5.2       4.1        3.6        5.0
Subregion 2       2.4        2.3       4.7       3.0        2.9       4.S
Subregion 3       3.8        3.0       5.5       3.8        3.2        S.0
Subregion 4       3.1        2.7       4.1       3.5        2.9       4.9
Subrogion 5       2.5        2.4       2.7       3.5        2.9       4.1
Su-bregion 6      2.3        2.1       2.5       2.9        2.4       4.3
Subrgi.on 7       2.5        2.6       2.4       2.7        2.4       3.7
Subregion 8       3.5        2.9       4.4       3.6        2.9       4.6
Subreglon 9       3.1        1.9       4.1       4.3        3.2       4.6
Subregion 10      2.8        2.6       4.3       2.6        2.4       3.7
Subregion 11      2.4        2.4       _.        2.5        2.5
Subregion 12      2.1        2.1       _,_       2.2        2.1
Subregion 13      2.1        2.1       _,_       2.3        2.3
EDUCA-.ON
No education      4.9        4.5       5.4       4.7        3.8        5.4
Pr'Iary           3.6        3.1       4.2       3.8        3.3       4.7
Secondary         2.4        2.4       2.1       2.5        2.4       3.5
Higher ed.        1.6        1.6       0.7       1.6        1.6       2.0
TOTA-L 0            2.9        2.5       3.8       3.2        2.7        4.5
*  DHS.iLIvO. Colombsa
Cansusdaml 191
*-   Sd. Table 2 fbr exlanaion.
.



- 37 -                                         Annex 2
COLOMBIA
MUNICIPAL HEALTH SERVICES PROJECT
HEALTH SYSTEM ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
(EXISTING AND PROPOSED)
CURRENT SYSTEM (In Transition to Decentralization)                  PROPOSED CHANGES
Law 12, 1986; Decree 77, 1987; Law 10, 1990                         Law 10, 1990; Draft Law on Reponsibilies and Resources,
6/1992
NATIONAL
Ministry of Health (MOH) Except in Manizales and Cali, manages      NATIONAL
direct delivery of public health services throughout Colombia. The  MOH: Transfers operational functions to depaTtmental and loca
MOH  funds and operates 27 specialty hospitals, 124 general         Direcciones de Salud (DSs). Functions: 1) certifing capacity of
hospitals, 500 local hospitals, and 4,000 health centers and posts.  subnational governments to administer health services; 2) providing
Departmental and municipal services are administered through its   technical assistance to localities: 3) establishing effective information
departmental offices, the Servicios Departamentales de Salud (DSs).  systems; 4) macro-level policy-malking; nd 5) reviewing subnaional
Services are intended to reach the 65 % of the populaion whose needs  health service plans.
are not met by private providers or social security.                DNP: Compiles data to improve revenue tranfer formulas; reviews
National Planning Deoartment (DNP): Formulates MOH investment       departmental budgets, and; coordinhtes MOH planning.
budget. Sets intergovernmental revenue transfer formulas. Channels  Ministrv of Finance: Chanes situado fiscal (current revenue) and
national trnsfers to departments and municipalities.  National     social investment transfers to departments. A minimum of 15% of
ransfers account for half of health service funding.                situado fiscal must be devoted to health.
Social Security Institute (ISS): Will not be decentralized.         ECOSALUD  Instituted under Law 10, but operationalized in June
National Hosital Fund (FNH):Primary source of co-financing for      1992, manages the national lottery and gambling monopoly,
local government investments. Dianded in December 1992.             channeling proceeds to cover recurrent costs.
Social Investment Fund (PIS): (a) Established in December 1992,
DEPARTMENTAL                                                        replac  FNH. Responible for co-fancing investmnt in health ad
DSs: Located in every department. Responsible for delivering MOH    education.
services and channelling funds to departments and municipalities.
The directors are appointed by the governors, but the staff work    DEPARTMENTAL
under the MOH. DSs oversee the boards of public specialized and     Governors: Receive situado fiscal transfers and decide upon the total
general hospitals, and income from hospital services is redirected into  amount to be transferred to the municiplities (no prescribed
DS accounts.                                                       formula); select directors of the DSs and the boards of speciaized
DenartmentalTre surie: Provide 25% of funding for public hedth      and general hospitals; and, assume burden of providing wages and
services through lotteries and taxes on alcohol and gambling,       benefits to transferred departmental personnl.
Departmental Assemblies: Set formulas for disbusing situado fiscal
MUNICIPAL                                                           among localities once governors determine total amount to be
Law 10 mdates the municipal administrative structure described     transferred.
below and in the next column. Munici B IBu: Oversee the             Departmental Plannino  Offices: Oversee municipd adherence to
management of health centers and posts under the mayor.             MOH guidelines, review municipal health plas and the progress of
Health  Committees: Provide input regarding  health  needs,         capital projects, and compile dat.
investments, nd mangement of local health fcilities.                DSs: Once certified by the MOH 1) absorb departmental personnel;
2) provide health services to municipalities that cannot provide their
own; 3) formulate and execute departmeal health plu  4)
administer funds and 5) set price  for  svic   within MOH
guidelines.
MUNICIPAL
Mayor: Responsible for pesonnd management and compenati
at municipal level. Former DS employes mut receive at lest the
same saries and benefits as they earned before decentralization and
are protected under civil service statuts. Mayors seiect director of
local hospitals and municipal boad, and submit health pla  to
municipal councils fur approval.



COLOMBIA
MUNICIPAL HEALTH SERVICES PROJECT
Public Health Fnancing
Percent of Direct Public Health Funding
60 -
50-
40 -
30                                        
20    -  _-                                       --   -  --   -  --  --   -  --   -  --   -
10
........................................................O.............................................................................................................
1980  1981  1982  1983  1984  1985  1986  1987  1988  1989  1990
Natlonal Government                            -   Earmarked Taxes
*    Sub-National Approp.                   -         -   Cost Recovery
Note:    Excludes  ISS  and  ICBF  expenditure.



Annas 3
-39-
A. ,       ::.:  .'.:.  .. ... ... ..;..-;.',.;.A.. ..,.,'..,.:
0~~~~~~~~~~. ....e .  . ..;;   
0%~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i tE t 7t,
i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ is   ;.~
d~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. .......



- 40-                                           Alnex 3
COLOMBIA
MUNICIPAL HEALTH SERVICES PROJECT
Table 2: The Situado Fiscal*, 1986-1992
(Billions of Current CoI$)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~g  ............
..~~  ~   ~:~cc:c:<so:4:::4,~.......... .. .''4$'"*i:t::t~.*  A4
1~~~~~~
*Cunrent revenue transfer from central
Gsovermnent for health and education
Table 3: Distribution of Value - Added Tax
by Size of Munidpality, I99
...... KS  /  44~...............t%4
.....  ... ...  < %.Y 
,., , .... ....    ....  .  .........
N'ow' cae Sca --            m     Fun
Curen rvNue transfer fromcianetentraln



41  -                                                         Annex 3
-                                                           Table 4
COLOMBIA
MUNICIPAL HEALTH SERVICES PROJECT
Table 4: Public Health Expenditure - 1966-1990
(Current Col.$ millons)
Recurred      Capital (41      TOtW.    Rac,m          CabtVW      Total R-cwtet    Cpitl              -   Total      Total    GDP
1966                                  387                                                                                   387
1967                                  423                                                                                   423
1968                                  537                                                                                   537
1969                                  s87                                                                                   878
1970                                  1,332                                1,686       241             0           242      3,260    2.46
1971                                  1701                                 2,0t1       146             3           149      3,930    2352
1972                                  1,72t                                1,537       206            22           221      3,494    1.4
1973                                 2.816                                 2,031       325            37           362      4,S79    1.8
1974                                 3,218                                 2,315       382             19          401      5,934    1.84
1975                                 3,712                                 3,161       472             19          491      7,363    1.82
1976                                 S,138                                 4,019       497            31           528      9,6t5    1.82
1977                                 7,195                                 5,658       746             0           746     13,599    1.90
1978                                  3,747                                7,721       tOS             5           814     17,2t2    1.90
1979                                 12,331                               10,149       1,461           0          1,461    23,941    2.01
1980    8,959         9,085          18,045    15,409        53           15,992       1,820           0          1,820    35,857    2.27
1981    12,254        9,747          22,001    19,625        1,258        20,883      2,385           244         2,629    45,513    2.42
1982    15,260        13.144         28.404    23,842        1,932        25,774      3,120           631         3,751    57,928    2.32
1983    19,547        14,491         34,038    31,197        1,512        32,710      4,034           489         4,523    71,271    2.33
1984    26,639        18,137         44,776    37,440        2,513        39,953      4,946           442         5,389    90,118    2.34
19S5    31,211        21,897         53,108    44,308        2,123        46,432      7,368           725         5,03    107,632   2.17
1986    40,612        30,577         71,190    59,205        2,398        61.603      7,612           980         8,592    141,3U4   2.08
1987    54,094        34,604         88.699    81,359        6,533        87,893      11,037          1,255       12,293   138,884   2.14
1988    70,953        47,311         l8,263    104,025       5,382        109,906     14,002         2,447        16,449   244,619   2.10
1989   106,252        91,182         197.434    144,159      7234         151,392     16,608         2,937        19,545   368,372   2.44
1990    135,017       120,873       255,590    199,627       12,204       211,832     22,927         3,303       26,230   493,951   2.44
(1): Ovwnmt inaluding ICRP
(2) and (3): Hldthi expaflm only
(4)      Two-hirds of invtma is atributable to dw ICBF.
Soufce:  1966-1979, Colombia: LA Doud Socal an LoE Ocheta. Tomo 2, p. 235
1980-1990, Couwtn Social No. 6, May 1992
Coamlodi Geal de LA Republic.. IWnmes Pinsanc
L.y- de P-puaoi ISS, Cajnadl
FEDESARROLLO



- 42 -                               Annex 4
COLOMBIA
MUNICIPAL HEALTH SERVICES PROJECT
Bank Involvement in the Health Sector in Colombia
Sector Work in Health
1.          The Health Sector Review, completed in 1982, identified issues related to the
equity, efficiency and effectiveness of organizing and delivering health care services. Regarding
equity, the report points to the wide disparity in health status across the country due partly to
coverage of primary health care and sanitation services. Regarding efficiency and effectiveness
of organization of services, the review concludes that improvements would derive from better
use of existing resources, cooperation between the Ministry of Health (MOH) and the Institute
of Social Security (ISS), decentralization of service delivery, improved maintenance of plant and
equipment, and more emphasis on and support for preventive health services.
2.          The Social Security Review, completed in 1987, primarily analyzed the private
and public sector social insurance funds which are based on employment and financed through
employer and employee contributions and central government transfers. The report covers both
health care and income maintenance benefits and points out shortcomings of the social security
system: low coverage and inequity in contribution rates; heavy burden on employees and
payment evasion; inequalities in benefits; declining investments and increasing government
subsidies; high administrative costs and deficient management systems; and financial and
actuarial imbalances.  The report formulates a series of recommendations including the
harmonization of social security and MOH policies, plans, programs and activities; the expansion
of the ISS family health program; and the implementation of user fees to contain costs.
3.          The Bank's 1989 assessment of the Government's Poverty Alleviation Program,
Social Programs and Poverty Alleviation: An Assessment of Government Initiatives,
covered the areas of health, education, housing and nutrition. It supported the Government's
medium- to longer-term objectives to expand and improve primary health care. The report
provided the basis for Bank support of the Community Child Development and Nutrition Project
(para 7.).
4.          The Decentralization Study, completed in late 1989, reviewed the legal,
organization and fiscal implications of the decentralization process across sectors, and formulated
recommendations for implementing decentralization in small, relatively underdeveloped
municipalities, and centering on the need for improved institutional structure and capacity,
strengthened local fiscal performance and increased national transfers.



43 -                                 Annex 4
Investment Operations in the Health Sector
5.          The Integrated Nutrition Project, assisted by Loan 1487-CO of 1977 for
US$25.0 millions, supported the Government's integrated program in the areas of nutrition,
health and rural development. Components included rural health facilities and training of staff,
rural water supply and sanitation, nutrition education, input packages for family gardens, food
technology and quality control, a Government-financed food coupon program and related
monitoring and evaluation, program management, and technical assistance. The project met or
exceeded most physical targets originally agreed upon but fell short in other areas. Most
notably, the direct benefits of the food coupon program (calories delivered) were low. The main
lesson from the experience of this project relates to the need to establish an effective monitoring
and evaluation system early on, to support adjustments in the course of implementation.
6.          The Health Services Integration Project, assisted by Loan 2611-CO of 1986 for
US$36.5 millions, centered on support for a decentralized model of health care, integrating
health, nutrition, water supply and sanitation. The project met with little progress owing to
fragmentation of project management responsibilities among several agencies, and more
generally to weakness in institutional and financial support. As a result, the project was
substantially restructured during 1990; US$19 millions were cancelled and the project was
reoriented to provide support to the Government's efforts to restructure the health sector
(culminating in Law 10 of 1990). Outcomes point to the advantages of maintaining simplicity
and flexibility in project design and management, especially in early operations in the social
sectors.
7.          More recently, the Bank has extended support through Loan 3201-CO of 1990 for
US$24.0 millions to the Colombian Institute of Family Welfare (an agency of the Ministry of
Health) in the implementation of a Community Child Care and Nutrition Project. The broad
objectives of the project, which supports a six-year expansion of a home-based, day-care
program, are to enhance and maintain the quality and effectiveness of the program. Training,
monitoring and evaluation are designed to facilitate achievement of these objectives. The
program is currently covering over 1 million children under the age of 5 in poor urban and peri-
urban areas.
8.          The Municipal Development Project, assisted by Loan 3336-CO, of 1991, for
US$60.0 millions, aims to improve municipal services and strengthen municipal institutions.
The project is expected to have a positive economic effect on a large number of municipalities
by addressing infrastructure bottlenecks, and promoting the execution of cost-effective
investments and higher self-reliance by local governments on local resource mobilization. A line
of credit supports subloans to subnational governments and municipal enterprises for about 300
subprojects to rehabilitate, improve and expand urban infrastructure and local services in sectors
under municipal responsibility, including primary health care facilities.



- 44 -                               Annex 5
COLOMBIA
MUNICIPAL HEALTH SERVICES PROJECT
Characteristics of the Project Area
Introduction
This annex summarizes information on demographics, poverty, health and health services in the
project area. The data were obtained by the Ministry of Health through a survey carried out
during December 1992. The survey sample comprised 20% of the 220 municipalities. In each
department the capital was sampled. This annex also makes use of available information for the
project area drawn from DANE, DNP, FNH and MOH sources. The information is presented
in Tables 1-5, with comments.
Table 1: Demographic Characteristics
Table 1 summarizes the demographics of the project area. Total population and key subgroups
are presented. In most departments the distribution by age is typical for a population in
demographic transition. The number of children under 5 is just above 10 %, ranging from about
11% to 16%, and the population over 60 years of age is still low (about 5%-6% with a range
from 2% to about 6%). Cordoba, El Choc6 and Vaupes have a percentage of children under
5 which is typical of a pre-transitional pattern. The very low percentage of people over 60 years
in Vaupes is indicative of the low life expectancy at birth in this department.
Table 2: Indicators of Poverty in the Project Area
The data in the first two columns of Table 2 are based on DANE statistics and methodology for
estimating the incidence of poverty. The data presented in DANE indicators include three
measures related to shelter and two related to income. Households with less than satisfactory
conditions in one of the five indicator areas are classified as poor (40% nationally); households
with less than satisfactory conditions in two or more of the areas are classified as critically poor
(20% nationally). Data on poverty were available for all project departments except Bolivar.
The MOH survey identified the proportion of households which had piped water and which
lacked all basic services. The capitals, which were always sampled, generally have better
conditions than the rest of the department. For BogotA the data are especially overly optimistic.
The subdistricts which form the project area lie mainly above the line where piped water and
sewerage systems are provided, and were not sampled separately from the rest of Bogota. Life
expectancy at birth is provided in the last column of Table 2 as an indicator of quality of life.
Life expectancy is averaged for both sexes, because the gender-specific life expectancy was not
always available. In general the life expectancy is 3-5 years more for women than for men.



- 45 -
Annex S
Table 3: Departmental Infant Mortality Rates and Morbidity Patterns
The infant mortality rate (EMR) is the incidence of death among children below one year of age
per 1,000 live births per year. Table 3 presents the DIR for the capital of each department and
the range of IMRs for municipalities in the department. Excepting Sucre, Cordoba and Cauca,
the IMR is lowest in the capital. The last 2 columns of Table 3 give the proportion of
consultations for the two most frequent diseases among infants. The diseases were almost
universally diarrheal diseases and acute respiratory infections. Skin infections were sometimes
mentioned as the next most important cause for consultation. The high proportion of diarrheal
diseases and respiratory infections together with the high- to medium high IMRs, make special
efforts to combat these diseases a priority for the project.
Table 4: Selected Output Indicators of the Health Sector
The data in Table 4 show relatively wide ranges in the output indicators. Intexpretation is
difficult. Although all data refer to first level health facilities, the complexity of the diseases
managed likely varies substantially among departments, depending, i.a., on the availability of
higher level health facilities. The long duration of hospitalization in Vaupes, for example, might
be explained as follows: 1) higher level hospitals are not available in the department, 2) patients
often come from distances which preclude follow-up after dismissal from the hospital, and 3)
admitted patients arrive at a facility only in comparatively advanced stage of a disease. The bed
occupancy rate averages around 60 %, which is not high but acceptable. The low bed occupancy
rate in El Choc6, combined with the high [MR identified in Table 3, suggests a need for
improved community education and outreach services, and accessibility to services. The number
of medical consultations per hour, in half of the departments below three, indicates low
productivity.
Table 5: Availability of Flrst Level Health Services in the Project Area
The data provide an incomplete picture by showing only the availability of first level services.
Primary care facilities are often not available or may be replaced by higher level facilities, in
particular for Bogota (for which data are not provided). And, where a second level hospital bed
is available, patients tend to occupy that bed, even when their illness can be treated with a
hospitalization at the first level. An indication that this is the case is the trend that the number
of consultations per population is lowest where the number of people per facility is highest. An
exception is El Choc6, where a relatively low population per facility is combined with a low
utilization figure. In general the data show a shortage of first level health care services,
measured by number of people per facility or bed.



Annex 5
-46-
Table 1:    Demographic information in the project area.
Department    Total     # 0-4 years   # females    #over 60
Populaton   (% of total  15-44 years   years (9)
population)  M(%)   __.
Atlantico     1,704,090    202,396     471,822     101,062
(11.9%)    (27.7%)      (5.9%)
Bolivar       1,451,482     168,802    420,620      82,850
_________ _______   (11.6%)  (29.0%)  (5.7%)
Sucre          611,159      78,140     162,631      32,183
(12.8%)    (26.6%)      (5.3%)
Cordoba       1,114,815     147,029    299,271      53,898
(13.2%)    (26.8%)      (4.8%)
El Choc6       351,039      49,993      88,462      17,318
(14.2%)    (25.2%)      (4.9%)
Cauca          933,601      110,783    256,144      52,025
(11.9%)    (27.4%)      (5.6%)
Narino        1,163,384     136,215     313,871     71,142
(11.7%)    (27.0%)      (6.1%)
Vaupds          34,484       4,895       10,620       679
(14.2%)    (30.8%)      (2.0%)
Bogota        4,918,613     501,098
(11.1%)     .
Total        12,282,667    1,975,429
l__ ___ __   l____   (16.1% )



-47 -                             Annex5
Table 2:   Indicators of poverty in the project area.
Department     % of        % of                             life
population in  population  households households  expectancy
poverty    in acute   with piped   with no   (years)
poverty    water      basic
services
Atldntico         41.5        19.4      76.0        5.0        65.2
Bolfvar                                 31.0       40.0        65.9
Sucre             73.6        54.3      42.2       28.5        68.7
C6rdoba           74.1        54.0      42.9       35.6        67.7
El Choc6           82.8       42.0       36.0      51.6        62.0
Cauca             61.1        30.9      43.5       49.0        68.8
Narifio           60.9        30.8      45.0       36.1        62.2
Vaupes            93.1                  71.2       19.0
Bogota            23.5         6.2       96.0       0.7        71.2



-48 -                                Annex S
Table 3:    Departmental infant mortality rates (lMRs) and infant
morbidity patterns in the project area.
Infant mortality (per 1,000)   Most frequent reasons for
Department                                 medical consultations
In Dept.     Range of     Diarrheal      Acute
Capital    Dept. IMRs    Diseases    Respiratory
Infection
Adl;ntico        20          20 - 58        30%          26%
Bolfvar          20          20 - 57        25%          29%
Sucre            28          21 - 46        30%          29%
C6rdoba          42          23 - 49        26%          23%
El Choc6         36          36 - 77        21%          17%
Cauca            38           8 - 70        27%          30%
Narifno          47          47 - 94        23%          17%
Vaupes            19           19           28%          17%
Bogota           18            18           13%          19%



- 49 -                             Annex 5
Table 4:    Selected output Indicators of the health sector In the project area.
Department   Number of   Average   Occupancy      # of    # of dental
patients/bed/  duration    rate of  medical    consul-
year        of       hospital   consulta-  tations/hour
hospita-    beds     dons/hour
lization
Atlntico         32         4         0.62        2.4         0.7
Bolfvar           38          5        0.60        5.0         0.8
Sucre             58          4        0.61        4.6         0.6
C6rdoba          47           4        0.49        2.1         0.2
El Choc6          39          4        0.46        2.4         0.5
Cauca            39           5        0.56        3.6         2.8
Narifno           29         10        0.74        5.9         2.0
Vaupes            29          8        0.64        1.9         0.5
Bogota            40          6        0.68        3.0         2.6



- 50 -                            Annex
Table 5:    Availability of first level health services in the project area.
Department     # primary                           I consultations/
care     population/   population/    year/
facilities   facility      bed       population
Atlntico           48            24,335       23,361         7.0%
Bolfvar             49            16,587       47,809         6.5%
Sucre               35             8,799        5,219        15.4%
C6rdoba             42            10,142      106,486        10.7%
El Choc6            98             1,857        3,193         8.9%
Cauca               39             8,287        2,965        18.4%
Narino              18            26,767       12,679         7.2%
| Vaupes            20             1,724          183        20.6%
Bogota



- 51 -
Annex 6A
COLOMBIA
MUNICIPAL HEALTH SERVICES PROJECT
Project Subcomponents
Municipal Health Information
System, Monitoring and Evaluation Indicators
1.   The Municipal Health Information System (MIS) to be introduced
under the project would be designed as a management tool to enable
municipalities to plan and monitor health services. The proposed MlS
would provide a flexible database to serve this need. The MiS would be
based in municipal health facilities; a common set of data will become part of
the departnental and national base.
2.    The data to be maintained by each facility would include:
(a)   Resources Data:
Human resources by facility, professional category, duration in
post, type of contract and number of hours contracted and
delivered
Physical resources (facilities, equipment, supplies,
pharmaceuticals) by type, status and availability
(b)   Service Data:
Service data should be available by patient and by encounter
and should include:
Age and sex distribution of patients/encounters
Number of patients enrolled in programs (maternal and child,
tuberculosis, leprosy, chronic diseases, etc.), number of
encounters, number of defaulters and number visited to
encourage continued treatment
Number of encounters by type of health care provider and by
type of encounter (first time visit or subsequent)
Number of prescriptions per encounter and by type of
pharmaceutical
Morbidity encounters/patients by age and sex



- 52 -                       Annex 6A
Mortality by age and sex
Number of pregnant women receiving primary health care,
trimester begun, number of encounters per pregnancy, type of
delivery, delivery place, breastfeeding practices, immunization
coverage, postnatal visits, family planning acceptors and type
of contraceptive method
Number of emergency visits by age, sex and type of health
problem
Number of patients referred to other institutions, reasons for
referral, referral mechanism
Number of outreach services by type of health professional
Number of school health activities by type of health
professional and number of beneficiaries
Number of community education activities by number of
beneficiaries
Bed occupancy rate
Average in-patient stay by type of health problem
Productivity indicators: number of encounter per hour by type
and professional category
Number of in-patients per type of health care professional
(c)   Financing data:
Amount and source of revenue (including cost-recovery)
Expenditures by category
Cost per encounter by type of professional category
Cost per in-patient by category (drugs and supplies, meals,
personnel)



- 53 -                    Annex 6A
3.    Each municipality should also maintain data in the following
categories:
Demographic and socioeconomic information of each health
facility's catchment area
Employment and income indicators
School enrollments (including day and infant care)
Environmental health (availability of piped water, sewerage,
garbage disposal, contaminant industries, quality of housing,
availability of recreational facilities)
Local health practices
4.    From the Municipal Health Information System key monitoring
indicators have been selected. These indicators would fonn part of the
regular system and would be maintained monthly and consolidated at the end
of each year. The key indicators include:
Number of encounters per health provider by professional level
Number of encounters per person per health provider and by
type of health problem
Hours of health care delivery provided versus contracted
Number of patients referred by type of health problem
Number of prescriptions per encounter
Distribution of pregnant women by trimester begun prenatal
care
Bed occupancy rate
Number of emergencies by type
Percent of the population benefitting from community health
education activities
Percent of school children benefitting from school education
activities



- 54 -
Annex 6A
5.    Several key indicators have also been chosen to measure the impact of
the Municipal Health Service Project. These include:
Percent of the catchment population served at the health
facility
Fatality rates of children with diarrhea/upper respiratory
infections
Percent of deliveries attended at health facility
Number of women seeking prenatal care in the first trimester
of pregnancy
Delivery fatality rate
Immunization coverage



- 55 -
Annex 6B
COLOMBIA
MUNICIPAL HEALTH SERVICES PROJECT
Staff Development
The Municipal Health Services Project is to be implemented within the context of a
decentralized system of health care. Therefore, in addition to preparing health workers for the
implementation of the basic package of services, it is important to provide municipal authorities,
health care workers and the community at large with the skills needed to undertake their new
responsibilities.
OBJECTIVES. The objectives of the staff development subcomponents included under the
institutional development and service development components are the following:
1.   Strengthen the capacity of the Departmental Health Services (DSs) to assist municipalities in
the implementation of the project.
2.   Train municipal authorities and community leaders in the principles of primary health care the
appropriate use of health services and health services management.
3.   Educate communities on the concepts of health and health promotion, the appropriate use of
health services and medications, and the community's role within the municipal health system.
4.   Respond to training needs of health personnel for the appropriate implementation of the basic
package of services.
5.   Train teams responsible for managing local health systems, including private sector providers.
There are municipalities that will have special units managing the health delivery system, and
others (mainly type 4 and 5 as classified by the DNP, or less developed municipalities) that
will delegate this task to health care providers. All health care system managers will be trained
according to project guidelines and standards.
STRATEGIES
1.   Establish an implementation support team in each DS consisting of four persons in the
following areas of expertise: a) competency based training and on-the-job supervision; b)
management, information systems and financing, c) community development and
communication and (d) primary health care. Each DS will recruit consultants for this purpose.
The consultant teams will optimize the use of departmental resources to ensure the continuity of
the project and enhance implementation.
2.   Strengthen the links with universities and training centers. This strategy will allow
municipalities to benefit from the expertise of training institutions in the department. Training
institutions will also benefit from the exposure to tasks and problems that their graduates have
to face.



- 56 -
Annex 6B
3.   All staff development activities will be based on solving problems growing out of everyday
practice. Training packages will be adjusted to the needs of each particular audience.
The achievement of staff development objectives will require a continuum of activities.
Initially, training materials will be prepared; DS authorities will recruit personnel; and the national
team will assist in training departmental teams; municipal authorities, health personnel and managers
of the health system will be briefed on the project and training and assistance with implementing the
new responsibilities will be provided. Subsequent activities will consist of follow-up training and
technical support and supervision. While formal courses would be included, on-the-job support and
supervision would be emphasized.
NATIONAL RESPONSIBILITIES
I.   Present the project to DS departmental governments, NGOs, municipal authorities, and health
personnel. One, one-day seminar per region (about 40 persons per seminar).
2.   Develop detailed job descriptions for each member of the departmental team responsible for the
implementation of the project (project coordinators) and their relationship with the National
Project Coordinating Unit and with universities, NGOs and training institutions in the
department. Selected universities, NGOs and training institutions would work as consortia to
support DSs in several departments, e.g., institutions in Valle could support Narifho and Cauca;
institutions in Antioquia could assist Cdrdoba, Chocd and Sucre.
3.   Develop task-specific manuals for implementation of the project at the municipal level. The
manuals should include the following items: a) description of the management information
system and instructions; b) guidelines to health planning and monitoring; c) description of the
basic package of services, including the category of personnel who will perform each type of
activity; diagnosis and treatment protocols; and guidelines for referral; d) community
participation enhancing techniques; e) acceptable alternatives for health care financing,
including types of contracts with secondary level health institutions and the private sector; t)
reporting responsibilities; and g) a list of resources available at the national level. The
appropriateness of the manuals should be assessed and revisions made as needed in year three
of the project. This would require a one-week evaluation workshop for about forty persons at
the end of year two of the project.
4.   Organize annual two-day seminars to allow for exchange of experience among departments and
municipalities (fifty persons per seminar).
5.   Train departmental teams. Two-week seminars, twice a year, for the first two years of the
project. After the third year of the project, two two-day seminars each year.
6.   Produce health education materials for mass-media, focusing on the appropriate use of the
primary health services, on the use of pharmaceuticals, on health and health promotion.



- 57 -
Annex 6B
7.   Coordinate with Universities selected to participate in the Project and with other schools and
training centers existing in the area. A series of a maximum of ten, one-day seminars will be
conducted to: a) discuss primary health care and the strategy to enhance primary health care in
the curricula of health care professionals, and b) the role of the universities and training centers
in the supervision of health professionals during their year of social service.
8.   Coordinate with the 'Centros Departamentales de Desarrollo del Recurso Humano" training
centers that, under the decentralization process, have been absorbed by the DSs to discuss their
role in the implementation of the project. A series of seminars will be conducted to approach
this issue. Levels of participation would differ among the centers in view of varying
capacities.
9.   Define training curricula for community health workers and auxiliary nurses. Technical
assistance will be needed to cooperate with experts from the regional training centers, revise
training curricula, make necessary adjustments and produce appropriate training materials.
10.  Administer scholarships to train personnel in public health, including the of areas of
management, epidemiology, planning, commnunity participation and communication.
11.  Organize a one-week seminar each year to assess the progress made by the project departments
and to make appropriate adjustments to plans for staff development.
DEPARTMENTAL RESPONSIBILITIES
1.   Analyze the needs of personnel and resources of each DS for the implementation of the project.
Recruit candidates for consultant regional teams.
2.   Identify and contact departmental resources: universities, training institutions, NGOs, and
municipal health workers. Conduct a one-day seminar to introduce the project and enlist
cooperation.
3.   Provide initial training for municipal authorities, NGOs and community leaders.
4.   Provide initial training for health personnel. During this training the regional team will make
an effort to identify groups (e.g., NGO's, universities) which could work together to develop
specific community education packages, deliver specialized services, conduct research studies,
or provide leadership in any aspect of the project implementation process.
5.   Provide on-the-job training and continuing education for municipal teams. Each municipality
should be visited at least twice a month during the initial stages of the project (during the first
six months of project implementation) and once a month thereafter.
6.   Train community health workers.
7.   Organize one seminar a year for health and municipal authorities to report on the advances of
the project and to encourage exchange of experiences among different municipalities.



- 58 -
Annex 6B
8.   Two seminars a year for health personnel to discuss innovations in health care, problems in the
delivery of health services, or primary health care management.
9.   Organize a yearly seminar to assess progress in the implementation of the project. This
seminar should be conducted before the national seminar. The conclusions and
recommendations of the national seminar should be widely distributed within all departments.
Seminars to discuss the recommendations reached at the national level could be organized as
needed, however the conclusions and recommendations will be provided to all municipalities
through the project coordinators.
MUNICIPAL RESPONSIBILITIES
1.   Organize health committees and participate in their meetings.
2.   Educate the community in health-related issues through mass-media and community events.
Note: Supervision and technical support would be continuous. 7he number and duration of
training sessions/seminars above is notional. Refinements in details would be made
annually and by department.



Annex 6C
- 59-
COLOMBIA
MUNICIPAL SERVICES PROJECT
THE BASIC PACKAGE OF SERVICES
The basic package of services includes basic health interventions
addressing health conditions highly prevalent in Colombia and for which
there are effective preventative, curative or palliative solutions. The package
would not be offered in each health facility but would be available to all
residents in a municipality. Municipalities would be encouraged to
complement the package with additional services targeting other prevalent
health problems in the community provided that: 1) such services could be
provided more efficiently through the municipal system than through
contracts with the private sector or at the departmental level, and 2) the
human and economic resources required to deliver the service according to
established quality standards are available.
All services included in the package will be delivered according to
standard protocols. These protocols would include the corresponding
instructions for referral. All municipalities should have a vehicle and a
working communications system to facilitate transport of emergencies.
All municipalities should have an outreach service to follow-up clinic
defaulters and patients who for different reasons do not seek needed
attention. This is a important service to increase coverage for maternal and
child services and for the elderly.
Most diseases and injuries are age-specific and a few are sex-specific.
For this reason the services included in the basic package of services have
been classified by age group (mothers and infants, children, adolescents and
young adults, adults and older adults). Issues which span several age groups
are discussed for the age group at greatest risk for the problem addressed.
Additionally activities, that would benefit the entire community, are also
noted.
Healthy mothers and healthy infants
A large proportion of matemal and infant health problems are due to
delivery problems. Some of these problems can be anticipated during
prenatal care visits, others are unidentifiable beforehand and require prompt
management and treatment. All municipalities should have appropriate
transportation so that emergencies can be appropriately attended.
Another source of maternal problems, including death, is unsafe
abortion. Although abortion is not legal in Colombia, informal information
suggests that the number of abortions is high. Health personnel should be



- 60 -                      Annex 6C
trained to manage incomplete abortions, should educate the community on the
risks of such procedures and should provide broad access to family planning
information and practice.
Prenatal care: Important components of prenatal care include reproductive
personal and family history, hemoglobin measurement and correction of
anemia, Rh determination, blood pressure measurement, diagnosis and
treatment of reproductive tract infections and urinary tract infections,
immunization with tetanus toxoid, and risk assessment of delivery
complications. Depending on local prevalence levels, it may also be
necessary to prevent, screen for, and treat for malaria, and other infectious
and parasitic diseases (i.e. syphilis and gonorrhea). During prenatal care
visits it could be important to identify and refer high risk pregnancies and
women at risk of presenting obstructed delivery.
All pregnant women should make at least three prenatal care visits.
Health workers should extend efforts to stress on the importance of these
visits beyond pregnant women to include the broader family and partners,
who may influence the woman decision regarding prenatal care.
Prenatal habits: Counseling on nutrition (during pregnancy there is an
increased need for more calories, iron, calcium, phosphorus and protein),
smoking, alcohol drinldng, use of drugs, exercise, and sexual behavior.
Delivery: Hygiene is the most important aspect to consider when attending a
normal delivery. Women in prolonged labor (more than 12 hours) have to be
attended by a specialized midwife or a physician and require referral to the
local hospital. To the extent possible, first level services need to be
strengthened to treat complications of pregnancy and delivery.
Postnatal consultation: Education on breastfeeding, weaning practices and
family planning should be provided during the pregnancy and should be
reinforced during postnatal visits. All women should at least have one
control visit after delivery.
Growth monitoring: Monthly growth monitoring for children under two
years of age is important to detect nutritional and growth problems. Special
growth and development "clinics" should be used to detect existing or
potential health problems.
Immunizations: Health personnel should use all opportunities to ensure that
children are fully and appropriately immunized, and that women of child-
bearing age are immunized against tetanus toifoid.
Family planning: Counseling on family planning and reproductive health
should be available to all those that are sexually active, including teenagers.



- 61 -                       Annex 6C
Healthy children
Identification of vision and hearing problems: Visual and hearing
problems should be identified among children to enhance development and
school performance.
Early diagnosis and treatment of childhood infections: Including diarrhea,
parasites, respiratory infections (including tuberculosis). In some areas mass
administration of parasites treatment is justified.
Growth monitoring should be carried out every two months for children
over 2 years of age. Malnourished children and children who fail to gain
weight should be screened to identify the underlying causes of their
nutritional problems and appropriate remedial measures to be taken.
Healthy habits: Children should learn early in life appropriate nutrition and
hygiene habits. Including personal and dental hygiene, and the avoidance of
smoking, alcohol drinking and drugs. The promotion of healthy lifestyles
could be successful if implemented through school and day care health
programs, including health education activities.
Healthy adolescents and young adults
The health status of early adulthood is threatened by smoking, alcohol and
drug abuse, injuries and unsafe sex (teenage pregnancy and sexually
transmitted diseases).
Smoking, alcohol and drug abuse are linked to factors not usually
addressed by health programs (including lifestyle and socioeconomic factors)
but have a substantial impact on health status. The abuse of these
substances contributes to high rates of injuries, homicides, suicides and
chronic diseases, especially respiratory and cardiovascular problems.
Injury prevention. Injury prevention strategies should be designed, included
in municipal, departmental and national policies and enforced.
Sexually transmitted diseases. Health professionals, social and youth
organizations should ensure that infornation, counseling and treatment to
prevent the transmission of venereal diseases is available to teenagers. In
addition, they should ensure that young people of both sexes know and have
access to birth control.
Healthy adults
Chronic diseases affecting the adult population can be reduced by: high blood
pressure detection and control, reduction of smoking, prudent diet and
increasing exercise.



- 62 -                          m   6C
Smoking. Health professionals should encourage people to quit smoking.
Those who are unable or unwilling to quit smoking ought to smoke brands
low in tar and nicotine and ought to smoke their cigarettes only half way.
Alcohol. Misuse of alcohol leads to accidental injury, family disruption, and
chronic disease. Health professionals should provide information on health
problems associated with alcohol abuse and refer patients with alcohol
problems to appropriate services.
Chronic diseases: Diabetes and high blood pressure. All adults contacting
the health system should be screened for high blood pressure and diabetes.
When a chronic disease is diagnosed, health professionals should prescribe
the appropriate treatment, and insist and monitor patients' compliance with
the prescribed treatment regime.
Nutrition. People should adopt prudent dietary habits, consuming: only
sufficient calories to meet body needs, less saturated fat and cholesterol, less
salt, less sugar, more whole grains, cereals, fruits and vegetables. Health
professionals should take the lead in educating the community in appropriate
nutrition habits.
Exercise. All adults should engage in exercise at least three times a week
for about 15 to 30 minutes each time. Health professionals should encourage
this practice in all their encounters with patients and through community
activities.
Healthy older adults
Conditions that are amenable to early detection and treatment include:
hypertension, diabetes, some types of anemia and over-medication. Exercise
and fitness for older people need emphasis.
Social activity. Health personnel should encourage older adults to maintain
an active social life.
Exercise. Regular physical activity for older adults can provide physical and
psychological benefits, as well as help maintain flexibility and balance
important for preventing falls. Health professionals could organize exercise
sessions for the elderly.
Preventive services: High blood pressure should be checked every time an
adult contacts the health system. The medical history should screen for
diabetes and urinary infections.



- 63 -                      Annex 6C
Medication: Older people receive too much medication. Physicians should
regularly review the type and amount of pharmaceuticals that elderly patients
are taking and assess their appropriateness.
Other health problems affecting the entire community
In the case of Colombia political, drug-related and family violence constitute
overwhelming social and health problems. In the case of Colombia is
important to train health professionals and to equip health establishments to
be able to cope with these problems.  The health sector can
substantially improve the quality of life of the victims of violence by
providing timely and good emergency services; and family violence can be
reduced through community outreach and education, and referral.
Water and sanitation are the source of many communicable diseases.
Health professionals should encourage municipalities and other agencies to
solve environmental problems that have an impact on the health of the
community.
People have a tendency to believe that there is a medicine for every ill and
they tend to request medicines from each medical encounter. It is important
to educate the community on how to use pharmaceuticals and the health
delivery system. This should be done at the municipal and at the national
level through mass media education campaigns. It is important to establish a
drug delivery system that does not preclude access to medicines for people
that need them.
Programs for endemic diseases such as tuberculosis and leprosy, should
continue to be delivered. In some areas prevention of leishmaniasis and
dengue will be appropriate.
Other desirable services
The services included in these category are examples of additional
services that could be provided by the municipal health service depending on
the availability of resources. They include:
Education for parenthood: people who are well informed about the care
required by infants can better plan and prepare for parenthood. Health
personnel could offer education for parenthood to teenagers and adults.
Early childhood development. A stimulating and healthy environment
during the early part of life can enhance a child's growth and development.
Programs providing comprehensive health services for children, including
day care, health care, nutrition, education and counseling, can produce



- 64 -                        Annex 6C
important gains in child development, particularly for families with low
income.
Special support services. Special sources of support should be available
through community agencies and health care providers to assist children
under particular stress.
Mental health: To a great extend many of the adulthood problems represent
failures to help young people acquire the skills and infbrmation needed to
solve problems and make sound decisions during years of rapid change. The
municipality should promote recreational and sport activities for their young
adult population and, to the extent possible, should give them a role in public
events. It is important that young adults feel accepted and needed by their
communities.
Early detection of cancer. These services should only be provided if there
is some evidence that cancer patients will have access to appropriate
treatment or support services. Pap smears, breast examinations and a
questionnaire screening for cancer signs, including: changes in bladder or
bowel habits; a sore that does not heal; unusual bleeding or discharge;
change in a wart or a mole; or nagging cough or hoarseness, could be part of
the personal clinical history.
Fluoridation. The most effective and efficient way to prevent tooth decay is
through fluoridation of community water supplies. If the water supply is not
fluoridated alternative fluoride sources can be provided through school-based
fluoride mouth rinse or tablet programs.
Environmental health. Toxic agents in the environment can present health
hazards which may not be detected for years. The health sector should
encourage the monitoring of industrial, agricultural and mining production
processes to reduce exposure to potentially toxic agents.
Worksite health and safety. The occupational setting is important both as a
source of potential health hazards and a site for health promotion activities.
Health programs at the workplace can provide information and protection
related to all potential health hazards for employees, as well as offer
activities and services to promote healthier lifestyles.
Minimum package of support services
An appropriate information system should be develop to manage,
monitor and evaluate the municipal health delivery system.
Essential drugs have to be available in needed amounts and at an
affordable cost.



- 65 -                       Annex 6C
All health centers should have weighing and measuring instruments
for infants and children; autoclave; refrigerator for immunizations; first-aid
supplies; high blood pressure machine, stethoscope, otoscope, and emergency
medicines; and basic laboratory equipment.
First-level hospitals should also have all necessary drugs and supplies
(including IV-fluids, suture kits, sufficient dressings and disposable materials)
and they should be able to obtain them at reasonable prices (lower than
commercial rates).
All first level hospitals should have a minimum clinical laboratory, X-
ray, electrocardiogram, stethoscope, otoscope, ophthalmoscope, thermometer,
high blood pressure machine, appropriate small surgery equipment,
appropriate delivery instruments, autoclave, adequate medical waste disposal
system, transportation and a good communication network among all health
facilities in the municipality. Transportation for patients who need referral to
higher levels of care should also be accessible.
Appropriate instruments to detect visual and hearing problems should
be available at the municipal level.
In addition all municipalities should have: health education materials,
an emergency manual, a PDR or a book on appropriate use of
pharmaceuticals, and guidelines on how to administer and manage the health
facility and the patients (including standardized diagnosis, treatment and
referral protocols).



-66-                                        Annex 6D
COLOMBIA
MUNICIPAL HEALTH SERVICES PROJECT
Study on Pricing of Primary Health Services
Terms of Reference
Objective
The objective of the study would be to establish parameters for costing and
pricing of health services in the public sector, based upon provision of the
basic package of services to be provided under the proposed project. To this
end, it will be necessary to disaggregate the basic package of services by
subcategory. It is also expected that costs would vary by regions and
epidemiologic conditions.
Methodology
i) Determine the factors which contribute to service costs: personnel,
physical inputs, transport, administration, etc. ii) Determine unit costs per
person served, unit costs per type of service, and aggregate costs, to
determine total costs of the package.
Schedule
The study will be conducted over 12 months, beginning in the middle of
1993, in the following phases:
i) review of cost studies and infbrmation available in the country, as
well as international information on costs.
ii) based on available information, refine study methodology.
iii) execute study and present results and recommendations.
Executing Entity
The execudng entity should have experience in the quantification of costs of
social services, in the art;a of health development projects and in related
research.
Budget
The cost of the study would be of the order of US$100,000 equivalent to
cover the costs of a half-time senior consultant, a full-time junior consultant,
and administrative costs.
_ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ --------   ---



- 67 -                                       Annex 6D
COLOMBIA
MUNICIPAL HEALTH SERVICES PROJECT
Study on Cost Recovery
Terms of Reference
Objectives
Colombia has national and regional guidelines for cost recovery and user fees in the public
health service. However, their interpretation and use has not been systematic.
The objective of this study would therefore be to develop an appropriate system of fees based
on the following principles: correspondence with user income levels, such that the fee
schedule is progressive, favoring the poor; rationalization of use of services by level of
complexity and facility; and support for priority services, such as preventive activities.
Desired results of application of the system would be to increase available resources for
financing health and improving efficiency of resource use. Specific objectives are to develop
criteria and mechanisms to operationalize them in respect of introducing differential fees by
income level and type of service. Included would be clear measures to systematically collect
fees, and related incentives or sanctions.
Methodology
Differential fees would be prepared on the basis of unit costs of services by level of service.
Such fees would need to consider differences in complexity, both technical and in terms of
human resources involved in provision of services. Emergency services would be treated
separately, with fees designed to reduce abuse of these services. The objective would be to
strengthen the quality and efficiency of basic services, and the referral system, without
ignoring true emergencies. Development of the system would evolve as follows:
i) review of existing guidelines and criteria and problems encountered in their
application.
ii) review of international practice and experience.
iii) operationalization of an improved system, with initial emphasis on first level and
emergency services, including systematic review and updating of fees.
Schedule
The study would be carried out over a year's time, beginning in late 1993.
Executing Agency
A firm or group of individuals composed of economists, financial analysts and
sociologists/health care providers with relevant experience.
Budget
The estimated cost of the study is US$100,000.



- 68 -
Annex 6D
COLOMBIA
MUNICIPAL HEALTH SERVICES PROJECT
Study on Accreditation
Terms of Reference
Background
1'wo subdirectorates of the MOH are currently responsible for quality control and
accreditation in the health sector:  1) the  Subdirectorate for Institutional Development
(administratvie aspects), and 2) the Subdirectorate for Assistance Services (quality aspects).
Certificates are given by the Minister of Health. However, quality control and certification are
not systematically carried out; and norms for accreditation at the first levl are incomplete. In
view of the ongoing process of decentralization, in particular, the quality control function
requires strengthening at the central as well as departmental and municipal levels.
Objectives
The study wil assess alternatives for the accreditation of health facilitites and services,
beginning with the first level. Emphasis wiUl be given to establishment of a national quality
control commission either in or outside the MOH. The study will also investigate appropriate
forms for departmental and local inputs into the process, and establish a set of quality standards
for health facilities at the first level. The standards could vary by region and category of
municipality. The study will suggest an appropriate interval for accreditation visits to a
particular health facility and recommend measures to be taken if a facility does not meet
minimum required standards. The study wil further recommend timing for the introduction of
revised qality control mechanisms and practices.
Methodology
The study would be based on a review of existing practices for quality control and
accreditation in the health sector and on a review of the relevant literature and intemational
experience.
Schedule, Expertise Required and Costs
The study would be carried out during a ten-month period during 1994 by an
interdisciplinary team. Composition of the consultant team would be detailed during late 1993.
Cost of the study is estimated at US$200,000, equivalent.



- 69 -
Annex 6D
COLOMBIA
MUNICIPAL HEALTH SERVICES PROJECT
Study on Development of Human Resources in the Health Sector
Terms of Reference
Objective
The objective of the study would be to propose a personnel policy which promotes
stability and adequate quality and experience among staff in the health sector, especially at the
municipal level.
Methodology
The review of the current situation would draw on available information at the central,
departmental and municipal levels. This would be supplemented by case studies in departments
and municipalities selected to represent variations by level of development and income. Fields
of concentration would be: demand for personnel by type; trends in stability of personnel; and
incentives offered by administrative level. Recommendations, including recommendations for
incentives (salary and non-salary), would need to consider affordability, and possibly,
subsidization by the central government for poorer departments and municipalities. The
proposed study would also draw on relevant experience, particularly in other countries in Latin
America.
Schedule
The detailed requirements and areas of focus for the study would be elaborated during
late 1993. The study would take about a year to complete and would be initiated in early-1994.
Expertise Required
A team of consultants would be retained with expertise in personnel management, staff
development and benefits, and costs and financing of public service systems.
Costs
The costs of the proposed study are estimated at US$100,000 equivalent.



COLOWIA
iBUHICIPAL HEALTH SERVICES PROJECT
Cotl
su   ry Accounts by Tear
Ease Costs                                      Foreign Exchange
... .......... ................................................................................................................... ..................
1993/94   1994/95   1995/96   1996/97   1997/98   1998/99     Total         X    Amount
nsns .snsss.in.ns -usas.USzS.SSSSXSSSSUSSSUS NW.-u=ssSuUSs===SS  ===            fl==  fls==S
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
..... ....... . . -
A. Technical Assistance             588.5    1356.3    1358.3   1343.5    1181.2    557.9   6387.6            0.0      0.0
S. Training                         540.6    696.1    1057.8    934.1       781.9    147.7   4158.2          11.4   473.7
C.  Felloishi  l/Internship         786.5     671.5     914.7    654.8      411.2       0.0    343a.9         11.4    391.8
D.  Civil Vor S                       0.0    5531.3    5685.9   2574.4    1545.6      772.8  16110.0         33.2   5340.8
E.  Equipment                        52.9    5042.5    4960.5    2353.7    1756.9       0.0   14166.5        86.5  12292.0
F.  Furniture                         0.0     825.6    825.6      772.8    386.4        0.0   2810.4         33.2    931.7
G.  Vehicles and Boats                0.0     106.7      12.0       0.0       0.0       0.0     118.7       100.0   118.7
H. Naterials and Supplies            58.;    1154.4   1627.1    1290.9   1266.7    974.9   6372.6            27.8   17M3.9
1.  Studies                         295.2    221.4    295.2    664.2    590.4    369.0   2435.4               0.0      0.0
J. Project iManemnt                 187.9    375.8    375.8    375.8    375.8    375.8   2066.8               0.0      0.0
Total BASELINE COSTS               2510.3   15983.9  17112.8  10964.2   8296.0   3198.0  58065.2             36.7  21322.6
Physical Contingencies            66.4      68.4      98.6      79.4      59.7       7.4    379.9          11.4    43.3
Price Contingencies              286.1   4960.6   9965.1   10046.2  10601.0   5533.2  41392.2             25.2  10440.0                                        o
Total PROJECT COSTS                2862.7  21012.9  27176.5  21089.8   18956.7   8738.6  99837.2             31.9  31805.9
_ ss=sSinsu       ssns- e =lSflflssssu=s-  sss=sflfas sfssflfsS           sa.sss f lSUs=snstSs
Taxes                              0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0         0.0      0.0
Foreign Exchaw                   224.4   8655.7  10304.3   6183.6   5207.5   1230.3  31805.9              100.0 31805.9
Values,Sca,ed     b.  1000000 .        1- :0 ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
I             ~~~~Vatlu  Seated by 10000.0 4/1 V199   17:01



COLONIA
IUhICIPAL EALTN SERVICES PROJECT
ku eary Accounts by Tear
Totals Including Contingencies                                      Totals Including Contingencies
CotS                                                                   ss
........................ ........................................ .... . .. ............ ...................... ........ ............. ........ .............. ...... .
19M3/94  1994/95  1995/96  1996/97  1997/96  1998/99    Total      193/94  1994/95  1995/96  1996/97  1997/96  1996/99    Total
1. INWSTIENT COSTS
....................
A. Technical Asistance              659.1   1869.5  2280.8  2727.6   2851.4   1574.7  11963.1             0.8      1.9      2.0       2.1      2.0      1.0      9.7
2. Training                         629.0   993.3  1834.6  1951.0  1939.3   427.6   m4.9                  0.7      1.0      1.6       1.5      1.3      0.3      6.5
C. Fellouship/Internships           915.1    958.6  1586.4  1367.6   1019.7          0.0  5847.4          1.1      1.0       1.4      1.1      0.7      0.0      5.2
D. Civil Morks                        0.0   7333.0  9093.9. 4919.7  3497.3   2036.2  26880.0              0.0      7.3      8.0       3.a      2.4      1.2     22.8
E  EqLip ent                         54.5  6271.6  7293.3  4044.2  3545.3           0.0  21208.9          0.1      6.3      6.4       3.2      2.4      0.0     18.3
F. Furniture                          0.0   1094.5   1320.4  1476.8   874.3         0.0   4766.0          0.0      1.1      1.2       1.2      0.6      0.0      4.0
G. Vehicles and  oasts                0.0    130.6      17.2      0.0      0.0      0.0    147.8          0.0      0.1      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.1
N. Naterials and S ppties ".0   1539.8  2623.2  2491.5   2896.9  2597.9  12213.4                          0.1      1.5      2.3       1.9      2.0      1.6      9.4
1. StudiIs                          330.6    304.7   495.7  1348.4  1425.3   1041.5  4946.3               0.4      0.3      0.4       1.1      1.0      0.6      3.8
J. Project N_nasm nt                210.4    517.2   631.0    762.9    907.2   1060.7  4089.5             0.2      0.5      0.6       0.6      0.6      0.7      3.2
Total PROJECT COSTS                2862.7  21012.9  27176.5  21069.8  18956.7  8738.6  99637.2            3.4     21.1    23.9    16.5    13.0          5.4     83.1
------------------ -----------------=_ _-    -------_<    $      X    s  ---  ------    -- X---    =S- ------------  ------------ -        -8=--------------
Values Scaled by 1800000.   4/121193  17:00
'-
I.J..4



- 72 -
Annex 8A
COLOMBIA
MUNICIPAL HEALTH SERVICES PROJECT
Organization
IBRD
COF
Fiduciares
MuNIcipaliti.e
MOF  -  Ministry of Finance
MOH      Ministry of Health
PCO  -   Project Coordinating Office
FIS   -   Social Investment Fund



- 73 -                                                           Annex 8A
COLOMBIA
MUNICIPAL HEALTH SERVICES PROJECT
Responsibilities
Functions                                                       Entity Responsible
Provide Loan funds and monitor and                                                           IBRD
evaluate the project.
..:.. . ,..........
Obtain Loan funds from IBRD and
transfer them to the MOH.
Ministry of Finance
Transfer to MOH budget allocations as
counterpart funds to the Loan.
........~~~~~~~~~~~~..... 
.... ,.,., . . , , ..... . 4. ,.X . ,., ., . ...... . , , , k, .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .. ..  ..  .. : 
.:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~            .  . .-. .:  . . .:  . .  . .  . .  . ?8  .  .:  . .  ?.  .  8?
Submit project to CONPES for approval. 
. ..   ...   .. .   I   ....   ....                                  .
Review  and approve the annual budget.  s< ZDNP
Monitor the loan disbursement and                   ::?
repayment.                                          8s<?.
General management and coordination    N4g
of  the project. tC            E    o    p    v
Maintain accountability for project             gMinistry of Health
resources.                                          5s>ha
Establish the policies to be                         X
implemented.



74 -                                                 Annex 8A
Functions                     -                         Entity Responsible
Implement institutional development and   0-
studies and evaluation components.
Finance the above.                            ;
Define criteria, norms, techniques and                             Ministry of Health (coninued)
procedures for the subprojects.
Channel loan funds to the FIS for the
cofinancing of municipal subprojects.
Assist territorial entities participating in
the project.
Monitor and supervise the
implementation of the project.
g~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.                                          .......
iCofinancing of municipal subprojects.
.                                 ......~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~....... . ..
-: .....~~~~~~~~~~.....
Obtain financing from MOH.
...........~~~~~... ..
Submit implementation reports to MOH. -                                           FIS
Select and supervise the fiduciaries for
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..:,............-.-: ...........     .....  ' 
the management of the funds.
Administer project resources at the
municipal level and maintain control                                          Fiduciaries
over resources.



- 75 -
Annex 8A
Functions                                               Entit Responsible
Approve the departmental health plan.
Departments
Assign department resources to the
municipalities for technical assistance
and training.
Enter into project contracts with MOH.
....................... ................. ..... .... . ........          ...
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~....   ..... .   .. .:..        . . .
Prepare and manage the departmental
health plan.
Coordinate departmental and municipal
activities at the departmental level.
Departmental Health Authority
Provide technical assistance and training
to the municipalities.
Monitor and assist the MOH to evaluate ,'..
the project.
Submit project reports to the MOH.
i>,.x  j:;g:  g$..::uj 52:-::S>Ss:|+^t   ;f   S  : ~ ~ ~ ~ .. ........  ..
i:::::::i:'.~~~~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~ .:,:......
Exercise ex-post control of subprojects
submitted by the municipalities and
financed under the project.
. ;....~ ~ ~~~...........
.~~~~~~~~~~.... ... ...  .             .....
Social Investment Fund: Special Departmental Unit
Monitor fiduciary accounts and approve '8i
financal implementation reports.                                         -   .
Present implementation reports to the 
National FIS.                                ,t,,,,



- 76 -
Annex 8A
Functions                                        Entity Responsible
Create local Health Authority.
Approve the Municipal Health Plan.                                Municialiti
.                ~~~~~~Municipalities
Assign municipal funds to the municipal.'
health system.
:  .f-0   - fS:    f :.., ......  -   .  - ....-.  .  - i  .....
Prepare and administer the Municipal
Health Plan.
Develop an administrative structure and.
the organization needed to provide basic.,...,'.
health services.
Municipal Health Authority
Identify, prepare and approve health
subprojects through municipal boards
and committees.
Co-finance and execute subprojects.
Report on activities to the departmental
health authority.



77                                    Annex 8B
COLOMBIA
MUNICIPAL HEALTH SERVICES PROJECT
Guidelines, Criteria and Implementation Procedures for Municipal Subprojects
CATEGOREES OF EXPENDITURES ELIGIBLE FOR INVESTMENTS
Eligible categories of subproject investment to be financed under the Municipal Health
Services Project include: i) civil works: construction, rehabilitation and upgrading of local
hospitals, health centers and health posts; ii) medical equipment, supplies and furniture for
local hospitals, health centers and health posts.
ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA FOR INVESThINT PROJECTS
Investment subprojects eligible for financing under the MHSP would have to comply
with the following requirements:
GENERAL REQUIEMENTS
Eligible projects should be part of the approved municipal health plan.
Subprojects should follow the technical norms established by the MOH (Operations
Manual) for the construction and equipment of local hospitals, health centers and
health posts. Project descriptions should include evidence of economic, institutional
and social sustainability, and evidence that they will not cause environmental damage.
The format for municipal subproject presentation should follow MOH guidelines
(Operations Manual).
TECHNICAL REQUIREMENTS
Proposed investments in infrastructure would be based on demand and supply studies
that include the following priorities:
Complete unfinished civil works.
Use existing infrastructure to full capacity, including private health establishments.
Rehabilitate and upgrade existing infrastructure rather than construct new buildings.
Construct local hospitals only if included in the departmental plan and if the
possibility of using the local hospital of a neighboring municipality has been studied
and found inappropriate.



- 78 -                                       Annex 8B
GUIDELINES TO ESTIMATE THE NEEDS FOR CONSTRUCTION,
REHABILITATION AND UPGRADING OF PRIMARY HEALTH CARE
ESTABLISHMENTS
MINIMUM NUMBER OF BENEFICLIRIES
The minimum number of beneficiaries per facility should be as follows: 500 persons
per health post; 3,000 persons per health center, and 10,000 persons per local hospital.
TECHNICAL NORMS FOR CIVL WORKS
All civil works would follow the Operations Manual and MOH Technical Norms for
the Design, Construction and Equipment of Local Hospitals, Health Centers and Health
Posts.
EQUIMENT
Investments in equipment for the implementation of the Project, including medical
equipment, supplies and furniture, would be based on: maximizing the use of existing
equipment, and complementing or completing provision of equipment and supplies based on
the MOH List of Equipment for Primary Health Care Establishments as a guide to ensure the
appropriateness of particular items for a given category of health establishment.
LOCATION AND ACCESS
New construction of health establishments (local hospitals, health centers and health
posts) will be based on increasing access and minimizing the distance to the communities in
the catchment area. Health establishments should be under one hour's distance from the
communities by available means of transportation, as feasible. To the extent possible, access
should be by road or boat.
CVIL WORKS
All new, rehabilitated or upgraded health establishments must have potable water,
electricity, appropriate sewerage systems, and appropriate ways of dealing with medical
waste and a communications system.
INSTITUTIONAL REQU WREMENTS
AU subprojects have to include evidence that the municipality has the managerial,
administrative, financial, technical and operational capacity to ensure the implementation and
maintenance of the project. If capacity is lacking, municipalities would receive additional
support from the DS or would directly contract the necessary skills to implement and
maintain the subproject according to acceptable standards.
Investment projects have to include evidence that the municipality can provide the
human resources needed for the development of health promotion, and the provision of
curative and rehabilitation services as defined in the basic package of services and by health
faculty.



- 79 -                                        Annex SB
TECHICAL CRfTERIA FOR FIRST HEALTH CARE LEVEL ESTABLISMIENTS
Requirements       Heath Post            Health Center         Local Hospital
Location           Dispersed population    Municipalities, Urban   Municipalities, Comunas
l _______________    ___________________    neighborhoods       (submunicipalities)
Population         <3,000 persons        3,000 to 10,000       8,000-30,000 in the
persons               urban center
Hours of service    8 hours during the day  8 hours during the day  24 hours a day
Basic Human        Auxiliary nurse,      General physician,    General physicians,
Resources          health promotor,      dentist, nurse        Dentist and auxiliary
physician, dentist    auxiliary nurse,      dentist, Bacteriologist,
environmental health    Radiologist,
promotor, family and    Administrator, Nurses,
community health      Auxiliary nurses,
teams                 Anesthesiologist,
Auxiliary for General
services, Technicians
Basic Services     Immunizations,        General medicine,     Outpatient care, in-
injections, first aid,  general dentistry,  patient care, training and
home visits, health   home visits, first aid,   research, health
education and health    preventive medicine,    promotion, diagnosis and
promotion             environmental health,   treatment in the four
pharmacy, clinical    basic specialty areas:
laboratory, health    pediatrics, OBGYN,
promotion             surgery and internal
medicine through a
.________________                           general physician
Infrastructure     Nursing room,         Rooms for medical     Room for medical
administrative area,    encounters, room for   encounters, room for
outpatient area, first    dentistry, area for  dental encounters,
aid area, housing     environmental health,   administrative area, X-
(optional), community  nursing room, first aid  Ray room, laboratory,
meeting room, Public  room, pharmacy,       surgery and delivery
and private toilets   waiting room, public   room, sterilization area
and private toilets,  emergency room,
housing (optional),   kitchen and clothes
laboratory, community  washing area, storage
meeting room          room, morgue, housing
(optional), community
meeting room
Total construction   40 to 80 square     100 to 300 square      1200 to 3000 square
area               meters and an         meters and 45 square    meters and 45 for
additional 30 for     meters for housing    housing
housing



Annex 8B
- 80 -
METHOD
These criteria are based on the "Categorizacidn Municipal para efectos del establecimiento de
los sueldos de los alcaldes municipales" (DNP-UDRU-DU Bogotd, July 1988) and the corresponding
Decrees (2940 form 1988 and 2911 from 1992) and the Index for Basic Needs that are not satisfied
(NBI) indicators included in the 'Estudio de la Pobreza en Colombia', First Volume, DANE 1989.
The categorization used by DANE combines population and income an the index of economic
importance. The resulting index reflects proxies for managerial capacity and the economic status of
each municipality, with Category 1 representing the largest, most developed and wealthiest and
Category 5 representing the opposite end of the operation.
The Table below provides the breakdown of municipalities by category and the estimated
priority target populations.
Population with unsatisfled
Category *           Munidpalities in the Project            (Mii's)
1                             3**                                 1.6
2                             10                                  0.9
3                             16                                  0.7
4                            56                                    1.3
5                    ~~~~~~~135                            1.4
TOTAL                           220                                  5.9
Categories 1-3 have 50% of the population in the project area.
Cartagena, Barranquilla and Bogoti.
BASIC CRITERIA
Based on consideration of institutional and revenue capacity, as well as poverty, the
following guidelines were determined. The largest share of resources is directed to categories 2, 3
and 4, which account for about half of the poor in the project area, possess institutional potential and
have substantially lower revenues than category 1 municipalities. It is expected that these guidelines
would be revised, with experience, and, as warranted in terms of implementation capacity, a greater
share of resources would be shifted to the poorer municipalities.
Distribution of Resources
No. of
Categories     Municipalities      US$ Limit    US$/Muiclpality
1                3              10,000,000           3,300,000
2 3 4              68              28,600,000             420,600
5               105               8,500,000              81,000
Totals            176              47,100,000
3ased on 8 )percent participation of the eligible 'municipalities; limits ire maximums.
** For priority target population.



- 81 -                                    Ane BB
All projects must establish a system for referral of patients to regional and university
hospitals and from the hospitals back to the first level of care, in accordance with MOH
standards, which are being refined under the project.
FINANCIAL REQUIEMENTS
AU municipalities wil have to prove that they have the capacity to cover co-financing
costs, and that they are able to finance the implementation and maintenance of municipal
health services. Municipalities wil also have to agree to introduce systematic cost-recovery
practices, as prescribed by the project.
ECONOMIC JUSTIIICATION
The economic justification of the project will be based on the needs for infrastructure
construction and/or rehabilitation, and will include cost-efficiency analysis of the proposed
investments. These indicators wiUl be reviewed on an annual basis and will be adjusted for
local inflation in the costs of construction and other costs.
The indicators to be used wiU be: the cost per square meter of basic construction
(excluding the cost of the land, access and public works), and cost of running the system per
beneficiary. The foUlowing indicators are a rough guideline. Variations of up to 20% wiU
be accepted. Proposed subprojects that are below or above the projected cost will have to
include a detailed justification prior to been accepted.
The following tables include initial costs indicators.
COST INDICATORS PER SQUARE METER (US$)
Type of health establishment  Health Post    Health Center   Local Hospital
New construction              245             270              325
Upgrading                     245             270              325
Rehabilitation                 145            160              195
COFINANCING LIMITS PER MUNICIPALITY
Ceilings on the amount of grant financing per municipality have been established at
the rates indicated in the following Table.
MAXIMUM FINANCING PER MUNICIPALITY
Municipal category        US$ per munocipality
1                        3,300,000
2, 3 and 4                   420,600
5                          81,000



- 82 -
Anrex 8C
COLOMBIA
MUNICIPAL HEALTH SERVICES PROJECT
Flow of Funds
Provides funds to the Ministry of                             hAD
Finance based on the loan agreement.
......  .,,l...,.  ........, ,.>
Channels loan funds and funds from the                  MirisU  of Fimnce
national counterpart to the MOH.
, ,,, ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.,  .,.,....... .             g0 ......  .......o''  
Expends funds designated for the
general management of the project and
for central institutional development,
policy development and evaluation.
Expends or channels funds designated
for financing technical assistance and
training in the departments.
"Minstry of Health
Enters into contracts with, and channels::,:
funds to FIS designated for cofinancing
municipal subprojects.
.-,,.,' . ---.----. ,-,... .','..'.,-'' "'+'""'''' ' X 'g ' MW  W~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~......................
Selects and contracts fiduciaries and
channels funds to them for cofinancing                        FIS
municipal suboroiects.



- 83 -
Annex SC
Functions                                               oanization
Enter into cofinancint  contracts with
municipalities, receive cofinancing
support from the municipalities, and                                  D a e
finance municipal subprojects. a  e
Produce physical and financial
implementation reports for the FIS
speciaq unets t  f        s
Ether FiSnto poessbrjc contractsanreus
adpayments   widteh mnicial approvalc                             Loa Helt utort
andrFiesupervisibsdon. pasapoe  
by the MOH.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~......
.....  . E.@ ...  .    .. ....  .            ..   . ....   .
.    i    ..   3   g.  3  0  ..... v~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~X.   ........  ... ..
:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. ....-.....
EtherFISnto prcs  upotcontracts and requestolh  utort
adpayments andteh mnical approvalance
andrFIeS fiprvisibsdon.  plnsaproe



- 84 -
Annex SD
COLOMBIA
MUNICIPAL HEALTH SERVICES PROJECT
Supervision Schedule
Annual Supervision
Two supervision missions per year are planned for this project. They should take place
in March and September (the joint annual review) each year. The total annual number of
staff/consultant weeks required are estimated at:
Staff/Consultant                      Weeks
Task Manager                          3.5
Operations Assistant                  3.0
Health specialist                     1.0
Facilities Specialist                 1.0
Procurement Specialist                1.0
Other*                                2.0
*     Including evaluation, information, hoalth financing and taining specialims.
In addition, the first supervision mission after project effectiveness (expected for
September 1993) would be the project launch workshop, requiring an estimated four
staff/consultant weeks of time. The composition of this mission would include:
Task Manager
Operations Assistant
Disbursement Officer
Procurement Specialist
Mid-term Review
A mid-term review would replace the annual review in 1997. It should comprise a
comprehensive assessment of the project as designed and reflected in this Staff Appraisal Report,
against actual progress to date.  It should also take into account issues arising during
implementation or supervision in the early years of project execution, and serve as the basis for
introducing adjustments as may be required, particularly in respect of subproject implementation
procedures, approval criteria subproject financing limits by type of municipality, and co-
financing arrangements. Emphasis would also be given to measuring outputs, reflected in
monitoring indicators, and initial results, reflected in key indicators of impact (the monitoring
indicators and key impact indicators are listed in Annex 6A).



-85-                                                                   Annex 9
COLOMBIA
MUNICIPAL HEALTH SERVICES PROJECT
ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF LOAN DISBURSEMENTS
(US$ million)
IBRD FY-              DISB[URS-M       S   Disbmrwumats         3uace
Semester Ending         Amomat         %      Amount   %          Amot  %
II
December 31             0             0       0           0      0        100
June 30                 3.0           6        3.0        6       47.0     94
FY9S
December 31             2.0           4        5.0       10       45.0      90
June 30                 6.0           12       11.0       22      39.0      78
December 31             4.0           8        15.0       30     35.0      70
June 30                 6.0          12        21.0       42      29.0      58
FY97
December 31             6.0          12       27.0        54     23.0      46
June 30                 4.0           a        31.0       62      19.0      38
IY98
December 31             6.0          12       37.0        74      13.0     26
June 30                 4.0           8        41.0       82      9.0      18
FY9
December31              4.0           8       45.0        90      5.0      10
June 30                 2.0           4        47.0       94      3.0       6
FYN0
December 31             1.0           2       48.0        96     2.0        4
June 30                  1.0          2        49.0       98      1.0       2
_FY01
December 31             1.0           2       50.0       100      -       -
Project Compltdon Date: June 30, 2000
Project Closing Date: June 30, 2001



- 86 -
Annex 10
COLOMBIA
MUNICIPAL HEALTH SERVICES PROJECT
List of Documents Avaiable In the Project File
(1)   Draft Operations Manual. MOH, April 1993.
(2)   Project Preparation Document: Sistemas Municipales Descentralizados de Salud
(December, 1992 (and earlier versions).
(3)   Staff Development. Detailed Schedule for Training and Support.
(4)   MOH - Standard Lists for Construction, Equipment, Supplies and Furniture for
Primary Health Facilities.
(5)   Colombia - Towards Increased Efficiency and Equity in the Health Sector - Can
Decentralization Help?, draft, [BRD, March 1993.
(6)   Terns of Reference for Developing the MHiS.
(7)   Municipal Revenues in the Project Area (1992).
(8)   Legislation and Decrees Regulating Fiduciary Agents, Government of Colombia.



MAP SECTION






IBRD  24769
.   7e                                             74                                                  CUtA
JAMAICA  HAITI  DOMINICAN RIP.
C O L O                M B I A                                                                HON AS
12-    MUNICIPAL HEALTH                                                                       9     12-- N                        '
SERVICES PROJECT                                                                                       AAMA 5UNA
s0420~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Z                                         ?   ...0 *'1. W Ir sANA
KCUADOCY\
ATLANTIC                                                                                 -  ui  Y
BRAZIL
A  BOLIVIA   1
PANAAMA                                                                                                                        iA,\ONTINA ;A
r ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~\,, c) ,LCASANARE /5
UN                                D N                      I*
I-)          .1 )I                                                )   I
.-   \   A N T 10   U IA   .SANTANDERzgARAUCA                                               >   VE NE ZU EL A
X,>M?-VSXC~~~ASANARE  
4.           CIU)j,>A                                                     dV I C H A D A
> , 1y~~~~~FJ                                  B  ;OGOTA ........................   
9   7; /!    ~~~~~~~~~M E t A                                       <.
4   CAUCA           . f  \!>H U I L  >                      .              ~         <                GUAINIA
OECUA D-R                   A;                                      :G U A V I A R Epo                                                                    0*
+,>  . 0        ,_>               ~~~~~~~~~C A Q U E T A  9                               _>*
' E C  U  A  DOR                                 J1q, /0 
\                       t                                                                    > , .! \ \ MILES
<  <  j    0  50       100       150
Urban Population of Center Towns!      Elevations ImeR r ) Y N,                                                                     ,
5,000,000 prnsons                           5                                                              0    50     100   150  200  250
2,000,000                     3,000                                                                                   KILOMETERS
1,000,000                                                          AMAZONAS                                           KLMTR
500,000~ ~ ~ 00
C500 ?oooo                   o                     >8s                                                  /  BR A  Z I L
CAUCA   Project Departments
*     Notional Capitol                                @                                             I
o     Cities ond Towns with Population Over 40,000                                                          Thi ,o fpo., b- p.po.d
Highways                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~by TI,. Wo, d Book, ,t.ff
Main Highways                                                                                           l y fo, tf. ro--.-n
Rivers                                           P    E      R     U                   /              of  drood - .   for h
-   Deportment Boundaries                                                                                    M th. b - hTI, Worlmoon
-* -   Internotional Boundaries                                                          /         |               hor  of'p dod no  Group,
/ 1             porl~~~~ of -b Wo.l BookGroo
45                                                                                              11010$ of noy ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t.rory or ooy
4'                                                                                                                                    - j   endors--.nt o,  occ-pooc_ of   4-1
781                                                14,                                           -=\J                  sh bo-ndor-,R
APRiL 1 993



