Page  1
October 16, 1996
Mr. Jose Antonio Ocampo
Minister of Finance and Public Credit
Ministry of Finance and Public Credit
Carrera 7A, No. 645
Santafe de Bogota, Colombia
Re:
COLOMBIA: Loan 3615 (Municipal Health Services Project)
Amendment to the Loan Agreement
This is in connection with the Loan Agreement for the above Project dated 
September 30, 1993 and with the amendment request dated July 16, 1996 from Mr. Jorge 
Enrique Vargas, Executive Director of the Programa Sistemas Municipales de Salud of 
the Ministry of Health, as expanded by
letter 5094, also from Mr. Vargas and circunscribed1 in a later conversation between 
Mr. Vargas and Mr. Roberto Cucullu from the Bank's Legal Department. We are pleased to 
inform you that the Bank agrees to amend said Loan Agreement as shown below. Please 
note that this letter supersedes the Bank's  previous letter dated August 16, 1996.
The substance of the changes aims at enabling, within the framework of the  
aforesaid Loan Agreement: (i) the Ministry to enter into contractual arrangement with 
one or more international institutions able to provide management services to the 
Ministry (Legal Entities), or with one or more Fiduciaries, all for purposes of 
assisting the Ministry in the carrying out of Parts A and C of the Project; and (ii) 
ceasing with the mandatory entering by FIS into contractual arrangements with one or 
more Fiduciaries, as originally stipulated in the Loan Agreement, while retaining the 
ability of FIS to enter into one or more of such arrangements if FIS would so require 
for the carrying out of Part B of the Project. For that purpose, the proposed 
amendments to the Loan
Agreement follow:
1.
Paragraph (e)  of Section 1.02 of the Loan Agreement is hereby replaced by the 
following:
"(e) "Fiduciary" means a fiduciary company, subject to the control of the 
Borrower's 
Superintendency of Banks, with which the Borrower, through FIS, shall 
have entered into an 
agreement pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (d) of 
Section 3.01 of this Loan Agreement 
or of paragraph (b) of Section 3.03 of this 
Loan Agreement;".
2.
Paragraph (m) of Section 1.02 of the Loan Agreement is hereby replaced by the 
following:
"(m) "Fiduciary Agreement" means each set of contractual arrangements to 
be entered 
into between the Ministry and a Fiduciary or FIS and a Fiduciary, if any, 
pursuant to the 
provisions of, respectively, Section 3.01 (d) of this Loan 
Agreement and Section 3.03 (b) of 
this Loan Agreement;".
 
3.
Section 1.02 will be amended by adding a new paragraph to read as follows:
 
"(s) "Legal Entity" means any of the international entities acceptable to 
the Bank 
referred to in paragraph (d) of Section 3.01 of this Loan Agreement, and 
the term "Legal 
Entity Agreement" means any set of contractual arrangements 
entered into between the 
Ministry and a Legal Entity pursuant to the 
provisions of such paragraph.".
4.
Section 3.01 (b) (ii) of the Loan Agreement is hereby amended from the beginning 
of part (C) to read as follows:
"(C) if FIS so determines, by one or more Fiduciaries. The Borrower shall 
ensure that 
the Ministry and all other agencies employed by the Borrower to carry out 
the Project, 
including, without limitation, the ones mentioned above and in 
Page  2
paragraph (d) of this 
Section, shall abide by the corresponding provisions 
of the Operational Manual, as such 
Manual may be changed from time to time 
by agreement between the Borrower, acting through 
the Director of the Office 
referred to in Section 3.07 (a) of this Loan Agreement, and the 
Bank.".
 
5.
Section 3.01 (c):
 
The typographical error in the 8th line, counting from the bottom, of 
paragraph (c) 
of Section 3.01 of the Loan Agreement is corrected hereby so as to 
make the line read as 
follows:
 
"... for making available Project resources other than funds to the... ".
6.
Section 3.01 of the Loan Agreement will be amended by adding a new paragraph 
(d):
"(d) For purposes of the carrying out of Parts A and C of the Project, 
the Borrower  may enter through the Ministry into contractual arrangements on terms and 
conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank with one international legal entity 
(Legal Entity) or more, 
acceptable to the Bank and able to provide management 
services to the Ministry for purposes 
of the above referred Parts of the Project.".
 
7.
Section 3.02
The fifth line of paragraph (b) of Section 3.02 of the Loan Agreement is 
hereby 
replaced by the following line:
 
"... with FIS and the applicable Fiduciary, if any, into the contractual 
...".
8.
Section 3.03
 
The term "FIS' commitment" at the beginning of the fourth line of 
paragraph (a) (i) 
of Section 3.03 of the Loan Agreement is hereby replaced by the 
following phrase:
"FIS's ability, if FIS so determines,".
9.
The beginning of paragraph (b) of Section 3.03 of the Loan Agreement is hereby 
replaced to read as follows:
"(b) make possible that FIS, by means of the FIS Agreement and if it 
chooses to do 
so, enter with one or more Fiduciaries...".
 
10.
Section 3.04
 
The third and fourth lines of paragraph (b) of Section 3.04 of the Loan 
Agreement are 
hereby amended to read as follows:
 
"contractual arrangements (Subproject Agreement) with FIS, the applicable 
Fiduciary 
or Fiduciaries, if any, and such other parties..."
 
11.
Paragraph (c) of Section 3.04 is hereby amended to read as follows:
 
"(c) permit any change to such Subproject Agreement unless FIS and the 
applicable 
Fiduciary or Fiduciaries that are a party to the Subproject 
Agreement, if any, shall have 
given their non-objection thereto."
 
12.
Section 3.05. of the Loan Agreement is amended to read as follows:
 
"Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take, or cause FIS and relevant 
Department and 
Municipal Authorities and Fiduciary or Fiduciaries, if any, 
and Legal Entity or Entities, if  any, to take, all such action on their respective 
part to ensure that neither the applicable 
Department, Municipality, FIS, 
Subproject, Fiduciary Agreements, or Legal Entity Agreements, 
nor any provision 
thereof, are terminated, changed, abrogated or failed to be enforced 
without the Borrower's and the Bank's, acquiescence.".
Page  3
13.
Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement is amended as follows:
 
(a)
The words 'a Fiduciary'  in the second line of paragraph 3 (b) of 
Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement are hereby replaced by the following:
"... , if applicable by virtue of a determination made by FIS to use the 
services of 
a Fiduciary pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (b) (C) of Section 
3.01 of this Loan 
Agreement, a Fiduciary, ..."; and
 
(b)
the terms ", if any" are added after the term Fiduciary Agreement in the 
next to last line of the aforesaid paragraph 3.
This amendment letter shall be executed in two counterparts each of which shall 
be an original, and shall become effective on the date in which the Bank has received 
one fully executed original of such amendment letter.
Because of the interest of FIS's Director in the matter, a copy of this letter 
will be sent to the said Director.
Very truly yours,
By /s/ Paul Isenman
Director
Country Department III
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
AGREED:
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
By /s/ Jose Antonio Ocampo
Authorized Representative
Date:
December 17, 1996
_____________________________
1
Changes between this letter and the August 16 letter are in this paragraph and 
in paragraphs 
2 and 9 below.
 
