Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3615-CO
Loan Agreement
(Municipal Health Services Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated September 30, 1993
As amended through letters dated October 16, 1996 
and August 28, 1997 and as further 
revised on July 15, 1998
LOAN NUMBER 3615-CO
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 30, 1993, between REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank), as amended 
through letters dated October 16, 1996 and August 28, 1997 and as further revised on 
July 15, 1998.
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
by virtue of the provisions of the Borrower’s Decrees No. 1691 of June 
27, 1997 and No. 27 of January 1998, both issued by the Borrower’s President 
exercising the powers conferred upon him by Article 30 of the Borrower’s Law 344 of 
1996 and Article 189. item 11 of the Borrower’s Constitution, the Borrower’s Fondo de 
Cofinanciación para la Inversión Social-FIS (as defined below) has terminated its 
operations and Financiera de Desarrollo Territorial S.A. (FINDETER) has been charged 
with the financial administration of some of the budgetary resources appropriated or 
to be appropriated to the Borrower’s Ministry of Health for cofinancing municipal 
health services, namely the resources now assigned by the said Ministry to FINDETER 
for purposes of carrying out Part B.2 of the Project (FINDETER, as administrator of 
said resources  hereinafter to be called FIS ADMINISTRATOR);
(C)
the provisions of the Decrees mentioned in (B) above and those of the 
By-laws (Estatuto de Funcionamiento y Operación) of FIS (as defined below), approved 
by the Borrower’s Decree No. 2672 of December 29, 1993, as amended  through June 27, 
1997, to the extent said By-laws have not been modified by the said Decrees, require 
Page  2
the revision of this Loan Agreement and of the FIS Agreement (as defined below; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
revised Agreement and in the revised FIS Agreement (as defined below);
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth below 
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
(b)
In Section 6.02, subparagraph (k) is relettered as subparagraph (l) and a 
new subparagraph (k) is added to read:
"(k)
An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which any 
further 
withdrawals under the Loan would be inconsistent with the 
provisions of Article III, Section 
3 of the Bank's Articles of Agreement."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"Department" means Departamento, a political subdivision of the Borrower; 
the term "Selected Department" means a Department, as so defined, that it is shown in 
the Operational Manual (as the term is defined below) as one of the Departments 
selected to participate in the Project and, exclusively for purposes of this Loan 
Agreement, the term also includes the aggregate of Selected Zones (as the term is 
defined below) in another political subdivision of the Borrower, the Distrito Capital 
Santafé de Bogotá; and the term "Department Authority" means the corresponding Health 
Authority in such Department, as shown in the Operational Manual and, exclusively for 
the purpose of this Loan Agreement, the term includes the Secretaría de Salud of the 
aforesaid Distrito;
(b)
"Department Agreement" means each set of contractual arrangements 
referred to in Section 3.01 (c) (i) of this Loan Agreement;
(c)
"Eligible Expenditure" means a Co-Financed Expenditure, as the term is 
defined below, eligible for financing under the Loan for Part B.2 of the Project, or a 
Plan Expenditure, as the term is defined below, eligible for financing under the Loan 
for Part A.4 of the Project, all in accordance with the provisions of this Loan 
Agreement and the Operational Manual which, is hereby expressly understood, exclude 
expenditures for drugs, recurrent costs of Municipalities, transfer of assets, 
acquisition of land, severance payments and refinancing of debt;
(d)
"Expenditure" means any precisely quantifiable and legitimate expense 
under the Project according to the Operational Manual; the term "Plan Expenditure" 
means any Expenditure, as so defined, for which resources have been provided under a 
given Municipal Plan; and the term "Co-Financed Expenditure" means a Plan Expenditure, 
as so defined, which has been accepted by FIS ADMINISTRATOR following instructions 
from the Ministry, for financing under one or more Subprojects, all in accordance with 
the provisions of the Operational Manual;
(e)
"Fiduciary" means a fiduciary company, subject to the control of the 
Borrower's Superintendency of Banks, with which the Borrower, through FIS shall have 
entered into an agreement pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (b) of Section 3.03 
of this Loan Agreement;
(f)
"FIS" means the former Borrower's Fondo de Cofinanciación para la 
Inversión Social-FIS, an entity vested with legal personality and established under 
Decree No. 2132 of the Borrower's President dated December 29, 1992, issued pursuant 
Page  3
to the provisions of Transitory Article No. 20 of the Borrower's Constitution, whose 
functions have been terminated and, to some extent, will be now performed by the FIS 
ADMINISTRATOR, all as represented in the Preamble to this revised Loan Agreement;
(g)
"FIS Agreement" means the agreement referred to in Section 3.03 (a) of 
this Loan Agreement as originally entered into and accepted by the Bank for purposes 
of meeting the related conditions stipulated in paragraph 3 (b) (i) of Schedule I to 
the Loan Agreement dated September 30, 1993, and the term includes the revision of the 
FIS Agreement to be done in order to meet the disbursement condition stipulated in the 
same paragraph of this revised Loan Agreement;
(h)
"Ministry" means the Borrower's Ministry of Health;
(i)
"Municipal Plan" means a medium-term plan for the provision of the basic 
package of primary health services described in Part B. 1 of the Project within a 
Municipality, which a Municipal Authority has prepared with technical assistance 
provided to such Municipality under Part A of the Project and proposed to the 
corresponding Department Authority and which has been approved by the latter, and 
eventually modified from time to time also with the approval of the latter, all in 
accordance with the provisions of the Operational Manual;
(j)
"Municipality" means each Municipio, a political subdivision of the 
Borrower, located within each Selected Department or, exclusively for the purpose of 
this Loan Agreement, each of the Selected Zones; and the term "Municipal Authority" 
means the corresponding health authority in such Municipality, as shown in the 
Operational Manual, and the term includes, exclusively for the purpose of this Loan 
Agreement, the public officer to whom authority in each Selected Zone has been 
delegated by the Secretaría de Salud referred to in paragraph (a) above; 
(k)
"Municipality Agreement" means each set of contractual arrangements 
referred to in Section 3.02 of this Loan Agreement;
(l)
"Operational Manual" means the operational manual for the Project 
approved by the Borrower's Minister of Health and accepted by the Bank in fulfillment 
of the provisions of Section 6.01 (c) of this Loan Agreement, as such manual may be 
changed from time to time pursuant to the provisions of Section 3.01 (b) of the Loan 
Agreement;
(m)
"Fiduciary Agreement" means each set of contractual arrangements to be 
entered into between FIS and a Fiduciary, if any, pursuant to the provisions of  
Section 3.03 (b) of this Loan Agreement;
(n)
"Selected Zone" means an area within the Borrower's Distrito Capital 
Santafé de Bogotá that has been listed or described in the Operational Manual for the 
purpose of the inclusion of said area in the Project;
(o)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(p)
"Subproject" means a set of activities related to the carrying out of 
Part B.2 of the Project and aimed to the provision of health services under Part B.1 
of the Project, which has been included in a Municipal Plan, and which has been 
approved by FIS ADMINISTRATOR and the Ministry for financing under the Project;
(q)
"Subproject Agreement" means each set of contractual arrangements to be 
entered into for the carrying out of a Subproject pursuant to the provisions of 
paragraph (b) of Section 3.04 of this Loan Agreement; and
(r)
“Legal Entity” means any of the international entities acceptable to the 
Bank referred to in paragraph (d) of section 3.01 of this Loan Agreement, and the term 
“Legal Entity Agreement” means any set of contractual arrangements entered into 
between the Ministry and a Legal Entity pursuant to the provisions of such paragraph.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Page  4
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various currencies that 
shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of fifty million dollars 
($50,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each 
withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower shall, through the Borrower's Ministry of Finance and Public 
Credit and for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in dollars a special 
deposit account in its Banco de la República on terms and conditions satisfactory to 
the Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2001 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding 
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the 
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the 
rate applicable during such Interest Period.
(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall 
notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such 
Semester.
(c)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
"Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the date 
immediately 
preceding each date specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement, beginning 
with the Interest Period in which this 
Agreement is signed.
(ii)
"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as reasonably 
determined by the 
Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum, of the 
outstanding borrowings of 
the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982, 
excluding such borrowings or portions 
thereof as the Bank has allocated 
to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) 
loans which may be made by 
the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing interest rates 
determined otherwise 
than as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
(iii)
"Semester" means the first six months or the second six months of 
a calendar 
year.
(d)
On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months' notice 
to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to 
read as follows:
"(a)
The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn 
and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each 
Quarter equal to the Cost of 
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of 
the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of 
one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each 
of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement, the 
Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount 
outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates applicable 
during such Interest Period."
Page  5
"(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the Bank 
shall notify 
the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in 
respect of such 
Quarter."
"(c)
(iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period commencing on January 
1, April 1, 
July 1 or October 1 in a calendar year."
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on June 
15 and December 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project through the Ministry with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate public health care and administrative practices, and shall 
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project.
(b)
(i) With regard to Part A of the Project, the Borrower shall be assisted 
by: (A) each Department Authority; (B) each Municipal Authority of a Municipality that 
chooses to participate in Part A of the Project; and (C) if the Ministry so 
determines, a Legal Entity; and (ii) with regard to Part B of the Project 
(particularly in respect of the carrying out of one or more Subprojects for purposes 
of Part B.2 of the Project in a Municipality which has organized its health 
authorities at the satisfaction of the corresponding Selected Department and the 
Ministry, and has obtained the approval of its Municipal Plan), the Borrower shall be 
assisted by: (A) the Municipal Authority in question; (B) FIS ADMINISTRATOR; and (C) 
if FIS shall have so determined, by one or more Fiduciaries. The Borrower shall ensure 
that the Ministry and all other agencies employed by the Borrower to carry out the 
Project, including, without limitation, the ones mentioned above and in paragraph (d) 
of this Section, shall abide by the corresponding provisions of the Operational 
Manual, as such Manual may be changed from time to time by agreement between the 
Borrower, acting through the Director of the Office referred to in Section 3.07 (a) of 
this Loan Agreement, and the Bank.
(c)
For purposes of the carrying out of Part A of the Project, the Borrower 
shall enter, through the Ministry, into contractual arrangements satisfactory to the 
Bank with each Department Authority that chooses to participate in Part A of the 
Project, acting on behalf of the Selected Department in question or, in the case of 
the Distrito Capital Santafé de Bogotá, on behalf of the latter (each set of said 
contractual arrangements to be referred to as Department Agreement) for, inter alia, 
the following purposes: (i) in order to obtain from the Department Authority in 
question its adherence to, and commitment to abide by, the provisions of the 
Operational Manual; (ii) to set forth the terms and conditions under which the 
Department Authority in question shall: (A) provide assistance to the Borrower for the 
carrying out of Part A of the Project; and (B) commit to secure the participation of 
the corresponding Municipalities or Selected Zones, as the case may be, under the 
terms and conditions set forth in the corresponding Municipality Agreement; (iii) to 
stipulate the terms and conditions for making available Project resources, other than 
funds, to the Department Authority in question and to the corresponding Municipal 
Authorities which shall have entered with such Department Authority into the 
corresponding Municipality Agreement; and (iv) to cause the Department Authority to 
enable the Borrower to discharge its obligations under this Loan Agreement, 
particularly those under Sections 3.05, 3.06 and 4.01 of this Loan Agreement and 9.05 
through 9.08 of the General Conditions.
(d)
For purposes of the carrying out of Parts A and C of the Project, the 
Borrower may enter through the Ministry into contractual arrangements on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Bank with one  international legal entity (Legal 
Entity) or more, acceptable to the Bank and able to provide management services to the 
Page  6
Ministry for purposes of the above referred Part of the Project.
Section 3.02. With regard to Part A of the Project, the Borrower shall cause 
each Department Authority to enter, with each Municipal Authority that chooses to 
participate in the Project, into contractual arrangements (Municipality Agreement), 
satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank, that shall: (a) ensure that the Municipal 
Authority in question shall abide by the provisions of the Operational Manual; (b) 
stipulate the terms and conditions consistent with the provisions of the Operational 
Manual under which such participation will materialize, and under which the Municipal 
Authority in question will, in due time, become eligible to enter with FIS 
ADMINISTRATOR (and before this revision of the Loan Agreement with FIS, and the 
applicable Fiduciary, if any) into the contractual arrangements referred to in Section 
3.04 (b) of this Loan Agreement (Subproject Agreement) with regard to the carrying out 
of one or more Subprojects included in the Municipal Plan of the Municipality in 
question; and (c) include provisions causing the Municipality to enable the Selected 
Department in question to take all such action as shall be required to enable the 
Borrower to discharge its obligations under this Loan Agreement, particularly those 
under Sections 3.05, 3.06 and 4.01 of this Loan Agreement and 9.05 through 9.08 of the 
General Conditions; provided, however, that, in the case of Distrito Capital Santafé 
de Bogotá, it shall be deemed hereby accepted that, to the extent that all relevant 
Municipal Authorities are signatories of the relevant contractual arrangements, the 
Municipality Agreement and the Department Agreement may be one and the same.
Section 3.03. For purposes of the carrying out of Part B.2 of the Project, the 
Borrower shall:
(a)
enter, through the Ministry and the representative of the Borrower under 
Section 7.01 of this Loan Agreement, with FIS ADMINISTRATOR into an agreement 
satisfactory to the Bank (FIS Agreement), which agreement shall stipulate, in a manner 
consistent with the Operational Manual, the terms and conditions under which FIS 
ADMINISTRATOR shall: (i) approve Subprojects following instructions of the Ministry 
for purposes of their financing under the Loan and, in general, provide assurances on 
FIS ADMINISTRATOR’s assistance to the Borrower in the carrying out of Part B. 2 of the 
Project, including (before this revision) FIS’s ability, if FIS shall have so 
determined, to enter, for that purpose, with one or more Fiduciaries into the 
agreements provided for under paragraph (b) of this Section; (ii) make funds available 
to each Municipality on the basis of a non-reimbursable transfer and for the carrying 
out of one or more Subprojects; and (iii) provide assurances that FIS ADMINISTRATOR 
shall enable the Borrower to discharge its obligations under this Loan Agreement, 
particularly those under Sections 3.05, 3.06 and 4.01 of this Loan Agreement and 9.05 
through 9.08 of the General Conditions; and
(b)
have made possible for FIS, by means of the FIS Agreement and if FIS 
shall have chosen to do so, to enter with one or more Fiduciaries into contractual 
arrangements satisfactory to the Bank (Fiduciary Agreement), which contractual 
arrangements shall have set forth the terms and conditions under which the Fiduciary 
in question shall have: (i) managed the resources advanced to it by the Borrower 
(other than Loan proceeds which shall be used only to reimburse payments already made 
or to make direct payments) and, if so required, for the carrying out of a specific 
Subproject by the applicable Municipal Authority; (ii) facilitated the financing by 
FIS of Subprojects consistent with the corresponding Municipal Plan; (iii) authorized 
expenses under Subprojects for which financing have been so approved; (iv) entered 
into contractual arrangements on behalf of the Municipal Authority in question, if so 
required, to secure the supply of, or to make payments for, civil works, services and 
goods required under the Subproject in question; and (v) enabled FIS to enable the 
Borrower to discharge its obligations under this Loan Agreement, particularly those 
under Sections 3.05, 3.06 and 4.01 of this Loan Agreement and 9.05 through 9.08 of the 
General Conditions.
Section 3.04.
(a)
The Borrower shall neither approve any Subproject nor submit a Subproject 
to FIS ADMINISTRATOR for financing unless: (i) the Department and Municipal 
Authorities in question shall have entered into the corresponding Department Agreement 
and, subject to the proviso to Section 3.02 of this Loan Agreement, into the 
corresponding Municipal Agreement; (ii) the corresponding Municipal Authority, or the 
Distrito Capital Santafé de Bogotá in the case of a Subproject in a Selected Zone, has 
Page  7
given the necessary assurances under the corresponding Municipal Agreement (or 
Department Agreement in the case of such Distrito when the aforesaid proviso is 
applicable) that the provision by such Municipal Authority of the necessary resources, 
including funds, for the execution of the Municipal Plan and, if so required, the 
Subproject in question shall materialize; and (iii) (A) the Municipal Plan; (B) the 
Subproject in question; (C) the approval thereof by the applicable Department 
Authority; and (D) the Co-Financed Expenditures thereunder, are all fully consistent 
with the applicable terms and conditions of the Operational Manual effective at the 
time such approval takes place, particularly in respect of cost-recovery provisions.
(b)
The Borrower shall cause FIS ADMINISTRATOR not to disburse funds in 
respect of any Subproject approved unless the Municipal Authority in question shall 
have entered into contractual arrangements (Subproject Agreement) with FIS 
ADMINISTRATOR, the applicable Fiduciary or Fiduciaries, if any, and such other parties 
as shall be required for the carrying out of the Subproject in question, (including 
before this revision to the Loan Agreement, the applicable Fiduciary or Fiduciaries, 
if any) and such arrangements are satisfactory to FIS ADMINISTRATOR (or before such 
revision, shall have been satisfactory to FIS) and fully consistent with the terms of 
the Operational Manual.
(c)
The Borrower shall cause FIS ADMINISTRATOR (or shall have caused FIS, as 
applicable,) not to permit any change to such Subproject Agreement unless FIS 
ADMINISTRATOR (or, before such revision, FIS and the applicable Fiduciary or 
Fiduciaries that are parties to the Subproject Agreement, if any,) shall have given 
their non-objection thereto.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take, or cause FIS ADMINISTRATOR and relevant 
Department and Municipal Authorities and Fiduciary or Fiduciaries, if any, and Legal 
Entity or Entities, if any,  to take, all such action on their respective part to 
ensure that neither the applicable Department, Municipality, or FIS, Subproject, 
Fiduciary or Legal Entity Agreements, nor any provision thereof, are terminated, 
changed, abrogated or failed to be enforced without the Borrower's and the Bank, 
acquiescence.
Section 3.06. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.07. For purposes of the carrying out of the Project the Borrower 
shall:
(a)
maintain a Central Project Coordinating Office in the Ministry with such 
organization, functions and responsibilities as shall be satisfactory to the Bank, 
provide such Office with such resources as shall be required for its effective 
operation, and ensure that the Director of such Office and the heads of the Technical, 
Administrative and Investments Units thereof are, at all times, persons having 
qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Bank; and
(b)
without limitation or restriction to the provisions of Section 9.07 of 
the General Condition, use, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, the 
model to be developed under Part C.2 of the Project for purposes of the evaluation of 
Project impact.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall, commencing on September 30, 1994 and jointly 
with the Bank, review all aspects of Project implementation during the preceding 
calendar year so as to determine whether Project objectives are being attained and to 
introduce required adjustments in Project execution and, if so warranted, changes 
agreed with the Bank in the Operational Manual; and, starting in September 30, 1996, 
the review shall also evaluate the impact of the Project pursuant to the provisions of 
paragraph (b) of Section 3.07 of this Loan Agreement. \0c
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained separate 
Page  8
records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices 
the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the 
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or 
any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section 
including those for the Special Account for each 
fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
months after the end of each such year, the report of 
such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information con\1fcerning said 
records and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from 
time to time reasonably 
request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain or cause to be retained, until at least one year after the 
Bank has 
received the audit report for the fiscal year in 
which the last withdrawal 
from the Loan Account was made, all 
records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a)
that the Borrower or any authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of FIS ADMINISTRATOR or for the 
suspension of its operations, or the provisions of the Decrees referred to in Clause B 
of the Preamble to this revised Loan Agreement shall have been changed or abrogated in 
a way that may affect materially and adversely the carrying out of the Project or the 
compliance by the Borrower with its obligations under this revised Loan Agreement; and
(b) 
that any action or proceeding shall have been taken by any Fiduciary or 
by others whereby any of the assets of the Fiduciary in question shall or may be 
distributed among its creditors or the operations of the Fiduciary in question in 
respect of the Project have been materially and adversely affected; provided, however, 
that if an event specified in paragraph (b) shall have occurred and be continuing, the 
suspension of the Borrower's right to make withdrawals from the Loan Account may be 
limited by the Bank to withdrawals in respect of Project expenditures related to the 
Fiduciary or Fiduciaries affected.
Page  9
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified, namely, that any of the events specified in 
paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur, and shall continue for a 
period of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the 
Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. This revised Loan Agreement shall become effective, upon signing 
thereof by the Borrower’s representative stipulated under its Section 7.01 and the 
representative of the Bank, as of February 1, 1998:
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance and Public Credit of the Borrower is 
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministerio de Hacienda y Crédito Público
Edificio de los Ministerios
Santa Fe de Bogotá
Colombia
Cable address:
Telex:
MINIHACIENDA
44473 MHACCO
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI); or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this revision of the Loan Agreement to be signed in their 
respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, and in Bogotá, 
Colombia, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
By /s/ Juan Camilo Restrepo Salazar
Minister of Finance and Public Credit
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Page  10
By /s/ Jonathan Parker
Acting Director, Country Management Unit
Colombia, Ecuador and Venezuela
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
 Amount of the
 Loan Allocated
  % of
 (Expressed in
 Expenditures
Category
Dollar Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Eligible
   20,300,000
100% of amounts
Expenditures
disbursed by FIS
(2)
Void
      0
Not applicable
(3)
Computers and
     3,700,000
100% of foreign
audio visual
expenditures and
equipment for
85% of local
Part A.1 of the
expenditures
Project
(4)
Technical
    14,500,000
65%, and 100% in
assistance
the case of
and training
Eligible Expendi-
(including
tures under a
training
pilot project
materials)
under Part A
of the Project
and Eligible
Expenditures
under pilot
projects under
Part A.4 of
the Project
(5)
Consultants
     3,400,000
100%
services for
Part C of the
Project
(6)
Expenditures for
     3,000,000
65%
Project Admini-
stration other
than vehicles
(7)
Vehicles for
       100,000
100% of foreign
Project Admini-
expenditures
stration
(8)
Unallocated
     5,000,000
     _________
TOTAL
    50,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
Page  11
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
(c)
the term "Expenditures for Project Administration" means Consultant 
Services for the units referred to in Section 3.07 (a) of this Loan Agreement, 
vehicles, office furniture, supplies and maintenance costs, travel expenses, per-diem 
for personnel of such unit, and other expenditures for such unit's operation as shall 
have been agreed from time to time between the Director of said unit and the Bank.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of:
(a) 
 payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of 
$2,000,000, may be made in respect of Parts A and C of the Project on account of 
payments made for expenditures under Parts A or C of the Project before that date but 
after December 15, 1992;
(b) 
Category (1) or Category (2) of the table in paragraph 1 above related to 
payments made by FIS ADMINISTRATOR or a Fiduciary with which FIS shall have entered 
into a Fiduciary Agreement or a Legal Entity or a Municipal Authority on account of 
expenditures under a Subproject, unless: (i) the FIS Agreement shall have been revised 
in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank so as to make therein all changes 
consequential to this revision of the Loan Agreement; and (ii) the Bank shall have 
been furnished with evidence satisfactory to it that the corresponding Fiduciary 
Agreement and Subproject Agreement or Legal Entity Agreement have been executed and 
delivered;
(c)
expenditures under Part A of the Project incurred in by the Borrower 
which directly affect a Department, or by a Department Authority, (other than 
expenditures incurred under the Department Agreement on the basis of which the 
condition stipulated under paragraph (c) of Section 6.01 of this Loan Agreement was 
fulfilled), unless the Bank shall have been furnished with evidence satisfactory to 
the Bank that the corresponding Department Agreement has been executed and delivered; 
and
(d) 
expenditures under Part A of the Project incurred in by the Borrower or 
by a Department Authority which directly affect a Municipality, or by a Municipal 
Authority, unless the Bank shall have been furnished with evidence satisfactory to the 
Bank that the corresponding Department and Municipal Agreements shall have been 
executed and delivered.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (a) to enhance Municipal Authorities' 
capacity to plan and manage provision of primary health care; (b) to improve the 
quality, efficiency and coverage of primary health services in Municipalities; and (c) 
to strengthen the design and execution of key policy measures, and the evaluation of 
impact thereof to support development of effective primary health care.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Institutional Development
1.
Information.
(a)
Preparation and establishment of a municipal health information system 
(MHIS) with the purpose of strengthening the planning, monitoring and evaluation of 
primary health services. The core of MHIS will be three subsystems based on health 
information data: (i) resource data, such as availability, use and status of 
Page  12
personnel, equipment, drugs, supplies and facilities; (ii) service data, such as 
direct services and patient records, outreach services and patient records and 
community services; and (iii) financing data, such as revenues by source (including 
fees), and expenditures by type of service and category of expenditures. For the 
development, testing and introduction of the MHIS, the Borrower shall utilize 
consultants' services, shall acquire computers for the Ministry, the Selected 
Departments and some of the Municipalities, and shall utilize or furnish to said 
Departments and Municipalities and cause each of them to utilize, as the case may be, 
such computers.
(b)
Development and establishment of key monitoring indicators to be used, 
primarily, for purposes of the administration of health service provision and 
additionally, of Part C.2 of the Project.
2.
Service Planning and Management Support.
(a)
Provision of training and administrative support for health authorities, 
administrators of primary health facilities, selected primary health practitioners, 
and community representatives in local boards and/or committees involved with primary 
health care, all in the Municipalities, with emphasis on municipal responsibilities 
and procedures for providing primary health services, including maintenance of the 
facilities and equipment therefor, and on the introduction and use of MHIS for 
municipal planning, programming and monitoring of health care services. Training and 
support methodology shall be based upon short courses, workshops and for very specific 
tasks, work sessions, and early preparation of Municipal Plans is an expected output 
from the aforesaid training and administrative support. 
(b)
Strengthening of certain public health training facilities which have 
been assigned to the health services of Selected Departments, so as to enable them to 
serve as centers for development training, and technical support for the management 
and delivery of health services in the Municipalities through the preparation: (i) of 
training and support programs; (ii) materials; and (iii) training of trainers on a 
continuous basis.
(c)
Provision of technical assistance, fellowships and study tours connected 
to (a) and (b) above, and for human resources staff of the Ministry, the health 
services of Selected Departments and the training centers referred to in the preceding 
paragraph (b).
3.
Staff Development.
Introduction of regular in-service training, and technical support and 
supervision, for health personnel in the Municipalities, specially for health 
promoters, nurses and nurse assistants and physicians, development of career 
opportunities and incentives for the above and improved coordination and support of 
mandatory social service temporary staff.
4.
Pilot Projects.
Execution of projects in 5 Municipalities within not less than two Departments 
which will be used to pilot the use of the Operational Manual, particularly processing 
procedures and criteria.
Part B:
Service Development
1.
Service Content.
Introduction in the Municipalities of a basic package of primary health services 
which shall address highly prevalent health conditions in Colombia, and for which 
effective preventive, curative or palliative solutions can be provided. The services 
under the package shall be designed to promote health and prevent disease through 
community information and education and to provide ambulatory and simple in-patient 
care, including surgical and emergency care. The package shall focus: (a) in respect 
of maternal and infant care, on prenatal care, postnatal consultation, growth 
monitoring, immunization and breast feeding; (b) in respect of child care, on 
diagnosis and treatment of infections, visual and hearing screening, growth 
monitoring, and nutrition and hygiene monitoring; (c) in respect of adolescent and 
Page  13
young adult care, on preventive education on health risk factors such as substance 
abuse, sexually transmitted diseases and diagnosis and treatment of infections; (d) in 
respect of adult care, on prevention, monitoring and treatment of selected chronic 
diseases; (e) in respect of older adult care, on early detection and treatment of 
selected chronic diseases; (f) reproductive health; and (g) prevention of violence and 
accidents.
2.
Service Support and Facilities.
Rehabilitation, upgrading or expansion, as the case may be, of existing, and 
construction of new, health facilities in one or more Municipalities, and acquisition 
and utilization of furniture therefor and medical equipment and supplies for health 
posts and centers and hospitals in one or more Municipalities, all in support of Part 
B.1 of the Project and to materialize by means of the carrying out of one or more 
Subprojects under the corresponding Municipal Plan.
Part C:
Policy Development and Evaluation
1.
Policy Development.
Execution of studies on: (a) establishment of a system for pricing the provision 
of public health services; (b) standardization of cost-recovery for primary services; 
(c) development, improvement and unification of employment systems and terms and 
conditions thereof, throughout the Borrower's public health system; (d) establishment 
of systems of quality control for the provision of health services, and of 
accreditation for every provider thereof, to be initially applied to primary health 
facilities; and (e) preparation of future health projects and/or other health topics 
such as may be agreed upon from time to time between the Borrower and the Bank.
2.
Evaluation.
Development, on the basis, inter alia, of the following key indicators to be 
developed under Part A.1 (b) of the Project, and utilization, of a model for Project 
impact evaluation: (a) changes in the number of women seeking prenatal care during the 
first trimester of pregnancy; (b) child mortality due to upper respiratory infections 
and diarrhea; and (c) immunization coverage.
*   *   *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2000.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
 Payment of Principal 
Date Payment Due
(expressed in dollars)*
On each June 15 and December 15
beginning December 15, 1998
through   December 15, 2009
2,085,000
On June 15, 2010
2,045,000
Page  14
_____________________________
*
The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as of the 
respective 
dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 
4.03.
Premiums on Prepayment
Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium payable on 
the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage 
specified for the applicable time of prepayment below:
Time of Prepayment
Premium
The interest rate (expressed as 
a percentage per annum) applicable 
to the Loan on the day of prepayment 
multiplied by:
Not more than three years
0.18
before maturity
More than three years but
0.35
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but
0.65
not more than eleven years
before maturity
More than eleven years but not
0.88
more than fifteen years
before maturity
More than fifteen years before
1.00
maturity
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in 
Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" 
published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines). For fixed-price contracts, the 
invitations to bid referred to in paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that, 
when contract award is delayed beyond the original bid validity period, the successful 
bidder's bid price will be increased for each week of delay by two predisclosed 
correction factors acceptable to the Bank, one to be applied to all foreign currency 
components and the other to the local currency component of the bid price. Such an 
increase shall not be taken into account in the bid evaluation.
2.
To the extent practicable, contracts for audio-visual equipment shall be grouped 
in bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of more than $250,000 each.
Page  15
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Colombia may be granted a margin of preference in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
Subject to the provisions of paragraph 2 below, civil works estimated to cost 
the equivalent of $ 200,000 or less, audio-visual equipment which cannot be grouped in 
packages estimated to cost the equivalent of more than $250,000, vehicles, furniture 
and training materials may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
competitive bidding, locally advertised, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to 
the Bank, provided, however, that, in respect of audio-visual equipment the contracts 
so awarded shall not exceed, in the aggregate, the equivalent of $600,000.
2.
Civil works estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or less, audio-visual 
equipment, furniture, and training materials which cannot be grouped in packages 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $25,000 or more, and medical equipment and 
supplies readily available at Municipality level which cannot be grouped in the 
aforesaid packages, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison 
of price quotations solicited from at least three suppliers eligible under the 
Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank, provided, however, 
that in respect of audio-visual equipment, furniture, above referred training 
materials, medical equipment and supplies, and civil works, the contracts so awarded 
shall not exceed, in the aggregate, the equivalent of $100,000, $4,100,000, 
$1,000,000, $8,100,000 and $10,000,000, respectively.
Part D:
Other Procurement Provisions
1.
 All bidders, irrespective of whether they are foreigners or Colombians, will be 
treated equally and, particularly, no preference will be granted to any bidder or 
group of bidders for bid evaluation purposes. Bidders shall be allowed to submit their 
bids by hand or through the post office or private mailing services. There shall not 
be any requirement for any bidder to show evidence of the bidder's registration in any 
public registry, chamber of commerce or similar, whether in Colombia or elsewhere, or 
to appoint a representative domiciled in Colombia, unless and until such bidder is 
awarded the corresponding contract.
2.
Bids shall be opened in a public meeting to which bidders and their 
representatives shall be allowed to attend if they so wish. Date, time and place for 
the opening meeting shall be set forth in the bidding documents. Bid opening shall 
coincide with, or take place promptly, after the final date and time of the period for 
bid submission stipulated in the bidding documents.
3.
 Each bid shall be evaluated and the corresponding contract awarded to the 
responsive bidder who meets appropriate technical and financial standards of 
capability and whose bid has been determined to be the lowest evaluated bid. Such 
determination shall be made exclusively on the basis of the specifications, conditions 
and evaluation criteria stipulated in the bidding documents. If any factor additional 
to the amount or amounts of each bid is to be considered in bid evaluation, such 
factor or factors and the quantified manner on which they will be applied for purposes 
of determining the lowest evaluated bid, shall be precisely stipulated in the bidding 
documents. For purposes of bid evaluation and comparison, the only bid amount or 
amounts to be used as a factor shall be the bid amount or amounts as quoted in the 
corresponding bid, including correction of arithmetic errors.
4.
The provisions of paragraph 2.46 of the Guidelines shall fully apply and, more 
specifically, bids shall not be disclosed to persons other than the persons officially 
charged with the task of comparing and/or evaluating the bids while they are 
performing their official duties, without the corresponding bidder's written 
authorization. Moreover, bidders shall not be required to provide such authorization 
as a condition to be entitled to bid. This confidentiality requirement shall apply 
until the award of contract is notified to the successful bidder. Thereafter, 
confidentiality of the bids shall be limited to those bid portions for which 
confidentiality has been specifically requested by the bidder in question;
Page  16
Part E:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
(a)
With respect to: (i) each contract awarded or entered into directly under 
Parts A.1 or C.3 of this Schedule, respectively; (ii) each civil works or goods 
contract of $200,000 or more awarded under Part C.1 of this Schedule; and (iii) the 
first contract, irrespective of its value, awarded in respect of each type of item 
under Parts C.1 and C.2 of this Schedule, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 
4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply; provided, however, that the Bank may 
request that one or more further contracts, in respect of each type of item, awarded 
under Parts C.1 and C.2 of this Schedule, be subject also to such procedures if the 
Bank would have raised objections in respect of the award of the first contract of the 
corresponding type of item or applicable Part of this Schedule. Where payments for 
such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be 
modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract required to be 
furnished to the Bank pursuant to subparagraph (d) of said paragraph 2 shall be 
furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special 
Account in respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
said procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the Bank 
pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to 
be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which withdrawals from the Loan Account are to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure.
2.
The figure of 10% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
1.
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out Parts A and C of the Project, 
the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and 
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be 
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the 
basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by The 
World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultants 
Guidelines).
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short 
lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and 
contracts, shall not apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of consulting  firms 
or individuals estimated to cost less than $25,000 equivalent each. However, said 
exceptions to prior Bank review shall not apply to: (a) the terms of reference for 
such contracts; (b) single-source selection of consulting firms; (c) assignments of a 
critical nature, as reasonably determined by the Bank; or (d) amendments to contracts 
for the employment of consulting firms or individual consultants raising the contract 
value to $25,000 equivalent or above.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), and (3) through (7), 
as set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
without limitations or restriction to the provisions of Categories (1) 
Page  17
and (4) of the said table and Section 1.02 (c) of this Loan Agreement, the term 
"eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the reasonable cost of goods 
and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $3,000,000 
to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have 
requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the 
Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant 
to para\1fgraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect 
of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, 
the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in 
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said 
documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, 
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Page  18
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
