Page  1
August 28, 1997
Mr. José Antonio Ocampo 
Minister of Finance and Public Credit 
Ministry of Finance and Public Credit 
Carrera 7A, No. 645 
Santa Fe de Bogotá 
Colombia
Re:
COLOMBIA: Loan 3615-CO (Municipal Health Services Project)
Amendment to the Loan Agreement
This is in connection with the Loan Agreement for the above Project between the 
Republic of Colombia (the Borrower) and ourselves, dated September 30, 1993, as 
amended to the date herewith (the Loan Agreement). More specifically, this letter 
relates to one of the aspects of the letters from Mr. Luis Eliseo Velásquez Londoño, 
Executive Director, Municipal Health Services Project, dated July 16 and 23, 1997 on 
the above i.e. the current provisions re: procurement in Schedule 4 to the Loan 
Agreement. 
We are pleased to inform you that we agree with the request therein about 
transferring all the proceeds of the Loan currently undisbursed and allocated to 
Category (2) of the Table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement 
(the Table) i.e. the equivalent of 7,300,000 United States dollars, to Category (1) of 
the Table. 
Moreover, the Bank has agreed also that it will be advantageous for the progress 
of the Project to make some other changes to the Loan Agreement, as proposed below:
(a)
because of the depletion of the aforesaid Category (2), the exception 
stated to the scope of Category (1) of the Table and the provisions of paragraph C.3 
of Section I of Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement hereby cease to have effect, to the 
extent that Category (2) remains empty;
(b)
the provisions of Part D of Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement are hereby 
amended to read as follows:
“1.
All bidders, irrespective of whether they are foreigners or 
Colombians, will 
be treated equally and, particularly, no preference will be 
granted to any bidder or group 
of bidders for bid evaluation purposes. Bidders shall 
be allowed to submit their bids by 
hand or through the post office or 
private mailing services. There shall not be any 
requirement for any bidder 
to show evidence of the bidder's registration in any public 
registry, 
chamber of commerce or similar, whether in Colombia or elsewhere, or to appoint a 
representative domiciled in Colombia, unless and until such bidder is awarded the 
corresponding contract.
2.
Bids shall be opened in a public meeting to which bidders and 
their 
representatives shall be allowed to attend if they so wish. Date, 
time and place for the 
opening meeting shall be set forth in the bidding 
documents. Bid opening shall coincide 
with, or take place promptly, after the 
final date and time of the period for bid submission  stipulated in the bidding 
documents.
3.
Each bid shall be evaluated and the corresponding contract awarded 
to the 
responsive bidder who meets appropriate technical and financial 
standards of capability and 
whose bid has been determined to  be the lowest 
evaluated bid. Such determination shall be 
made exclusively on the basis of the 
specifications, conditions and evaluation criteria 
stipulated in the bidding 
documents. If any factor additional to the amount or amounts of 
each bid is to be 
considered in bid evaluation, such factor or factors and the quantified 
manner on 
which they will be applied for purposes of determining the lowest evaluated bid, 
Page  2
shall be precisely stipulated in the bidding documents. For purposes of bid evaluation 
and 
comparison, the only bid amount or amounts to be used as a factor shall be the 
bid amount or 
amounts as quoted in the corresponding bid, including correction 
of arithmetic errors.
4.
The provisions of paragraph 2.46 of the Guidelines shall fully 
apply and, more 
specifically, bids shall not be disclosed to persons other than 
the persons officially 
charged with the task of comparing and/or evaluating 
the bids while they are performing 
their official duties, without the 
corresponding bidder's written authorization. Moreover, 
bidders shall not be 
required to provide such authorization as a condition to be entitled to 
bid. This 
confidentiality requirement shall apply until the award of contract is notified to 
the successful bidder. Thereafter, confidentiality of the bids shall be limited to 
those bid 
portions for which confidentiality has been specifically requested by the 
bidder in 
question;”
(c)
the limit of $100,000 in paragraph 1 (a) (ii) of Part E of Section I of 
Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement is hereby raised to $200,000; provided, however that 
the proviso to said paragraph will hereby be made applicable with respect to the first 
contract for goods and the first contract for civil works exceeding  $100,000 
submitted to the Bank for prior review after the date on which the amendments included 
in this letter become effective pursuant to the terms and conditions of this amendment 
letter; and
(d)
the current  provisions of Section II of Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement 
are hereby lettered as paragraph 1 thereof and the following paragraph 2 is hereby 
added:
“Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the 
provisions of the 
Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or approval of 
budgets, short lists, 
selection procedures, letters of invitation, 
proposals, evaluation reports and contracts, 
shall not apply to: (a) contracts for 
the employment of consulting  firms or individuals 
estimated to cost less 
than $25,000 equivalent each. However, said exceptions to prior Bank 
review shall 
not apply to: (a) the terms of reference for such contracts; (b) single-source 
selection of consulting firms; (c) assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably 
determined by the Bank; or (d) amendments to contracts for the employment of 
consulting 
firms or individual consultants raising the contract value to 
$25,000 equivalent or above.”
If you agree with the amendments proposed above, please sing and date, on behalf 
of the Borrower, the form of confirmation attached hereto. The said amendments will 
become effective once: (i) the Bank has received said form duly signed and dated; and 
(ii) the Bank has been furnished with evidence satisfactory to the Bank that the 
Operational Manual has been changed, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank and pursuant 
to the provisions of paragraph (b) of Section 3.01 of the Loan Agreement,  so as to 
reflect the said amendments. 
Because of their interest in this matter, copies of this letter are being sent 
to Dr. María Teresa Forero de Saade, Minister of Health, and Dr. Luis Eliseo Velásquez 
Londoño, Executive Director, Municipal Health Services Project.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Andrés Solimano 
CMU Director Colombia, 
Ecuador, Venezuela 
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
Page  3
AGREED:
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
By /s/ José Antonio Ocampo
Minister of Finance and Public Credit
Date: October 2, 1997
