Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 16475 AM
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA
HEALTH FINANCING AND PRIMARY HEALTH CARE
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
June 30, 1997
Municipal and Social Services
Country Department IV
Europe and Central Asia Region



CUR-RENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of May, 1997)
Dram I    =    US$0.0021
US$1           Dram 470
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ASIF         A:rmenia Social Investment Fund
BBP          Basic Benefits Package
BoD         lBurden of Disease
CAS          Country Assistance Strategy
CEE          Central and Eastern Europe
EU/TACIS           Iluropean Union Technical Assistance to CIS countries
ECA          Europe and Central Asia
FSU         lFormer Soviet Union
FY          l'iscal Year
FM/GP           l'amily Medicine/General Practice
GDP          (iross Domestic Product
GoA          (iovernment of Armnenia
HCE          hlealth Care Expenditures
IDA          International Development Association
IMF          International Monetary Fund
MCH           Maternal and Child Care
MoH           Ministry of Health
MoFE           Ministry of Finance and Economy
NGO           Non-Governmental Organization
NIH          National Institute of Health
OM          Operational Manual
PER          Public Expenditure Review
PHRD           P'olicy and Human Resources Development Fund
IJapanese Grant Facility)
PHC         Plrimary Health Care
PHCDP           Plrimary Health Care Development Program
PIP         P'roject Implementation Plan
PMU           Plroject Management Unit
SAC          Structural Adiustment Credit
SATAC           Structural Adjustment Technical Assistance Credit
SHA          State Health Agency
SMU           State Medical University
TA          rechnical Assistance
UNDP           iJnited Nations Development Program
UNICEF           United Nations Children Fund
USAID          UJS Agency for International Development
WHO/EURO             World Health Organization Europe Office
FISCAL YEAR: January I - December 31
Vice President, Europe and Central Asia Region:                 Johannes Linn (ECA)
Director, Europe and Central Asia Country Department IV:        Basil Kavalsky (EC4DR)
Chief, Municipal and Social Services Division:                  Thomnas A. Blinkhorn (EC4MS)
Team Leader:                                                    Alexandre Marc (EC4MS)



TABLE OF CONTENTS
I. ECONOMIC AND SECTOR BACKGROUND . ...........................................................1
A. Recent Economic Developments .................................................................I
B. Health Sector .................................................................2
C. Health  Care Reform   Strategy .................................................................6
D. Rationale  for Bank  Involvement .................................................................8
II. PROJECT DESCRIPTION ............................................................9
A. Objectives .................................................................9
B. Project Description  ................................................................ 10
C. Project Component 1:  Strengthening  Primary  Healtlh  Care ...........                                      ........................................ 10
D. Project Component 2:  Strengthening   Health  Financing  System  ............................................ 13
E. Project Component 3:  Project Management ...............................................                                     .................  15
III. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING, PROCUREMENT, DISBURSEMENTS ............. 15
A. Cost Estimates ................................................................ 15
B. Project Financing ................................................................  16
C. Procurement ................................................................                                                                     16
D. Disbursement ................................................................                                                                   20
E. Accounts and Audits ................................................................                                                            21
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ........................................................... 21
A. Organization  and  Management ................................................................ 21
B. Monitoring, Evaluation  and  Supervision ............................                                   .................................... 23
V. SOCIO-ECONOMIC ANALYSIS ...........................................................                                                                          24
A. Analysis of Project Alternatives ................................................................ 24
B. Fiscal Impact and  Project Sustainability ................................................................                                      26
C. Institutional Capacity Analysis and
Lessons Leamed  from   Previous Bank  Operations in  Armenia ................................................ 28
D. Social Assessment and  Stakeholder Participation ................................................................     29
E. Benefits and  Risks ................................................................                                                            30
H. Poverty Impact ................................................................                                                                 31
I. Environmental Impact ................................................................                                                           31
VI. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS ...........................................................  31
A. Agreements Reached  During Negotiations .....................................                                      ........................... 31
B. Conditions of Effectiveness ...........................................................                                                         32



TABLES
Table 1.1: The top three causes of DALYs lost in Armenia in 1995                                 3
Table 3.1: Summary of project cost estimates by component                                       15
Table 3.2: Project Financing Plan                                                               16
Table 3.3: Project Costs by Expenditure Category                                                19
Table 3.4: Allocation of Credit Proceeds by Disbursement Category                              20
Table 3.5: Estimated Disbursements                                                             20
Table 5.1: Projections of public sector health care expenditures                               26
Table 5.2: Project risks                                                                       30
ANNEXES
Annex 1:   Health Sector Indicators
Annex 2:   Primary Health Care Strategy
Annex 3:   Health Financing Strategy
Annex 4:   Executive Summary of Social Assessment in Health and Education Sectors
Annex 5:   Outlines of Project Implementation Plan and Primary Health Care Development Program
Annex 6:   Detailed Cost Tables
Annex 7:   Summary of Procurement Arrangements
Annex 8:   Project Monitoring Indicators
Annex 9:   Documents in Project Files
MAP         IBRD No. 28874
This report is based on the findings of preparation missions and a pre-appraisal mission which visited Armenia
since July 1995. The core team, Alexandre Marc (Task Manager) and Toomas Palu (Co-Task Manager and
Health Specialist) were assisted by World Bank staff with expertise in areas related to the project components,
including: Margaret Grosh (PRDPH), Laura Rose (EC4MS), Mary Schmidt (ENVSP), Seema Manghee
(EC4MS), Wolfgang Munar (Consultant), Tamara Kanterman (EC4MS). The preparation of the project was
carried out by two working groups at the Ministry of Health composed of representatives from various
stakeholders, including the Ministries of Finance and Economy. The project concept was discussed in a
workshop comprising representatives from the central, regional and local levels of Government, health care
providers, and NGOs active in the sector. The local preparation team was assisted by a project preparation unit
based in the Ministry of Health and external consultants financed through a PHRD grant and other Trust Funds.
The Department Director is Basil Kavalsky, the Division Chief is Thomas Blinkhorn. Peer Reviewers are Chris
Lovelace (ECI/2HR); Alexandre Abrantes (LASHD); Logan Brenzel (HDD).



REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA
HEALTH FINANCING AND PRIMARY HEALTH CARE
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower                    Republic of Armenia
Implementing Agency         Ministry of Health
Beneficiaries               Ministry of Health, communities receiving grants to upgrade PHC
facilities, primary health care providers, population in the PHC
Development Program intervention areas through improved quality
of health care. Population at large through improved access to
essential health care services
IDA Credit Amount           SDR 7.2 million (US$10 million equivalent)
Credit Terms                Payable in 35 years with 10 years grace period at standard IDA
terms.
Commitment Fee              0.50% on undisbursed credit balances less waiver, beginning 60 days
after the date of signing the Credit Agreement.
Environmental Aspects       The project has been rated as environmental category C.
Poverty Aspects             Limited impact on the poor through improved access to basic health
care services and the Basic Benefits Package focus on diseases and
health problems affecting the poor.
Staff Appraisal Report      16475 AM
Map                         IBRD No. 28874
Project ID                  AM-PA-50 140






REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA
HEALTH FINANCING AND PRIMARY HEALTH CARE
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I.  ECONOMIC AND SECTOR BACKGROUND
A.    RECENr ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENTS
1.1    A landlocked country covering 29,800 square kilometers and with a population of 3.75
million, Armenia has few natural resources. Its people have survived through strong traditions of
education and entrepreneurship. Following the break up of the Soviet Union and independence in
1991, Armenia inherited a distorted, inefficient economy which was badly affected by the collapse of
the central planning system and disruption of traditional trading patterns. Economic and social
problems were compounded by the devastation of the 1988 earthquake, and by the economic siege
resulting from political conflicts in Georgia and the dispute with Azerbaijan over Nagorno-Karabakh.
A catastrophic decline in economic output followed, accompanied by hyper-inflation which
accelerated to 900% in the last two months of 1993 and continued through the first half of 1994,
averaging slightly over 1,500% a year.
1.2    Since 1994 Armenia has made huge strides in economic reform and establishing a suitable
policy framework. The stabilization program, sustained since spring 1994, brought the budget deficit
down to 7 percent of GDP in 1996, less than a sixth of the 1993 figure. Annual inflation has fallen to
less than 10 percent. After a year's collapse, GDP grew by 5.4% in 1994, almost 7 percent in 1995
and 5.8 percent in 1996. At the heart of the Government's reform program has been the stimulation
of the private sector. Almost all agricultural land and 60% of enterprises have been privatized. Prices
have been liberalized and subsidies removed. Clearing trade arrangements have been eliminated, and
foreign exchange and trade regimes liberalized. The administrative structure of the country has
changed from the former complex structure of 37 districts, 27 townships, 31 settlements and 479
village councils into a two tier administration of 11 provinces (marz, with the governor appointed by
central government) and 930 communities (hamaink, elected council). 1
1.3    Living standards have fallen sharply due to the collapse in real wages, compounded by the
removal of subsidies on essential goods and drastic cuts in spending on social services. Despite
positive growth since 1994 which has allowed a slight recovery, real wages are still about a fifth of
what they were in 1992. Although comparable data are not available for earlier periods, the 1994-
1995 household expenditure survey indicates that the fall in living standards for many has been
accompanied by increasing inequality in the distribution of income.
1.4    Health expenditure declined in 1992-94 by 35% and education spending by 39% in real
terms. Under the structural adjustment program, the Government is now attempting to increase social
sector spending as a percentage of total expenditures. It is clear that only a major restructuring of
social sector spending and in-depth reforms of health, education and social protection systems will
result in improved social services in the medium and long term.
I     "Republic of Armenia: Municipal Sector Note." Draft sector report, World Bank, EC4MS.



- 2 -
B.    HEALTH SECTOR
1.5     Before health care reformn began in 1995, the system was based on the Soviet Union model.
Organization, management and finance were centrally coordinated through the Ministry of Health.
Services were delivered through a territorially structured hierarchical network of 182 hospitals
(general and specialized) and 1,500 outpatient facilities (health-posts, ambulatories and polyclinics).
The Sanitary Epidemiology Stations network concentrated on infectious diseases prevention and
surveillance.
1.6     The Armenian health sector is now being reorganized to adjust to the new socio-economic
environment and respond to the people's needs. The key challenges facing the health sector are the
deteriorating health status of the population and the inability of the hospital oriented and resource
constrained system to meet the health needs of the population.
Deteriorating Health
1.7     This is the most critical long term public health issue in Armenia. It is due to: (i) worsening
adult health status, reflected in declining adult life expectancy and increasing burden of disease
among adult population; (ii) continuing poor maternal and child health (MCH); and, (iii) re-
emergence of communicable diseases and diseases related to poor socio-economic conditions.
1.8     Worsening adult health. In the 1950s and 1960s, health status improved steadily. This
was supported by the Soviet health system which effectively addressed mortality and morbidity
related to infectious diseases. In the 1960s and 1970s, the health status of Armenians compared
favorably with other industrialized countries. In the late 1970s and 1980s, it began to deteriorate,
particularly compared with continuous improvements in OECD countries. In 1993, life expectancy at
age 30 was 41.0 years for men and 46.4 years for women, compared to 43.3 and 49.2 respectively in
1980. Increased cardio-vascular mortality (57% in 1980-93) contributed to the steady rise in overall
mortality and lower adult life expectancy.
1.9     In 1995, according to the Burden of Disease study, Armenia lost roughly 400,000 Disability
Adjusted Life years (DALYs)2 due to premature death and disability (Table I . 1). Poor health status
of adult males is the main finding of the study. Males accounted for 59% of total DALYs lost, 54%
of which occurred between the age of 15 and 59 - the productive years of life. The gender gap in
health status in Armenia is higher than the average for countries in the former Soviet Union
(male/female DALY loss ratios 1.42 and 1.32 respectively).
1.10     Data on behavioral risk factors are scarce. A study conducted by National Institute of
Health (1995) revealed that 56.4% of boys and 20.7% of girls from 14-16 years of age smoke.3 The
study reported family, peer pressure and schools as factors prompting children to start smoking. No
laws currently exist in Armenia to regulate the sale or advertising of tobacco products. Individuals do
not appear to take responsibility for their health. This is partly due to lack of information and health
education, but also because of long term adverse incentives. Although health care services incur out-
2      DALY (Disability Adjusted Life Year) aggregates years of life lost due to premature death and years of
life lived with disability into a single health status indicator. The approach was first used for the World
Development Report in 1993 and is being used to assess burden of ill health on a society and for cost-benefit and
cost-effectiveness analysis in the health sector.
3      Armenia Monthly Public Health Report. Vol. 3, No. 5; May, 1995.



of-pocket costs to patients, attitudes have not yet changed. Health promotion and disease prevention
programs that should be free or impose minimal costs do not exist.
Table 1.1: The top three causes of DALYs lost in Armenia in 19954
Males                       Females
DALYs lost        %          DALYs lost         %
Death DALYs
CVD                     61,868          36%          48,378          43%
Cancer                  25,434          15%          20,791          18%
Accidents               33,125          19%           8003            7%
Subtotal                120,427         70%           7 7,172        68%
Disability DALYs
Trauma                  11,586          21%           6,680          14%
Ischaemic heart disease  8,615          16%           7,767          17%
Nervous system           6,951          13%           6,724          15%
Subtotal                27,152          50%          21,171          46%
1.11     Chronic non-communicable diseases need to be given high priority. The risk factors for
cardio-vascular disease, cancer and injury are well known. The prevalence of risk factors needs to be
assessed and cost effective health promotion and disease prevention measures introduced to bring
about long term improvements in health status.
1.12     Maternal and Child Health. Despite improvements in reducing infant mortality (official
indicator was 14.2 per 1,000 births in 1995), Armenia continues to lose DALYs in the early years of
life (9% of DALYs are lost in the age group 0-4 compared to 6% in established market economies5).
Since the early 1990s, there is evidence of increased premature births and anemia in pregnancy
indicating a decline in MCH. Primary health care measures such as family planning, nutritional
support and breast-feeding programs are likely to improve the health status of children and mothers.
The perinatal period is sensitive to the quality of medical care, and improved clinical practices are
likely to lead to reduction of perinatal and maternal mortality. Appropriate equipment and
standardization of professional expertise and facilities are required for lasting improvement.
1.13     In relative terns, however, the official MCH indicators compare favorably with other FSU
countries. Extensive humanitarian support from international agencies (UNICEF, EU), intemational
NGOs and diaspora has helped to prevent major decline in MCH. These programs need to be re-
integrated into the national health care system.
1.14     Re-emergence of poverty related diseases. Tuberculosis, water-born infectious diseases,
respiratory diseases, vaccine preventable diseases and other poverty related diseases have re-emerged.
Economic breakdown, war, the influx of refugees, earthquake and the trade blockade have resulted in
a decline of living conditions. Central heating has not been operational for years, water-supply has
been intermittent, at best, and electricity has been available for only a few hours a day until last year.
Cold weather, poor hygiene and continuous stress contribute to the ill health of society.
"Armenia: Burden of Disease and Cost-Effectiveness Analysis of Basic Benefits Package" (consultant
report, project files, 1997).
S      The Global Burden of Disease; ed. Murray, Lopez; WHO, 1996



- 4 -
1.15     There were 36 cases of epidemic diphtheria reported in 1994 and 29 in 1995. In 1993,
there were 338 measles cases reported and 187 cases in 1995. The gap in vaccine coverage is a
transitional problem and has been solved through effective cooperation between GoA and UNICEF,
USAID, CDC6 and Diaspora organizations.
Inability of Health System to Deal with Health Needs
1.16     The Armenia health care system is inefficient, chronically under funded and provides no
equitable access. Structural reform is sorely needed. The GoA needs to improve efficiency of the
health care system by focusing scarce public resources on cost-effective public health and medical
interventions, improving the balance between the hospital and the primary health care sector and
protect access to essential health care for the most vulnerable population.
1.17     Chronic under funding. The health sector became increasingly under funded towards the
end of the Soviet era because of declining productivity and a slow down of economic growth. Public
sector health care spending represented between 2-3% of GDP during the late 1980s. After the
collapse of the Soviet Union, public sector health care expenditures (HCE) fell sharply as a proportion
of GDP and as a share of public expenditures. The decline in real expenditures was aggravated by
high inflation. In 1997, public spending on health care was estimated at 2% of GDP, 6% of total
Govemment expenditure and US$6.75 per capita. This is less than the 1993 WDR7 recommended
minimum of US$12 and US$20 for basic health care programs in low and lower-middle income
countries. Humanitarian aid from international organizations and diaspora has been vital in the first
years of economic collapse. Medicines and supplies provided through humanitarian assistance in
1995 were estimated at about US$4 per capita. This aid, however, is rapidly falling as the country
moves from an emergency to a development stage. Low public funding and informal out-of-pocket
payments are widespread, raising serious equity issues. The Ministry of Health working group
estimates that in 1995 private health spending were in the magnitude of US$60 million, whereas
extrapolations using the data collected from the Social Assessment put private spending at about
US$40 million (US$16 and US$10.8 per capita respectively). See Table 1.2.
Table 1.2: Health Sector Expenditures in Armenia in 1995 in mil US$8
Sources and Uses of health  Labor   Drugs and     Capital and   Other costs*    Total
care expenditures            cost     tests    equipment costs
Government allocation        10.5      9.1           3.1            5.5          28.2
Formal private fees          1.0       0.9           --             --            1.9
Informal private fees       37.3       12.8          --             4.8          54.9
Humanitarian assistance       --       15.0          --             --           15.0
Total                       48.8       37.8          3.1           10.3         100.0
* Other costs include food, bedding, linen, utilities and miscellaneous expenses.
1.18     Low efficiency of health services. The Armenian system has a hospital and specialist
bias, excess facilities and hospital beds, and imbalanced human resources. By design, the Soviet
health care system was based on: a territorial principle; strong primary health care system comprising
6      CDC - Centers for Disease Control
7      WDR - World Development Report
8      Reservations to all financial data includes inconsistency and fragmentation of available information,
and uncertain baseline data, such as population number.



general physician, pediatrician, and nurse/midwife; and the vertical Sanitary Epidemiology Stations
system. Beginning in the 1960s, the principle was distorted because of political motives to pass the
West in health sector input indicators. Advances in technology led the system to move rapidly
towards a hospital and specialist bias. By 1990, Armenia had created an impressive capacity of 4
physicians, 10 nurses and 9.9 hospital beds per 1,000 population (compare with respective indicators
of 2.5, 5 and 8 per 1,000 population in established market economies).9 Their use, however, was not
efficient (for example, in 1994, ALOS 10 in hospitals was 16 days and the bed occupancy rate only
44%) and health outcomes did not compare favorably with other European countries. Moreover,
such a capacity is increasingly difficult to sustain for the Government.
1.19     The capacity of the Primary Health Care (PHC) network to support the delivery of
ambulatory health services is weak due to lack of infrastructure, inadequate equipment and shortage
of trained staff. In the 1970s, district health officers functions were discontinued and responsibilities
for the management of the district health care system was passed to directors of district hospitals.
This shift also influenced the allocation of funds: 89% of public funds were spent on hospital care
and only 2% on outpatient services in 1993. Outpatient facilities have been starved of funds for
maintenance, salaries, equipment and drug supplies, particularly during the recent economic crisis.
Agricultural cooperatives that usually supported local health care facilities were dissolved when land
was privatized. Currently, communities are not involved in decisions related to health care delivery
and quality.
1.20     Primary health care providers have low professional status and only 24% of rural
ambulatories are staffed with a physician. Most cases are being referred to specialists or hospitals
because of lack of skills, inadequate equipment, supplies and physical environment. Moreover,
patients often by-pass this first level of health care: according to the Social Assessment, 36% of
patients by-pass the first level and refer themselves to specialist care. During 1980s, dramatic
growth of ambulance services occurred to compensate for the lack of effective primary health care
services.
1.21     Public health capacity to deal with primary and secondary prevention of chronic non-
communicable disease is limited. Sanitary-Epidemiology Stations system has capacity to deal with
infectious diseases and sanitary surveillance but has no experience and capacity to implement cost-
effective primary and secondary prevention measures for non-communicable diseases. In the
difficult first years of transition, some primary health care programs (immunization, maternal and
child health programs) were funded and managed by international donors and now need to be re-
integrated into the national public health system to ensure their sustainability.
1.22     The GoA needs to take steps to improve the balance between the hospital sector, primary
health care and public health services. This requires proactive restructuring policies for the hospital
sector, strengthening PHC sector inputs and management, developing institutional capacity for
modem public health practice and implementing inter-sectoral public health policies.
1.23     The FSU health financing system provided poor incentives for efficient use of resources
and contributed to the build-up of excess capacity. Health care facilities were financed by line-item
budgets based on existing capacity of beds and health personnel. With chronic public under-funding
9      Source: "Sector Strategy Paper for Health and Nutrition and Population Sector" (a World Bank report,
draft, 1997).
10     ALOS - average length of stay.



- 6 -
and widespread informal payments, health care facilities have diversified their sources of revenues.
The system is not transparent, however. Private payments do not contribute to maintenance, and there
is no accountability in the use of private funds.
1.24     Low quality and inequitable access to health services. Despite seemingly good
coverage, access to health services is worsening. Since 1985, statistics show considerable decline in
health services use. The Social Assessment revealed that the main factors for declining access are
high out-of-pocket costs (fees to health personnel, pharmaceuticals and other disposables) and a
perceived decline in quality (lack of heating and electricity, poor sanitary conditions of facilities). In
1995-96, the median out-of-pocket cost was US$8 and US$77 for outpatient visit and hospital stay
respectively. The Social Assessment also showed lower access to health services for the rural
population, as shown by higher rates of non-diagnosed health problems and fewer visits to qualified
health care providers. The rural population also had less access to medicines and higher overall
access costs because of transportation difficulties.
1.25     The burden of private spending falls on the sick who are more likely to be in the low
income category. The main source of private funding (43.5%) has been sale of assets, such as
property, livestock and jewelry. Due to difficult economic conditions, social solidarity has eroded.
Both the Qualitative Poverty Assessment and the Social Assessment have revealed that transfers and
support tends to be limited to the extended family. There are no private risk-pooling arrangements
and no formal insurance schemes. The consequences of a catastrophic acute or chronic illness can be
devastating for a household.
1.26     The Poverty Assessment shows high levels of poverty (28% of the population in 1995).
Targeting, however, has proved to be difficult because of the importance of informal revenues in the
economy and lack of correlation between poverty and traditional socio-economic categories. The
Social Assessment also showed that in the health sector, there appears to be some discretion among
doctors as to how much to charge informally for health services. Rural physicians would accept
payment in kind; however, in towns, cash payments prevail and constitute a serious barrier to
patients' access to health care. Costs related to medical supplies and pharmaceuticals are less flexible
than health personnel charges because most pharmacies have been privatized. These factors will
make protecting access of the poor to health services difficult.
C.    HEALTH CARE REFORM STRATEGY
Concept of reform
1.27     The Government's health care reform strategy is laid out in the 1995 Minister of Health's
"Program on Development and Reforms of the Health Care System of the Republic of Armenia,
1996-2000." The 1996 "Law on Medical Aid and Services to the Population" provides the legal
framework for implementation of the strategy. The reform plan includes health financing
restructuring; reorientation of the health system towards primary health care; improving and updating
medical education; introduction of licensing of professionals; giving management of health care
facilities to autonomous state enterprises and decentralizing responsibilities for health care system
administration to regions and local authorities; privatizing some health care institutions; and
improving health care management information systems.



- 7 -
1.28     The Armenia Primary Health Care (PHC) strategy" establishes PHC as outpatient health
care services, integrating "traditional" primary health care (e.g. immunization), primary and
secondary prevention of non-communicable diseases (health education and screening), and personal
curative health care services aimed at responding to common health problems and providing
alternatives to hospital care. PHC services will be provided by a PHC team that will include a family
doctor, pediatrician, general practice nurse and midwife. In the longer term, a social worker and
dentist may be added. Patients and families can choose their provider. The team will act as a
gatekeeper to specialized health care services. The PHC facilities will be transferred to local
authority ownership but PHC could also be provided on a private basis. The state mandate to provide
basic health care services will be funded through risk-adjusted capitation payments by the State
Health Agency. Vertical PHC programs will be integrated into a Basic Benefits Package (BBP)12 but
some sanitary-epidemiology programs will remain vertical. The strategy foresees a gradual
implementation of reform. This will include developing the appropriate regulatory framework,
training and re-training of PHC providers, practice guidelines development and investment into
rehabilitation of PHC facilities and equipment. In fact, the reform builds on the original Soviet
health system principles, but does correct the distortions, integrates it with modem financing
incentives and management techniques, and introduces choice of provider.
1.29     The core elements of the health financing reform strategy13 are the separation of health
care provision and financing. These provide autonomous "state enterprise" status to health facilities,
introducing appropriate financing incentives for efficiency, limiting state responsibility for financing
the Basic Benefits Package and protecting access to all services for vulnerable groups and improving
the financial or management information system. The State Health Agency will be created to
purchase services included in the BBP. In the short and medium tern, the Government will continue
to finance public health services from the general budget. During implementation of reformns, the
GoA intends to develop institutional capacity, change health care providers' financial reporting
standards, improve the sustainability and cost-effectiveness of the BBP and regulate and make
transparent private infornal payments for health care services.
Status of reforms
1.30     Since December 1996, most state and regional hospitals have obtained state enterprise
status. By the end of 1997, all health care providers, except for a few public health institutions,
should have the same status. The Government is introducing a program based financing system
which is based on volume of services for hospitals and per capita financing of primary health care
services. The GoA is increasing the relative share of public sector health care expenditure for public
health care programs and outpatient health care services: an increase from 24% of public sector health
care spending in 1996 to 29% in 1997. The GoA has privatized most pharmaceutical retailers and
wholesalers, dentistry offices and a sophisticated outpatient Diagnostic Center. The Diagnostic
Center has a positive, transparent management and financing system. In 1997, the GoA will privatize
six tertiary care hospitals in the capital city (1,520 beds in total) with no loss in public sector
provision of essential services. It has also passed a law regulating the licensing of health providers
and has set up a computerized licensing center at the MoH.
l' I   "Primary Health Care Reform Strategy," GoA document (Annex 2).
12     BBP - Basic Benefits Package - publicly funded public health and medical interventions universally
accessible to all.
13    "Statement of Health Care Financing Reform Strategy," GoA document (Annex 3).



- 8 -
1.31     The health sector is complex and many issues are intertwined. The GoA recognizes the
need to develop and consolidate health related legislation, modernize functions and management of
the Ministry of Health, modernize public health services to address the increasing burden of non-
communicable diseases (such as cardio-vascular diseases, cancer and injury), review Government
policy on training medical professionals, rationalize excess hospital capacity, improve health sector
managerial capacity and develop a national drug policy. Interventions need to be prioritized and
backed with resources and technical expertise due to limited capacity. In the short and medium term,
the GoA will implement primary health care and health financing reform with the support of the
proposed World Bank credit; develop a national drug policy with support from WHO/EURO;
improve health policy planning capacity at the MoH and regional level, provide training for health
care managers with the assistance of EU/TACIS; and continue to support MCH programs with the
support of UNICEF. In addition, many national and international NGOs active in the health sector
are reorienting their activities from emergency towards developmental assistance.
D.    RATIONALE FOR BANK INVOLVEMENT
1.32     Stabilization of Armenia's economy and political environment has reduced the need for
international emergency assistance and increased the need for developmental support. The World
Bank has been engaged in a policy dialogue with the GoA since 1995 and has supported policy
development with technical assistance from both PHRD and Dutch Government grants. The current
project is consistent with the World Bank strategies in Arnenia and the health sector.
1.33     Linkage with economic and sector work. Relevant economic and sector work (ESW) for
the social sectors have been completed, including a Poverty Assessment, Public Expenditure Review
(PER) and the Social Assessment Report on Health and Education.14 Much health sector work was
done in the project preparation phase. 15 In addition, Bankwide sector work was used for project
rationale.'6 The findings and conclusions of the ESW have been used in the policy dialogue with
Government on health care reform strategy and on the design of the proposed project. Relevant
documents are included in the project file (see Annex 9).
1.34     The Poverty Assessment stresses the importance of improving health and education as a
way to reduce poverty. Ensuring access to basic education and health services for poor households is
essential to an equitable distribution of the benefits of growth. Such access will also play a crucial
role in preventing transitional poverty from becoming structural. At the same time, Armenia's highly
inefficient health and education systems need to be reformed to reverse the trend of declining school
enrollments and deteriorating quality and standards in both health and education sector.
14    "Armenia: Confronting Poverty Issues" (World Bank, 15693-AM, 1996); "Public Expenditures in
Armenia: Strategic Spending for Creditworthiness and Growth (World Bank report, draft, 1997); "Social
Assessment Report on Health and Education Sectors in Armenia" (consultant report, project files, 1996).
"Health Financing Reform in Armenia: final report of technical assistance provided to the Ministry of
Health" (consultant report, project files, 1996); "Armnenia: Primary Health Care reform" (consultant report,
project files, 1996); "Armenia: Burden of Disease and Cost-Effectiveness Analysis of Basic Benefits Package"
(consultant report, project files, 1997).
16    "Health Sector Assistance Strategy for ECA Region" (a World Bank ECA regional report, draft, 1997)
and "Sector Strategy Paper for Health and Nutrition and Population Sector" (a World Bank report, draft, 1997).



1.35     The PER states that investing in basic education and health should be the Armenian
Government's highest priority. Armenia has relatively little agricultural or mineral resources to boost
its growth and its greatest asset remains the people. Armenians are highly educated, hard working
and entrepreneurial. Preserving and enhancing this human capital is a highly efficient way to ensure
sustained economic growth along with expanding job opportunities and poverty alleviation.
1.36     The Health Sector Assistance Strategy for ECA countries establishes the following
priorities for World Bank assistance: to develop institutions, functions and structures that promote
medium-term goals of improving governance and performance in the health sector; support country
efforts to improve the allocation of resources in health sector; improve appropriateness of clinical
intervention and increase their cost-effectiveness and technical proficiency; assist ECA countries to
design health financing and health delivery system reforms; and respond to special health needs and
health crises.
1.37     Linkage to Country Assistance Strategy. The World Bank strategy in Armenia is
described in the limited country assistance strategy (CAS), as discussed by the Board of Directors
during the presentation of the Rehabilitation Credit on February 28, 1995, and the revised CAS, that
will be presented to the Board of Directors in summer 1997. The Armenia CAS focuses on private
sector development and on supporting social sustainability and alleviation of poverty. The latter
should be accomplished through the strengthening of the social safety net and through improvements
in the quality of, and access to, basic health and education. In the health sector this translates into
ensuring minimum public spending on health and diversification/legitimization of other sources of
funding; improving efficiency of the health system; and improving access for the poor.
1.38    International Co-ordination. The CAS stresses the important role the World Bank can
play in coordinating interventions of other donors and act as a catalyst in attracting other sources.
This project has been prepared in close cooperation with the UNICEF, EU/TACIS and WHO/EURO.
UNICEF has a significant field presence, and EU/TACIS has a ECU I million TA project in the
pipeline. UNICEF and TACIS representatives have joined World Bank missions on five occasions to
coordinate developmental assistance. UNICEF will participate in development and implementation
of this proposed IDA supported project which is expected to integrate UNICEF programs in the long
term. WHO/EURO will be supporting the development of the National Drug Policy. The MoH has
established a staff position to coordinate both humanitarian and developmental support. The
incumbent will be an ex officio member of the project coordination committee.
II. PROJECT DESCRIPTION
A.    OBJECTIVES
2.1     The project will support the implementation of the Government of Armenia health financing
and primary health care reform. The project objectives are to: (i) improve quality and efficiency of
primary health care through training and retraining of primary health care staff, introduction of
practice guidelines and improving the infrastructure and equipment in selected PHC facilities; (ii)
improve efficiency, transparency and targeting of public health spending by introducing basic benefits
package, performance based provider payment methods and modern financial management; and, (iii)
mobilize communities to take an active role in defining local health care priorities and sustaining
basic health care services.



- 10-
B.    PROJECT DESCRIPTION
2.2     The project will be implemented over four years by the Ministry of Health, the State Health
Agency, the National Institute of Health, the State Medical University, Medical College as well as
elected regional health authorities and communities. The Ministry of Health will supervise and a
Project Management Unit will be created to manage the project. Total project costs are
approximately US$12.1 million and an IDA credit in the amount of US$10 million is proposed.
2.3     The project comprises:
I.    Strengthening Primary Health Care System through
a.    Primary Health Care Providers Training Program
b.    Primary Health Care Development Program
c.    Development of Primary Health Care Guidelines.
2.    Strengthening the Armenia Health Financing System through
a.    Establishment of the State Health Agency
b.    Improvement of Basic Benefits Package
c.    Improvement of Provider Payment Methodology
d.    Improvement of Management Information Systems.
3.    Project Management.
C.    PROJECT COMPONENT 1: STRENGTHENING PRIMARY HEALTH CARE
(US$6.1 MILLION BASE COST)
2.4     This component supports the implementation of the PHC strategy. PHC implies outpatient
health care services and integrates "traditional" primary health care (e.g. immunization), primary and
secondary prevention of non-communicable diseases (health education and screening) and personal
curative health care services aimed at responding to common health problems and providing
alternatives to hospital care. The aim is to develop an enabling environment for the improvement of
the quality of and accessibility to PHC services in Armenia The component will support the GoA to
develop training and re-training capacity of PHC providers, selected communities to rehabilitate and
equip PHC facilities and train their staff, and the development of PHC practice guidelines.
Sub-component 1.1 Primary Health Care Providers Training Program (US$2.2 million base
cost)
2.5     Under the PHC strategy, primary health care level providers will be converted into general
or family medicine practitioners able to offer comprehensive preventive and curative services in
outpatient setting. They will be supported by qualified middle level personnel and have more
independence in decision making. The strategy calls for substantial investment in training and
retraining of primary health care personnel and standardization of responsibilities. This sub-
component of the project will support training and retraining of primary health care providers at the
National Institute of Health, State Medical University and Medical College. A PHC Training
Coordination Committee, comprising representatives of the training institutions, the Ministry of
Health and medical profession, has been established to co-ordinate training activities.
Assu es were obtained during negotiations that the Government shall maintain a PHC Training
Coordination Committee. [para. 6. 1g.



- I1 -
2.6     The National Institute of Health will organize re-training of all four categories of existing
primary health care providers: district therapists, district pediatricians, nurses and midwives. The
project builds on the NIH experience in post-graduate and continuous education of health
professionals in Armenia. The NIH will provide academic training in the Chair of Family
Medicine/General Practice, as well as practical training in affiliated FM/GP practices. It is expected
that the first trainees will be admitted in the Fall of 1998. According to Government strategy, all
PHC providers will be re-qualified over 10 years. During the life of the project, the NIH will re-train
700 providers or about 15% of the planned supply of PHC providers. The NIH will also prepare a
program of continuous education in family medicine for those retrained or those who have undergone
formal post-graduate training in family medicine and have been certified as PHC providers. The
continuous training programs will begin in the year 2000.
2.7     The State Medical University has a long tradition and high reputation in undergraduate and
residency training of physicians. It will now establish a Department of Family Medicine/General
Practice, which will design a curriculum in family medicine for undergraduate and postgraduate
medical students and will run residency programs in Family Medicine/General Practice. The long-
term goal is for the SMU to become the main supplier of family practitioners in the country. The
teaching of family medicine in under- and post-graduate programs is planned to begin in the fall of
1998 and will train 60 new family practitioners by the end of the project.
2.8     The Medical College is the leading undergraduate training institution of nurses and
midwives in Armenia. It will introduce changes in the training curricula for nurses and midwives
according to the reform requirements of PHC system.
2.9     The project will finance renovation and equipment for training, technical assistance for
curriculum development, fellowships, short-term external training and workshops for training
trainers.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the Government shall ensure that the training
facilities (including hostels) to be rehabilitated under the Prroject. shall at all times. be available to
accommodate students enrolled in the PHC training and pro grams at the NIH SMU and Medical
College. [para. 6. .c]
Sub-component 1.2 Primary Health Care Development Program (US$3.5 million base cost)
2.10     This proposed sub-component builds on the successful experience of the Armenia Social
Investment Fund (ASIF) in engaging communities and local governments in addressing local
priorities and implementing small-scale infrastructure rehabilitation projects. The main objective is
to improve the quality of PHC services in localities by involving communities in the management and
financing, providing incentives to staff to improve services, rehabilitating infrastructure and
providing equipment and training. The selection of teams and facilities will be based on eligibility
criteria laid out in the Operational Manual of the Primary Health Care Development Program
(PHCDP). The Operational Manual also defines the eligible expenditure categories for PHCDP
grants, and describes procedures for promotion, identification, formulation, pre-appraisal, appraisal,
implementation, and monitoring. It is estimated that this pilot project will cover 70 facilities, which
is about 5% of all facilities in Armenia. It will help with the implementation of the health care reformn
by showing improvement of quality and access to health care services at the local level in the
communities.



- 12 -
2.11     The program will be managed by a PHCDP unit under the PMU and work in close
collaboration with regional health departments and local governments. The program will be demand-
driven. The unit staff will promote Facility Management Boards and invite and support them to
submit proposals for grants, according to pre-set guidelines. Local governments and beneficiaries are
required to contribute an average of 10% of project costs. After pre-appraisal, the program will
provide technical assistance to selected facilities for a business plan. The plan will describe changes
the management board will implement and state its strategies for collection of user fees,
improvements in quality of services, and the creation of health development plan. The plan will also
include indicators and benchmarks to monitor improvements in services. The appraisal will review
the quality of the PHC team, commitment of both local government and communities to support the
facility and feasibility of the plan. Micro-project plans that meet appraisal criteria will be approved
by the program committee.
2.12     PHCDP and the Facility Management Board will sign a performance contract which will
specify certain performance benchmarks. Facilities that meet the proposed benchmarks will be
eligible for a second-tranche financing to support some recurrent cost (up to 5% of the total cost of
the civil works).
2.13     Civil works will be evaluated and supervised by ASIF engineers. They will work under a
cooperative agreement with the Health PMU. Program activities will be supervised by a committee
which will include Ministry of Health representatives and NGOs active in health care. PHCDP unit
staff, with support from regional health departments, will supervise the micro-projects.
2.14     The project will finance civil works, medical equipment and furniture, pharmaceutical
supplies, training for health providers, information campaign, transportation of equipment and
supplies to facilities.
Sub-component 1.3 Primary Health Care Guidelines Development (US$0.4 million base cost)
2.15     Practice guidelines are important to ensure quality and efficiency of medical practice and
to estimate the cost of services to ensure adequate reimbursement. Armenia has been using protocols
and reference books for inpatient care. None have been used for outpatient care except some
initiatives for maternal and child health care supported by UNICEF. The objective of this component
is to prepare guidelines for PHC.
2.16     The project will help establish of a working group on PHC guidelines at the National
Institute of Health. It will develop guidelines for preventive health care, including: (i) screening and
diagnostic procedures; (ii) medical case management; (iii) practice management including financial
and patient administration and responsibilities within the PHC team; and, (iv) reporting to national
and sub-national health authorities. In the short and medium term, PHC guidelines will be established
by: district therapist, pediatricians, and medical specialists. They will take account of other country
experiences through specialized literature, technical assistance and study tours. The long-term goal is
for newly trained family practitioners to gradually take over the preparation and adoption of
guidelines. The project will also support dissemination of guidelines among health professionals
through publications and workshops for health professionals.
2.17     The project will finance refurbishment of office space for the working group, office
equipment, study tours, foreign/local TA, and costs of printing and dissemination of guidelines.



- 13 -
D.    PROJECT COMPONENT 2: STRENGTHENING HEALTH FINANCING SYSTEM
(US$3.6 MILLION BASE COST)
2.18     Armenia health financing reform aims to shift from input based financing toward targeted
and performance-based payment to health care providers. This would include: (i) separation of health
care provision from health care financing, resulting in transparency in the purchaser-provider
relationship for publicly funded services; (ii) clarification of the Government's responsibilities for
funding health care provision by designing a cost effective basic benefits package (BBP) and
introducing a way to continuously improve the BBP; (iii) improving the methodology for paying
health care providers and introducing incentives for efficient provision of services and monitoring of
providers performance; and, (iv) streamlining the ways to allocate, implement, control and monitor
the health financial system by establishing a Health Management Information System.
2.19     The health financing component will support the design and establishment of a State
Health Agency and Health Management Information System, and development of the basic health
benefits package and provider payment methodology.
Sub-component 2.1 Establishing a State Health Agency (US$2.1 million base cost)
2.20     The State Health Agency's main function will be management of public funds to pay
Armenia health care providers for services provided under the BBP. The functions of the SHA
include allocating resources among regions, developing pricing and provider payment methodology,
implementing a performance based contracting system between the health care purchasers and
providers, auditing health care providers and analysis of financial data. New financing methods are
expected to increase the cost-effectiveness of public health spending through financial incentives and
control of the volume and quality of care provided. The agency will also relieve the MoH of routine
management of the health care system. The MoH can then focus on strategic health policy issues,
regulate the system, prepare legislation, monitor and carry out quality assurance, licensing and
accreditation. The EU/TACIS health project is expected to provide technical assistance to the
Government in policy planning and management.
2.21     The SHA will be a quasi-autonomous public body, with a 12 member Board, central office
and regional branch offices. There will be two permanent representatives from: the Ministries of
Health, Finance, Economy, Social Affairs and Yerevan Municipality. Two representatives from the
regions will rotate annually. It will employ 135 people, 50% of whom will be transferred from
central health agencies and others from various institutions and hospitals. The size of the civil service
will not increase. A working group will be created on July 1, 1997 to prepare the by-laws for the
agency, which will be established by a Government decree by January 1998. The agency will
renovate office space, establish the Health Management Information System (HMIS), develop
administrative procedures, train staff and implement pilots to test new payment methodologies and
procedures during 1998. As of January 1, 1999, the SHA will carry out all functions defined in its
charter.
2.22     The project will finance renovation of the agency's building and branch offices; office
equipment and furniture; computer hard and software for the Health Management Information
System, vehicles, foreign and local technical assistance; fellowships in health economics, financing,
organization and management; and short term study tours for agency staff to exchange experiences
with institutions in other countries. Workshops will be held in regions with representatives from
health care facilities on the agency's operational principles, health economics, financing, computer
skills and financial reporting.



- 14 -
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the Government will establish. not later than
January 1. 1998, a State Health Agenec (SHA) in accordance with the institutional plan and terms
Qf reference acceptable to the IDA,.[para. 6.1. d
Allocation of suitable office space for the State Health Agency will be a condition of effectiveness.
Sub-component 2.2 hnprovement of Basic Benefits Package Methodology (US$0.4 million
base cost)
2.23     The objective is to develop and introduce technically and financially sound criteria for the
BBP. It will include cost-effective interventions to address pressing health care problems. The
package will reflect state-of-the -art international knowledge as well as specific Armenian conditions.
A working group, set-up in the MoH will define priorities for public funding based on burden of
disease, cost-effectiveness of interventions, social significance of certain health problems and private
affordability. The working group will identify components of the package and its cost. This sub-
component complements PHC Guidelines Development sub-component which has professional and
clinical practice focus. The activities will be institutionalized and continued beyond the end of the
project as core activities of the MoH.
2.24     The project will finance minor refurbishment of an office for the Working Group, office
equipment, computer hard and software, foreign and local technical assistance, a long-term fellowship
in epidemiology and short-term study tours to study comparable experience in developed countries.
Annual workshops will be held for health care providers for information dissemination and feedback.
During the negotiations. assurances were obtained from the Government for submission on
November I each year during the life of the proiect for the IDA 's review Qf the BBP to be included
into the state budget for the next fiscal year. and-for incorporation and implementation in a timely
manner the IDA  's comments. [para. 6. l ii
Sub-component 2.3 Improvement of Provider Payment Methodology (US$0.4 million base
cost)
2.25     Here, the aim is to develop, test and introduce ways to continuously improve providers'
payment for different levels of health care. A working group will develop and implement
methodology for cost-accounting and pricing; design a standard format for contracts between agency
and providers, develop performance monitoring capacity; and a strategy and implementation plan for
legalizing and regulating private payments to health care providers. The methodology will be tested
in individual health care institutions and regions before full scale implementation in 1999.
2.26     The project will finance foreign and local technical assistance, fellowships in health
economics, two agency staff, short-term overseas training, local training in health financing and cost
formulation for medical services and contracts. The working group will be based in the SHA and use
its facilities and computers.
During the negotiations. assurances were obtained from the Government for establishing and
maintaining a working group which will be responsible for designing and implementing methodology
for cost-accounting. price calculation. contracts between SHA and health services groviders. strategy
for legalizing under-the-table payments to health care providers. The working group will be set-up
first in the Ministr of Health and transfer to the State Health Agency once the Agency is officially
created fpara, 6.1./i



- 15 -
Sub-component 2.4 Financial Information Systems (US$0.7 million base cost)
2.27      This is closely related to the State Health Agency sub-component. The aim is to improve
efficiency of health financing management. This includes the design of new medical and financial
reporting forms, automation of data collection and analysis, and automation of agency payments to
providers and accounting.
2.28     The project will finance computer software and hardware, software development, foreign
and local technical assistance in information systems design, management and health financing, a
fellowship to study health care information systems, short term study tours to other countries and
local training in computer operation skills.
E.     PROJECT COMPONENT 3: PROJECT MANAGEMENT
(US$1.0 MILLION BASE COST)
2.29     This will support management and implementation of the project, in particular the Project
Management Unit in the Ministry of Health (see Section IV).
2.30     The project will finance salaries of the PMU staff, consultant services, technical assistance
and training in project management and procurement, office equipment and public information and
consultation.
III. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING, PROCUREMENT, DISBURSEMENTS
A.    COST ESTIMATES
3.1     Total costs, including contingencies are estimated at US$12.14 million (Table 3.1).
Table 3.1: Summary of project cost estimates by component
Drahms                    US$             %        %
(Billion)               (Million)         For.    Base
Components        Local  Foreign   Total   Local  Foreign   Total   Exc.   Costs
1. Strengthening Primary
Health Care System     1.80     1.01    2.81    3.83    2.25     6.10   37%      57%
2. Strengthening Health
Financing System       0.58     1.10    1.68    1.23    2.33     3.57   65%      33%
3. Project Management  0.34     0.14    0.49    0.73    0.31     1.03   30%      10%
Total Baseline Costs   2.72     2.30    5.02    5.79    4.89    10.70   46%    100%
Physical Contingencies  0.10       -    0.10    0.23      -      0.23      -      2%
Price Contingencies    0.61     0.17    0.78    1.04    0.20     1.24   16%      12%
Total Project Costs    3.44     2.47    5.91    7.05    5.09    12.14   42%    114%
3.2     Estimates are based on 1997 prices, with contingencies of 10% applied to base costs of civil
works. Price contingencies for local costs are based on estimated inflation of: 7.9% for 1997, 8.5%
for 1998, 7.0% for 1999, and 6.2% for 2000 and 2001. Estimated total foreign cost is US$5.1 million
or 45% of baseline costs. Recurrent costs amount to US$2.2 million over five years.



- 16-
B.    PROJECT FINANCING
3.3     The proposed credit of US$ 10 million would finance approximately 83% of the estimated
total project cost - 99% of foreign and 79% of local costs. Counterpart financing is US$1.9 million or
16% of total costs consisting of US$1.5 million from the government and of US$0.4 million of
community contributions under the PHC Development Program. Taxes and duties are estimated at
US$0.7 million and will be covered entirely by the Government and community contributions. The
UNDP will provide grant financing for information and communication with US$0.15 million or
1.4% of project cost. The financing plan is presented in Table 3.2.
3.4    The Government counterpart financing will be met in both cash and kind by the Ministry of
Health, Ministry of Finance and Economy and communities participating in the PHC Development
Program. In kind contribution will be staff time and facilities for the State Health Agency allocated
by the MoH. Cash estimated at US$ 80,000 per semester will be disbursed by the MoFE every six
months to the Project Account administered by the Project Management Unit. Community
contributions of US$0.4 million will be in cash and in kind, estimated at about 10- 15% of PHC
Development Program micro-project cost. The cash contributions will be deposited in the community
contribution account.
Opening the Project Account and an initial deposit of equivalent to US$80. 000 to this account by the
Government are conditions for efectiveness. [para. 6.2.bh
Table 3.2: Project Financing Plan
(US$ Million)
Local      Foreign         Total
IDA                                       5.0         5.0            10.0
Government of Armenia                     1.5          -             1.5
Community contribution                    0.4          -             0.4
Other Donors                              0.1         0.1            0.2
Total                                     7.0         5.1            12.1
C.    PROCUREMENT
Procurement Arrangements
3.5    All procurement will follow World Bank procurement guidelines. Procurement of goods
financed with the proposed IDA credit would be carried out in accordance with the World Bank
guidelines "Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits, " dated January 1995, revised in
January 1996 and August 1996. Consulting services would be procured in accordance with the World
Bank guidelines "Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank- Borrowers, " dated
January 1997. Standard Bank Documents will be used for international competitive bidding (ICB)
and consultant selection. For national competitive bidding (NCB), bidding documents based on the
Bank's standard bidding documents, amended as necessary to local conditions and approved by IDA,
will be used. The Country Procurement Assessment Review for Armenia is under preparation and is
likely to be finalized in summer 1997. Procurement under World Bank and IDA projects in Armenia
has generally been satisfactory. A General Procurement notice will be published in Development
Business in August 1997.



- 17-
Civil Works
3.6     The project will finance civil works estimated at US$2.9 million with an IDA contribution
of US$2.3 million. Office rehabilitation for the State Health Agency, NIH, SMU, Medical College
and PMU is estimated at US$565,000. The amount of civil works under the PHC Development
Program is assessed at US$2.3 million and will cover the rehabilitation of about 70 facilities for an
average cost estimated at US$25,000. The maximum contract amount will be US$250,000. All civil
works will be procured locally. Contracts below US$250,000 will be procured through a process of
National Competitive Bidding. Sample tender and contract documents in accordance with IDA
policies have been developed based on the "Bidding Documents for Procurement of Works (National
Competitive Bidding) " developed by the Europe and Central Asia Region and dated August 1995.
Contracts below US$30,000 and with a maximum total amount of US$300,000 could be awarded on
the basis of three written quotations from contractors according to National Shopping procedures.
3.7     The responsibility for overseeing the procurement and monitoring of civil works for
facilities rehabilitated under the PHCDP will be with the Armenia Social Investment Fund (ASIF) for
at least the first year of the project. ASIF has experience and expertise to manage small scale
rehabilitation projects with community participation. ASIF will act as a procurement agent for the
PMU for civil works procurement. A cooperative agreement between the PMU and the ASIF will
define the responsibilities of each agency for the management of civil works.
The signing of an agreement between Ministr of Health and ASIF for overseeing procurement of
civil works under the Primarv Health Care DeveloDment Program is a condition of ffectiveness.
[ara 6.2.c
Goods
3.8     The project will finance goods and services for an estimated US$2.8 million. The project
will procure office equipment and furniture, computer systems, training equipment, medical
equipment and furniture for primary health care providers and vehicles.
3.9     Computers and office equipment will be bundled into procurement packages of estimated
cost of US$0.2 million or more and will be procured according to International Competitive Bidding
guidelines. Office and training equipment for contracts less than US$200,000 will be procured using
International Shopping (IS) procedures. The number of vehicles procured under the project is small
and they will be bundled into a procurement package with an estimated cost of equivalent or less of
US$200,000 and also procured using International Shopping procedures. The maximum aggregate
amount of goods procured under IS procedures will be US$550,000.
3.10     Office and training facilities' furniture, for a maximum aggregate amount of US$300,000
and a contract value less than US$ 100,000 will be procured locally using National Competitive
Bidding (NCB) procedures. Small furniture and small supplies, for a maximum aggregate amount of
US$250,000 and a contract value of less than US$25,000 per contract will be procured locally using
National Shopping (NS) procedures. The project will finance printing and dissemination of practice
guidelines. Printing of guidelines, estimated at US$150,000 base cost and less than US$50,000 per
contract, will be procured using NCB procedures.



- 18 -
3.11     Medical equipment kits for the PHC Development program estimated at US$600,000 total
and initial stock of drugs for the PHC Development program estimated at US$75,000 will be procured
from UNICEF.
3.12     Contracts for using TV and radio time for the public information program, estimated to
cost $50,000 in the aggregate, will be procured using the Direct Contracting procedures, because the
services are obtainable from only one source.
Technical Assistance. Training, Workshops
3.13     The project will finance technical assistance for an estimated US$2.3 million which will be
procured according to the World Bank guidelines. Technical assistance will be procured in the areas
of health financing, public health and health economics, information systems, primary health care
curriculum and guidelines development. Consultant services for an estimated amount of US$1.7
million shall be procured under contracts awarded under Quality and Cost Based Selection methods
(QCBS) in accordance with Section II of the World Bank Consultant Guidelines. Consultants'
services for a total amount of US$700,000 shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual
consultants in accordance with Section V of the World Bank Consultant Guidelines from January
1997. The contracts awarded to the individual consultants are justified by the very specialized nature
of the consulting services required for the project in areas such as definition of protocols, BBP
methodology and health care management information systems and which require very specific
technical expertise. Most of these contracts will be short term. The Ministry of Health will establish
a consultant selection committee and contracts will be awarded based on the review of at least three
candidates. The committee meetings will have detailed minutes justifying the selection of
consultants. The quarterly report will have a section providing information about procurement of
consultants and a consultant procurement plan for the next three months. Capacity will be built in
the PMU in order to handle individual contracts for foreign and local consultants. The supervision of
civil works under the PHCDP, for maximum amount of US$90,000 will be sole-sourced to ASIF as
the only organization in Armenia with experience in managing minor civil works with community
participation.
3.14     Fellowships and organization of study tours estimated at US$ 1.0 million will be financed
for students satisfying selection criteria and commitment in returning to certain positions in Armnenia.
The consultant selection committee will review the candidates for fellowships and study tours and
ensure that the candidates' choice is relevant to the project objectives and activities. Fellowships and
study tours will be procured from firms, universities and other training institutions based on Quality
Based Selection (QBS) procedures as described in paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant
Guidelines. Other expenditures related to students' travel and organization of workshops will be
procured on the basis of administrative procedures based on schedule and budget acceptable to the
IDA.
Miscellaneous Expenditures
3.15     The project would also finance incremental costs incurred by the PMU and project staff.
These expenditures will cover: (a) maintenance and operation of equipment procured under the
project; (b) salaries of PMU staff, per diems paid to Project staff for field trips and transportation
allowances to working groups when working overtime; (c) consumable office supplies; and (d) office
maintenance, utilities and telecommunications pertaining to the project. PMU staff will be recruited
on fixed term contract through a competitive mechanism acceptable to IDA. Items under recurrent



- 19 -
expenditures will be procured on the basis of administrative procedures based on schedule and budget
acceptable to the IDA.
Table 3.3: Project Costs by Expenditure Category
Expenditure Category                                Procurement Method               Total Cost
(US$ million equivalent)                    [CB      NCB       Other a/  N.B.F.    (incl. contingencies)
b/
1. Civil Works
1.1 Office Rehabilitation and PHC                   2.6        0.3                        2.9
Infrastructure Rehabilitation                   (2.1)      (0.2)                      (2.3)
2. Goods
2.1 Computer systems, office              0.8                  0.3                         1.1
equipment                            (0.8)                (0.3)                      (1.1)
2.2 Furniture                                       0.3        0.1                        0.4
(0.2)     (0.1)                       (0.3)
2.3 Vehicles                                                   0.2                        0.2
(0.2)                      (0.2)
2.4 Medical equipment                                          0.6                        0.6
(0.6)                      (0.6)
2.5 Pharmaceuticals and supplies                               0.1                        0.1
(0.1)                      (0.1)
2.6 Printing of PHC Guidelines                      0.1                                   0.1
(0.1)                                 (0.1)
2.7 Small supplies                                             0.2                        0.2
(0.2)                      (0.2)
2.8 Information and consultation                               0.1        0.2             0.3
activities                                                (0.1)                      (0. 1)
3. Technical Assistance and Training
3.1 Technical Assistance                                       2.5                        2.5
(2.5)                      (2.5)
3.2  Fellowships and Study Tours                               1.0                         1.0
(1.0)                      (1.0)
4. Miscellaneous
4.1 Operating costs                                            2.7                        2.7
(1.5)                      (1.5)
Total                                     0.8        3.0        8.1       0.2              12.1
(0.8)     (2.4)      (6.8)                      (10.0)
a/"other" means: Civil Works refers to National Shopping; Computer, Equipment and Vehicles refers to Intemational Shopping;
Fumiture and Small supplies refer to National Shopping; Medical Equipment and Pharmaceuticals refers to procurement from UNICEF;
Technical Assistance refers to QCBS 1.7 (1.7), to individual consultants for 0.7 (0.7), and sole sourcing 0.1(0.1); Training refers to
fellowships and study tours for candidates selected through procedures and conditions acceptable to IDA and procured under QBS
procedures for 1.0 (1.0); Information and consultation activities refers to Direct Contracting; Operating costs financed from the IDA credit
refer to PMU operating costs, travel expenses and subsistence for study tour participants, per diems for students under local training and
recurrent expenditures for workshops for 0.8 (0.8); b/ "N.B.F. refers to the UNDP financing.
Prior Review
3.16        All procurement packages and contracts under ICB and the first contracts under NCB for
goods and works respectively will be subject to prior review by the IDA. For consulting services,
prior review is required for all contracts with individuals exceeding $50,000, all contracts with
consulting firms exceeding US$100,000, and terms of reference for all contracts irrespective of the
contract value. All fellowships and study tours procured outside consulting services will be subject to
prior review. Other procurement will be subject to the IDA ex-post review during supervision of the
project in accordance with the procurement guidelines.



- 20 -
Financing by Other Donors
3.17     UNDP funding of US$150,000 will support an information campaign to solicit public
support and feedback during the implementation phase.
D.    DISBURSEMENT
3.18     All disbursements would be against standard documentation as described in the Bank's
Disbursement Handbook.
Table 3.4: Allocation of Credit Proceeds by Disbursement Category
Expenditure Category      Amount in US$ million         Financing Percentage
I. Civil Works                           1.8          80% of total expenditures
2. Goods                                 2.5           100% of foreign expenditures
100% of local expenditure (ex factory)
80% of other items procured locally
3. Technical assistance,                 3.5           100% of total expenditures
fellowships and study tours
4. Operating costs of the PMU            1.2           100% of total expenditures
5. Unallocated                           1.0
Total                                    10.0
Table 3.5: Estimated Disbursements (UJS$ million)
FY 1998   FY 1999   FY 2000   FY 2001  FY 2002    Total
IDA            1.4       3.6       2.0       2.0       1.0      10.0
3.19     Statements of Expenditure. Disbursements will be made on the basis of Statements of
Expenditure for goods and works below US$200,000. Consulting firms contracts under US$ 100,000
and individual contracts under US$50,000 will be disbursed on the basis of such statements.
Operating costs of the PMU will also be disbursed under Statements of Expenditure procedures.
3.20     Special Account. To facilitate project implementation, the Borrower will maintain a
Special Account in US dollars in a commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
The Special Account would be managed by the PMU. The maximum authorized allocation of the
account would be US$500,000, with an initial allocation to the SA would be limited to US$300,000.
When aggregate disbursements under the Credit have reached US$ 1,000,000, the initial allocation
may be increased up to the authorized US$500,000 by submitting the relevant Application for
Withdrawal. Applications for replenishment of the Special Account will be submitted monthly or
when a third of the amount has been withdrawn, whichever comes first. Documentation requirements
for replenishments would follow the standard Bank procedures laid down in the Disbursement
Handbook. Monthly bank statements of the account, reconciled by the Borrower, will accompany all
replenishment requests.



- 21 -
During negotiations. assurances were obtained from the Government that the Government will
maintain a Project Account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions acceptable to IDA and
replenish the said account at the beginning of each semester to ensure that adequate funds. as deemed
necessary by IDA. are available to meet expected local expenditures for the next eight
months. [para. 6.1. ki
E.    ACCOUNTS AND AUDITS
3.21     The Borrower will be responsible for appropriate accounting and auditing of the project,
reporting use of project funds, and ensuring that audits of project accounts are submitted to the Bank.
The PMU, on behalf of the Borrower, will establish accounting systems to provide information on
sources and uses of funds in accordance with the Credit Agreement. The PMU will: (a) ensure
accountability for project funds; (b) maintain records of receipts and disbursements of all funds used
for the project; (c) maintain internal controls to ensure that receipts and payments are accurately
recorded in a timely manner, and that assets and liabilities are adequately controlled; (d) report on the
use of funds; (e) have these reports verified by independent auditors; and (f) provide information, as
required, to IDA. The PMU will maintain accounts for project funds separately from any other
existing accounts. Project accounts would be maintained according to International Accounting
Standards.
3.22     The PMU will also be responsible, on behalf of the 13orrower, for submitting to the Bank
annual audits of project accounts no later than six months after the end of each financial year
(Armenia's financial year is January I - December 31) of project accounts kept at PMU. Records and
accounts of the project for each fiscal year, including the Special Account, will be audited by
independent auditors acceptable to IDA, according to standards and terms of reference satisfactory to
IDA. Audits will be carried out in accordance with international standards and be undertaken by
qualified auditors. Audit reports to the Bank will contain separate opinions on: (a) compliance by the
implementing agencies with relevant covenants of the Credit Agreement with IDA; (b) the Statements
of Expenditures; and (c) the Special Account. The IDA-required audits would not cover possible
donor funded activities, even if supervised by the Bank.
Accounting and reporting arrangements were confirmed during negotiations. [para. 6.1 . b I
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A.    ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
4.1     The Ministry of Health will be responsible for project implementation. A Project
Management Unit (PMU) will be set-up in the Ministry of Health. The Minister (or designated
Deputy Minister) will provide Government oversight. The main task of the unit will be to provide
logistical support for implementation. At present, it is in charge of project preparation. New staff
will be added and trained. Two working groups responsible for preparation of sectoral strategies in
health financing and primary health care and design of project components will be integrated in the
project. A Project Steering Committee will be set-up with representatives from key ministerial
departments directly involved in implementation, as well as representatives of the Ministries of
Economy, and Finance and the Parliamentary Committee on Health. The PMU will also establish a



- 22 -
donor consultation committee to improve coordination with other international donors and foreign
and local NGOs active in the health sector.
Project Management Unit
4.2     The PMU will comprise director, an administrative and finance officer, two accountants (for
the unit and the PHCDP), two project officers to oversee implementation, a procurement specialist
and an interpreter/secretary. Component and sub-component coordinators will be staff belonging to
implementing organizations and they will work in cooperation with the unit. The director will also
serve as the Secretary of the Project Steering Committee and will ensure effective linkage between
policy development and implementation. The PMU will report to the Steering Committee and be
responsible for the timely implementation, monitoring and evaluation of the project. Specifically, it
will: (a) coordinate implementation and ensure that resources are used in accordance with the project
plan and objectives; (b) monitor implementation and project impact and report to the steering
committee and IDA; (c) manage procurement, contracting and disbursement; (d) prepare quarterly
and yearly reports on implementation status; (e) maintain project accounts and ensure timely
preparation and submission of annual audits; (f) keep coordination between donors and NGOs active
in the health sector; (g) ensure close coordination with all project stakeholders, in particular the
Ministry of Finance and Economy; and (h) support component coordinators by hiring local and
international consultants when needed and provide logistical support for project management. Unit
staff will be recruited through a competitive process. The Head of the PMU was appointed by the
Minister of Health from a shortlist of candidates acceptable to IDA.
During the negotiations, assurances were obtained-from the Government for maintaining PMU within
the MoH with st{of and other resources and terms of reference. acceptable to the IDA. [para. 6. 1.el
Management of the Primary Health Care Development Program
4.3     The pilot Primary Health Care Development Program will be managed by a separate small
unit attached to the PMU. It will be staffed by a program officer, a logistic officer, a promotion
officer, two appraisal and monitoring officers and an administrative assistant. It will: (a) explain and
promote the program among health care providers, regional health authorities and communities; (b)
provide support to communities and health care providers to prepare proposals; (c) appraise proposals
against selection criteria; (d) coordinate with the Social Investment Fund for the physical
rehabilitation of the primary health care facilities; (e) present the projects that have been successfully
appraised to the PHCDP Committee; (f) prepare and sign the framework agreements with the
communities and health care facilities; (f) procure standard equipment and consumables for selected
primary health care facilities; (g) monitor micro-project implementation; (h) coordinate with the
departments in the Ministries and the staff of the regions which will participate in the program; and
(i) maintain the program accounts and monitor physical progress.
4.4     A PHCDP committee will supervise and ensure accountability of the program. The
committee will be chaired by a representative of the Minister of Health and include the head of
department responsible for adult and maternal and child health, a representative from the regional
health authorities, two representatives of NGOs active in health care, the head of the PHCDP and the
Director of the PMU. The Committee will approve the micro project presented by the PHC facilities
based on the appraisal reports prepared by the PHCDP Unit and review the progress of the program.
An Operational Manual will guide the program and describe in detail the functions of the Program
Unit and the Committee.



- 23 -
Approval of a Final Operational Manual acceptable to IDA will be a condition Qf effectiveness.
Epara 6.2.al
During negotiations. assurances were obtained from the Government for maintaining the PHCDP
nit within the PMU and PHCDP Committee within the MoH which shall follow procedures and
criteria set forth in the Operational Manual and shall not amend. abrogate or waive any arovision in
the Operational Manual without a prior consent Qf the IDA.[para. 6. 1 2
Project Steering Committee
4.5     The Project Steering Committee, to be chaired by the Minister of Health (or his
representative), will comprise of the Deputy Minister of Health Reform, Heads of the Departments of
Health Care and Maternal and Child Health, Head of the Department of Economy, a representative
from the Ministry of Economy and Finance and Parliamentary Commission on Health. The Project
Steering Committee will meet at least every quarter to discuss quarterly reports, annual reports, and
quarterly/yearly work programs. The Project Steering Committee will also meet at the request of the
Director of the PMU to discuss any outstanding issues relevant to implementation.
During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Government for maintaining a roject
Steering Committee. which at all tims shlnlude rgnresentatives from the MoH. Ministry Q1
EcononMv and Finance and the National Assembly Commission on Health. [para. 6.1. iJ
B.    MONITORING, EVALUATION AND SUPERVISION
4.6     Project performance indicators have been developed to systematically monitor project
progress and evaluate its outcome. The indicators which will serve as a basis for the quarterly reports
on implementation, cover fiscal impact, improved use of resources, change in access to services, cost
savings from rationalization programs, client satisfaction and so on. Some indicators will be
monitored through qualitative and quantitative surveys based on the model of the Social Assessment
which was successfully conducted during project preparation. The project will finance such surveys
at mid-term review and at the end of the project. The surveys along with the indicators in the
performance contracts between PHC facilities and PMU will be the evaluation tools for the pilot
Primary Health Care Development Program. Other indicators will be monitored through routine
collection of administrative and financial data.
4.7     Evaluation of project progress and adoption of necessary corrective actions are important to
the project, particularly since this is the Bank's first health project in Armenia. Regular project
progress evaluation activities, as well as a mid-term review (after two years of implementation) will
be carried out jointly by the Borrower and the Bank.
During negotiations. assurances were obtained from the Government that the Government will
furnish on or about October 31. 1999. a report on the Progress achieved during the period preceding
that date and review the submitted report with the IDA by December 31. 1999. [para. 6. 1.al
4.8     The proposed project would be supervised by Bank personnel from both headquarters and
the Bank Resident Mission in Armenia. The project will require extensive supervision by the Bank.
It is estimated that it would require 25 staff weeks per fiscal year in the two first years and 15 staff-
weeks per fiscal year thereafter. The lack of experience of the borrower with Bank project



- 24 -
implementation and procurement and the Primary Health Care Development Program sub-component
justify special supervision to be carried out at the community level.
V.  SOCIO-ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
A.    ANALYSIS OF PROJECT ALTERNATIVES
5.1     Project alternatives were considered in the context of addressing key sector issues and of the
Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) objectives. Timing, policy context, particular component design,
presence of and coordination with donors and other World Bank operations were the parameters
considered in project design.
Poor health status
5.2     The current project will emphasize adult health problem through: upgrading primary health
care services that are expected to improve primary and secondary prevention of non-communicable
diseases as well as more effective chronic case management; and design of the publicly funded basic
benefits package to include cost-effective interventions targeted at the main components of Burden of
Disease.
5.3     The current project does not address direct public health interventions. Scarce public health
funds are currently needed to provide access to curative responses to existing Burden of Disease and
there is the need to demonstrate tangible results and improvements in health system in the short and
medium term. The main stakeholders have relatively short time horizons and perceived high discount
rates for the future health benefits. The World Bank, however, intends to use other instruments to
support development of public health policies targeted at major risk factors. In the Letter of
Development for the SAC II, the GoA commits itself to develop comprehensive public policy strategy
to fight smoking, including regulation of advertising, smoke-free public places, public education
campaigns, etc.
5.4     The project does not have targeted intervention for maternal and child health, an area which
has been actively supported by UNICEF and international and national NGOs. It supports, however,
the integration of UNICEF supported Maternal and Child health services in the PHC structure and
will monitor essential health indicators. World Bank support for immunization programs was
discussed during project preparation but assurances were received from the GoA that the programs
will receive highest priority for public health spending. The project will monitor immunization
coverage and incidence of vaccine preventable diseases.
5.5     Long tenn health benefits will also arise from investments in social infrastructure,
especially development of housing for disadvantaged groups (refugees and earthquake victims), and
investments in water and sewage systems. The World Bank has completed the Earthquake Zone
Infrastructure Rehabilitation Project and is currently preparing a project addressing water and
sanitation issues. The Armenia Social Investment Fund under implementation is also looking at these
issues.



- 25 -
Chronic under-funding and low efficiency of health care system
5.6     Health financing is a clear health sector reform priority in all former socialist economies. A
mandatory social insurance system has been a politically attractive option, but the GoA has postponed
plans to introduce compulsory health insurance. This is supported by the World Bank due to the
current high proportion of the informal economy and related problems with tax collection
(compliance is estimated at 45%) and also because of the impact it would have on labor costs and
economic growth. For the short and medium term, the GoA will rely on general revenue for health
financing. However, there is a strong political constituency in Armenia favoring social insurance and
it is likely to return to the political agenda as the economic situation improves.
5.7     The project will establish a public State Health Agency. This option was chosen against an
alternative to improve the MoH capacity to finance health services because SHA would introduce
transparent separation between purchaser and provider functions and will allow for broader
accountability through a Board arrangement. SHA will lead to faster improvement, given the rigidity
of bureaucracy and political interference; and can easily be transformed into a core institution for a
successful social health insurance system if so decided in the future; it also enables the MoH to focus
on regulative functions rather than day-to-day management of finances.
5.8     The project does not directly address the large and inefficient hospital sector. Instead, it
will focus on strengthening PHC. In the context of this project, this includes 'traditional' primary
health care services (vaccination, family planning, etc.) as well as secondary prevention and curative
services which could be more efficiently provided by outpatient services. Strong PHC capable of
providing pre- and post-hospital care is a prerequisite for efficient hospitals (the average hospital stay
in 1995 was 16 days). The GoA plans to introduce a gate-keeping function to PHC providers to
promote efficiency. One finding of the Social Assessment was that there was general agreement
among stakeholders that emphasis on primary health care can reduce costs for health care among
households level and nationally. Limited IDA funding and high political sensitivity are the other
arguments against an intervention in the hospital sector: US$10 million is perceived to be insufficient
to have any meaningful impact on the hospital sector.
5.9     The GoA is committing itself to prepare a strategy for hospital sector rationalization in the
Letter of Development Policy prepared for the SAC II. SATAC II will support the GoA with
technical assistance. Health financing reform supported by the project is expected to create favorable
incentives for restructuring of the hospital sector. A Social Adjustment Credit (SAC III), planned for
FY 1999, may integrate other measures and allocate funds to implement hospital rationalization. In
parallel to the IDA project, hospital management training and institutional capacity building for
policy planning are included in the EU/TACIS project.
Inequitable access and low qualitv
5.10     Improving access to health services is a complex task. In Armenia the main determinants
of access are high out-of-pocket costs, low quality and low public trust in health care providers. The
GoA strategy to reduce price barriers is to guarantee universal coverage for basic health benefits and
additional access to vulnerable groups to services also beyond the package. Major altematives to the
BBP approach are: identifying and fully funding health care facilities for the poor; and introducing
and regulating across-the-board co-payments. The "Hospitals for the Poor" option was dropped
because of political unpopularity of an explicit two-tier health care system, need for a transition
period from the former political declaration of free health care to limited public responsibility and
difficulties in identifying the genuinely poor. The Govemment, however, is considering allocating a



- 26 -
hospital to be managed by an NGO to provide services for the poor using the NGO screening
procedures. This hospital(s) would serve as safety net during the transition period of moving towards
sustainable BBP. The need to legalize co-payments is being addressed in the GoA health financing
reform and will occur alongside the implementation of the current project.
5.11     In developed countries, the quality of inputs (sufficient recurrent funding, investments) has
generally been achieved and the focus is on improving the process. Both inputs and process need to
be improved concurrently for poor and middle income countries. Hence, the project's emphasis is on
investment in infrastructure, equipment, training for PHC providers, development of practice
protocols and managerial skills to improve provision of care. PHC focus was chosen over specialist
and hospital sector because: it will have impact on more users (0.08 hospital visits vs. 5 outpatient
visits per capita); PHC proximity to the population and community ownership; the need for a more
balanced approach to health care in a system strongly biased towards hospital and specialist; recurrent
expenditures needed to sustain PHC investments are lower than investments for the hospital sector.
5.12     The project does not formally address the need to improve voluntary risk-pooling
(insurance). Increased community participation and ownership, however, may lead to risk pooling at
the community level.
B.    FiSCAL IMPACT AND PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
5.13     Public spending on health. Public funding for health care will be limited in the medium
and long term even using optimistic estimate for economic growth and Government spending. 17
Projected public sector health care expenditures will be about US$120 million by 2005 or US$17.6
per capita in 1997 dollars compared to US$6.75 in 1997 (Table 5.1). The implication of such
projections are two-fold: BBP will continue to be an important instrument for the Government to
prioritize health care spending and the emphasis should be placed on increased efficiency and service
rationalization.
Table 5.1: Projections of public sector health care expenditures (1995, 1996 actual; 1997 budgeted;
2000, 2005 projected). Source: Armenia PER, CAS.
1995     1996     1997     2000        2005
GDP (in mill. US$)                  1,285.8   1,591.6   1,546.0  2,326.0    4,159.0
Average inflation rate %             176.7      18.6      7.9      6.2         6.2
Govt. Expenditures (as % of GDP)      29.8      26.2     24.4     21.6        20.8
Govt. Expenditure (in mil US$)       383.2    417.0    377.2    502.4        865.1
HCE (as % of GDP)                      1.9       1.3      2.0      3.0        2.9
HCE (as % of Govt. Expenditures)       6.4       5.0      6.4     13.9        13.9
HCE (mill. US$)                       24.5      20.9     24.3     69.8      120.25
HCE (mill. 1997 US$)                                     24.3    52.55       66.91
HCE per capita (1997 US$)                                6.75      14.9       17.6
5.14     Sustainability of Basic Benefits Packane The Government aims to improve efficiency and
equity of the health care system by concentrating limited financing on the basic package of essential
17    "Public Expenditures in Armenia: Strategic Spending for Creditworthiness and Growth (World Bank
report, draft, 1997).



- 27 -
public health and clinical services free of charge to all and additional services free of charge to
children and vulnerable groups. As the MoH tries to maintain comprehensive coverage and extensive
scope of essential services, the BBP is currently not sustainable. In 1997, with per capita financing of
US$6.75 for health care, GoA intends to cover about 40% of all hospitalizations and provide a
comprehensive range of outpatient services for about US$1.5 per capita. According to cost studies
done by the MoH working group, reimbursement is 2-3 times lower than cost. This forces the system
to continue to rely on informal private payments for all services. Technically, the current BBP is
inefficient, for example, BoD results suggest that it is not based on the current epidemiological profile
of Armenia, e.g. including services with high per saved DALY costs such as hemodialysis;
intervention standards are inefficient, for instance long hospital stays for tuberculosis and sexually
transmitted diseases; categories of services included in the BBP are not clearly defined; and the
number of beneficiaries receiving free full coverage of health care services needs to be reduced. The
project team believes that there is strong Government commitment exists to improve credibility of the
package. A sub-component of the current project is designed to improve its efficiency and
sustainability. This is also a SAC 1I condition.
5.15      Restructuring of health services. Over-capacity of hospital infrastructure compounded with
scarce financial resources prompts for the need of restructuring of the hospital sector. The
Government is reluctant to use
administrative methods and hopes that           8000
financial incentives of the health financing
reform will induce efficiency                   7000 .
improvements. As a parallel mechanism,          6000
the Government has decided to privatize
eight specialty care hospitals in 1997. In      5000
1996, the public financing of the above         4000
hospitals amounted for US$560,000, or                                 _
about 2% of total Government health             3000
expenditures. These funds could be partly       2000
reallocated to support essential services in                   L            / 
other health care institutions, in particular   1000
in outpatient sector.                              0 .
1995             PHC
5.16      The Government strategy aims                                       strategy
at strengthening primary health care               U GPs       * Di1strict Dr. El District Ped.
services to improve the balance between            cl Neurologist * ENT    * Eye
secondary and primary health care. If             iESurgeon    l Other
there were a functioning Primary Health
Care system in Armenia (see Figure 5. 1),   Figure 5.1 Impact of PHC strategy scenario on
about 30% - 35% of admission to           composition and number of medical profession in
specialists would be redundant. An        Armenia. 18
additional 35% - 40% of specialist's work
load a GP can take upon him/herself. Generic analysis from Russia19 suggest that a GP should be able
to take on the workload of neurologist by 47%, ENT (ear-nose-throat) by 41%, ophthalmologist by
18     RMC Inc., "Armenia: Primary Health Care Reform", September 1996, Project Files.
19     Yuri Komarov, "Physician of General Practice in Russia: Still an Utopia or Already a Reality?"
Meditsinsky Vestnik, No. 2 (69), January 16 - 31, 1997.



- 28 -
36%, surgeon by 23%, and other specialists by 30%. At the same time, a GP needs a consultation of
ENT in 16%, ophthalmologist in 10%, surgeon and dermatologist in 9%, and neurologist in 8% of
cases, which is significantly less compared to a current district physician workload. Implementing
PHC strategy should result in net decrease of the number of practicing physicians by about 14%.
5.17     Recurrent expenditures The project will generate recurrent spending estimated at US$2
million. Roughly US$130,000 is incremental cost generated by investment in PHC infrastructure.
These incremental costs will maintain quality standards of the service. Neglected preventive
maintenance is one of the main reasons for deteriorated infrastructure and low quality of health care
services. It is expected that these incremental costs will be covered through official payments for
non-BBP services and community contributions. According to the design of the PHCDP,
communities commitment to sustaining investments in health facilities will be a selection criterion.
As grant allocation is demand driven, committed funds by communities will have politically
acceptable opportunity costs. The project will support the communities and PHC teams in developing
sustainability plans.
5.18     The State Health Agency will generate incremental recurrent expenditure estimated at
US$175,000 a year, related to information system maintenance and staff hired from outside
Government. It is expected, however, that this incremental staff will be drawn from other public
enterprises and hired on fixed term contracts. The staff will have to acquire new skills necessary for
the agency. The incremental costs are expected to be offset by health financing efficiency gains.
Operating costs related to project activities in NIH, SMU and Medical College will be covered
through savings from restructuring of their organization due to reduced enrollment and re-organized
specialist training.
C.    INSTITUTIONAL CAPACITY ANALYSIS AND
LESSONS LEARNED FROM PREVIOUS BANK OPERATIONS IN ARMENIA
5.19     In Armenia, institutional capacity to implement health sector reform, manage projects and
administer health care systems in the new socio-economic environment is limited. But, the situation
has been improving steadily. The public health and health administration program of the American
University of Armenia, health projects of NGOs and diaspora the presence of UNICEF, foreign
technical assistance supporting MoH working groups have all contributed to the emergence of
professional trained and experienced in public health and project management. Many Armenians
have excellent skills in sciences and technology. These people constitute a resource that will be used
during implementation.
5.20     Administrative capacity within the health system needs to be improved. Functions and
responsibilities of regional and municipal health authorities are still being defined, and management
skills for autonomous health facility managers still need to be developed. The EU/TACIS technical
assistance project is expected to develop institutional capacity. It will improve capacity in health care
financing and support selected communities in developing management skills. The positive
experience with the Armenia Social Investment Fund reveals that with adequate incentives,
communities can be extremely effective agents of change. The SIF experience has been used to
develop the PHC Development Program.
5.21     Armenia has one IBRD and seven IDA projects under implementation: energy, housing,
transport, agriculture, social, and private sector development. Experience from implementation of



- 29 -
recent IDA projects shows that the Government can administer and implement a project in a
satisfactory manner and within an agreed timetable. The key to success are careful selection of PMU
staff of the PMU and training in Bank procurement procedures and accounting. The Ministry of
Health has some experience with international organizations. It has worked with UNICEF on
immunization and Maternal and Child health programs, coordination of substantial humanitarian
assistance and support from a wide range of diaspora. The World Bank project will be the largest
single project that the MoH will implement. Currently, the MoH is implementing a PHRD grant for
project preparation, effective since November 1996. The Project Preparation Unit, operational in the
MoH since 1996, has managed the PHRD in a timely and satisfactory manner. The staff of PPU has
received assistance to set up its accounting system from the Armenia Highway Project PMU.
5.22     Lessons learned from the World Bank health sector lending in the ECA region are: (a)
expectations for reform have been too optimistic for both the World Bank and client countries; (b)
institutional aspects of reform are as important as technically proficient strategies; (c) greater
attention needs to be paid to the political economy of reform; (d) projects have been too complex; and
(e) adequate resources need to be committed to supervision of projects. The institutional aspects of
this project are designed to allow for sufficient time to build up capacity before taking on full
functions and raising expectations. The SHA will have a year to train staff, develop procedures and
test them through pilots before assuming full responsibility of managing public health funds.
Similarly, NIH, SMU and Medical College will build up capacity for a year before admitting students.
The project has a relatively simple design of only two components. The complexity of the PHC
Development Program is expected to be manageable.
D.    SOCIAL ASSESSMENT AND STAKEHOLDER PARTICIPATION
5.23     A Social Assessment was conducted during project preparation. The assessment included:
a household survey, focus groups of community members and interviews with service providers. The
assessment focused on utilization, access and satisfaction with health services. Results contributed to
the sector analysis and project design. The assessment also established that there was not enough
information on health reform among the population, communities and health care providers.
5.24     The vehicles for stakeholder participation in health care reform and project design were:
two broad based working groups established by the Ministry of Health; a national workshop on health
care reform for key stakeholders; field visits and consultations by the project team; and consultation
with Armenian NGOs. The working groups included representatives from Ministry of Health,
Ministry of Finance, State Medical University, National Institute of Health, Medical College, private
health sector and regional health authorities. The groups were supported by external technical
expertise and were the principal authors of project design. The national and regional workshops,
supported by the World Bank, brought together about 80 representatives from all levels of health care
administration and provision. Feedback from the conference confirmed once again the importance of
information dissemination and consultation for the success of health care reform.
5.25     The health financing working group will be integrated in project implementation. The
project will also allocate resources (estimated at US$250,000 base cost) for continuing public
information and consultation process. UNDP will support the campaign with a US$150,000 grant.
The Social Assessment will be repeated as part of the mid-term review and at the end of the project to
monitor performance and impact of the project and receive feedback for improving implementation.



- 30-
E.    BENEFITS AND RisKs
5.26         Benefits. More efficient public health spending will improve the sustainability of the basic
benefits package in providing access to basic health care services to the people. The poorer segments
of the population are more likely to benefit from improved targeting. Improving transparency and
introducing appropriate incentives will create an enabling environment for restructuring the large and
inefficient health sector. The communities eligible for PHC development grants will benefit from
improved access to better quality health services, increased sense of ownership and improvement in
their capacity to manage community affairs. Primary health care providers will benefit through
strengthening their skills, increasing professional prestige and job satisfaction from improved
practice. The PHCDP will also create employment opportunities for small scale contractors.
5.27         Ministry of Health will benefit from  improved institutional capacity to manage public
funds for health care. State Medical University, National Institute of Health and Medical College will
benefit from improved institutional capacity and links to international professional community.
5.28         Risks. The Government faces certain risks in implementing its reform  program  as well as
the project. The risks and mitigation measures for the project are summarized (Table 5.2).
Table 5.2: Project risks
Risk                         Possible Cause                            Mitigation Measures
Financial
Shortfall in health care budget   =>  low tax compliance             X    public information and consultation activities;
allocation, discrediting of reforms    >   low priority for MoFE          included in the project
=    SAC 11 has a conditionality for minimum
spending
Unsustainability of BBP,            .  political unpopularity to     =,  SAC 11 has a conditionality about sustainability
continuation of informal               explicitly reduce health           of BBP
payments and inequities                benefits                                                      will explain to the
=r   public information campaign w1  xlmt  h
lack of medical intervention      public the resource constraints; included in the
standards                         project
-3 current project will provide TA to increase
efficiency of BBP interventions
Lack of Govemment counterpart    =,  difficult budget situation      =>  legal covenant on the Govemment contribution
funds                             z    health sector a low priority       will be in the Credit Agreement
for the MoFE                       W MoFE representatives will participate in project
steering committee
Community and local               z>  lack of information            n    PHCDP will have promotion activities
Government unwillingness or                                               communication
inability to contribute and                                               PHCDP will provide communities with incentives
participate in PHCDP       ~            lack of financial resources      through matching funds and with training in
>   lack of skills in                  management
management
m g  regulatory clarity will be a condition for
=    legal regulatory uncertainty      negotiations
Insufficient funds allocated for  =>  political pressure from        ='  earmark for per capita PHC allocation will be
PHC reform                             hospital sector                    monitored by the Bank
r    public information and consultation activities
included in the project



- 31 -
Risk                      Possible Cause                        Mitigation Measures
Political
Discontinuation of overall socio-   =>  political instability, change   =,  not likely because of general agreement with
economic reforns                    of Govemment                   opposition
Discontinuation of health care  r   change in leadership in the    r   during project preparation broad consensus has
reform                              MoH                            been built through workshops and public
-   strong political lobby by      information and consultation activities; these
opposed stakeholders           activities will continue under the project
=,  re-training will be offered to specialists
Institutional
Failure and discrediting of new  =>  lack of management skills    =   by the project design, the institutions will be
institutions: SHA, chairs in SMU,   and procedures                 gradually geared up before taking on full
NIH                                 lack of transparent            functions: project will support training, MIS,
regulation                     transparent by-laws, pilots
Difficulties in project        =>  first World Bank health     =,  PMU is gaining experience through PHRD
management                          project                        management; project will provide training and TA
=*  clear operational procedures will be developed
=,  ASIF expertise will be used for micro-project
r>  multiple micro-projects        management
H.   POVERTY IMPACT
The project will have no direct and targeted impact on the poor because of difficulties in identifying
the poor. The project is expected, however, to better benefit the poor through: (i) The design of the
BBP which will emphasize health services important for the poor, including immunization,
tuberculosis, prenatal care, school health programs and emergency services; (ii) Improving quality
and access to primary health care services in selected communities: outpatient services are closer to
the population (no transport cost) and considerably cheaper in terms of informal out of pocket
payments, and although efforts are being made to gradually eliminate informal payments, it will only
be achieved in the medium to long term; and, (iii) improving efficiency of public health expenditures
in the short term will enable improvement of the sustainability of the BBP and reduce out-of-pocket
costs and in the longer term, enlarge the scope of the package.
I.    ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT
5.29        The project does not have a negative environmental impact and has been assigned
environmental category C.
VI. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
A.   AGREEMENTS REACHED DURING NEGOTIATIONS
6.1       During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Government:
(a)        The Government will furnish on or about October 31, 1999, a report on the progress
achieved during the period preceding that date and review the submitted report with the IDA
by December 31, 1999. [para. 4.7]
(b)        Accounting and reporting arrangements were confirmed. [para.3.22]



- 32 -
(c)     The Government shall ensure that the training facilities (including hostels) to be
rehabilitated under the Project, shall at all times be available to accommodate students
enrolled in the PHC training programs at the NIH, SMU and Medical College. [para. 2.93
(d)     The Government will establish, not later than January 1, 1998, a State Health Agency
(SHA) in accordance with the institutional plan and terms of reference acceptable to the
IDA. [para. 2.22]
(e)     The Government shall maintain PMU within the Ministry of Health with staff and other
resources and terms of reference, satisfactory to the IDA. [para. 4.2]
(f)     The Government shall maintain the PHCDP Unit within the PMU and PHCDP Committee
within the MoH which shall follow procedures and criteria set forth in the Operational
Manual and shall not amend, abrogate or waive any provision in the Operational Manual
without a prior consent of the IDA. [para. 4.4]
(g)     The Government shall maintain a PHC Training Coordination Committee. [para. 2.51
(h)     The Government shall establish and maintain a working group which will be responsible for
designing and implementing methodology for cost-accounting, price calculation, contracts
between SHA and health services providers, strategy for legalizing and regulating
payments to health care providers. The working group will be set-up first in the Ministry of
Health and transfer to the State Health Agency once the Agency is officially created. [para.
2.26]
(i)     The Government shall maintain a Project Steering Committee, which shall at all times
include representatives from the MoH, Ministry of Economy, Ministry of Finance and the
National Assembly Commission on Health. [para. 4.5]
(j)     The Government shall submit not later than November I st each year during implementation
of the project for the IDA's review the BBP to be included into the state budget for the next
fiscal year, and shall in timely manner incorporate and implement the IDA's comments.
[para. 2.24]
(k)     The Government will maintain a Project Account in a commercial bank on terms and
conditions acceptable to IDA and replenish the said account at the beginning of each
semester to ensure that adequate funds, as deemed necessary by IDA, are available to meet
expected local expenditures for the next eight months. [para. 3.20]
B.    CONDITIONS OF EFFECTIVENESS
6.2     Following the signing of the Credit Document, the following conditions for effectiveness of
the Credit Agreement must be completed by the Borrower:
(a)     Approval of the Final Operational Manual of Primary Health Care Development Program
by the Ministry of Health, acceptable to IDA. [para. 4.4]
(b)     Opening the Project Account and an initial deposit of equivalent to US$80,000 to this
account by the Government. [para. 3.4)



- 33 -
(c)     Signing an agreement between Ministry of Health and ASIF for overseeing procurement of
civil works under the Primary Health Care Development Program. [para. 3.7]
(d)     Allocation of suitable office space for the State Health Agency. [para. 2.23]



ANNEX I
Page 1 of 6
ARMENIA HEALTH SECTOR INDICATORS
TABLES AND FIGURES1
Table 1: Main Causes of Death: Age Adjusted Mortality Rates per 100,000 Population.
International Comparisons.*
Cause of death         Armenia   Georgia   Russia   Estonia  Germany   USA              Japoan
Cardio-Vascular             390.5      676.3     768.9    752.5        544.2    378.3    245.6
Neoplasms                    96.1       97.3     206.9    218.1        244.7    228.3    189.4
Respiratory diseases         51.4       28.5      74.5       30.2       58.7      40.6     68.8
Accidents/poisonings         62.8       63.6     227.9    152.2         51.6      60.9     45.5
Digestive diseases          27.78       31.7      38.3       28.0       27.8      13.6      16.7
Infectious diseases                     19.6       17.3       8.9        8.5      12.4      10.0
Other                                   45.9     276.2    112.2
Sources: The World Bank, Armenia Ministry of Health, Georgia Ministry of Health , Estonia Ministry of Social
Affairs
* Armenia 1993, Georgia, Estonia 1992; Russia 1993; Germany 1990; tJSA 1989; Japan 1991
Table 2: Comparative Health Data: Main Health Indicators in Arnenia and Selected OECD
Countries
Indicator I Country     Armenia   Belgium    Canada    Mexico         Turkey       UK
HCE as % of GDP            1.9        8.2        9.8         4.9        2.6         6.9
Doctorsper 1,000           3.4        3.7        2.2         1.0        1.1         1.5
Hospital Beds per 1,000    7.6        7.6        6.0         0.8        2.5         5.1
ALOS                      15.2        12.0       12.6        3.9        6.7        10.2
Total Fertility Rate      1.63        1.55        1.7        2.9        2.69       1.75
Infant Mortality Rate      1.4        0.76       0.68        1.7        4.68       0.62
Life Expectancy at Birth:  68.9 / 75.9  73.0 / 79.8  74.9/81.2  69.4 / 75.8  65.4/70.0  74.2 / 79.5
Male / Female
Note: Data: Armenia -- 1995, OECD countries -- 1994.
SoJrces: Armenia -- Ministry of Health Data, 1995; OECD countries -- OECD Health Data, 1996, OECD.
Table 3: Disability DALYs by Age and Sex Arnenia 1995
0-4     5-14     15-44     45-59       60+       Total    % of Total
Males              1299    12244    23348      8802       8367       54060      53.95%
Females            1062    10314    19136      7251       8376       46139      46.05%
Total             2360   22559    42484        16053      16743     100198
% of Total        2.36%   22.51%   42.40%     16.02%     16.71%
Table 4: Death DALYs by Age and Sex Armenia 1995
0-4      5-14     15-44       45-59       60+      Total   % of Total
Males             17623    4571       51191      38437      59944    171767    60.30%
Females           14144    2357       17917      19604      59045    113066    39.70%
Total             31767     6927      69108      58041      118989   284833
% of Total       11.15%    2.43%    24.26%      20.38%      41.77%
1   Data source for the Tables 3-5 and Figures 1-6 is a report: Burden of Disease in Armenia: A
Preliminary consultant report. Costa, C. et Gouveia, M. 1997.



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 6
Table 5: Total DALYs by Age and Sex
0-4       5-14       15-44     45-59        60+       Total    % of Total
Males              18922      16815      74539      47239       68311     225826       58.65%
Females            15206      12671      37053      26855       67420      159205      41.35%
Total              34127      29486      111592     74094      135732    385031
% of Total         8.86%      7.66%     28.98%     19.24%      35.25%
Figure 1: Incidence of tuberculosis (per 100,000 population). 2
25
20-
15
10
5
0 -           I           I           I           I           I           I            I
1987        1988        1989        1990        1991        1993        1994         1995
Anen   U
Figure 2: Total Male DALYs by Age.                      Figure 3: Total Female DALYs by Age.
5-14
15644   5-14   0-4                                  16-44          10%     04
16%     2%    13%                                   30%                   3%
4S69- ~ ~~~~~~~~ _                                            _
17%             ~~~60+                               45-59                 60+
52%                                 22%                  3%
2       Armenian Ministry of Health Data; WHO/Europe, Health For All Database, 1994.



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 6
4W
04 1D14               34   4044 54 71    )        74-   8
F9igure 4: Age and Sex Specific Total DALYs, per 1 ,000 population.
FIgure 5: Male Death DALYs by Nosological           Figure 6: Female Death DALYs by
Grxoups.                                            N osological Groups.
1 -1
i~~~~~o
" ,0% r e
-~~~~4           1-1     D4 3,4     44W4    07- 81



Armnenia Health Sector Indicators                                                                                                    ANNEX I
Page 4 of 6
Year                                                 1980      1985       1990      1991       1992      1993       1994      1995      1996
Demographics. Economy and Finance
Population                                       3,096,300  3,339,100  3,544,700  3,611,700  3,685,600  3,731,320  3,746,850  3,759,950  3,780,600
Urban (%)                                           66%        68%       69%       69%        69%       68%        67%       68%
Male (/)                                           44%        49%       49%        48%       48%       48%        48%       48%
Age Structure
14 and Under (% ofpopulation)                      32.2%     31.4%     32.3%      32.2%     32.0%      31.7%    31.30%    28.00%
15-64 (% ofpopulation)                             61.9%     62.9%     62.0%      61.8%     59.6%      61.6%     61.6%      63.8%
Population Growth Rate (% per annum)                1.72%     1.82%      1.63%     1.51%      1.21%     0.85%     0.70%      0.35%
Urban (% per annum)                                1.90%     1.90%     2.40%      1.80%     1.00%      0.80%    -0.10%      0.16%
Fertility
Crude Birth Rate (per 1,000 popula.ion)            22.68      23.99     22.54      21.61     19.23      15.79     13.70      13.02
Total Fertility Rate (births per woman)             2.34       2.55      2.63       2.58      2.35       1.97      1.70       1.63
Finance and Economy
GDP per capita in US$                                                                           780       586               367.37
Health expenditures per capita US$                                                             35.1       20.5                  7.0
Health expenditures as % of GDP                                                                4.5%      3.5%                 1.9%
Health expenditures as % of public expenditures                                                7.2%      5.2%                 6.4%
Informal payments as % of public health expenditures                                                                         232%
Health Expenditures Breakdown
Salaries                                                                                     932.0   7,775.9
Benefits                                                                                    248.0   2,715.6
Pharmaceuticals                                                                              158.5   3,053.6
Food                                                                                        212.1   1,934.6
Equipment                                                                                    131.1    1,192.7
Disposable Items                                                                             586.1   5,993.5
Capital investment                                                                           111.6     157.0
Capital repairs                                                                             213.9   2,572.1
Other expenditures                                                                           109.9   2,822.2
Total                                                                                      2,703.2  28,217.2



Arnenia Health Sector Indicators                                                                                                  ANNEX I
Page 5 of 6
Year                                                1980      1985      1990      1991       992       1993      1994      1995      1996
th Sabtus
Average Life Expectancy at Birth
Overall                                            72.8        73      70.7       72.4      71.2      71.2      71.6      72.5
Male                                               69.5      69.8      67.4       68.9      68.7      67.9      68.1      68.9
Female                                             75.7      75.7      73.3       75.6      75.5      74.4      74.9      75.9
Average Life Expectancy at 30
Overall                                            46.5      46.6      43.4       44.9      44.7      43.8      44.2      44.9
Male                                               43.3      43.5        41        n/a      41.6      41.0      41.3      41.8
Female                                             49.2      49.1      45.7        n/a      47.6      46.4      47.0      47.8
Mortality
Crude Death Rate (per 1,000 population)            5.52      5.85      6.21       6.51      7.03      7.36      6.58      6.61
Infant Mortality Rate (per 1,000 live births)     26.2      24.8      18.5       17.9      18.5      17.1      14.7       14.2
Under-5 Mortality Rate (per 1,000 live births)     33.0      34.7      23.8       22.6      24.2      24.2      21.4      19.9
Maternal Mortality Ratio (per O00,000 live births)  27.0     22.1       40.1      23.1      14.2      27.1      29.3      34.7
Mortality Breakdown
Cardio-vascular diseases                          247.7    278.65    305.89    333.89    360.56    390.49    339.12    358.03
Neoplasms                                          74.3     83.31      99.89    102.11     99.14     96.06     84.42      91.90
External causes (accidents, injuries, suicides)    46.4     43.06      55.63      53.2      69.3     62.83     68.09     45.39
Respiratory illnesses                              89.4     78.79       50.3     44.31     45.88     51.42     42.86     42.67
Digestive diseases                                 21.3     21.41      21.07     23.36     24.12     27.78     26.32     23.81
Other
Total                                             553.0     586.4     620.4      650.9     700.7     736.9    657.95    660.99
Service Capacity
Physicians per 1,000 population                     3.6       3.8        4.1       4.1       3.9       3.7       3.4        3.4       3.4
Nurses per 1,000 population                         8.5       9.1        9.9       9.9       9.8       9.3       8.5        8.3       7.7
Hospital beds per 1,000 population                 8.35      8.35        8.5      8.46      8.28      8.19      7.75      7.62       7.01
Number of hospitals                                 168       167       176        179       183       182       181       183       169
Number ofpoliclinics                                462       484       516       537       516        517       504       501       499
Immunization coverage (12-18 months)
BCG (%6 of age group)                                                              86        88         83        83        84        82
DPT (% of age group)                                                               83         85        85        86        98        86
Measles (%6 of age group)                                                          93        93         95                            89
OPV (9l of age group)                                                              92        92        92         95        96        97



Arnenia Health Sector Indicators                                                                                                    ANNEX I
Page 6 of 6
Year                                                 1980      1985      1990      1991       1992      1993      1994      1995       1996
Utilization of Health Services
Primary Care (polyclinics)
Office visits (per capita/year)                       9.0      10.5        7.8       7.4       6.1       5.1        5.0       4.8       4.6
Home (District) Visits (per capita/year)              0.7       0.8      0.68       0.62      0.48      0.42       0.33      0.37      0.32
Ambulance visits                                     0.25      0.24       0.25      0.24      0.19      0.13       0.10      0.10      0.10
Hospital Care
ALOS                                                 17.1      16.6       15.6      15.4      15.6       15.9      16.3      15.2
Bed occupancy ratio                                  83%       86%       68%        62%       51%       44%        44%     40.1%      42.7%
Admissions (per capita/year)                        0.147     0.153     0.132      0.121     0.096     0.082      0.076     0.075     0.075
Epidemiological Trends
Incidence oftuberculosis /100,000                                         17.6      20.5      15.8       14.5      19.5      21.6      23.9
Incidence of hepatitis/ 100,000                                         217.4      109.7     102.2      106.6     80.95      79.5      89.5
Incidence of gonorrhea 1I00,000                                          28.6       21.6      13.3      28.0       33.4      35.2      37.8
Accidents and poisoning / 100,000                                         21.2      18.9      13.8
Work related fatalities / 100,000                                        0.06       0.03      0.03
Suicide and self-injury /100,000                                           3.3       2.3       2.7                            3.5
Communicable diseases: number of cases of
Polio                                                                                                     0         5          3         0
Diphtheria                                                                                                1        36         29        11
Pertussis                                                                                                98       329         12         2
Tetanus                                                                                                   1         2         0          7
Measles                                                                                                 338       149        187      2027
Rubella                                                                                                 224       706      2135          0
Environment
% of population with access to hygienic sewage disposal
Urban                                                                                                                      100%
Rural                                                                                                                       40%
% of population with water supply in home
Urban                                                                                                                      100/.
Rural                                                                                                                      100%



Mr. Basil Kavalsky
Director
Europe and Central Asia Regional Office
Country Department IV
The World Bank
May 15, 1997
Dear Mr. Kavalsky,
Attached is the Document on Primary Health Care Reform
Strategy in the Republic of Armenia. This Document has been approved
by the Ministers of Health, Economy and Finance. We are providing this
Document for the Health component of the proposed Health and
Education project.
Sincerely,
Ara Babloyan         Vahram Avanessian    Levon Barkhudarian
Minister of Health   Minister of Economy   Minister of Financ
cc: Mr. V. Nercissiantz, Chief, Armenia Resident Mission



ANNEX2
Page 2 of 12
PRIMARY HEALTH CARE REFORM STRATEGY
IN THE REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA
(Translation from the official Armenian Document)
Table of Contents
Section
I     The Concept of PHC
1.1    The Definition of PHC
1.2    The Tasks of PHC
1.3    The Main Principles of PHC Implementatior
2      Introduction of PHC in the RA                                  2
3      Services to be Provided by the Armenian PHC 1'eam              2
4      Providers of PHC in Armenia                                    3
5      Organization and Management of the PHIC Sectcor
within the Health Care System                                  3
5.1    The Types of Ownership                                         3
5.2    Responsibilities at the National, Marz (Region s
and Hamaink (Community) Levels                                 4
5.3    Community Participation In the Organization of the PH-(W       4
5.4    Financing of PlIC                                              4
6      PHC Reform                                                     5
6.1    PHC Providers - The Current Infrastructure                     5
6.2    Transition Activities                                          6
7      Integration of Vertical Programs                               7
Appendix - Strategy for the Introduction of Family Practice           8



ANNF.X2
Page 3 of 12
1. The Concept of Primary Health Care (PHC)
1.1 The definition of PHC
The development of a PHC strategy, within the context of health care system reforms in the
Republic of Armenia (RA), is based on the PHC concept adopted at the Alma-Ata conference
in 1978.
According to the WHO definition, " Primary Health Care is the main part of health care, based
on scientific, practical methods accessible for the population, and is implemented at a cost the
country and community can afford. PHC is the central function of the State Health Care
System, the principal vehicle for the delivery of health care, the most peripheral level in a
health system stretching from the periphery to the center, and an integral part of the social and
economic development of a country " (1994 Copenhagen, WHO Glossary).
In the RA, PHC, as "the first contact zone between a person/family and the health care system,
is the basis for the health care system and an integral part of it, aiming to satisfy the main
medical-social needs of the population using a limited amount of simple and inexpensive
medical technologies, with an emphasis on preventive activities; special attention is focused on
accessibility and equity, integration of services, participation of the community and
intersectoral coordination."
1.2. The Tasks of PHC
* Promotion of health
* Prevention of disease
* Treatment of disease
* Rehabilitation
1. 3. The Main Principles of PHC Implementation
ACCESSIBILITY              Geographic, time, psycho-social and financial;
evaluation of accessibility is based on public
opinion.
EQUITY                     It is impossible to attain equality in health status for
everybody. It is, however, necessary to provide equal
opportunityfor all individuals to realize theirfull health
potential.
COMPREHENSIVENESS   The broad range of services offered satisfies the main health
care needs of the population (although the final solution to
any given health care problem may not be realized at the PHC
level).
CONTINUITY                 PHC addresses not the treatment of a special case, but the
whole range of health care issues arising during an
individual's lifetime.



ANNEX2
Page 4 of 12
COORDINATION                  The majority of health care issues faced by an individual are
addressed at the PHC level. The individual, however, can
receive additional specialized medical care, coordinated
through his/herfamily doctor. Centralizedpatientfiles would
ensure an efficient coordination process.
2. PHC in the Armenian Context
The primary reason for health care reform in the RA is the fact that PHC, although present, has
many shortcomings at the organizational level. These include:
*  an insufficient level of preventive measures;
*  the low  level of authority of the district therapeutist, and his/her passive role as a
"dispatcher"/controller (In the past, emphasis was placed on specialized and hospital
services. In order to ensure maximum occupancy rates for hospital beds, the district
therapeutist was persuaded to refer patients to in-patient care and testing. As a result, the
district therapeutist was deprived of his/her main function of providing patients with
services);
*  lack of consideration of the family as a unit with regards to health care provision, resulting
in a separation of therapeutic, pediatric and obstetrical-gynecological services;
*  the absence of financial incentives to develop activities; and
*  insufficient capacity building.
As a result, the system  is inefficient, and the quality of services is insufficient. Health
indicators in the RA are currently lower than international standards.
The need for PHC reform is obvious. The main goal of this reform is to improve the health of
the population, through:
*  the provision of high quality health care;
*  the organization of more effective and efficient health services;
*  greater emphasis on health promotion and preventive measures;
*  a partial shift of the health care burden from the hospitals to the PHC units, i.e. from more
expensive to more cost-effective medical care;
*  increased accessibility of medical care by the introduction of a "family medicine"
approach;
*  a "gate keeper" role for the family doctor;
*  financial motivations for doctors to provide a better service;



ANNEX2
Page 5 of 12
* continuous examination and follow-up of the patient;
*  coordination between the PHC providers' services and secondary health care services.
3. Services that will be Provided by the Armenian PHC Team
*  Health education
*  Maternal and child health care programs, including immunization and family planning
*  Prevention and control of endemic diseases
*  Identification of the social, environmental, demographic, and psychological risk factors for
disease, and development of preventive measures directed towards health promotion for the
population
*  Diagnosis, treatment and rehabilitation for health care problems
*  Medical assistance in emergency situations
*  Social services
4. Providers of PHC in Armenian
The PHC medical services in Armenia will be provided by the PHC team. During the
transition period the PHC team will consist of the following providers: family doctor/general
practitioner, general practice pediatrician, general practice nurse, midwife. In the future, in
connection with the development of the social and economic conditions of the Republic, the
team members can be reviewed and changed.
5. Organization and Management of the PHC Sector in the Health Care System
S.1 The types of ownership
Medical facilities providing primary health care services will be owned by hamainks
(communities). At present these facilities belong to marzes (regions) and will be transferred to
hamainks when the State Health Agency (SHA) begins to function. Transfer of PHC facilities
to hamaink ownership will be carried out gradually. Priority will be given to hamainks that will
invest in the development of these facilities. Several hamainks can join together to own a
single PHC facility. In this case, the same team of family doctors will provide services
addressing the health needs of the entire population in the associated hamainks.
Hamaink ownership of PHC facilities will stimulate hamaink participation in both facility-
related activities, and the refurbishing and renovation of the PHC facilities.
Family doctor services can also be provided on a private basis.



ANNEX2
Page 6 of 12
5.2 Responsibilities at the National, Marz and Hamaink Levels
National level (Ministry of Health)
* Formulate and implement health care policy.
* Design drafts of legislative and regulatory acts for the main health tasks.
* Define health priorities based on health survey data.
* Within the scope of health priorities, design the Basic Benefits Package (BBP) including
the plan for its implementation and monitoring.
* Prepare a health care budget according to the BBP.
* Define health care standards and monitoring.
* Provide the authorized bodies at the marz and hamaink levels with guidelines, according to
adopted health policy.
* Store health care strategic resources for emergency situations.
* Develop and introduce methodology for the collection of health statistics and
accountability.
* Organize a health information system.
* Organize licensing for health care providers.
X Implement control measures aimed at ensuring the hygienic-epidemiological safety
standards for State programs, and the quality of medical aid and services, independent of
type of ownership and juridical structure.
Marz level:
* Organize the activities of health care facilities at the marz level.
*  Monitor non-governmental providers' activities.
* Ensure the implementation of the national health care program at the marz level.
* Collect and analyze statistical information from medical aid and service providers at the
marz and hamaink levels, independent of the type of ownership; present the information to
the Ministry of Health.
* Identify the health needs of the marz, approve tasks and, if necessary, present proposals to
the Ministry of Health for further action.
* Coordinate inter-hamaink health care activities.
* Organize and implement hygienic and epidemiological measures to prevent transmitted
and non-transmitted diseases and poisoning.
* Provide support to the national hygienic and epidemiological providers in water control,
food and environmental safety, and sanitation of schools and other buildings.
* Organize the construction, maintenance and utilization of facilities at the marz level.
Hamaink level:
* Organize activities of the health care facility at the hamaink level.
* Define and assess the health care needs of the hamaink.
* Provide the marz information-analytical center with health care data from medical aid and
service providers, in the framework of the PHC programs.
* Develop and implement hamaink health care programs and time schedule according to
adopted standards.
* Prepare the hamaink health care budget.
* Ensure the implementation of national and hamaink health care programs.



ANNEX2
Page 7 of 12
*  Support the provision of hygienic-epidemiological measures.
*  Organize the construction, maintenance and utilization of facilities at the hamaink level.
5.3 The Active Participation of the Community in the Organization of PHC
Community members are not only the consumers of PHC services, but can also be active
participants in its organization, implementation and monitoring in the following ways:
consultation with program users; control of results; participation of users in service provision;
development of proposals for improving the health of different social groups (elderly people,
socially vulnerable groups, chronically ill patients, etc.) based on needs assessment survey
data.
There is some uncertainty regarding the regulations and management structure at the hamaink
level. Consequently, the active participation of community members in PHC is not yet clear.
5.4 Financing of PHC
The PHC providers' team will contract with the SHA according to which services will be
provided within the framework of the BBP. The SHA will implement quality assurance
monitoring for the services provided. Payment for these services will be carried out according
to the principle of capitation.
In facilities which meet certain criteria, the family doctor, along with his/her team, will provide
PHC services directed towards the promotion of health and treatment of diseases for the
population. Concurrently, the family doctor will act as the financial and logistic manager of the
team. All members of each team should act within the same administrative managerial unit.
In urban areas, former polyclinics can be used as family doctors' offices. Each polyclinic will
be allocated some family doctor teams, and provide these teams with appropriate laboratory,
diagnostic, X-ray and other services in common facilities. The logistics of the teams' activities
will be the responsibility of the manager, who will be appointed by the owner of each PHC
facility. The manager will also contract with the SHA regarding services implemented by teams
within the framework of the State Order. Team members will be paid via contracts with the
manager from the sources allocated for them by the Government. The manager will be
accountable to a council for his/her activities. The council will be made up of family doctors.
PHC teams will be given the opportunity to work independent from the polyclinics and
establish private offices.
In rural areas, family doctors' teams will be located mainly at ambulatory clinics. The family
doctor will be the manager of the team. The team will contract directly with the marz branch of
the SHA.
Diagnostic laboratories and medical specialists will be paid for services according to separate
contracts with the SHA based on reports from family doctor's team members.
For services outside the National Health Care System, the patient will pay himself, on the basis
of a fee-for-service system.



ANNFX2
Page 8 of 12
6. Reform of the PHC System
6.1 PHC Providers - Present Infrastructure
There is a high number of potential PHC providers in all marz areas of the RA. In urban areas
they are mainly employed at polyclinics, based on district (or territorial) health services
provision. These providers are separate for adults and children. In addition to the therapeutist
and pediatrician, the polyclinic staff is comprised of doctors of various specialties
(cardiologists, neurologists, surgeons, etc.).
In rural areas PHC providers are employed at Rural Health Centers (RHC) and Feldsher
Obstetrical Units (FOU) . These facilities serve as separate stages of health provision for the
rural inhabitants. FOUs are more peripheral establishments, and employ feldshers (medical
personnel with a four-year education from special medical colleges) and a midwife. The RHC
is the main medical establishment in the rural area which, according to legislation, should have
four doctors (therapeutist, pediatrician, obstetrician-gynecologist and dentist). In addition to
these establishments, the rural population can also use the wide range of services provided by
the local hospitals, which have a capacity of approximately 25-30 beds.
RHCs, according to Governmental decision, have State Enterprise Status. This status allows the
RHC the opportunity to carry out activities which will build a foundation of necessary
financial resources that may result in a more efficient and rational implementation of medical
activities.
The distribution of doctors in the RA is unequal.
6.2 Transition Activities
6.2.1 Health care, social welfare and other relevant services will be reoriented in order to
obtain maximum fulfillment from the activities of the family doctor. These activities will be
directed towards solving the health problems of the family through community health
promotion, disease prevention and treatment, rehabilitation and social assistance.
6.2.2 New approaches will be developed for the selection and distribution of health care
providers. By optimizing the system, resources will become available that can be used for
strengthening the PHC system according to need and demand. This process will also involve
training programs in family practice medicine designed for doctors from different specialties to
become family doctors. Additionally, PHC facilities will be provided with essential drugs,
diagnostic and other necessary equipment.
To ensure the efficiency of PHC activities, it is necessary to work out a rationalization plan for
the units that provide services (for example, the establishment of PHC facilities where
needed; in the case of underutilized rural district hospitals, to reconstruct them into out-patient
facilities or to join them to the marz hospitals).
In the future, it is planned to transform a certain number of FOUs into offices for family
doctors. The remaining FOUs will be preserved, staffed by one public nurse. They will be
responsible for answering health-related questions from the population of the hamainkcs, and



ANNEX2
Page 9 of 12
accountable to the family doctor. FOUs will provide some team services, ensuring a greater
accessibility to services for the population of each hamaink. The staff of FOUs will be paid
from the budget allocated for hamaink health care. Hamainks will also participate in ensuring
the ongoing activities of FOUs.
6.2.3 With the aim of utilizing the limited national resources for medical assistance in a more
effective and equitable way, these resources will be pooled together to finance the minimal
Basic Benefits Package (BBP), which will be provided free of charge to the entire population in
the RA.
The basis for the BBP will be the burden of disease in the RA, and the cost-effectiveness of the
interventions.
6.2.4 A rational system for estimating and evaluating the economic cost of the health care
system will be developed and implemented. The aim of the system will be to set up a direct
link between the PHC providers' reimbursement and indicators of consumers' health.
6.2.5 PHC providers will be given training, re-training and continuous education.
6.2.6 An increase in burden of responsibility will be placed on the person, family and
community for their own health.
6.2.7 Standards will be developed for PHC services.
6.2.8 Standards will be developed for the physical infrastructure of PHC units.
6.2.9 A stage-by-stage implementation plan for the introduction of family practice will be
followed (see Annex).
Taking into account the variety in PHC infrastructure present in different marzes, it is obvious
that introduction of family practice in each marz should be implemented in the most optimal
way for the particular situation. Nevertheless, a number of common organizational aspects can
be identified.
*  Certain medical services currently provided by different specialists can be delegated to the
family doctor. The specialists will be limited to the consultation and treatment of patients
who need very specialized care due to complicated pathology or chronic diseases. This
will result in a reduction of specialists at the primary level and, consequently, will free
resources.
*  Certain medical activities (preventive, out-patient, patient follow-up) that are currently
performed by doctors can be delegated to medical mid-level staff who have received
special professional education and are eligible to work independently in providing these
medical services. This will result in a decreased demand for physician services. The ratio
of doctors to mid-level personnel in the RA is 1:2.5 , though 1:4 is considered to be more
optimal.
*  Family doctors and general practice pediatricians are the only doctors who will have
complete responsibility for the promotion of the patient's health.



ANNEX2
Page 10 of 12
*  The hamaink will be responsible for providing the conditions necessary for the
implementation of PHC services. Hamaink authorities will ensure the planning and
organization of PHC activities in their district through the officials responsible for health
care.
*  Although family doctors can be located in any medical institution, polyclinics (in urban
areas) and RHCs (in rural areas) are considered to be a more appropriate choice. In the
near future family doctors may also be practicing at private facilities.
7. Integration of vertical programs
At present, several vertical programs (diarrhea, respiratory diseases, tuberculosis program, etc.)
are implemented concurrently with PHC at all levels of the health care system. The majority of
these vertical program activities will be transferred to family practice. Several sanitary-
epidemiological programs will remain as vertical programs.



ANNEX2
Page 11 of 12
Appendix: Strategy for the Introduction of Family Practice
Short-term strategy (Jan 1997 - Dec 1997); This time period is the preparation stage.
Activities will include the following:
*  development of an organizational-legislative base for the transition to family doctor
practice;
*  extended analysis of PHC services in the RA health care system; detailing a precise
program for the transition to family medicine; development of the mechanisms for
management and capacity building at each marz;
*  selection of PHC providers to work in the sphere of family practice; organization of their
training and re-training;
* preparation of training programs;
*  improvement of programs in family practice training, increased information, and other
activities for the purpose of ensuring the authority of the family doctor;
*  provision of information on reforms to raise awareness among medical staff and the
population;
*  development of incentives for PHC providers, especially in rural areas;
*  development of a computerized information system network for family doctors;
*  development of mechanisms for the introduction of the next 2 stages.
M-d-term  strategy (1998 - 2000) This is the transition stage towards the introduction of
family practice. The main goal of this stage is the transition of district therapeutic and
pediatric services to the corresponding family practice services.
Structural and functional changes will occur at this stage. In addition, PHC teams will be
recruited within the limits of existing possibilities.
Increase in the authority of family doctors will be achieved through an increase of salary and
responsibility, and through the provision of adequate medical supplies and equipment,
premises.
Individuals will be give a choice in the selection of PHC providers (family doctor with his/her
team). If necessary, a consultation with an obstetrician-gynecologist and other specialists, or
in-patient treatment will be provided. It will be essential that a patient be referred by a family
doctor for consultations with specialists.
The activities of the PHC team will be implemented in polyclinics (for urban areas) and health
centers or rural hospitals (for rural areas). In order to achieve this, and also to ensure family



ANNEX2
Page 12 of 12
doctor, specialist-consultant, diagnostic and rehabilitation services, necessary changes in
management structure and organization will be made.
Thus, the final results of this stage are.:
1. The development of the principles of PHC organization at each marz.
2. The development of regulations which reflect PHC providers' (family doctor, general
practice pediatrician, general practice nurse, midwife and other providers') rights and
responsibilities.
3. The development of procedures and methodology to ensure links between PHC and other
providers' medical and social assistance.
4. The development of procedures and methodology for the conduct of daily activities and
quality assurance monitoring.
Long-term strategy (2000 - ) This is the final transition stage for the introduction of family
practice. The aim of this stage is the further development of family practice medicine and the
final transition into family-oriented PHC.



Mr. Basil Kavalsky
Director
Europe and Central Asia Regional Office
Country Departnent IV
The World Bank
*..--November 28, 1996
Dear Mr. Kavalsky,
Atached is the Statement of Health Care Einance Strategy of the
Republic of Armenia. This statement has been    ty the Ministers of
Health, Economy and Finance. We are providing; fthis statement for the
Health component of the proposed Health and Educi on project.
Sinccrcly,
Ara Babloyan                      Avan  ari.         Levon Barkhudarian
Minister of Hcalth          Minister of Economy         Minister of Finance
cc: Mr. V. Nercissimne, Chief, Armenia Residcat Mission



ANNEX3
Page 2 of 6
STATEMENT OF HEALTH CARE FINANCE STRATEGY
OF THE REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA
1. Health System Reforms in the Republic of Armenia: Introduction
The Government of Armenia has defined basic foundations for major reforms in the
health care system. These reforms are described in the elaborated in 1995 by the Ministry
of Health "Program on Development and Reforms of the Health Care System in the
Republic of Armenia for 1996-2000", the legislative basis provided for which has
become the "Law on Medical Aid and Services to the Population", adopted in 1996. The
reforms include diversification of the health care system financing, reorientation of the
system towards primary health care, improvement and updating of medical education.
Introduction of licensing for professional activities, and structural changes of the system
such as the decentralization of the management and financing systems, privatization and
denationalization of some facilities, and significant improvement of the information
analytical system. Strengthening primary health care and improving the health care
financing mechanisms in Armenia are the two main directions of the reforms. The
Government is preparing a separate primary health care strategy draft. Our strategy for
reforming the health financing system of the republic of Armenia is presented below.
Health Care Financing
2. According to approximate estimations about 41 billion drams, or 11,000 drams per
capita, was spent on health care in the Republic of Armenia in 1995. Approximately
twenty-five percent - 10.1 billion drams - came from the state budget. According to the
same estimations the sufficient part of the expenditures was made directly by the
population, including informal out-of-pocket payments. The amount of public funding for
health, though on a small scale, has been increasing in both absolute and relative terms,
reflecting our commitment to the health sector. In 1996, the public health expenditures
are expected to reach 13 billion drams in 1997 are budgeted at 15.7 billion drams. In the
short term, the Government will continue to rely upon the state budget to finance the
State Health Target Program till abstaining from introduction of a new, health payroll tax.
However, the question of introduction of compulsory health insurance will be kept in the
agenda and can become an issue for discussion alongside with the improvement of
general economic situation.
3. Along with increasing total spending in health, the Government is also committed to
allocating increasingly large share to primary health care financing. In the 1997 budget,
allocations for one of the most important sectors of primary health care - outpatient-
policlinic service - in comparison with the last year, will be increased by more than 36



ANNEX3
Page 3 of 6
percent, from 1.8 billion drams to 2.45 billion drams. Other important public health
programs will receive priority in the frames of the overall health budget.
4. The state is not the only actor responsible for public health care. Citizens also have
their own responsibility for health and health expenses. The state will remain responsible
for essential service within its limited financial capacities. The Government will also
attempt to improve the efficiency of the sizable non-public spending by using several
approaches described below in the portion on non-public sources of financing.
5. Health Care Public Financing Strategy
The Government objectives for state health financing over the next years are to ensure
universal access to essential health care services while introducing appropriate financial
incentives and ensuring fiscal sustainability of the State Health Agency. The Government
will focus its efforts on the following main issues:
1) creation of the State Health Agency
2) completion of the transformation process of health institutions into state enterprises
3) definition of a Basic Benefits Package to be included in the State Target Health
Program
4) ensuring medical assistance to the most vulnerable groups of population by improved
equity and better targeting of public spending
5) elaboration and adoption of new payment mechanisms for health care providers
6) improvement of the financial information system
6. Creation of the State Health Agency
It is necessary to separate the health care provision and the health care financing
functions in order to improve the efficiency of the Armenian health care system. To this
effect, the Government plans to establish a separate body for purchasing health care
services - the State Health Agency. Within the State Target Programs the Agency will
have the following tasks:
1) contracting with health care providers
2) paying providers
3) monitoring the quality and contents of services.
Important functions such as setting overall health policy as well as defining the Basic
Benefits Package would remain the responsibility of the Government. The non-
governmental health care providers will have equal rights with the state enterprises in
contracting the agency. The State Agency will not be obliged to enter into agreement with
all health care providers. The government will elaborate certain criteria for health care
institutions selection, which would be considered by the Agency when signing
agreements. The State Health Agency could be transferred to become a social insurance
fund in the future, when the Government will resolute to implement compulsory health
insurance. The Government will define the legal basis and the administrative and



ANNEX3
Page 4 of 6
organizational structure of the Agency and launch its icti x i ties during the first year of
project implementation
7. Structural Changes and D)ecentralization
An important element of the Armenian health financti ret )rms appears the granting of
state enterprise status to the budget institutiolls State ent ~rprise no lo'nger receive per
item budget allocation based on capacity, hut instead ire paid by the volurme of services
they produce and have more freedonm to manage theii h\ ' l nudgct. Xl present most of
both Republican and mnarz health care t'acilities ha\ e tire idy obtained state enterprise
status. This process will he continued and finished dcurinl 1 997 At the same time out-
patient and polyclinic institutions have obtained the sxatu ofI legal entities and no longer
are under the administrative authority of hospitals. Giver tht large nuLmber of health care
institutions in Armenia, the Government is not sure that iTi state enterprises will be
financially viable under this new budgeting system. At tf e same tinme, in order to make
the bulk of the system and the personnel correspond tt i1- e real demand, the Government
intends to elaborate a program for reformation and chang ing the scope of'activities of the
low-efficient health care institutions, as well as for closir g of a parn of them. The
Government will not promote the enterprises sufftered as lresult of a competition, except
for those which implement specific tasks within the Statt I arget Health Programs, or
those which are fundamental in providing accessible hea Ih care ser\ ices and ensuring
homogeneous geographic distribution. The stafft' f tht ht althi care institutions which is
subject to closing will be retrained to become mostlx gereral practitioners, and the
facilities of those institutions will he redistributed tfor I !1 r  rt efficient provision of health
care services. Along with establishment statt enterpri hen~ the (jovernment is committed to
implement decentralization of the health care system nai iagenmenit t the marz and local
(hamaink) level, as well as to continue the programmed privatization of health care
institutions, considering those steps an importanit parl v' estructuring, taking into account
all the positive and negative features of the process a, k\ t 11 as the necessity to implement
it carefully.
8. Basic Benefits Package
According to the "Law on Medical Aid and Services ro t ie Population" (1996), within the
framework of the State 'Farget f-lealth Program,. pro% sit 1a v a limited package of
essential clinical services (the basic benefits package  1B 1P). financ ed from the state
budget, is guaranteed for the population. Fhi oheti ct  ) inplemetiLing the BBP is to
first finance those services which will have ihe greatest i npact on improving the health
status of our population within the limited public huLd,.et I he content ot' the BBP should
be later revised and its methodology should he seriously refined by lirst assessing the
burden of disease in Armenia in order to quantitatively e .aluate heallh priorities. In
improving the BBP methodology the Government will g ve priorit\ to the issue of using
the present limited financial resources in the most efficierl way, considering both the
medical and economic effectiveness of the services inclu led in the IIBP



ANNEX 3
Page 5 of 6
9. Guaranteed Medical Assistance to the Vulnerable Groups of Population
Equity and solidarity are important concepts in Armenian health care reform. Therefore,
the Government will provide free of charge and accessible health services to the country's
most vulnerable citizens. The Government will put a task to the Ministry of Social Affairs
to identify the really most vulnerable groups of citizens which have the right to receive
free of charge medical assistance. Besides, it's assumed that the rest of population will
pay official fees for delivery of those health services, which are not included in the Basic
Benefits Package.
10. New Forms of Payment of Health Care Providers
In the next few years the Government will proceed with the design, testing and
implementation of new forma of payment of health care providers. In this connection
some important steps have been already done in terms of shifting from the old, capacity-
based budgeting system to the activity based one, also to the financing the out-patient
polyclinic services on the basis of the number of population served by each GP. The
Government will try to form a payment system which will:
1) emphasize the Primary Health Care as the basis of the health care
2) pay the health care providers according to the efforts they put and efficiency of those
3) allow patient to choose a provider so long as the provider has an appropriate license
for professional activities
4) remunerate health care providers of both public and private sector equally for similar
services
11. Improvement of Financing Information Systems
In order to implement the health finance reforms described above, it is necessary to
improve and modernize the health financial information system. In particular, the
Government intends to design, test, and implement an integral medical and financial
information system which will assist health care authorities in making strategic decisions,
will allow improvement of forms of payment of health care providers, and will allow the
Government to control the expenditures of public money in health care.
12. Health Care Non-Public Financing Strategy
Armenian Government is actively designing a reform in order to improve the efficiency
and fair distribution of public funds of health care. Alongside with this it remains true
that most of financing of Armenian Health Care is done in a private way, directly from
patients as unofficial payments to health care providers. In the long term the Government
expects this situation to be improved in the frame of the general economic situation
improvement, when the state is able to extend the scope and types of medical assistance



ANNEX3
Page 6 of 6
guaranteed by itself. In the short term, the Government is intending to undertake the
following steps to improve the situation:
1) introduction of a BBP guaranteed for everyone
2) introduction of a system of official charges for non-vulnerable groups for services not
included in the BBP
3) promotion of a competition among health care providers by offering free choice of
provider to citizens.
The Government is also committed to exploring options for increasing the efficiency of
private spending by piloting insurance schemes on the community level, as well as
creating a legal basis for formation of private medical insurance companies which can
offer voluntary insurance for the layers able to pay.



ANN~EX 4
Page 1 of 7
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY OF SOCIAL ASSESSMENT
IN HEALTH SECTOR
Background
1.    The Social Assessment (SA) of the Health and Education Sectors was conducted to
provide information to the Government of Armenia about people's attitudes and behaviors
regarding utilization, access and satisfaction with education and health services. This SA is only
one step in the information consultation process. The SA consisted of both quantitative (a
questionnaire) and qualitative research (interviews and focus group discussions). The main
findings are summarized below.
Health Sector Assessment
Chapter 1: Utilization of Services
2.    Attendance at the Facilities: The quantitative study puts attendance of polyclinics over
the last twelve months at 37 percent of visits at the polyclinics and 19.3 percent at the hospital.
Attendance did not vary along rural-urban lines. This level of use of polyclinics provides an
opportunity for reforms focused on the support of primary care facilities.
3.     Choosing a Facility:
a.     Polyclinics: Patients commonly visit the district polyclinic where they are
registered but may chose to go to a different one -- knowing that specialists may require
a fee. According to the survey, patients chose to go to the polyclinics for the following
reasons: primary care visits initiated by the patient (51.6 percent); immunizations (26.5
percent) follow-up or other visits initiated by the physician (15.3 percent); and
humanitarian assistance (3.6 percent). However, according to physicians, patients were
spurred to come to the polyclinic for humanitarian assistance (drugs), and other
administrative reasons.
b.     Hospitals: The main finding regarding hospital attendance is that patients chose
to go to the hospital not only for in-patient care or tests but also for outpatient care from
a specialist (39 percent of visits). Inpatient care represents 46.5 percent of visits and
consultation or diagnostic tests represent another 14 percent. Urban patients outside of
Yerevan were least likely to go to the hospital for hospitalization (34 percent of visits)
and most likely to go for outpatients care (50 percent of visits). This difference in level
of attendance between Yerevan and other cities may be explained by the fact that many
polyclinics outside of Yerevan are housed in the same building as the hospital, share the
same specialists, thereby blurring a strict distinction between the two types of facilities.
4.     Choice of Practitioner: At the polyclinic level, 33 percent of visits were to a specialist
yet over half went to the district physician. The type of practitioner visited differed significantly
by location. According to the survey,
*  Villagers are least likely to visit the district physician (46.7 percent).
from "Social Assessment Report on the Education and Health Sector in Armenia." E. Gomart,
December 1996.



ANNEX4
Page 2 of 7
*  Yerevan residents are slightly less likely (54 percent) than other urban residents
(56.5 percent) to visit a district physician.
*  Villagers are least likely to visit an outpatient specialist and Yerevan residents are
most likely.
*  Only village residents reported visiting a nurse (30 percent of visits by villagers).
With regard to hospital attendance, according to the survey:
*  Patients mainly went to the hospital on their own initiative (56 percent), rather than
by referral (30 percent).
*  Referral rates do not vary significantly between rural and urban areas or between
Yerevan and other cities.
*  However, in Yerevan, patients are least likely to go to the hospital on their own
initiative (48 percent) compared to other types of sites (approximately 60 percent of
visits).
5.     Treatment Seeking Behavior:
a.     Diagnosis: The majority of respondents (59.4 percent) who said they were ill in
the last 30 days were not diagnosed at a formal health facility. Instead patients chose not
to get a diagnosis (19.8 percent); self-diagnosis (27.5 percent); to be diagnosed by a
friend or acquaintance doctor (10.4 percent) or by a folk healer (1.4 percent). Self-
diagnosis and no diagnosis were chosen by over half of those who were ill living in
Yerevan (50.4 percent); and 49.2 percent in the villages, and only 37.5 percent of other
urban residents. The highest rate of non diagnosis was in the villages. These may be
seasonal figures. Focus groups conducted at the same time as the survey, at harvest time
in August, said that they are postponing diagnosis until after the harvest because of lack
of cash and time. Villagers were also the only ones to report that a nurse had provided a
diagnosis (12 percent). In focus groups, people explained that they seek out diagnosis
from different practitioners because they said that they do not trust diagnoses which are
seen to be motivated by profit. Another reason is that patients believe that diagnostic
equipment and skills are poor.
b.     Treatment: Overall, more than half of the people who were ill in the last 30
days did not seek treatment. The treatment seeking behavior varied by category of
location: Yerevan (40.7 percent); villages (43.5 percent) and other cities (52.9 percent).
According to survey respondents, the main reason for not seeking treatment is the cost of
care, including transportation costs for 30 percent of village residents. Another reason
was that patients prefer to self-treat -- which may hide other problems of access or
perception of quality of care.
6.     Focus group discussions pointed out that because of the cost of care, people need to
prioritize health needs at the household level. People prioritize according to two main criteria:
*  Emergency care prevails over maintenance, including preventative care such as pre-
natal care; and
*  Children's needs prevail over those of parents and other adults.



ANNEX4
Page 3 of 7
Chapter 2: Access to Health Services
7.     There are three main issues with regard to access to health care: physical access, costs of
access, and cost and availability of essential inputs.
a.     Physical Access: According to the survey, the majority of respondents live
within a 30 minute walk from the nearest facility. Even in villages, distance and time to
the facility are short. However, 10 percent of the sample said that they have no access to
a polyclinic because none exists in the vicinity. It is evident that physical access is more
difficult for village residents. Indeed, as noted previously, 30 percent said that they had
not sought treatment when they were last ill because of transportation difficulties,
including costs. A response which was never given by urban residents. In addition,
during focus groups, rural participants explained that their health problems commonly
require more sophisticated assistance than what is available at the local facility because:
appropriate specialist services do not exist; the facility is closed or the facility is devoid
of the necessary equipment and medicines.
b.     Costs of Health Care: According to the survey, the cost of treatment is the main
determinant of access. 39.7 percent of survey respondents said that they did not seek
treatment because of high costs of care. The mean cost of a polyclinic visit is US $8
while the mean cost of a hospital care is US $70. The following comments refer to
Table 2, which provides quantitative findings on pricing of health services:
*  There is a two tiered-pricing system, one at the polyclinic level and the other at the
hospital level. Prices are lower at the polyclinic level and payments are less
frequent. At the hospital level, prices are high and payment is customary for most
services.
*  Nurses and FAP doctors are rarely paid.
From the qualitative work the following comments can be made (Refer to Table 1):
*  A conformity in prices quoted by participants for services at a same facility suggests
that there is in fact, little opportunity to negotiate price and a level of formality in
pricing.
*  While some prices vary considerably around the country for various services (e.g.
diagnostic exams, births and abortions), others are remarkably the same (e.g. dental
care).
*  Prices vary however greatly by type of facility. Prices are higher in the city hospital
than in the district center's hospital, which in turn are higher than those in the village
hospital.
*  Frequency of payment varies greatly by site for polyclinics and FAPs and depends
on the type of service.
*  Everyone gets paid in the hospital. As one interviewee said: "You have to pay
everyone [in the maternity ward]: from the sanitation worker, to the nurses, the
doctors, for medicines, the mechanic, registration, the guard, etc." Sometimes, even
the head doctor takes a "tax" from the doctors' fees.
*  To many, it is not clear whether the fees they pay are formal/ legal or whether they
are informal. This limits the patients' ability to claim his/her right to free care.
*  Payments for health services are not new for Armenia. In the past, they were
generally paid as thanks to the doctor upon successful completion of the treatment.
The price was also set by the patient and therefore based on the patient's willingness
to pay. Today, patients are increasingly required to pay before treatment and for
consultations at a fee set by providers.



ANNEX4
Page 4 of 7
* Direct payment to the doctor seems to remain taboo for two reasons. First, prices are
communicated to patients by "everyone wearing a white coat except for the doctor."
And when doctors did tell patients their fees "to their faces," many patients were
appalled at doctors' callousness. Second, an intermediary -- a relative or
acquaintance -- is often asked to physically pay thle doctor.
c.     Essential Inputs: Medicines: According to the survey, medicines is one of the
main concerns of patients -- with patients outside of Yerevan reporting the highest rates
of dissatisfaction. According to the focus groups, dissatisfaction is linked to costs and
availability. Indeed, focus group discussants said that free medicines from the health
facilities are rare. When they are provided they are often the cheapest drugs, and the
amount provided is insufficient to cover full treatment. Even with a prescription for free
medicines, they are difficult to obtain from pharmacies. In addition, pharmaceuticals --
from basic supplies to specialized medicines -- are often unavailable in cities outside of
Yerevan. Finding medicines even in Yerevan is time-consuming and unsystematic.
Another issue raised by participants is that of the lack of quality control of
pharmaceuticals and the lack of professionalism of plharmacists.
8.     Financing: Survey respondents said that they finance these high medical costs through
current income, savings, and above all the sale of sold property, jewelry, and other assets
(43.5%). In focus groups, patients said that they generally borrow money to cover immediate
costs of care until they can sell personal assets and repay the loan. Without the assets, people are
reluctant to borrow money, and are likely to avoid or discontinue treatment.
9.     Coping Strategies: According to the focus groups, because of the high costs of care,
households have sought to reduce their health expenditures. The most common strategy is to
decrease their use of health care services or to drop out before treatment is completed, according
to doctors and patients alike. Other coping strategies includc:
*  seeing a friend, neighbor or acquaintance doctor outside of the formal health care
system;
*  paying in-kind (agricultural products or crafts);
*  negotiating a lower price for the services; and
*  turning to folk imnedicine (medicinal plants), or folk healers.
However these offer a fairly limited opportunity to reduce costs while meeting health needs.
Chapter 3: Satisfaction with Services
10.    Quality of care: Patients' assessment of the quality of care depends greatly on their
expectations from the health services. Over 75 percent of survey respondents were generally
satisfied or highly satisfied with practitioners' expertise, attitude toward patients, and duration of
waiting time. On the other hand, they were most dissatisfied with availability of medicines and
the physical conditions in the facilities.
11.    According to the focus groups, criteria for evaluating services include:
*  a free cure (including consultation, medicines and supplies) is available;
*  the doctor does not require payment up front and accepts to be paid once treatment is
completed successfully;
*  the doctor is attentive and kind;
*  the doctors are present during opening hours;
*  the premises are clean and hygienic, and



ANEX 4
Page 5 of 7
* the treatment is effective.
12.    Contrary to the survey findings, the focus groups discussed many instances which
suggest:
* Tense patient-client relations. Conflicts arose around issues of payment or
availability of supplies and medicines;
* Lack of trust in diagnosis and treatment because doctors are seen to be motivated
by profit, rather than an interest in the patient's well-being. This is linked to a
perceived lack of accountability of doctors;
* Quality of care is satisfactory only if the patient pays, otherwise patients say that
doctors ignore them, even in emergency situations;
* Lack of trust in doctors' expertise is exacerbated by the numerous cases of
misdiagnosis and failed treatment provided during the discussions.
Chapter 4: Conclusions and Recommendations
13.   Main problems: Based on the survey and focus groups results, the main problems
identified by respondents were: cost of treatment; cost and availability of medicines; lack of
accountability of doctors; and lower access to health care for the rural population. The latter is
evidence by: highest rates of non-diagnosis, highest rates for seeing a nurse instead of a qualified
health care provider; lower access to medicines; and higher overall access cost because of
transportation difficulties.
14.   Recommendations: During the focus groups, a number of recommendations were made:
* Formal fees are not expected to reduce the costs paid by the patient. An increase in
the salaries of doctors is not seen as the answer to decrease the informal fees charged
by doctors.
* The government should provide health insurance options and information.
* A parallel system should be created to guarantees a degree of equity of access to the
poor.
* An emphasis on primary health care can reduce the cost of care at the national and
household levels.
* More information on reforms should be provided to communities and health care
providers.
15.    Feedback on proposed Reforms: The main comments on the proposed reforms
were:
* An emphasis on primary health care could reduce health costs at the household and
national levels.
* Family doctors, if well trained, may be well received by patients. However, health
providers, especially specialists, are generally not open to the concept of re-training
as primary care providers.
Community managed health facilities may generate a higher level of accountability to the
population they serve.



ANNEX4
Page 6 of 7
Table 1: Cost of Services Depending on the Site and Type of Facility, According to focus group participants:
Site       Dental care             FAP                  Polyclinic             Ambulance                    Hospital*
category\  (price per tooth)
facility
Yerevan    1000 dr. for extraction                      Documents (some         500-2000 dr.                Consultations 4,000 dr.
formal)                Medicines                    Medicines
Medicines              Fuel (as needed)             Diagnostic Tests ($80)
Tests (100-500 dr.)    Supplies                     Operation $150-500
GYN visit (500 dr. +                                Births $150-200
2000 dr. for tests)                                 Abortions $30-$40
Home visit 4000 dr.
Gumri      4000 dr. for filling                         Vaccinations            20,000 RR ($4)              Examination 50,000 RR
GYN visit (1000 dr.)                               Injections (Nurse - 1,000 dr.)
Diagnostic tests                                    Births ($50-100)
(2000 dr.)                                          Cesarean birth ($120)
Birth certificate
Abortion $40
Sisian     4000 dr. for filling                         Analysis (100-500 dr.)    Free but limited          Births $40-60
1000 dr. for extraction                                                                         Abortions $10-36
1200-400 dr. with
painkiller
$250 for prosthesis
Vedi       2000 dr. at polyclinic                                                                           Cardiogram 3000 dr. ($7.5)
Maralik                                                                                                     Births $10-15
Abortions $1 0
Medicines and supplies
Sunik      4000 dr. for filling    Injections (cash)                           Ambulance in Darbas          Village hospital 4,000 dr.
villages    550 dr. extraction     Vaccinations (200                           Fuel + 500 dr. to nurse
1000 dr. with painkiller    dr.)
Shirak     2000 dr. with painkiller   in-kind thanks                           none                         Cheaper than Maralik, district
villages                                                                                                    hospital
Ararat     2000 extraction         in-kind thanks       Examination at Vedi    none                         Birth $35-50 in Vedi
villages   I 000 by itinerant dentist                   Child clinic 2000 dr.
with painkiller
* Only twelve hospitals in Armenia have received state enterprise status and are able to charge fees. Prices were given in different currencies (US dollar, Russian rouble, and
drams).



AMNEX4
Page I of 7
Table 2: Summary of Median Amount and Frequency of Payments for Services Depending on the Facility,
According to the Survey (in US dollars)
Service facility                                         FAPs2     Policlinics  Hospitals
% of visits for which doctors were paid                   3.8          16         60
Median amount paid to doctors                             $2.5         $5        $37.5
% of visits for which nurses were paid                    0 %        8.5 %      47.8 %
Median amount paid to nurses                             $2.5         $2.5       $12.5
% of tests which were paid                                --         18.5 %     40.7 %
Median amount paid for tests                              --          $1.5       $7.5
% of respondents paid for bed use                          --          --        7.3 %
Median amount paid for bed use (per day)                  --           --         $15
% of respondents who paid for linens and bedding          --           --         3 %
Median amount paid for linens and bedding                 --           --        $1.5
% respondents who paid for pharmaceuticals                --           --       52.4 %
Median amount paid for medicines                           --          --        $22.5
Median total cost of visit                                 -           $8        $70
2      Health post staffed with a nurse and/or midwife.



ANNEXS
Page I of 6
HEALTH FINANCING AND PRIMARY HEALTH CARE
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION PLAN
OUTLINE
ABBREVIATION LIST
1. PREPARATION
The Project Implementation Plan (PIP) for Health Financing (HF) and Primary Health Care
(PHC) project is prepared based on the project proposals elaborated by two working groups and
the World Bank (WB) Project Preparation Unit (PPU) of the Urmenian Ministry of Health
(MOH).
PHC Working Group:
*      Mr Ara Babloian, Minister of Health
*      Mr Derenik Doumanian, First Deputy Minister of Health
*      Ms Gayane Gharagebakian, Dept. of Reform Programs Implementation and Monitoring of
the MOH (secretary of the Working Group)
*      Mr Samvel Hovhannesian, Director of National Institute of Health (Chairman of the
subgroup for PHC training)
*      Ms Ofelia Injikian, Dept. of Maternity and Child Health of the MOH
*      Ms Tereza Khachatrian, National Institute of Health (Chairwoman of the subgroup for
strategy development)
*      Ms Nune Mangasarian, Dept. of Curative and Preventive Care of the MOH
*      Ms Ruzanna Mkhitarian, Head of the Dept. of Reforml Programs Implementation and
Monitoring of the MOH; at present: NIH
*      Ms Irina Poghosian. Dept. of Curative and Preventive Care of the MOH
*      Mr Romen Babloian, Vice-rector of the State Medical University
*      Ms Donara Hakobian, State Basic Medical College
*      Ms Medeya Vardanian, Dept. of Maternity and Child Hlealth of the MOH
Health Financing Working Group:
*      Vladimir Astvatsaturian - Director of the MOH affiliated Health Insurance Agency and
docent of Yerevan State Medical University
*      Gayane Gevorgian - Senior Specialist of the Treasury Planning and Analysis
Department, Ministry of Finance
*      Volodia Harutiunian - Head of the Economic Department of the MOH
*      Arthur Hovsepian - Department of Reform Programs Implementation and Monitoring of
the MOH
*      Zaruhi Janibekian - Children's Polyclinic no. I
*      Hovhannes Margariants - Senior Specialist of the State Order division of the Economic
Department of the MOH
*      Ashot Melkonian - Leading Specialist of the State Order division of the Economic
Department of the MOHI



ANNEX5
Page 2 of 6
*      Ara Tadevosian - Head of the Analytic Publications and Graphics Department of the
National Health Information Analysis Center of the MOH
*      Saro Tsaturian - Vice-Chairman of the Board and Deputy Executive Director of
"Diagnostica" Medical Company and Senior Consultant to the Social-Economic
Department of the Parliament (Chairman of the Working group)
Project Preparation Unit:
* Susanna Hairapetyan - Head of PPU
* Ruzanna Stepanian - Office Manager and Assistant to Head
* Karine Ghazarian - Secretary- Translator
* Ruben Dulian - Accountant
II. TABLE OF CONTENTS OF HEALTH PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION PLAN
A.     CHAPTER 1. BACKGROUND AND RATIONALE OF THE HEALTH PROJECT
B.     CHAPTER 2. PRIMARY HEALTH CARE COMPONENT
2.1 Introduction
2.2 Outline of the Component
2.3 Establishment of PHC Providers Training Program
2.4 PHC Development Program
2.5 Development of Guidelines for PHI
C.     CHAPTER 3: HEALTH FINANCING COMPONENT
3.1 Introduction
3.2 Outline of the Health Financing Component
3.3 Creation of the State Health Agency
3.4 Improvement of the Basic Benefits Package Methodology
3.5 Improvement of Providers Payment Mechanism
3.6 Improvement of Health Financing Information System
D.     CHAPTER 4: PROJECT MANAGEMENT UNIT
III. ANNEXES
ANNEX 1: PACKAGE OF BUDGETS ON OVERALL PROJECT COST, COMPONENTS,
SUB-COMPONENTS, PROJECT MANAGEMENT UNIT
ANNEX 2: TIME TABLE OF PROJECT COMPONENTS, SUB-COMPONENTS
ANNEX 3: OPERATIONAL MANUAL
ANNEX 4: TORs on TA for PROJECT SUB-COMPONENTS
ANNEX 5: PROJECT MONITORING AND EVALUATION



ANNEX 5
Page 3 of 6
PMU ORGANIZATION CHART
|  HEAD OF PMU     l
PROJEC ASSAT |FNANCIAL ADMINMSTRATIVE           PROJECT ASSISTANT                                               PHCDP MANAGER       SECRETARY TRANSLATOR
ONTRAINNG      l         MANAGER               ON FINANCING 
ACCOUNTANT        ACOUNTANT FOR       PROCUREMENT       OFFICE MANAGER       PROMOTION           APPRAISAL          EVALUATION        COMPUTER AND        SECRETARY
PHCDP             OFFICER                                OFFICER            OFFICER         AND MONITORING    MEDICAL EQUIPMENT
OFFICER           SPECIALIST



ANNEX 5
Page 4 of 6
PROJECT COORDINATION COMMITTEE
MINISTER
Curative Care    Deputy          Deputy        Head of    Ministryof       Ministry of      Ministry of    Yerevan Marz    Parliament
15' Dleputy  'Minister on     Minister on     PMU,    Finance             Economy       Social Security, representative   Health Comm.
Minister      Reforms                                  representative   representative   representative                representative
The responsibilities of the Committee are following:
I. Oversee the consistency of project developtnent with the overall policy of the Government
2. Ensure that the possible changes, if any, will not deviate from the strategy stated in the project
3. Periodically accept and discuss reports on project sub-components development
4. Make decisions and settle problems emerging in the process of project implementation.



ANNEX5
Page 5 of 6
Primary Health Care Development Program
(PHCDP)
Outline of Operational Manual
Background
I.    Description of PHCDP Component
2.    PHCDP Goals and Objectives
3.    PHCDP Targeting Methodology (selection of marzes)
4.    PHCDP Institutional Set Up (Annex 1-- Organizational Chart)
4.1    PHCDP Committee
4.2    PHCDP Unit
5.    Promotion
6.    PHCDP Microproject Cycle (Annex 2 -- M/P Cycle Flow Chart)
6.1   Identification (Annex 3 -- Letter of Intent, Annex 4 -- Standard Proposal)
6.1.1  Community Participation (General Community Meeting)
6.1.2  PHC Facility Management Board
6.1.3  Pre-Appraisal -- Eligibility Criteria (Annex 5 -- Letter of Acknowledgment, Annex 6 --
Pre-appraisal Report Form)
6.1.4  Technical Assistance to Management Board (Annex 7 -- TOR for the TA for the PHC
Facility Development Plan)
6.1.5  Community PHC Development Plan -- Business Plan
6.1.6  Community Contribution
6.2    Microproject Appraisal (Annex 8 -- Appraisal Report Form)
6.2.1  Exclusive Criteria
6.2.2  Evaluation Criteria
6.2.3  Norms and Standards (Annex 9 -- Norms and Standards)
6.2.4  Performance Benchmarks
6.3    Microproject Approval (Annex 10 -- Letter of Approval)
6.4    Microproject Implementation
6.4.1  Signing of Performance Contract (Annex II -- Standard Performance Contract signed
between PHCDP and Facility Management Board)
6.4.2  Civil Works (Annex 12 -- Draft Contract between PHCDP and  ASIF, Annex 13 --
Joint ASIF PHCDP Follow Up Report Form, Annex 15 -- Hand Over Agreement Form)
6.4.3  Equipment and Supplies
6.4.4  Performance Monitoring -- Community Health Fund (second tranche) (Annex 14 --
Performance Contract Monitoring Form)
6.4.5  Hamaynk Health Board -- Optional (end of PHCDP program in the community)(Annex
16 -- Hamaynk Conformation Letter)
7.    Training and Technical Assistance



ANNEX5
Page 6 of 6
7.1    Capacity Building of PHCDP Unit
7.2    Training/TA to PHCDP Promotion Officers (Annex 17 -- TOR for Promotion Training)
7.3    Training/TA to on Development of PHCDP Norms and Standards (Annex 18 -- TOR for
International Consultant)
7.4    Training/TA for Facility Management Board
7.5    Training/TA for PHC Team
8.    Monitoring and Evaluation
8.1.   Lessons Learned from PHCDP
8.2    PHCDP Impact Assessment
9.    Procurement
9.1    Procurement Management
9.2    Procurement Methods
9.3    Procurement Monitoring (Annex 18 -- TOR for Procurement and Technical Review)
10    Disbursement
10.1   Payment Methodology
10.2   Bank Accounts
10.3   Transfer of PHCDP Funds
11.   Accounting and Reporting
11.1   Accounting Obligations
11.2   Reporting Obligations
11.3   Accounting System
12.   PHCDP Administrative Procedures
Annexes
1. Annex I -- Organizational Chart
2. Annex 2 -- Microproject Cycle Flow Chart
3. Annex 3 -- Letter of Intent
4. Annex 4 -- Standard proposal Form
5. Annex 5 -- Letter of acknowledgment
6. Annex 6 -- Pre-appraisal Form
7. Annex 7 -- TOR for PHC Facility Development Plan
8. Annex 8 -- Standard Microproject Appraisal Form
9. Annex 9 -- Norms and Standards
10. Annex 10 -- Letter of Approval
11. Annex 11 -- Draft Contract between PHCDP and ASIF
12. Annex 12 -- Standard Performance Contract between Management Board and PHCDP
13. Annex 13 -- Joint ASIF-PHCDP Follow Up Report
14. Annex 14 -- PHCDP Performance Contract Monitoring Form
15. Annex 15 -- Hand Over Agreement for Civil Works, Supplies and Equipment
16. Annex 16 -- Conformation of Community Board of Health
17. Annex 17 -- TOR for Training for Promotion Officers
18. Annex 18 -- TOR for International Consultant on Norms and Standard
19. Annex 19 -- TOR for Procurement and Technical Review.



ARMENIA                                              ANNEX 6
Health Project
Table 1. EstablIshment of SHA
Detailed Costs
(US$ '000)
Base Cost                                    Total Including Contingencies
Unit      1997  1998  1999  2000  2001  Total Cost 1997   1998   1999  2000  2001    Total    1997   1998   1999   2000    2001            Total
1. Investment Costs
A. Civil works and goods
Central Ofrice                          sq.m.       425   425      -      -     -   850 0.06   25.5    25.5       -      -     -      51.0   29.2   30.3       -       -        -     59.5
Yerevan offices                         sqm.        200   200      -      -     -   400 0.05   10.0    10.0       -      -     -      20.0   11.4   11.9       -        -       -     23.3
Premises in 10 marz                     sq.m.       650   650      -      -     -  1,300 0.05   32.5    32.5      -     -      -      65.0   37.2   38.7       -       -        -     75.8
Subtotal Clvil works and goods                                                                     68.0    68.0           -      -    136.0   77.8   80.9        -       -        -    158.7
B. Offce equipment and fumniture
Personal computers                      each           -   90         -         -    90 2.45        -   220.5     -      -     -    220.5        -  226.7      -        -       -    226.7
Fax machines                            each           -    16     -      -     -    16  0.5        -     8.0     -      -     -       8.0       -    8.2      -        -       -       8.2
Photocopy machines                      each           -    16     -      -     -    16  3.5        -    56.0     -      -     -      56.0       -   57.6      -        -       -     57.6
UPS unis                                each          -   42       -      -     -    42  0.3        -    12.6     -      -     -      12.6           13.0      -        -       -      13.0
Printers                                each          -   43       -      -     -    43  0.7             30.1                         30.1           30.9                              30.9
Telephones                              each           -  150      -      -     -   1500.05               7.5                          7.5            7.7                               7.7
Extension phone unn                     each           -    2      -      -     -      2    1       -     2.0     -      -     -       2.0       -    2.1      -        -       -       2.1
Slide projector                         each           -    5      -      -     -      5  0.5             2.5     -      -     -       2.5       -    2.6      -        -       -       2.6
Overhead projector                      each           -     5     -      -     -      5  0.5       -     2.5     -      -             2.5       -    2.6      -        -       -       2.6
Fumiture                                 set         25    52      -      -     -    77    1   25.0    52.0       -      -            77.0   25.5   54.5       -        -       -      80.0
Set of office supplies                   set           -    12     -      -     -     12    1       -    12.0     -      -     -      12.0       -   12.3      -        -       -      12.3
Subtotal OMce equipment and fumiture                                                               25.0   405.7     -      -     -    430.7   25.5  418.2        -        -       -    443.7
C. Vehices                                each          -    16      -      -     -     16   10       -   160.0     -      -     -    160.0        -  164.5      -       -        -    164.5
D. Technical Assistance
1. Foreign consultants
Health economics and financing    person/month       1     3     2      1     1      8   25   25.0    75.0  50.0  25.0  25.0    200.0   25.2   77.1   52.6    27.0    27.8    209.8
Financial management and accounting  person/month   1      2     1      1     -      5   25   25.0    50.0  25.0  25.0       -    125.0   25.2   51.4   26.3    27.0          -    130.0
Legal aspects                     person/month      2      -     -      -     -      2   25   50.0        -     -      -     -      50.0   50.4       -       -       -       -      50.4
Subtotal Foreign consultants                                                                    100 0   125 0  75.0  50.0  25.0    375.0  100 9  128.5   79.0    54.1    27.8    390.2
2. Local consultants
Economist                         person/month     18         -      -     -        18  0 5    9 0        -     -      -     -       9 0     9 4      -       -               -       9.4
Lawyer                            person/month      6      -     -      -     -      6  0 5    3.0        -     -      -     -       3.0    3.1       -      -        -       -       3.1
Medical expert                    person/month      6      -     -      -     -      6  0.5    3 0        -     -      -     -       3.0    3.1       -      -        -       -       3.1
Subtotal Local consultants                                                                       15.0       -     -      -     -      15.0   15.6       -      -        -       -      15.6
Subtotal Technical Assistance                                                                     115.0   125.0  75.0  50.0  25.0    390.0  116.5  128.5   79.0    541         27.8    405.8
E. Training
1. Abroad
Long-term training                person/month       -    15     -      -     -    15    6        -    90.0     -      -     -      90.0       -   92.5      -        -       -      92.5
Short-term study tours            person/month       -   25      8     7      5     45    6       -   150.0  48.0  42.0  30.0    270.0         -  154.2   50.5    45.4    33.3    283.5
Subtotal Abroad                                                                                     -   240.0  480  42.0  30.0    360.0          -  246.8   50.5    45.4    33.3    376.0
2. Local                            person/month       -  450      -      -     -   450  0.1        -    45.0     -      -     -      45.0       -   48.7      -        -       -      48.7
Subtotal Training                                                                                    -   285.0  48.0  42.0  30.0    405.0         -  295.4   50.5    45.4    33.3    424.7
Total investment Costs                                                                             208.0  1,043.7 123.0  92.0  55.0   1,521 7   219.8 1,087.5  129.5    99.5    61.1   1,597.3
H. Recurrent Coats
A. PC and equipment maintainnce          month          -    9    12    12        6     39   1.5      -    13.5  18.0  18.0   9.0       58.5       -   146   21.0    22.3    11.9        69.8
B. Staff salaries                      person/year      -    70   135   135  75.5  415.5 0.84         -    58.8 113.4 113.4  63.4    349.0         -   63.6  132.1   140.8    83.6    420.0
C. FacilityMaintenanceandULtilRties   persqmlyear       -  850 2,550 2,550 1,225  7,175 0.012         -    10.5  31.4  31.4  15.1       88.3       -   11.3   36.5    38.9    19.9    106.6
D. Office supplies                       month          -    12    12    12      6      42  0.1       -     1.2   1.2   1.2   0.6        4.2       -    1.3    1.4      1.5     0.8       5.0
E.Vehiclemaintainance                  vehicle/year     -    16    16    16      8      56   1.8      -    28.8  28.8  28.8  14.4    100.8        -   31.1   33.5    35.7    19.0    119.4
Total Recuent Coats                                                                                    -   112.8 192.8 192.8 102.5    600.8         -  121.9  224.5   239.3   135.1    720.8
Total                                                                                               208.0  1,156.5 315.8 284.8 157.5   2,122.5  219.8 1,209.4  354.0   338.8   196.2   2,318.1
Page 1



ARMENIA                                                  ANNEX 6
Health Project
Table 2. Improvement of Basic Benefits Package Methodology
Detailed Costs
(US$ 0O0)
Unit                Base cost                                      Totals Including Contingencies
Unit       1997    1998    1999    2000    2001      Total    Cost   1997   1998   1999   2000   2001    Total    1997    1998    1999    2000    2001    Total
1. Investment Costs
A. Civil Works
Renovabon of premises                    sq.m.          25       25       -        -       -       50      0.05     1 3    1.3      -      -      -      2 5      1.4      15        -       -        -      2.9
B. Office equipment and fumiture
Telephone                                each            6        -                -       -        6      0 05     0.3             -      -       -      0 3     0.3        -           -            -      0.3
Fumiture                                  set            2                -        -       -        2         1     2 0      -      -      -       -      2 0     2 0        -       -       -        -      2.0
Photocopy machine                        each            1        -       -        -       -         1       5      5.0                                   50      50         -       -       -        -      5.0
Fax machines                             each            1        -       -        -       -         1      0 6     0 6      -      -      -       -     0.6      0.6        -       -       -        -      0.6
Subtotal Office equipment and furnitu                                                                                 7.9      -      -       -      -      7 9      8.0       -       -        -       -      8 0
C. Technical Assistance
1. Foreign consultants
Public health                      person/month         -       1       -        -       -        1       25        -   25.0      -      -      -    25 0         -    25 7        -       -        -     25.7
Health organization                person/month        1        1       -        -       -        2       25    25 0   25.0       -      -      -     50 0     25.2    25 7        -       -        -     50.9
Health economics                   person/month         -       1       1        -       -        2       25        -   25.0   25.0             -    50.0         -    25.7    26.3        -        -     52.0
Subtotal Foreign consultants                                                                                       25.0   75 0   25 0       -      -   125 0     25 2    77.1    26.3         -       -    128.6
2. Local consultants
Economist                          person/month        9       18      18      18        9       72       0.5    4.5    9.0    9.0    9.0    45        36.0     4.7      97     10.5    11 2      59      42.0
Information systems expert         person/month        6       12      12      12       6        48       0.5    3.0    6.0    6.0    6 0    3.0    24 0        3.1      6 5     7.0     7 4      4 0     28.0
Physician                          person/month        9       18      18      18        9       72       05      4.5    90     9.0    90    4.5       36.0     4.7      97     105    11.2       59      420
Secretary/operator                 person/month        6       12      12      12       6        48       05      3.0    6.0    6.0    6.0    30       24.0     3.1      6.5     70      74       4.0     28.0
Subtotal Local consultants                                                                                         15.0   300   30.0   300   150    120.0    15.6    32.4    34.9    37.2    19.8    140.0
Subtotal Technical Assistance                                                                                        40.0  1050   550   30.0   15.0   245.0    40.8   109 5    61 3    372           19.8   268.6
D. Computer equipment
Personal computers                       each             3                                          3      2 5     7 5      -      -       -      -      7 5      7 6       -       -        -       -      7 6
Printers                                 each             3                                          3      06      18              -       -      -      t 8      1 8                                -         8
UPS                                      each             1                                          1      1 2     12       --             -      -       2       12                -                -      12
Subtotal Computer equipment                                                                                          105               -      -      -     105      106                -        -       -     106
E. Training
1. Abroad
Long-term                          person/month         -       6       -        -                6        6        -   36 0      -              -    36 0        -    37.0        -       -        -    37 0
Short-term                         person/month        2        3       2       1                  8       6    12.0   18 0   12.0    6.0        -    48 0      121     18 5    12 6     6.5        -    49.7
Subtotal Abroad                                                                                                    12 0   54 0   12.0    6 0       -    84 0      121     55 5    12.6     6 5        -     86.7
2. Local
Workshops                              each             1       1       1       1        1         5      25      2.5    2.5    25     25    2.5       12.5     26       2.7     2.9     31       3.3     14.6
Subtotal Training                                                                                                    14.5   56.5   145    8.5    2.5       96.5     14.7    58.2    155       9.6     3.3   101 4
Total Investment Costs                                                                                                 74.2  1628   69.5   38.5   175    362.4        75.5   1693    76.8    468    23.1    391 5
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Equipment maintainance              amount/month         6      12      12       12       6        48     0.05     0.3    0 6    0.6    0.6    0 3       2 4      0.3     0.6     0 7      0 7     04       2.8
B. Office supply                            set             1       1       1       1        1         5     0.05     01     01    o01    0.1    01         0 3      0.1     0.1     0 1     01       01       03
C. Office maintenance and utilities     er sq. m./yea     25       50      50      50       25      200    0.012      0 3    06    0.6    0.6    0.3        2.5      0.3     0.7     0.7      0.8     0.4      2.9
Total Recurrent Costs                                                                                                   0.7    1.3    1.3    1.3    0 7       51       0.7     1.4      1.5     1.6     0.9      6.0
Total                                                                                                                  748   164.0   708   398    18.2    3675        762    170.6    783    48.4    23.9    3975
Page 1



ARMENIA                                  ANNEX 6
Health Project
Table 3. Providers Payment Mechanism's Improvement
Detailed Costs
(US$ '000)
Unit              Base Cost                     Total Including Contingencies
Unit   1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 Total Cost 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001  Total  1997 1998 1999 2000 2001  Total
I. Investment Costs
A. Technical Assistance
1. Foreign consultants
Financial management and acc erson/mont   1   2  0.5  0.5    -   4    25  25.0  50.0  12.5  12.5     -  100.0  25.2  51.4  13.2  13.5     -  103.3
Health economics           erson/mont   1   2    -   -   -   3    25  25.0  50.0         -    -    -   75.0  25.2  51.4       -    -    -   76.6
Subtotal Foreign consultants                                                 50.0 100.0  12.5  12.5    -  175.0.  50.4 102.8  13.2  13.5   -  179.9
2. Local consultants
Economist                  erson/mont   6   12  12  12   6  48   0.5   3.0  6.0  6.0  6.0  3.0   24.0   3.1  6.5  7.0  7.4  4.0   28.0
Accountant                 erson/mont   6  12  12  12   6  48   0.5   3.0  6.0  6.0  6.0  3.0   24.0   3.1  6.5  7.0  7.4  4.0   28.0
Health care management speci erson/mont   6  12  12  12   6  48   0.5   3.0  6.0  6.0  6.0  3.0   24.0   3.1  6.5  7.0  7.4  4.0   28.0
Information system expert  erson/mont   3   6   6   6   3  24   0.5   1.5  3.0  3.0  3.0  1.5   12.0   1.6  3.2  3.5  3.7  2.0   14.0
Subtotal Local consultants                                                   10.5  21.0  21.0  21.0  10.5   84.0  10.9  22.7  24.5  26.1  13.8   98.0
Subtotal Technical Assistance                                                 60.5 121.0  33.5  33.5  10.5  259.0  61.3 125.5  37.6  39.6  13.8  277.9
B. Training
1. Abroad
Long-term training         erson/mont    -   6    -   -          6     6      - 36.0      -    -    -   36.0       - 37.0     -    -    -   37.0
Short-term study tours     erson/mont   1   4   3   2    -  10          6   6.0  24.0  18.0  12.0    -   60.0   6.1  24.7  19.0  13.0     -   62.7
Subtotal Abroad                                                               6.0  60.0  18.0  12.0    -   96.0   6.1  61.7  19.0  13.0     -   99.7
2. Local
Workshops                   workshops    -  15    -   -          15   2.5     - 37.5      -    -    -   37.5       - 40.5     -    -    -   40.5
Subtotal Training                                                              6.0  97.5  18.0  12.0    -  133.5   6.1 102.2  19.0  13.0     -  140.2
Total                                                                            66.5 218.5  51.5  45.5  10.5  392.5  67.4 227.8  56.6  52.6  13.8  418.1
Page 1



ARMENIA                                   ANNEX 6
Health Project
Table 4 Improvement of Financial Information Systems
Detailed Costs
(US$ 000)
Unit           Base Cost                    Totals Including Contingencies
Unit   1997  1998 1999 2000 2001  Total Cost 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001  Total  1997 1998 1999 2000 2001  Total
1. Investment Costs
A. Computer and network hardware
1. Global network
Global network's server            each        -    2       -     -     -     2    12      - 24.0      -      -     -   24.0      - 24.7      -     -     -  24.7
General switch system              set         -    1       -     -     -     1  43.8      - 43.8      -      -     -   43.8      - 45.0      -     -     -  45.0
Central switch system              set         -    1       -     -     -     1  21.9      - 21.9      -      -     -   21.9      - 22.5      -     -     -  22,5
PAO-6ports                         each        -   11       -     -     -    11   1.2      - 13.2      -      -     -   13.2      -  13.6                     136
Modems 3266 with cables            set         -   90       -     -     -   90  0.81       - 72.9       -     -     -   72.9      - 75.0      -     -     -  75.0
Computersoftware                   each        -   50       -     -     -    50  0.33      -  16.5     -      -     -   16.5      -  17.0     -     -     -   170
Global network software          package       -    2       -     -     -     2      1     -   2.0                       20       -  21       -     -     -    2.1
Communication channels/rent and    section      -    -    6    22    22    50    1.5       -     -   9.0  33.0  33.0   750        -     -   9.5  35.7  36.6   81.8
Subtotal Global network                                                                      - 194.3   9.0  33.0  33.0  269.3       - 199.8   9,5  35.7  36.6  281.6
2. Local networks
Local networks servers             each        -    2       -     -     -     2     5      -  10.0     -      -     -   10.0      -  10.3     -     -     -   10.3
Token-ring network interface card  each         -   50      -     -     -   50   0.4       - 20.0       -     -     -   20.0      - 20.6      -     -     -  20.6
Multi-station access unit          each        -    7       -     -     -     7   0.4      -   28       -     -     -    28       -   2.9     -     -     -    2.9
CSH premise communication cable    metre       - 2,500      -     -     - 2,500  0.01      - 25.0                       250       - 25.7      -     -     -   25.7
LANcableplugs                      each         -  100      -     -     -   100  002       -  20                         2.0      -   2. 1    -     -     -    2.1
Local network software           package        -    2      -     -     -     2     4      -   8.0     -      -     -    8.0      -   8.2     -     -    -    8.2
Subtotal Local networks                                                                      - 67.8      -      -     -   67 8      - 69 7      -     -     -  69.7
3. Other equipment
Scanner                            each         -    1      -     -     -     1   13        -   1.3     -     -     -    1.3      -   1.3                       13
Printerswrtches and cables          set         -   48      -     -     -   48  0.04        -   1.9     -     -     -    1.9      -  2.0      -     -     -    2.0
Subtotal Other equipment                                                                     -  3.2      -      -     -    3.2      -   3.3     -     -     -    3.3
Subtotal Computer and network hard                                                             - 265.3   9.0  33.0  33.0  340.3       - 272.8   9.5  35 7  36.6  354.6
B. Technical assistance
1. Foreign consultants
Information systems             erson/mont      -    2      -     -     -     2    25       - 500       -     -     -   50.0      - 51.4      -     -     -  51.4
Computer networks               erson/mont      -    1     1      -     -     2    25       - 25.0  25.0      -     -   50.0      - 25.7  26.3      -     -   52.0
Financial management            erson/mont     -    1       -     -     -     1    25      - 25.0       -     -     -   25.0      -  25.7     -     -    -   25.7
Subtotal Foreign consultants                                                                   100.0  250       -     -  1250       - 102.8  26.3     -     - 129.1
2. Local experts
Physicial-statistician          erson/mont     5    12      -     -     -    17   0.5   2.5  6.0        -     -     -    8.5   2.6   6.5      -     -     -    9 1
Economist                       erson/mont    5    12       -     -     -    17   0.5   2.5   6.0       -     -     -    8.5   2.6   6.5      -           -    9.1
Informiabon systems expert      erson/mont     -   96    48    36    18   198   0,5        - 48.0  24.0  18.0   9.0   99.0        - 51.9  28.0  22.3  11.9  114.1
Subtotal Local experts                                                                     5.0  60.0  24.0  18.0   9.0  116.0   5.2  64.9  28.0  22.3  11.9  132.2
Subtotal Technical assistance                                                                5.0 160.0  49.0  18.0   9.0  241.0   5.2 167.7  54.3  22.3  11.9  261.4
C. Training
1. Abroad
Long-term training              erson/mont      -    6      -     -     -     6      6     - 36.0       -     -     -   36.0      - 37.0      -     -     -  37.0
Short-term study tours          erson/mont    2      3     2      1     -     8      6  12.0  18.0  12.0   6.0      -   48.0  12.1  18.5  12.6   6.5      -   49.7
Subtotal Abroad                                                                           12.0  54.0  12.0   6.0      -   84.0  12.1  55.5  12.6   6.5      -  86.7
2. Local                          erson/mont     -  150    30       -     -   180   0.1      - 15.0  3.0        -    -   18.0       - 16.2   35       -     -   19.7
Subtotal Training                                                                           12.0  69.0  15.0  6.0      -  102.0  12.1  71.7  161   6.5        -  106.5
Total                                                                                         17.0 494.3  73.0  57.0  42.0  683.3  17.3 512.2  79.9  64.5  48.5  722.4
Page 1



ARMENIA                             ANNEX 6
Health Project
Table 5. PHC Providers Guidelines Development
Detailed Costs
(US$ '000)
Unit           Base Cost                    Total Including Contingencies
Unit   1997 1998 1999 2000 2001  Total Cost 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001  Total  1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 Total
L. Investment Costs
A. Refurbishment of facilities      sq. m.      30   30      -     -    -   60  0.06    1.8   1.8        -     -     -    3.6   2.1   2.1       -     -     -   4.2
B. Office equipment and furniture
Computer                           each        7     -      -     -     -     7   1.5  10.5      -     -     -      -   10.5  10.6      -     -     -     -  10.6
Printers                           each        3     -     -      -     -     3   0.7   2.1      -     -     -     -    2.1   2.1       -     -     -     -   2.1
UPS                                each        3     -      -     -     -     3   0.3   0.9      -     -     -      -    0.9   0.9      -     -     -     -   0.9
Fax machine                        each        1     -     -      -     -     1   0.5   0.5      -     -     -     -    0.5   0.5       -     -     -     -   0.5
Copy machine                       each        1      -     -     -     -     1   2.4   2.4      -     -      -     -    2.4   2.4      -     -     -     -   2.4
Telephones                         each        2     -      -     -     -     2  0.05    0.1     -      -     -     -    0.1   0.1      -     -     -     -   0.1
Furniture                          set         3     -      -     -     -     3     1   3.0      -    -      -     -    3.0   3.1       -     -    -      -   3.1
Subtotal Office equipment and fur                                                         19.5     -     -     -     -   19.5  19.7       -     -     -     -  19.7
C. Technical assistance
1. Foreign                      erson/mont     1   0.5   0.5  0.25  0.25   2.5    25  25.0  12.5  12.5   6.3   6.3   62.5  25.2  12.9  13.2   6.8   6.9  64.9
2. Local                        erson/mont    6    12   12   12        6    48   0.5   3.0   6.0   6.0   6.0   3.0   24.0   3.1   6.5   7.0   7.4   4.0  28.0
Subtotal Technical assistance                                                             28.0  18.5  18.5  12.3   9.3   86.5  28.3  19.3  20.1  14.2  10.9  92.9
D. Training
1. Study abroad
Short-term fellowships        erson/mont   1.5   1.5      1     1     1     6      6   9.0   9.0   6.0   6.0   6.0   36.0   9 1   9.3   6.3   6.5   6.7  37.8
2. Workshops                    erworksho       -   16    16    16     8    56       1      - 16.0  16.0  16.0   8.0   56.0       - 17.3  18.6  19.9  10.5  66.3
Subtotal Training                                                                          9.0  25.0  22 0  22.0  14.0   92.0   9.1  26.6  25.0  26.3  17.2 104.1
E. Printing
Printing                        b/guid/thou     -   48    96    96    48   288   0.4        - 19.2  38.4  38.4  19.2  115.2       - 20.8  44 7  47 7  25.3 138.5
Dissemination/mailing              year         -    4     4     4     2    14   1.5       -  6.0   6.0   6.0   3.0   21.0        -   6.5   7.0   7.4   4.0  24.9
Subtotal Printing                                                                            - 25.2  44.4  44.4  22.2  136.2        - 27.2  51.7  55.1  29.3 163.3
Total Investment Costs                                                                      58.3  70.5  84.9  78.7  45.5  337 8  59.2  75.3  96.8  95.7  57.4 384.3
I. Recurrent Costs
A. Office Staff salaries          erson/mont   24   48    48    48    24   192   0.5  12.0  24.0  240  24.0  12.0   96.0  12.5  25.9  28.0  29.8  15.8 112.0
B. Office operation costs
Office space                     sqm'year       -   60    60   60    30   210 0.012        -   0.7   0 7   0.7   0.4    2.6       -  0.8   0.9   0.9   0.5   3.1
Office supplies                   month        6    12    12    12     6    48  0.15   0.9   1.8   1.8  1.8   0.9    7.2   0.9   1.9   2.0   2.1   1.1   8.0
Subtotal Office operation costs                                                            0.9   2.5   2.5   2.5   1.3    9.8   0.9   2.7   2.9   3.0   1.6  11.1
Total Recurrent Costs                                                                       12.9  26.5  26.5  26.5  13.3  105.8  13.4  28.6  30.8  32.8  17.4 123.1
Total                                                                                       71.2  97.0 111.4 105.2  58.7  443.6  72.6 103.9 127.6 128.5  74.8 507.3
Page 1



ARMENIA                                         ANNEX6
Health Project
Table 7 Training of PHC Providers
Detailed Costs
(US$ '000)
Unit              Base Cost                               Totals Including Contingencies
UnRt     1997  1998  1999  2000  2001   Total   Cost  1997  1998  1999  2000  2001   Total  1997  1998  1999  2000  2001   Total
I. Investment Costs
A. Redurbishmernt of facilities
SMU trainingqpremises                   sq.m        257   256       -      -      -     513    0.1   25 7   256 B                        51 3   29 4   304       -      -      -    59,9
SMU hostel                              sq m        365   365       -      -      -     730   0 05    18.3  16 3       -      -      - 36.5   20.9  21 7         -      -      -    42.6
NlH training prermises                 sq.m,        315   315       -      -      -     630   0 07   22 1   22 1       -      -      - 441   25.2  26 2          -      -      -    51.5
NIH Hostels                            sq. m.       544   544       -      -      - 1 ,088   0 07   381   38 1         -      -     - 76 2   43 6   45 3         -             -    6 9
Medical College training premises       sq m        Boo   Boo       -      -          1,600   0 09   72.0  72.0        -      -      -144,0   82A4  85 6         -      -      - 168,0
SubtrftittRe1Wubishmerntof facitles                                                                  176.1  17650      -      -      -352.1  201.5  209.3        -      -410.8
B. OflEke equipmettt *ttd funntture
1. SMU fumtmture
Tables                                each          - 100         -      -      -     100    0.1       -10.0         -      -      - 10 0         -  10 8      -      -      -     10 8
Chairs                                each          - 200         -      -      -     200   0 03       - 6 0         -      -      -    6 0           6  5     --                   6 5
Bookshelves                           each          -     20      -      -      -      20   0 13       - 2 6         -      -      -    2 6      - 2 8         -      -      -     2 8
Blackboards                           each          -     14      --                   14   0.03       - 0.4         -      -            4       -         05  -                         05
Sutttotatl SMU fumttume                                                                                      19.0                        19 0       -20 6        -      -      -    20 6
2. NIH fumniture
Tables                                each          - 150         -      -      -     150    0 1       -15 0         -      -      - 15 0         - 162        -      -      -     162
Chains                                each          - 300         -      -      -     300   O 03       - 9,0         -      -      -    9.0           9 3      -                    9 7
BoDtksheives                          each          -     20      -      -      -      20   0 13       - 2.6         -      -      -    2.6      - 2.8         -      -      -     2.8
Subtotal NIH fumiture-  26 6                                                                                           -      -      -   26 6       -  28 8      -      -      -    28,8
3. Medkcal College fumtnure
Tables                                each          - 200                             200    0 1       -20.0         -      -      - 20.0         -218         -      -6           2161
Chairs                                each          - 400         -400   0 03                          -12 0         -      -      - 12.0         - 13,0       -      -      -     13 0
Bookshelves                           each          -     40      -      -      -      40    0 1       - 4,0         --                 4.0            4 3     -      -      -      4 3
Subtotal Medical College fumtture                                                                        -36 0         -      -      - 36 0             38 9            -      -     38 9
4. SMU equlpmernt
Overhead projector                    each          -      4      -      -      -       4    0 5       - 2 0                .2 0                       2 2            -      -      2 2
Slide projector                       each                 I                            1   0 75       - 0 6                            0 6            0 8      -                        8
TV                                    each                 I                            1    08        -   06                           0 6       -        06   -     -      -      06
Video reoorder                        each                 I                            1   o 85       - 0 9         -      -      -    0 9       - 0 9         -     -      -      0.9
Phones                                each                 6                            6   0 05       - 0 3         -                       3    - 0 3        -                         3
Scanner                               each          -         1                                                                                                                        
Computers                             each          2     1 2     -      -              4    2 5    5 0   30 0              -35 0    5 2   32 4                                    37 6
Pninters                              each          2      1                            3      1    2 0    1 0       -      -      -    3 0    2 1    1 1                           3 2
Fax machine                           each          -      I,    0 7                                        0 7                         0 7            0 6                          o 8
Copy machine                          each          -      I                            1    2 3       -   2 3                          2 3            2 5      -      -2 5
UPS                                   each          2      5      -      -      -       7    0) 3    0 6    1 5      -      -      -    2 t    0 6    1 6      -      -      -      2.2
Sutttotal SMU equipment                                                                                7 6   41 3      -      -      - 48 9    7 9   44 7        -      -      -     52 6
S. NIH equipment
Overhead projector                    each          -      4      -      -4    0 5                     -   2 0       -      -      -    2 0            2 2     -                    2 2
Slide projector                       each          -      1                    -       1   0 75       - 0 8         -      .      -    0 8       - 0 8        -      -      -      0,8
Phones                                each          -      6                            6   0,05       - 0 3                            0 3       - 0 3        -                         3
Video recorder                        each                 I                            1   0 85            0 9                         0 9           0 9       -0 9
Tv                                    eac-h                1                            I     0 6      -         06  -                        06  -   0,6      -                    06
Scanner                               each                 1I                                  3              3131414
Fax machine                           earh          -      1      -      -      -       1    0 7       - 0 7         -      -0 7                       08 6                              8
Copy machine                          each                 I                               2    2 3    2 3    2 3    -      -      -    4 6    2 4    2 5             -      -      4 9
Computer hard and software            each          4     12             -      -      16    2 5    10 0   30 0      -40 0    t04   32 4                                           42 8
UPS                                   each          4      3      -      -      -       7    0 3    1.2    0 9       -      -      -    21      1 2    1 0     -      -      -      2 2
Pnnters                               each          4      1      -      -      -       5      1    4,0   1.0        -      -      -    5,0    4.2    1 1             -      -      5 2
Subtotal NIH equipment                                                                                17 5   40 7      -      -      - 56 2   16 2   44 0                -      -    62 2
6. Medical College equipment
Phones                                eachi         -      2      -      -      -       2   0 05       -   01        -1 -                      01          01                             01
Fax                                   each          1      -1                                 05     05       -0                                                                       
Overhead projerdor                    each          -      4      -      -      -       4    o 5       -   2 o                          2 o            2 2      -      -      -     2 2
Slide pnojertor                       each          -      2      -2   0 75                            -    1 5      -      -      -     1 5      -    1 6                          1 6
Video recorder                        each          -      1      -      -      -       1   0 85       - 0 9         -      -      -    0 9       - 0 9         -      -      -     0 9
TV                                    each          -      1      -      -      -       1    06        -         06  -      -      -    06        -         06  -      -      -     06
Copy machine                          each          1      1      -      -      -       2    2,3    2 3    2.3                          4 6    2 4    2 5       --                  4 9
Computers                             each          2     12      -      -      -      14    2 5    5 0   30.0       -      -35.0    5 2   32 4                 -      -      -    37 6
Pnnters                               each          2      1      -      -      -       3      1    2 0    1 0       -      -      -    3 o    2 1    1 1                           3 2
UPS adaptors                          each          2      5      -      -      -       7    0 3    0 6    1.5       -      -2 1    0 6    1 6                                      2 2
Subtotal Medical College equipment                                                                    10 4   39 9      -      -      - 50.3   10 8   43 1         -      -      .    53 9
Subtotal OMce equipment and fumniture                                                    Pagel1         35 5  203 5      -      -         239 0   36,9  220 0                     - 256 9



ARMENIA                                           ANNEX 6
Health Project
Table 7 Training of PHC Providers
Detailed Costs
(US$ '000)
Unit               Base Cost                                Totals Including Contingencies
Untt      1997   1998  1999  2000  2001   Total   Cost   1997   1998   1999  2000  2001   Total  1997   1998   1999  2000  200O1   Total
C. Technical assistance
1. Foreign
SMU                                 persor/month    1 7      2      1   0 75   0 25       5 7     25    42 5   50 0   25 0   18 8    6 3   142 5   42 9   51 4   26 3   20 3    6 9    147.8
NIH                                 person/month      .      3      1   0 75   0 25        5      25       -   75 0   25 0   18 8    6 3   125 0        -  77 1   28 3   20 3    6 9    130 7
Medic-al College                    person/month      1      1    0 5    0 5       -       3      25    25 0   25 0   12 5   12.5       -   75 0    25 2   25 7   13 2   13 5       -    77 6
Subtotal Foreign                                                                                          67 5  150 0   62 5   50 0   125   342 5    68 1  154 2   65        41 13 9    35681
2. Local
SMU                                 person/month      6      6       -      -      -       12     0 5    3 0    3 0       -      -      -     6 0     3 1    3 2      -      -      -      6 4
NIH                                 person/month      3      6       -      -      -       9     0.5     1 5    3 0       -      -      -     4 5     1 6    3 2      -      -      -      4 8
Medic-al College                    person/month      3      6       --                    9      0 5    1 5    3 0       -      -      -     4 5     1 6    3 2      -4 8
Subtotal Local                                                                                             6 Q    9 0       -      -15 Q                6 2    9 7      -      -       -    16 0
Subtotal Technical assistance                                                                                73 S  159 0   62 S   S0 0   12 5  357 5    74 3  164 0   65 8   54.1   13 9    372 0
D. Training
1. SMU
Fellowships                         persorn/month    20     12       .                    32       6   t20QQ    72Q0      -      -      .192Q   t 21 0   74Q0                -       -   195 0
Student sbpends                     er student yea    -          10    6G    15C    100  320      0 2       -    2 0   12 0   30 0   20 0    64 0       -    2 2   14 0   37 2   26 4     79 7
Subtotal SMU                                                                                             120 0   74 0   12 0   30 0   20 0  256 0   121 0   76 2   14 0   37 2   26 4   274 8
2. NIH
Fellowships and study visits        person/month     24     ler                 -         40       6   144 0   96 0       -      -          240 0   145 2   98 7'                        243 9
Student sbpends (doctors)           ourse/student      -    90    180    180      90     540    0 25        -   22 5   45 0   .150   22 5   135 0       -  24 3   52 4   SS 9   29 7    162 3
Student stpends (nurses, midwives)    ourse/student    -    70    140    140      70     420      0 1       -    7 0   14 0   14 0    7 0   42 Q        -    7 6   16 3   17 4    9 2     50 S
SubtotalNIH                                                                                               144Q0  125 5   59Q0   59 0   29 5   417 0   145 2  130 6   68 7   73 2   38 9    457
3. Medical College
Fellowships                         person/month     15      5                            20       6    90 0   30 0       -      -      -120 0    90 8   30 8                -       -   121 6
Sbpends (midwives)                  ourse/student      -      -    65     65      65      195    0 03       -      -    2 Q    2 C    2 Q     5 9       -           2 3    2 4    2 6       7 3
Sbpends (nurses)                    ourse/student             - 1Q0    1QQ    tO0        300    QQ04        -      -    4.0    4 0    4Q0   12Q0        -      -    4 7    5.0    53      14.9
Subtotal Medical College                                                                                   90 Q   30 Q    6 Q    6 Q    6 0   137 9   90 8   30 8    6 9    7 4    7 8    143 8
Subtotal Training                                                                                           354Q0  229 5   77Q0   95Q0   5556  810 9   357Q0  237 6   89 6  117 9   73 1    875 2
TotallInvestment Costs                                                                                        639 1  768 0  139 5  145Q0   68Q0  #gt    669 7  830 9  155 4  171 9   87 0  1.914 9
11. Recurrent Costs
A. Maintenance and utilities
NIH office                              sqm/year         - 630    630   630    31!5  2.205  o 012             -    7 7    7 7    7 7    3 9    27 1       .         4    9 Q    9 6    5 1  32 1
N IH hostel                             sqmtyear             b44  1 066  1 Q66    544    3 264   Q 012             6 6   13 3   13 3    6 6;   39 8            7 9   15 5   16 5    8 7     47 9
SMU office                              sqm/year         -   S1   1 020  10Q20    510u   3 06Q   Q 012        -    6 3   12 5   12 5    6 3   37 6             6 8   14 6   15 6    6 3      45 2
SMU hostel                              sqm/year             375    750   750    37'   2,25C   QQ012               4.6    9 2    5.    4 6    27 7             5u.   1Q,i  11 5    6 1       33 3
Medical College                         sqm/year         -1,QQ0  2.QQQ  2 QQQ  1 QQ0   6 000   0 012              12 3   24 6   24 6   12 3   73 8            13 3   28 6   30 5   16 2     88 7
Subtotal Maintenance and utilities                                                                              - 37 6   67 4   67 4   33 7  206 1              40 6   78 5   83 7   44 4    247 2
B. Publications and subscriptions
NIH                                    per month        4     1 2     1 2    1 2     6       46     Q 7     2 8    6 4    8 4    8 4    4 2    32 2     268    8 6    8 8    9 1    4 7     34 1
SMU                                    per month        4     1 2     1 2    1 2     6       46     0 5     2 ,    6  6    0e   5Q0    3Q0   23C0    2C2    6     6 3    6 5    3 3          24 3
Medical College                        per month        4     1 2     1 2    1 2     6       46     0 5     2 0    6 0    6 o    6 o    3 C,   23 0     2 0    6 2    6 3,    6 5    3 3    24 3
Subtotal Publications and subscriptions                                                                       6 8   20Q4   20Q4   20 4   1Q 2    7862     6 9   21Q0   21 5   22 1   11 3      82 7
C. Staff salaries
NIH                                     FTE/year         -    40     40      40     20      140    Q 25           10Q0   1QQ   1Q la     sQ    35Q        -   1Q8   1 16   12 4    6 6       41 5
SMU                                     FTEtyear         -             8      6      4       28    Q 25       -    2Q0    2Q0    2Q      1Q     7Q        -   22    23    2 5    13           8 3
Medical College                         FTE/yea,        5     1Q    1Q       1 0     5       40     Q 6     3Q0    6Q0    6.0    6Q0    3Q0   24Q0      3 1    6 5    7 0    7 4    4.0    28 0
Subtotal Staff salarles                                                                                       3 0   18 0   18 0   18 0    9 0    66 0     3 1   19 5   21 0   22 3   11 9      7768
D. Offlce supplies
NIH                                     per month       6     1 2     1 2    1 2     6       48     0 5     3 0    6.0    6 0    6C0    3Q0   24Q0      3 1    6 5    7Q0    7 4    4 0      2860
SMU                                     per month       6     1 2     1 2    1 2     6       48     OS5    3Q0    6Q0    60    6Q0    3Q0   24Q0        3t    6 5    7Q0    7 4    4Q0    28 0
Medical College                        permonth         6     1 2     1 2    1 2     6       48     0 5     3Q0    601   6Q0    6Q0    3Q    24Q0       3t    6 5    7 0    7 4    4.0    28.0
SubtotalOflfice supplies                                                                                      90   18.0   18 0   18 0    9 0    72 0      9 4   19 5   21.0   22.3   11 9      84 0
Total Recurrent Costs                                                                                          18.8   941.0  123 8  123 8   61 9  422.3   19.3  1G0.5  141.~9  150.4   79 5    491 6
Total                                                                                                         657 9  861 9  263 2  268 7  129 6   ##.   689 1  931 4  297 3  322.3   166.5  2,406 5
Page 2



Table 6. Primary Heafth Care Development Program (PHCDP)
(US$ '000)
Unit            Base Cost                        Totals Including Contingencies
Unit    1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 Total Cost 1997 1998  1999   2000  2001   Total  _1997 1998  1999   2000  2001   Total
1. Invownt Costs
A. Civil Works
PHCDP offlke                        sq.m.       so   so       -     -     -  100  0.05   2.5   2.5        -       -     -      5.0   2.9   3.0        -      -      -      5.8
PHC faciiities                      each          -   10   25   25    10   70    25          - 250.0  625.0  625.0 250.0  1,750.0       - 297.3  800.7  853.4 362.5  2,313.9
Subtota lCivil Works                                                                        2.5 252.5  625.0  625.0 250.0  1,755.0   2.9 300.3  800.7  853.4 362.5  2,319.8
B. Office equipment and fumiture
1. PHCDP offiice
Fumiture                           set          6     -     -     -     -    6      1   6.0      -       -       -     -      6.0   6.1     -       -       -     -      6.1
Telephones                         each         3     -     -     -     -     3  0.05   0.2      -       -       -     -      0.2   0.2     -       -       -     -      0.2
Copy machine                       each         I                             1   2.3   2.3      -       -       -     -      2.3   2.3     -       -       -     -      2.3
Fax machine                        each         1     -     -     -     -    1   o 0      .5     -       -    0.5                0.5        -       -       -            0.5
Computers                          each         5     -                            1.5   7.5     -       -       -     -      7.5   7.6     -       -       -     -      7.6
Pnriners                           each         3     -     -     -     -     3   0.5   1.5      -       -       -     -      1.5   1.5     -       -       -     -       1.5
UPS                                each         3     -     -     -     -    3   0.3   0.9                                    0    .9   0.9 -       -                    0.9
Subtotal PHCDP offiice                                                                    18.9     -       -  -       -       18.9  19.1      -       -       -     -     19.1
2. PHC fcilities
Olffce equipment and fumiture      set          -   10   25    25    10   70   2.5         - 25.0   62.5   62.5  25.0   175.0         - 26.2   68.4   71.3  29.7    195.7
Computers                        number         - 10   25   25    10   70    1.5           -15.0   37.5   37.5  15.0   105.0          -15.4   39.5   40.5  16.7    112.1
Printers                         number         - 10   25   25    10   70   0.5            - 5.0   12.5   12.5  5.0    35.0           -5.1   13.2   13.5   5.6          37.4
software                          number        - 10   25   25    10   70   0.5            - 5.0   12.5   12.5   5.0    35.0          - 5.1   13.2   13.5   5.6         37.4
Subtotal PHC facilities                                                                      -50.0  125.0  125.0  50.0   350.0          -51.9  134.2  138.9  57.5    382.5
Subtota lOfficeeLqulpment and fuml                                                          18.9  50.0  125.0  125.0  50.0   368.9  19.1  51.9  134.2  1138.9  57.5    401.6
C. Vehicles
Car                                 each          1     -     -     -     -    1      8   8.0      -       -       -     -     8.0   8.1      -       -       -     -      8.1
Van                                 each          1     -     -     -     -     1    12  12.0      -       -       -     -     12.0  12.1     -       -       -     -     12.1
Subtotal Vehicles                                                                          20.0      -       -       -    -     20.0  20.2      -       -       -     -     20.2
O. Mediicat equipmnent                 set          -   1     25   25    io   70        a      - B0.0  200.0  200.0  80.0   560.0         - 82.3  210.6  216.3  88.8    597.9
E. Drugs and disposables               kd           - 10   25    25    10   70          1      -  10.0   25.0   25.0  10.0    70.0        -  10.3   26.3   27.0  11.1       74.7
F. Technical assistance
1. Foreign TA
Managerrent and programming   person/month      2     2   0.5   0.5      -    5    25  50.0  50.0   12.5   12.5        -   125.0  50.4  51.4   13 2    13.5       -    128.5
2. Local TA
Civilwrs procurement and supe   of civil wor    -   10   25   25    10   70  1.25          -  12.5   31.3   31.3  12.5    87.5        -  13.5   36.4   38.8  16.5    105.2
PHCsoftare developmntdmaint persorVmonth   12    6          -     -     -   18   0.5   6.0   3.0         -       -     -      9.0   6.2   3.2       -       -     -       9.5
Subtota lLoca lTA                                                                          6.0  15.5   31.3   31.3  12.5    96.5   6.2  16.8   36.4   38.8  16.5    114.7
Subtotal Tochnica iassistance                                                               56.0  65.5   43.8   43.8  12.5   221.5  56.7  68.2   49.6   52.3  16.5    243.2
G. Trainingi
Stipends for PHC teams           r team memb      -   20   50    52    20  142  0.25         -   5.0   12.5   13.0  5.0    35.5         -   5.4   14.6   16.1   6.6       42.7
Tota llnvstinit Cob                                                                          97.4 463.0 1,031.3 1,031.8 407.5  3,030.9  98.8 518.3 1,235.9 1,304.1 543.0  3,700.1
II. Rectuinrt Cods
A. PHCDP staff                      FTEtyear    3.5      7      7     7   3.5   28      6  21.0  42.0   42.0   42.0  21.0   168.0  21.8  45.4   48.9   52.1  27.7    196.0
S. Office supplies                  per month      6    12    12    12      6   48   0.5   3.0   6.0    6.0    6.0   3.0    24.0   3.1   6.3    6.6    6.8   3.6            26.3
C. Vehicles
Fuel, maintenance                er yearhvehicl   -    2      2     2     1    7   1.8       -   3.6    3.6    3.6   1.8    12,6        -  3.8    4.0    4.2   2.2        14.2
D. PHC facilities
Mairntenanoe and utilities       er facility/yea  -     - 10   35   60  105   'I.25          -     - 12.5   43.8  75.0   131.3          -     - 14.6   54.3  98.9    167.7
E.Perfoffnance bonuses /a         of CW invest      -     - 10    25   35   70  1.25           -     - 12.5   31.3  43.8    87.5          -     - 13.2   33.8  48.6         95.5
Tota IRecu. CrttCa                                                                           24.0  51.6   76.6  126.6 144.6   423.4  24.9  55.5   87.2  151.3 180.9    499.7
Total                                                                                        121.4 514.6 1,107.9 1,158.4 552.1  3,454.2 123.7 573.8 1,323.1 1,455.3 723.9  4,199.8
~a Bonuses ame paid to the PHC teams successfully ffieeting the ,oerforrnance contrct mntoritong indicator targets
Page 1



ARMENIA                                     ANNEX 6
Health Project
Table 8. Project Management Unit
Detailed Costs
(US$000)
Unit           Base Cost                            Totals Including Contingencies
Unit   1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 Total Cost  1997 1998 1999 2000 2001   Total    1997  1998 1999 2000 2001   Total
I. Investment Costs
A. Office reconstructon              sq m.      40     -    -    -    -  40    0.05   2.0        -    -    -    -        2.0      2.3     -    -    -    -    2.3
B. Office equipment and tumiture
Computers                          each        4     -    -    -    -   4         1.5   6.0     -    -    -    -    6.0         6.1     -    -    -    -    6.1
Laptop                             each        I     -    -    -    -    1         3   3.0           -    -    -    3.0         3.0     -    -    -    -    3.0
Pnnter desk jet                    each        2     -    -    -    -   2         0.7   1.4     -    -    -    -       1.4       1.4    -    -    -    -       1.4
Pnnter laser jet                   each        1     -    -    -    -    1         1   1.0      -    -    -    -       1.0      1.0     -    -    -    -       1.0
Copy machine                       each        1     -    -    -    -    1        1.5   1.5     -    -    -    -       1.5       1.5    -    -    -    -       1.5
Telephone system                   each        1           -    -    -    1       1.5   1.5        -    -        -     1.5       15     -    -    -    -       1.5
Heaters                            each        4     -    -    -    -   4    0.15   0.6         -                      0.6      0.6     -    -    -    -    0.6
Fumiture                            set        1     -                      1      3   3.0                             3.0      3.0                            3.0
Air conditioner                    each        2     -    -    -    -   2           1   2.0     -                      2.0       2.0    -    -    -    -    2.0
Minor equipment                   amount       1        -    -         -    1      1   1.0      -                      1.0       1.0    -    -    -    -       1.0
Subtotal Office equipment and fumitu                                                     21.0    -    -    -    -   21.0         21.2     -    -    -    -   21.2
C. Vehicle                           each        2     -    -    -    -   2         10  20.0     -    -    -    -   20.0         20.2     -    -    -    -   20.2
D. Technical assistance
1. Foreign
Procurement                    erson/mont    2    1      -    -    -   3         25  50.0  25.0     -    -    -   75.0        50.4  25.7    -    -    -   76.1
Audit                          erson/mont     -    1    1    1    1    4         25     - 25.0  25.0  25.0  25.0  100.0          - 25.7  26.3  27.0  27.8  106.8
Subtotal Foreign                                                                       50.0  50.0  25.0  25.0  25.0  175.0      50.4  51.4  26.3  27.0  27.8  183.0
2. Local
Engineer/achitect              erson/mont    6    3      -    -    -   9        0.5   3.0  1.5      -    -    -    4.5         3.1   1.6    -    -    -       4.7
Subtoal Technical assistance                                                             53.0  51.5  25.0  25.0  25.0  179.5     53.5  53.0  26.3  27.0  27.8  187.7
E. Infomalbon and consultabon activities  amount  50  100   50   25   25  250        1  50.0 100.0  50.0  25.0  25.0  250.0      51.5 106.5  56.6  29.8  31.4  275.8
F. Training                        erson/mont   1.5  1.5     -    -    -   3         6   9.0  9.0      -    -    -    18.0        9.1  9.3      -    -    -   18.3
Total Investment Costs                                                                   155.0 160.5  75.0  50.0  50.0  490.5    157.8 168.8  82.9  569  59.2  525.5
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Staff Salaries
HeadofPtU                        erson/mont    6   12   12   12    9   51    0.88   5.3  10.6  10.6  10.6  7.9   44.9            5.5  11.4  12.3  131  10.4   52.8
Projectassistants                erson/mont   12   24   24   24   18  102    0.68   8.2  16.3  16.3  16.3  12.2   69.4           8.5  17.6  19.0  20.3  161    81.5
Administrabive officer           erson/mont    6   12   12   12    9   51    0.68   4.1  8.2  8.2  8.2  6.1    347               4.2  8.8  9.5  10.1  8.1   40.8
Secretary-translator             erson/mont    6   12   12   12    9   51    0.58   3.5  7.0  7.0  7.0  5.2   29.6               36   7.5  8.1  8.6  6.9   34.8
Financial officer                erson/mont    6   12   12   12    9   51    0.68   4.1  8.2  8.2  8.2  6.1   34.7               4.2  8.8  9.5  10.1  8.1   40.8
Accountant                       erson/mont    6   12   12   12    9   51    0.58   3.5  7.0  7.0  7.0  5.2   29.6               3.6  7.5  8.1  8.6  6.9   34.8
AccountantforPHCDP               erson/mont    6   12   12   12    9   51    0.58   3.5  7.0  7.0  7.0  5.2   29.6               36   7.5  8.1  8.6  6.9   34.8
Procurement officer              erson/mont    6   12   12   12    9   51    0.58   3.5  7.0  7.0  7.0  5.2   29.6               3.6  7.5  8.1  8.6  6.9   34.8
Diver                            erson/mont   12   24   24   24   18  102    0.27   3.2  6.5  6.5  6.5  4.9   27.5               3.4  7.0  7.5   80   6.4   32.4
Subtotal Staff Salaries                                                                  38.8  77.5  775  77.5  58.1  329.5      40.3  83.8  90.3  962  76.6  387.3
B.Officemaintenanceandutiblites    ersqn/yea   35  110  110  110   55  420   0.012   0.4  1.3  1.3  1.3  0.7    5.0               0.4  1.4  1.5  1.6  0.9    5.9
C. Operatdng expenditures
E-mail                             month       6   12   12   12    9   51         0.1   0.6  1.2  1.2  1.2  0.9    5.1           0.6  1.3  1.4  1.5  1.2    6.0
Phone/Fax                          month       6   12   12   12    9   51         0 5   3.0  6.0  6.0  6.0  4.5   25.5           3.1  6.5  7.0  7.4  5.9   30.0
Equipment maintenance              month       6   12   12   12    9   51         0.1   0.6  1.2  1.2  1.2  0.9    5.1           0.6  1.3  1.4  1.5  1.2    6.0
Vehite maintenance                 month       6   12   12   12    9   51         0.5   3.0  6.0   60   6.0  4.5   25.5          3.1  6.5  7.0  7.4  5.9   30.0
Fuel                               month       6   12   12   12    9   51         0.1   0.6  1.2  1.2  1.2  0.9    5.1           0.6  1.3  1.4  1.5  1.2    6.0
Mail                               month       6   12   12   12    9   51    015   0.9  1.8  1.8  1.8  1.4    7.7                0.9  1.9  2.1  2.2  1.8    9.0
Oflice supply                      month       6   12   12   12    9   51         0.1   0.6  1.2  1.2  1.2  0.9    5.1           0.6  1.3  1.4  1.5  1.2    6.0
Miscellaneous                      month       6   12   12   12    9   51         0.2   1.2  2.4  2.4  2.4  1.8   10.2           1.2  2.6  2.8  3.0  2.4   12.0
Subtotal Operating expenditures                                                          10.5  21.0  21.0  21.0  15.8   89.3     10.9  22.7  24.5  26.1  20.8  104.9
D.Monitonngstudies                 perstudy      -    -    1      -    1    2       60      -    - 60.0      - b0.0  120.0          -    - 69.9      - 79.1   149.0
Total Recurrent Costs                                                                     49.7  99.8 159.8  99.8 134.6  543.8      51.7 107.9 186.2 123.9 177.4  647.1
ToWl                                                                                      204.7 260.3 234.8 149.8 184.6 1,034.3    209.5 276.8 269.0 180.8 236.5 1,172.6
Page 1



ANNEX7
Page I of 3
Armenia Health Project: Procurement Information
Section 1: Procurement Review
Goods                                ICB              NCB              IS                NS                Direct contracting
1. Procurement method thresholds     >$250,000        <$100,000        <$250,000         <$25,000         aggregate $50,000
<$10,000 per contract
2. Prior Review                      yes              first contract    yes
Works                                ICB              NCB               IS               NS                Other methods
3. Procurement method thresholds                      <$250,000                          <$30,000
1 4. Prior Review                                     j first contract
I Consultant Services                  QBCS            QBS               Sole Sourcing    Minor             Other methods
l  i              _______________    Contracts
5. Procurement method thresholds     >$100,000 firms  >$100,000 firms   decided on a case-  <$100,000 firms
>$50,000 indiv   >$50,000 indiv    by-case basis   <$50,000 indiv
6._Prior Review                      yes              yes               yes              only TOR
[ 6.  Prior                          _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ ___  __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __I_sio_te rn
7. Ex-post Review                    Ex-post review will be conducted during supervision missions by the supervision team.
Section 2. Capacity of the Implementing Agency in Procurement and Technical Assistance requirements
8. The PNfU will have a procurement officer who will receive training from the existing PMUs in Armenia. The Director of the PMU will have
received training in procurement for generalists and Bank operations. The credit will finances external procurement advisor to the PMU during
time tirst semester oi the project implemiientatiotn.
c. Country Procurement Assessment Report or Country Procurement Strategy Paper    10. Are the bidding documents for the procurement
status: Draft report May 15, 1997                                               actions of the first year ready by negotiations?  No
!-- --      ----------   -    Section 3. Training, Information and Development on Procurement
ll. Estimated date of Project   [12. Estimated date of      13. Indicate if contracts are  14. Domestic       15. Domestic Preference
Launch Workshop:                  Genieral Procuremenlt     subject to mandatory SPN in    Preference for     for Consultant Services:
September 1997.                   Notice publication:       Development Business:          Goods/Works:
August, 1997                     No                            Yes                    No
16. Retroactive financing N/A
17. Explain briefly the Procurement Monitoring System and Information System:
Section 4. Procurement Staffing
18. Indicate name of Procurement Staff as part of Project Team: Gyorgy Novotny Division: EC4HU        Ext.
19. Explain briefly the expected role of the Field Office in Procurement: Armenia Resident Mission staff will participate in prior review



ANNEX 7
Page 2 of 3
Procurement Plan:
Armenia Health Financing and Primary Health Care Development Project
1             2            3            4            5                         6. Estimated Schedule
Description'     Type           No. of    Estimated    Procurement  Pre-        Document  Invitation    Contract    Contract
slices/items/  cost (US$)    method   qualification  preparation  to bid  signing   Completion
sub-packages
Computers and      Goods          1       150,000           IS                     05/97      06/97       10/97      11/97
Office equip. I                                 _
Computers and      Goods          1       0.8 million      ICB                     08/97      12/97       03/98      05/98
Office equip. ll
Computers and      Goods          1       150,000           IS                     02/99      03/99       07/99      08/99
Office equip. III
Furniture I        Goods          4       300,000         NCB                      09/97      10/97       11/97      03/98
1/98,99.    2/98,99,    3/98,99,    6/98,99,
00,01      00.01      00,01       00,01
Small furniture    Goods          I (     250,000          NS            -According to need. Contract value less than
iand supplies                            l                                                        US$25,000
Vulhicles          Goods          I       J)'0.000          I s09/97                          10/97       01/98      0 02/98
Mcdical            Goods          8      1 600,000     from         Will be procured semi-annually for PHC micro-projects based on
equipment                                              IJNICEF        selections from an optional equipment list acceptable to IDA
Pharmaceuticals    Goods          8       70I000       from         Will be procured semi-annually for PHC micro-projects based on
and supplies                                           UNICEF         essential pharnaceuticals and supplies list acceptable to IDA
Printing PHC       Goods          4       150,000         NCB            -         11/97      01/98      04/98       06/99
guldelnes
Information        Goods          10      50,000           DC            Will be procured according to plan approved by IDA.
activities                                         __                            Contract value less than US$10,000
PHC TA I             CF           2       750,000         QCBS         05/97      06/97       08/97      01/98       07/98
PHC TA II            CI           15      300,000          SLI                                 n/a
PHC TA III           CF           2       90,000           SSF           -        05/97                  06/97       06/99
HF TA I              CF           15      750,,000        QCBS         05/97      06/97       08/97      01/98       06/99
HF TA II             CI           15      300,000          SLI         11/97       12/97      02/98      06/98      06/2001
PMU                  CI           4       100,000          SLI         04/97      05/97       07/97      08/97       12/97



ANNEX 7
Page 3 of 3
1              2             3             4             5                           6. Estimated Schedule
Description       Type            No of      Estimated     Procurement  Pre-          Document   Invitation    Contract    Contract
slices/items/  cost (US$)    method      qualification  preparation  to bid   signing      Completion
sub-packages
PMU (social           CF             2        150,000         QCBS          03/99        04/99       05/99       07/99        10/99
assessment)                                                                 03/01        04/01       05/01       07/01        10/01
Fellowships and       CF            30        1.0 million      QBS           Will be procured for students satisfying selection criteria,
study tours                                                                commitment to return to certain positions and acceptance to a
foreign training institution
SHA renovation        CW             1        140,000          NCB            -          07/97       08/97        10/97       01/98
NIH renovation        CW             1        140,000          NCB            -          08/97       09/97        11/97       02/98
SMU renovation        CW             1        100,000          NCB            -          09/97       10/97        12/97       03/98
Medical College       CW             1        170,000          NCB            -          10/97       11/97        01/98       04/98
office renovation
Other minor           CW             3        15,000            NS            -          09/97       09/97        09/97       10/97
office renovation
PHC micro-            CW            70       2.3 million    NCB/NS        Contracts for above US$30,000 will be procured through NCB,
projects                                                                   Contracts for below US$30,000 will be procured through NS.
Supervision of procurement will be contracted to ASIF
Operating costs                               1.5 million      Other                                  n/a
Total                                        US$10.7
million_l                                           l           l          _
Name of Package
ICB(international competitive bidding), NCB (national competitive bidding), IS (international shopping), NS (national shopping), DC (Direct Contracting),
MW (for Minor Works), QCBS (quality and cost based selection), QBS (quality based selection), SLF (for short-listing of consultant firms); SLI (for short-
listing of individual consultants); SSF (for Sole sourcing of consultant firms); SSI (for sole sourcing of individual consultants); Other (for recurrent costs
procured on the basis of administrative procedures based on a schedule and budget acceptable to the Bank); NBF (not Bank financed).
1 US$ 0.7 million exceeding credit amount accounts for VAT for civil works and furniture which are procured locally.



ANNEX8
Page I of 2
PROJECT MONITORING INDICATORS
1.      Two sets of indicators have been defined: process indicators (or input and output
indicators) to measure progress in project implementation and impact indicators (or outcome
and impact indicators) to evaluate the impact of the project towards project objectives. In
addition, some key health sector indicators will be monitored to get assurances that adequate
public resources are allocated to the health sector and essential public health programs are
implemented. Most project inputs will be monitored as part of the Project's Implementation.
Key policy benchmarks included in the Letter of Development of Armenia Government will
also be monitored and reviewed annually by the World Bank and the Government.
Table I . Armenia Health Financing and Primary Health care Development Project Indicators
Process Indicators                                      Impact Indicators
Selected Health Sector Indicators
Adequate public sector health care spending as % of GDP
(2% in 1998, 2.5% in 1999, 3% in 2000, 3% in 2001)
Adequate vaccination coverage (at least of 95 % of targets)  Incidence of vaccine preventable diseases evaluated based
on internationally accepted criteria (WHO - HFA 2000)
Component 1: Strengthening Primary Health Care System
Sub -component 1.1: Primary Health Care Provider Training Program
*   PHC Training Coordination Committee established and    *   Number of Primary Health Care Providers trained and
meeting regularly (established by 09/97; minutes of at   certified in the following categories: general
least quarterly meetings sent to the Bank);              practitioners and pediatricians in NIH, family
*   Number of faculty trained outside Armenia and assumed    practitioners in SMU, nurses and midwives in the
training responsibilities in SMU, NIH and Medical        Medical College
College (09/98; 10/98);                             *   number ot trained PHC providers practicing in new
*   Number of trainees admitted to the training programs on  settings (starting 03/98)
September 1, 1998.                                   *   declining referral rates from newly trained PHC teams
*   Curriculum in NIH, SMU and Medical College               (target to achieve 15% referral rate); (starting 01/99)
developed and evaluated by external experts (09/98);
Sub- component 1.2 Primary Health Care Development Program
*   number of micro-projects applications received, approved  *   improved access to PHC providers in target areas:
and completed (semi-annually)                            decrease of self-referrals to specialist care; decrease in
*   number of PHC Teams in training from micro-project       no-diagnosis cases; (Social Assessment at project mid-
areas (target 90% of staff)                             term and end project compared to base-line);
*   improved management of PHC facilities in target
areas: percentage of practices meeting development
indicators to be set forth in the performance contracts
(01/99; 06/2001);
Sub-component 1.3 Primary Health Care Guidelines Developm=
*   number of guidelines developed, published and        *   proportion of PHC providers reporting to use
distributed (first developed 01/98; monitored quarterly;  guidelines in day-to-day practice;
the Bank will receive a copy of each guideline);
*   number of workshops held






ANNEX 8
Page 2 of 2
Process Indicators                                  -inpact hidketors.
Component 2: Strengthening Health Financing System
Sub-component 2.1 Establishment of State Health Agency
*   enabling regulation to establish and operate the SHA  *   the SHA etstablished, accommodated and staff recruited
developed and approved by GoA in December 1997:          by May 1998;
*   number of staff trained abroad and assumed working   *   SHA assummig full functions (01/99);
responsibilities in the SHA:
*   Pilots to test contracting, accounting forms, payment
methods started (08/98);
*   Number of workshops held; number participants
Sub-component 2.2 Improvement of Basic Benefits Package Methodology
*   Working Group fully operational (members employed,   *   increased efficiency and transparency of BBP. based
office established, equipment procured) (12/97)          on the Bank review and comparison with the BBP of a
*   number of workshops held; number of participants         year before (12/97, 12/98, 12/99, 12/00);
*   improved targeting: number of people social groups
entitled to free health care above the BBP well defined
and commensurate with available resources (12/97,
12/98, 12/99. 12/00);
Sub-component 2.3 Improvement of Provider Payment Mechanism
*   working Group fully operational (members employed.   *   increased efficiency of health services: shortening of
office established, equipment procured) (12/97);         ALOS (15 days - 1998; 14 days - 1999: 13 days
*   number of workshops held; number of participants:        2000); increase in bed occupancy rates (target 65% in
2000);~
*   contracting and reporting forms developed, approved by
the GoA(12/98);                                      *   transparent private payment procedures in health care
facilities: existence of a cashier office and official
price list (annually; target 100% by end project);
Sub-component 2.4 Improvement of Health Management Information System
*   HMIS hard and software procured and installed (08/98):   *   aggregate reports available on uses of public health
*   HMIS custom software developed (08/98);                  care funds (02/00; 02/01)
*   number of workshops held and number of people trained.



ANNEX9
Page I of I
List of Selected Documents in Project Files
1.    Asatrian, A. Armenia: Health Status and Health System. Consultant report. 1997.
2.    Asatrian, A. Armenia Health Project: Analysis of Financial Sustainability.
Consultant report. 1997.
3.    Braithwaite, J. Armenia: A Poverty Profile. Consultant report. 1995.
4.    Costa C. et Gouveia M. Burden of Disease in Armenia: A Preliminary Report.
Consultant report. 1997.
5.    Dudwick, N. A Qualitative Assessment of the Living Standards of the Armenian
Population. Consultant report. 1995.
6.    Gomart, E. Social Assessment Report on the Education and Health Sector in
Armenia. Consultant report. 1996.
7.    Ministry of Health. Primary Health Care Development Program Operational
Manual. Final Draft.
8.    Ministry of Health. Project Implementation Plan. May, 1997.
9.    Munar, W. Health Care Decentralization. Consultant report. 1996.
10.   Palu, T. Armenia: Health Status, Access to Health Services, and Public Health
and Primary Health Care Issues. Consultant report. 1995.
11.   Resource Management Consultants. Armenia: Primary Health Care Reform.
Consultant report. 1996
12.   Schmidt, M. Health and Education Expenditures in the Republic of Armenia.
Consultant report. 1996.
13.   TNO Prevention and Health. Health Financing Reform in Armenia. Consultant
report. 1996.
14.   The World Bank. Public Expenditure Review in Armenia: Strategic Spending for
Creditworthiness and Growth. Country Operations EC4C2, draft report, The
World Bank, 1997.



MAP SECTION






IBRD 28874
:  =                                                -   XE5--{rS'7kW:RS4z:'-::-S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'                                -*
/  U SH  i"  9gv  i UKRANE
A-erdi           beKAZEBAIKJANL'  =''V
<       =           Ar~~~~~~~        ~~~hi 0t                                                                                                            RUSSLAN \~ <
'  -SHAT   _           EDi  =     RE:fON ( ESPRATIONAI
A~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~kae                                                                                                           ROMAJrI   I -ITENTINL 0NORE
____                                                                                                                                                         Too~~To-11w-1
Spit.k~~~~~~~~~~~~~~( olo BSo 
/ '\-X o\,    $   *   \  ,\,YEGEGNADZOR  y     > .o. 
splolo   IJEVAN .        0 Bord                                  M~~~~~~~~~~~&INGECcIAJRSKOYE
UURKEYRESERVOIR                                                                T__                    -'         I     TY
Akh  SHIRAK~ ~~                         <tShklak/t(,_                           >\-Ls^f   j                 -9oSub 
R.,  60v>                                                                                                                           -7       1r;AMIS REPUBLIC
CYPRUIV      RA                        OF IRAN
r                       kkk.d - r                                         AZERBAIJAN                              L
GAVAR *t S9 (NACHIEVAN                                                    REPUBLIC  O    ARMENIA
Ao               >>$                                       s r vGE    A R  K U                             OF
-:c7:3 RESERVOIRS
0  SELECTED TOWNSIVTuLAGES
rtni   V.,d.nis~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ REGION (MARZ) CAPITALS
NASONAL CAPITAL
40'   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~      ~      ~      ~       ~      ~      ~      ~      ~      ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     O-.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- RIVERS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RVR
AO'        R  R A-T                                                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PRIMARY ROADS  AO'
HAT                                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RAILROADS
0 Vedi                                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~REGION (MARZI ROULNDARIES
Ar.,at     Jo-vk ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-.-INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
VA   TS DZORU
YEGEGADR
NkA,~~
I                      ~~~~~AZERBAIJAN    T oAtoo 
(NACHITCHEVAN)                       o      ~        K
-. N           ~~ISLAMIC                                                      Kdk KPN* 1
r-  -6w "I   ol ~~~~~~~DIIi                                                                                            TZoqLo,0                   IS      20      305     O d
39*                                                                                                                                                          I   I OF IRA
OF IRAN                                                                       S   IC  20~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1  30  AD  SD 61 .I.
b..   oo.pod 4.y
44*                  45*                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~44'            A7'                                        40'
JULY 1997









IMAGING
Report No.:         16475   AM
Type:      SAR



