Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 20951
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(COFN-03440; COFN-03450; CPL-37460; SCL-3746A; CPL-37470)
ON A
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$227 MILLION
TO THE
NATIONAL POWER CORPORATION AND
THE PHILIPPINE NATIONAL OIL COMPANY
FOR THE
LEYTE-LUZON GEOTHERMAL PROJECT
OCTOBER 16, 2000
Energy and Mining Development Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective as of October 6, 2000)
Currency Unit = Philippine Peso (P)
P1.00 = US$ 0.022
US$ 1.00 = P 46.4
Average Exchange Rates during Project Years
1993  US$1= P27.12
1994  US$1= P26.42
1995  US$1= P25.71
1996  US$1= P26.22
1997  US$1= P29.47
1998  US$l= P40.89
1999  US$1= P39.12
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BITS          Swedish Agency for International Technical and Economic Cooperation
BOO           Build-Own-Operate
BOT           Build-Operate-Transfer
ECO           Expanded Cofinancing Operation
ESP           Energy Sector Plan
GET           Global Environment Trust Fund
IDC           Interest During Construction
IPP           Independent Power Producer
JEXIM         Export and Import Bank of Japan
NPC           National Power Corporation
PDP           Power Development Program
PNOC-EDC   Philippine National Oil Corporation- Energy Development Corporation
PPA           Power Purchase Agreement
PTRP          Power Transmission and Rehabilitation Project
ROW           Right-of-Way
TGRP          Transimission Grid Reinforcement Project
Vice President:   Jamal Kassum
Country Manager/Director:    Vinay Bhargava
Sector Manager/Director:    Yoshihiko Sumi
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   Selina Shum



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CONTENTS
Page No.
1.  Project Data                                                                  1
2.  Principal Performance Ratings                                                 1
3.  Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry       2
4.  Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                          4
5.  Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                           11
6.  Sustainability                                                               13
7.  Bank and Borrower Performance                                                14
8.  Lessons Learned                                                              16
9.  Partner Comments                                                             17
10. Additional Information                                                      17
Annex 1.   Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                           18
Annex 2.   Project Costs and Financing                                           19
Annex 3.   Economic Costs and Benefits                                          22
Annex 4.   Bank Inputs                                                          26
Annex 5.   Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components          27
Annex 6.   Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                             28
Annex 7.   Key Performance Indicators Energy Sector Plan Implementation Status  29
Annex 8.   Key Performance Indicators for NPC                                   34
Annex 9.   PNOC-EDC Financial Indicators and FRR on Project Components          36
Annex 10.  Economic Value of Installed IPP Capacities                           39
Annex 1 1.  ICR Mission Aide Memoire                                            41
Annex 12.  Borrower's ICR: PNOC-EDC                                              51
Annex 13.  Borrower's ICR: NPC                                                   61
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID. P004607                                       Project Name: LEYTE LUZON GEOTHERMAL
Team Leader: Selina Wai Sheung Shum                       TL Unit: EASEG
ICR Type: Core ICR                                         Report Date: October 16, 2000
1. Project Data
Name: LEYTE LUZON GEOTHERMAL                         L/C/TF Number: COFN-03440;
COFN-03450;
CPL-37460;
SCL-3746A;
CPL-37470
Country/Department: PHILIPPINES                                           Region: East Asia and Pacific
Region
Sector/subsector. PT - Thermnal
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:  10/16/89                                 Effective: 03/01/95           03/01/95
Appraisal:  06/05/93                                  MTR:                       06/01/96
Approval:  06/07/94                                 Closing: 06/30/99            03/31/2000
Borrower/lImplementing Agency: NPC AND PNOC/NPC AND PNOC-EDC
Other Partners: BOT Private Power Generation Contractors; Export and Import Bank of Japan
(JEXIM); Global Environment Facility (GEF); Swedish Agency for International
Technical and Economic Cooperation (BITS); Eurobond investors
STAFF                Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President:      Jemal-ud-din Kassum                        Gautam S. Kaji
Country Manager:     Vinay K. Bhargava                          Callisto E. Madavo
Sector Manager:      Yoshihiko Sumi                             Vineet Nayyar
Team Leader at ICR:   Selina Wai Sheung Shum                    Claudio Fernandez
ICR Primary Author:   Selina Wai Sheung Shum; Mikio
Matsumura
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N--Negligible)
Outcome: U
Sustainability: UN
Institutional Development Impact: M
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:                        U
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The project objectives are to: (a) meet the rapidly increasing demand for power in Luzon using
indigenous and environmentally superior geothermal energy; (b) strengthen the energy sector by
implementing institutional, planning and financial improvements recommended by the Energy Sector Plan
(ESP); (c) support the large ongoing private sector participation in power generation, and facilitate it by
extending the national grid; (d) strengthen NPC's capabilities in environmental and social impact analyses;
(e) introduce enhanced co-financing operation (ECO) in the Philippines; and (f) ensure the financial
viability of NPC and PNOC for undertaking a long-overdue investment program.
The project objectives were consistent with the country's priorities and the Bank's Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS) prevailing at the time of project preparation/loan approval (1989-94).
Specifically, the CAS aimed at assisting the country to regain a sustainable high growth path led by the
expansion of an internationally competitive private sector through such priority measures as improved
policy and project implementation as well as reduction of infrastructure bottlenecks. The project design is
directly relevant towards achieving the above objectives.
Overall Energy Sector Performance. In agreement with the Bank, an Energy Sector Plan (ESP)
was developed by the government to lay out policies and define improvements in all areas of concern in the
sector as well as their completion schedule. Implementation of the ESP was supported by a series of Bank
operations in the sector, including this Project.
Environmentally Superior Indigenous Energy Supply. CO2 emissions from geothermal power
generation are only a fraction of those of an equivalent coal plant. Thus, the development of Leyte
geothermal resources under this Project further the twin objectives of using an environmentally preferable
energy and enhancing the security of energy supply by avoiding coal and oil imports.
Promotion of Private Sector Participation. In response to the power crisis and the consequent
opportunity cost of economic losses in the early 1990s, the project objectives relating to the physical
components were directed at ensuring the successful implementation of the Government's "fast track"
Build-Operate-Transfer (BOT) private power program in an environmentally sustainable manner. In
particular, they were essential to achieve the project objective of promoting private sector participation in
geothermal power generation projects by transmission of the power generated and broadening the power
market through the interconnection of the national power grid. In addition, this Project served as a vehicle
to further leverage limited public sector resources with private sector financing by the introduction of ECO
co-financing in the country.
Strengthening the Finances of NPC and PNOC-EDC. The ESP noted above included actions
directed at strengthening the finances of sector institutions, including the National Power Corporation
(NPC) and Philippine National Oil Corporation - Energy Development Corporation (PNOC-EDC). The
planned measures included privatization of the two institutions as well as various other actions (e.g. tariff
adjustment, equity infusion) to enable NPC to achieve financial viability. The minimum financial
performance targets agreed with NPC and PNOC-EDC were incorporated in the financial covenants.
Strengthening NPC's Capabilities in Environmental and Social Impact Analyses. This objective
was appropriate and the Project included a component for technical assistance and training to NPC for this
purpose.
-2-



3.2 Revised Objective:
3.3 Original Components:
1.    PNOC-EDC's Components comprised the following: (a) development of a 440 MW Geothermal
energy field to expand Leyte geothermal capacity from 200 MW to 640 MW, including: (i) drilling about
65 additional producer and injector wells in Malitbog, Mahanagdong and Alto-Peak; (ii) contracting
technical services for geothermal drilling; (iii) construction of steam gathering systems; (iv) constructing
the related subtransmission systems in Leyte; (v) constructing a pilot reinjection plant for CO,; and (vi)
recruiting consultants to assist with project implementation; and (b) carrying out BOT Contracts between
PNOC-EDC and private sector companies to construct and operate 440 MW geothermal power plants.
2.    NPC's Components comprised the following: (i) construction of two high voltage DC (HVDC)
monopole converter stations and related electrode stations at Ormoc and Naga, to be financed by a $100
million Eurobond issue, partly guaranteed by an ECO of the Bank; (ii) installation of submarine cable
(about 19 km at 350 kV, 440 MW) crossing the San Bemardio Strait and linking the Leyte Luzon lines;
(iii) construction of a twin circuit HVDC overhead transmission line from Ormoc to Cabacungan cable
terminal (about 176 km at 350 kV) and from Matnog to Naga (about 256 km at 350 kV); (iv) rehabilitation
of the Naga-Tayabas transmission line (about 205 km at 500 kV); (v) recruiting two advisers for
strengthening its environmental and social engineering departments; (vi) recruit consultants to design the
Casecnan hydroelectric project and to support project implementation.
3.4 Revised Components:
The following components, which were added by PNOC-EDC in 1999, resulted in the extension of
the loan closing date by 9 months (from June 30, 1999 to March 31, 2000).
(a)    Construction of a 7 km steamline interconnecting all of the power plant steam collection
systems so that it could function as one integrated network equipped with operational and production
flexibility. PNOC-EDC introduced this component after the initial results of commercial exploitation
indicated that there would be temporary steam deficiencies in some sectors and surplus steam in other
sectors and that an interconnection would be necessary to maximize the efficiency of the system.
(b)    Updated reservoir assessment of the Leyte Geothermal Project. This was a condition of the Bank
in extending the loan closing date in order to confirm the soundness of PNOC-EDC's proposal to construct
the steamline interconnection noted under item (a) above.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
Overall. quality at entry is rated as marginally unsatisfactory, with the PNOC-EDC components
rated as satisfactory and NPC components rated as unsatisfactory. In hindsight, the project implementation
schedule in the SAR proves to be overly optimistic in its critical assumption that NPC could successfully
address the long standing implementation problems of tardy procurement and the right-of-way (ROW)
issues.
* NPC's implementation delays. At the time of project appraisal, the risks of NPC's tardy procurement
- 3 -



procedures were considered to have been mitigated by the reorganization of NPC and all the key bids
were underway. Further, NPC and PNOC-EDC had appointed high-level project directors to
coordinate all project activities. The satisfactory implementation performance of PNOC-EDC's
components confirmed their readiness for project implementation. By contrast, the substantial
implementation delays encountered by NPC reflected, in part, its inadequate readiness for project
implementation at the time of loan approval, particularly in regard to the resettlement action plan.
Indeed, the project appraisal failed to identify the substantial risks related to ROW issues which had
contributed to delays in the implementation of NPC's projects.
* Risk Assessment. In light of the substantial uncertainties of the operating environment, it is not clear if
a sufficiently rigorous risk analysis had been performed to avoid overly optimistic expectations of the
project outcome related to NPC's finances and its project components, paying particular attention to the
following: (i) the risks related to fixed obligations under the "take-or-pay" provisions of the BOT
contracts, taking into account potential implementation delays, market risks and mismatch in currencies
between the revenues and liabilities of the project entities; (ii) the risks of delayed and lower power
tariff adjustments; (iii) the impact of competition from new IPPs and self-generation by industrial
users; and (iv) the impact of combination of adverse factors on the project economics and entities'
finances.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4. 1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
This Project is one in a series of recent operations through which the Bank supported the
implementation of the aforementioned ESP and reduction of bottlenecks in power transmission to promote
economic growth. In particular, the Bank loan for the Leyte Cebu Geothermal Project (LCGP) was
approved four months prior to this Project and the Implementation Completion Report for the LCGP (dated
March 31, 2000) set a precedent for evaluating the outcomes of this and subsequent projects in the series.
Despite the achievement of physical and environmental objectives, the overall proiect outcome is
rated as marginally unsatisfactorv mainly because (i) NPC has maintained its precarious financial situation
and the objective of strengthening the financial viability of the project entities has not been achieved; and
(ii) the high cost of meeting the Project's physical and environmental objectives was a contributing factor to
this situation, and consequently a negative net present value (NPV) is currently estimated for the
economics of the Project. NPC's financial viability was seen as critical for the improved performance of
the power sector, since the Corporation's financial problems and consequent under-investment were
considered to have been one of the key contributing factors leading to the power crisis. Hence, ensuring the
sustainability of the Project's physical objective to eliminate the power crisis was also dependent on
achieving the longer term financial objective.
Sectoral Improvement Objective. Although many of the actions in the ESP have been implemented
(Annex 8), a major issue of concern is the protracted delays by Congress in the passage of (i) a power
sector restructuring bill directed at improvements in the efficiency and sustainability of the sector; and (ii) a
geothermal bill to increase financial incentives for investment in geothermal development. The current
fiscal regime for geothermal development does not allow for a level playing field with competing imported
fossil fuels (which are taxed at a much lower rate) and hinders private sector investment in the development
of environmentally superior indigenous geothermal resources.
- 4 -



Financial Objective. The legal agreements under this Project included the following financial
performance covenants: (a) for NPC, a minimum of 8% rate of return (ROR) on revalued net fixed assets
and a minimum debt service coverage ratio of 1.3 times; and (b) for PNOC-EDC, a maximum debt/equity
ratio of 70/30, a current ratio of not less than I time and a minimum debt service coverage ratio of 1.25
time.
BOT Obligations and Financial Ratios. At the time of project appraisal, BOT obligations were
considered operating costs in the financial forecasts of both NPC and PNOC-EDC. On the other hand, the
legal agreements did not make explicit reference to the treatment of BOT obligations in the definition of
financial ratios, while the term "debt" was defined as "any indebtedness" of the Borrower maturing by its
terms more than one year. Subsequently, the Commission on Audit (COA, state auditor in the Philippines)
issued accounting guidelines on the BOT schemes which are considered capitalized lease and part of the
liabilities of the project entities. In the case of a subsequent Bank-financed project for NPC, the Loan
Agreement was amended to define "debt service" to include, inter alia, the BOT lease obligations, which
was consistent with the approach of the co-financier, Asian Development Bank (ADB). However, in the
case of PNOC-EDC, no such action was taken. Thus, notwithstanding the "take-or-pay" provisions in the
BOT contracts and the above accounting treatment stipulated by COA, PNOC-EDC's calculation of the
debt service coverage ratio has not taken into account the cash payment for BOT obligations, based on its
interpretation that "the BOT arrangement is a mere provision of services whereby payment is contingent to
the delivery of services". As such, this is a substantial deviation from the SAR approach (with internal
cash generation net of BOT obligations) and that of the NPC (with debt service including BOT
obligations). Similarly, the PNOC-EDC calculation of debt/equity ratio has excluded the liabilities for
fixed BOT obligations. In hindsight, given the significant impact of the BOT obligations on the finances of
the project entities, the legal agreements should have made explicit reference to the treatment of such
obligations.
(a) NPC. Despite the valiant efforts made by the NPC, the Corporation had not complied fully
with the financial covenants for some years even prior to the Asian financial crisis (Annex 9). The
precarious finances of NPC are largely due to factors beyond its control, including its under-capitalization
and inadequate tariff adjustments. To meet its liquidity needs, NPC has incurred huge liabilities which, in
turn, expose the Corporation to expensive debt service and "take-or-pay" obligations under IPP contracts.
Its financial difficulties have been exacerbated by the recent regional financial crisis, particularly the
impact of local currency devaluation (54% by end- 1997), lower energy demand and over-capacity in
power generation.
Power sector restructuring, recapitalization and privatization of the NPC lie at the heart of the
Corporation's recovery program. In particular, the government is aware that the Corporation's heavy
reliance on foreign debt finance is unsustainable in the long run. In recent months, both the House and the
Senate have passed their respective versions of the power sector restructuring bill. There are encouraging
signs for this bill to be reconciled and passed by Congress in the near term, thus enabling measures to put
NPC on the path to financial sustainability. In particular, the conversion of NPC's huge debt into equity
would improve NPC's debt service coverage ratio significantly. However, at this point, there are
substantial differences between the House and Senate versions of the Bill; thus, there are considerable
uncertainties related to the scope and timing of NPC recapitalization. In the interest of partnership, ADB is
taking the lead in power sector restructuring and privatization; the Bank will continue to coordinate closely
with the ADB on this matter.
(b) PNOC-EDC. Until 1997, PNOC-EDC had consistently complied with all of the above financial
performance covenants (Annex 10). However, it is ironic that the BOT scheme which helped in financing
- 5 -



the power plant has required PNOC-EDC to seek external financing in order to pay part of the BOT
obligations, due to the mismatch between electricity revenues (25 years sales contract with NPC) and BOT
payments (10 years contract). The liquidity squeeze at the Corporation has been exacerbated by the peso
devaluation and related impact on foreign debt service. Consequently, even before the inclusion of BOT
obligations as part of "debt", PNOC-EDC reported noncompliance with (a) the current ratio covenant in
1997 and 1998; and (b) the covenanted debt service coverage ratio in 1998. After the inclusion of BOT
obligations as "debt", the Corporation fell short of all three financial targets in the last three years.
Over the medium term, PNOC-EDC's latest financial forecast indicated its expectation of
improvement in profitability. However, even before the inclusion of BOT obligations, its debt service
coverage ratio is projected to fall below 1 time in 2001, mainly due to the bullet repayment. After the
inclusion of BOT obligations, the financial ratios would be weakened considerably. In response to the
Bank's concern about the need for prudent financial management, PNOC-EDC is currently exploring
various options to improve its finances, including the following: (a) to request PNOC Holding Company
for an increase in PNOC-EDC's present capitalization; (b) to consider low cost concessional long-term
financing, i.e. Miyazawa Initiative Phase 2 loan, to bridge the financial gap during the BOT cooperation
period; (c) to pursue an increase in its sales volume to NPC, in line with the recent thrusts of the DOE and
NPC to increase the utilization of indigenous energy for power uses; and (d) to pursue the development of
financially viable indigenous energy projects.
Physical and Environmental Obiectives. The Project substantially achieved the objective of
meeting the increasing demand for power in Luzon using indigenous and environmentally superior
geothermal energy resources. In 1999, geothermal power (with substantial share from this Project)
accounted for about 27% of the total power generation in the country, including 80% and 15% of the power
generation in the respective systems in Visayas and Luzon. Compared to the early 1990s, when the country
was suffering from power shortages, consumers are unequivocally better served and the elimination of the
power crisis contributed substantially to the country's economic growth (Annex I 1). However, this
achievement came at a high cost (in 1999, average production cost of NPC plants was P1.76/kWh, whereas
the average cost for NPC's contracts with the IPPs was P 2.66/kWh, of which the geothermal plants cost P
2.8/kWh) and the current estimate of the NPV is negative for the economics of the Project.
Promotion of Private Sector Participation. This objective was substantially achieved by the
Project, with some 51% of the total financing requirement funded by the private sector (Annex 2).
PNOC-EDC entered into three BOT agreements with two private power companies for the construction
and 1 0-year operation of three geothermal power plants. Separately, through the successful
implementation of ECO under this Project, NPC tapped the international bond market for the first time,
which paved the way for its subsequent long-term commercial borrowings from this market.
4.2 Outputs by components:
Physical Components
I. PNOC-EDC's components
Overall, implementation of PNOC-EDC's components was highly satisfactory, below budget and
on schedule, except for delays in the implementation of the C02 reinjection plant.
(a)    Development of a 385 MWgeothermal energy fleld In total, 59 producer and injector wells
- 6 -



were drilled (9% lower than the appraisal estimate of 65 wells) and construction of steam gathering systems
and the related subtransmission systems was completed on schedule in mid-1997. The capacity developed is
lower than the appraisal estimate of 440 MW due to the abandonment of the Alto Peak sector which proved
to be problematic to develop. Nevertheless, the combined system is able to surpass the required annual
energy output specified under the power sales agreement with NPC, with the power plants operating within
the plant factor commitment in the BOT contract. Overall, the output of this component is rated as as
highly satisfactory.
(b)    C02 reinjection pilot program. Due to the relatively novel and highly customized technology
required, the procurement of C02 compressor was not successful several times until October 1999. As a
result, the pilot C02 reinjection plant was not completed at the loan closing date (extended to March 31,
2000), although delivery of the compressor and electrical/instrumentation materials was completed before
the loan closing date. Installation will be completed by August 2000 and test commissioning will begin in
October 2000. Overall, the incompletion of this component at ICR stage is rated as less than satisfactory.
(c)    Steamline Interconnection. Since May 1998, the steam capacity of the Mahanagdong sector had
continued to decline. Consequently, the output of the 120-MW Mahanagdong A plant declined to 72MW
by February 1999. PNOC-EDC managed to increase the output through scale drillout, acidizing, drilling
of additional wells and deposition inhibition techniques and the plant has been operated above 1 00MW
since April 1999. In order to avoid similar problems in the future, PNOC-EDC started to interconnect the
Mahanagdong sector with other sectors; this is expected to be completed in December 2000. Overall, this
component is rated satisfactory.
In response to the Bank's recommendation, a reservoir reassessment study was recently completed
by an independent consultant. The study basically confirmed the PNOC-EDC's assessment of the Leyte
reservoir and found PNOC-EDC's measures to stabilize and optimize the steamfield to be well founded and
practical. In addition, PNOC-EDC is in the process of following up various actions recommended by the
consultant, particularly in progressing development of numerical simulation models of the Tongonan and
Mahanagdong reservoirs in order that future trends in steam availability may be predicted and reservoir
management strategies developed that optimize energy recovery from the entire Leyte Geothermal Project.
Overall, the output of this component is satisfactorv.
II. BOT Contracts. PNOC-EDC carried out three 1 0-year BOT contracts with private companies to
construct and operate geothermal power plants (Malitbog Units 2 & 3, Mahanagdong, and the four
optimization plants, totaling 385 MW). Overall, the output of this component is satisfactory.
III. NPC's components
(a)    Construction of two high voltage DC (HVDC) converter stations at Ormnoc and Naga and related
electrode stations at Albuera and Calabanga. This component was completed in November 1997 and
energized in March 1998, which was about eight months behind the appraisal schedule. Overall, the output
is rated satisfactory.
(b)   Installation of submarine cables crossing the San Bernardio Strait between Cabacungan and
Matnog. This component was completed February 1997, but energized in March 1998 upon completion of
the entire HVDC transmission system. Overall, the output is rated satisfactory.
(c)    Construction of (i) a twin circuit HVDC overhead transmission line from Ormoc to Cabacungan
cable terminal and from Matnog cable terminal to Naga; and (b) electrode lines from Ormoc to Albuera .
- 7-



This component was completed in January 1998 and energized in March 1998, representing an eight
months delay from the effective date (July 1997) for its power purchase agreement (PPA) with
PNOC-EDC. This was mainly attributable to Right-of-Way (ROW) problems. Overall, the output is rated
satisfactory.
(d)    Rehabilitation of the Naga-Tayabas transmission line. This component was completed in April
1998; this was behind the original schedule and the delays were due to frequently occurred pilferage of
tower parts and line materials. Overall, the output is rated satisfactorv.
Environmental/Resettlement Component
l. PNOC-EDC's component is rated as highlv satisfactory.
PNOC-EDC prepared a detailed Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) for the geothermal
development. The Department of Environment and Natural Resources (DENR), based on its own
evaluation, issued an Environmental Compliance Certificate approving the project implementation subject
to protective measures during construction and operation. PNOC-EDC implemented the protective
measures properly. A multi-sectoral task force composed of the DENR, NGOs, Local Government Units
and PNOC regularly monitors compliance with relevant standards. PNOC-EDC has so far had no
violations pertaining to air and water quality.
The Corporation designed and implemented a resettlement program for farnilies affected by the
geothermal development. The program included (a) protection of residents from potential health hazards;
(b) relocation of the residents from the project area; (c) assistance for the relocated community in regaining
their standard of living prior to relocation; and (d) facilitating the formation of community institution and
self reliance. The total number of households affected by the Leyte Geothennal Project was 106 and the
resettlement program was successfully implemented, with about half of the affected households transferred
to the newly constructed relocation site.
H. NPC's component is rated as highly unsatisfactorv.
There have been significant delays in compensation payments by NPC, particularly for land
acquisition, which are partly beyond the control of NPC in such cases as missing or incomplete
documentation of some landowners. In addition, inadequate ROW personnel has hampered NPC's efforts
to speed up the land compensation negotiation process. To address this issue, NPC indicated its
commitment to increase the number of ROW negotiators for the project. Separately, the ICR mission
concluded that the original resettlement recovery action plan completion date (June 30, 2000) was overly
optimistic. NPC then provided the Bank with a revised schedule which will realistically allow the
completion of compensation for all cases who do not involve expropriation.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Economic Rate of Return (ERR). The current estimate of the ERR is lower than the appraisal
estimate of 10.5 %, in part due to lower tariff than anticipated at the time of appraisal, cost overrun and
delayed project completion by NPC. The overall project ERR is currently estimated at 7.5% (Annex 3),
based on NPC's financial projection with the following assumptions: (a) graduated increase of its average
revenues from the Luzon grid to P3.63/kWh (or US 7.8 cents in 1993 prices) by 2003; and (b) upon the
completion of the Leyte-Mindanao interconnection project in 2004, shifting of power sales from Luzon to
Mindinao at an average price of P 2.68/kWh (or US 5.8 cents in 1993 prices), reflecting the projected
- 8 -



surplus of power supply in Luzon grid which was not envisaged at the time of project appraisal. The
results of sensitivity analysis indicated that the ERR would be increased to the appraisal estimate of 10.5%
in the event the average price would remain at the aforementioned Luzon grid price in 2003 for the balance
of the project life. On the other hand, if the average price were to be reduced from the currently projected
levels by 10% from 2001 onwards, the ERR would be decreased to about 6%. As in the case of the
appraisal estimates, the current estimates of ERR are conservative since the unit benefits assumption has
not captured other benefits to the economy encompassed in the consumers' surplus and the positive
environmental impacts associated with geothermal development. Further, as the Project is a major step for
the overall interconnection of the grid, it would offer potential long-term benefits associated with the better
use of the country's energy resources in power generation, as well as the opportunity to improve the
operation of the power system, reduce reserve capacity and provide a more reliable service.
Global Environment Trust Fund (GET) Grant Justification. The Project supported the
development and use of an energy source which is environmentally preferable and indigenous based.
Further, the project has a significant impact on mitigation of greenhouse gas emissions since an alternative
coal-fired based plant would imply incremental CO emissions of about 2.2 million tons per year. Although
the GET grant of $31.2 million equivalent appears small in the overall investment of $1.3 billion, it has
been critical for the investment decision and has influenced the government in preferring the geothermal
over the coal alternative. Due to high transmission investment costs associated with the Leyte-Luzon, the
Project is not a part of the system's least cost expansion program in the absence of the GET grant and the
higher environmental impact of the coal alternative (Annex 3). Based on actual and latest cost estimates,
the Project's total life cycle cost (in 1993 prices, at 10% discount rate) is higher than an alternative
coal-fired based plant by $280 million before the GET grant, and $261 million after the GET grant. In
terms of cost per kWh, the Project is about US 6.8 cents before GET grant and US 6.7 cents after GET
grant, which is substantially higher than that of the alternative coal-fired plant of about US 4.7 cents. The
above cost differentials (US 2 cents/kWh) are subtantially higher than anticipated at the time of project
appraisal (about US 1 cent/kWh), in part due to the lower price of coal (latest estimate at $36.8/ton vs.
$45.5/ton at project appraisal) as well as delayed and lower power sales to Luzon grid than anticipated
earlier. Thus, in relation to the additional economic cost incurred in choosing the Project instead of an
alternative coal plant, the cost per ton of CO2reduced is currently estimated at about $ 21.5, or 4 times
higher than the appraisal estimate of $4.05. On the other hand, the return of the GET grant is high, with
the current estimated cost of $1 .6/ton of CO2emissions reduction which is the same as the appraisal
estimate. This cost compares favorably with the reduction cost of other projects considered by GET.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
The SAR did not include the financial rate of return (FRR) for this Project; due to an apparent
compilation error for the report, its annex included the FRR for PNOC-EDC under the first phase Leyte
Cebu Geothermal Project.
Based on the latest available data for this Project, PNOC-EDC estimated that the FRR for its
overall project components and the BOT power plants, with sunk costs incurred before 1994, are about
10.3% (in 1993 constant prices, Annex 10). Consistent with standard Bank practice for ERR/FRR
calculations, the sunk costs should have been excluded from the calculation of the FRR, in which case the
overall FRR would be increased to 13.5 % based on the current contracted power price to NPC.
However, it should be noted that under both the Senate and House versions of the power sector
restructuring bill, NPC's privatization may entail a review of PNOC-EDC's contracts with NPC to
-9-



determine the avenues to effect possible reduction in electricity prices. Under this scenario, the adverse
impact of power price reduction would be partially offset by reduction of PNOC-EDC's corporate income
tax. The results of sensitivity analysis indicated that if the net cash flows of the Project were to be reduced
by 10% from 2001 onwards, the FRR would be reduced to 8.7% with sunk costs, and 11.5% without sunk
costs.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
I. PNOC-EDC's component
(a)    C02 Absorption and Sequestration Study. In recognition of the potential role of tropical forests
in mitigating global warming, PNOC-EDC commissioned a GEF-financed study of C02 sequestration in
the Leyte Geothermal Reservation. PNOC-EDC's geothernal reserves in Leyte included a large forested
watershed that was assumed to serve as a carbon sink to offset the carbon emissions of the geothermal
plant. The study therefore aimed to estimate the absorption index and amount sequestered by the different
vegetation species in the geothermal reservation.
Aside from improving the economics of the Leyte Geothermal Project (versus an imported
coal-fired power plant project), the Grant, through this study, enabled PNOC-EDC, to prove that its
activities in Leyte will not exacerbate global warming. The study concluded that while the study area
cannot absorb all the annual C02 emissions of the power plants, the amount of Carbon stored in the
reservation as well as the Carbon to be sequestered for 25 years will more than offset the total Carbon that
the power plants will emit in 25 years. The results of the study shall be used to estimate the Carbon stocks
and rate of carbon sequestration of the entire Leyte geothermal reservation. The output of this component is
rated as highly satisfactory.
(b)    Technical Assistancefor Project Implementation. PNOC-EDC hired consultants with extensive
experience in the development and construction of geothernal fields and power plants. The contract was
originally bid out for the Leyte Cebu geothermal project and was subsequently amended to include the work
under the Leyte Luzon project. The same firm was also hired to provide consultancy services for other
fields such as geoscientific, drilling and power engineering. In accordance with the Bank's requirements,
PNOC-EDC also hired the services of an overall project manager with extensive experience in operations
and project management. Overall, this component is rated as highly satisfactory.
II. NPC's component
The original consultancy component to strengthen NPC's departments for environmental
management and social engineering was implemented under the first phase (Leyte Cebu) rather than this
second phase of the Leyte Geothermal Project. On the other hand, the GET grant under this Project was
reallocated to provide for NPC's training in project management ($ 142,000). The institutional
development impact of this component is rated as negligible in light of (a) NPC's delays in project
implementation, most notably in land acquisition and ROW compensation; and (b) in the case of
environmental management, the consultant report was completed satisfactorily, but there appeared to be
inadequate follow up actions, including dissemination of the report to the relevant NPC staff. Separately,
the original technical assistance component to design the Casecnan hydroelectric project was canceled as
the Casecnan Project was decided to be led by National Irrigation Administration (NIA). Overall, this
component is rated as as marginallv unsatisfactory.
- 10 -



5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
* Asian financial crisis was a significant external factor beyond the control of the government and the
implementing agencies. Consequent sharp devaluation of the peso and slowdown of power demand
growth contributed to the unsatisfactory outcome of this Project, both in terms of project economics
and the objective to ensure the financial viability of NPC and PNOC-EDC.
* There have been significant delays in compensation payments by NPC, particularly for land
acquisition, which are partly beyond the control of NPC in such cases as missing or incomplete
documentation of some landowners.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Pace and scope of energy sector reform
* In the wake of the power crisis, the Executive Order 215 in 1990 repealed the Marcos decree on NPC's
monopoly on power generation and allowed for private sector development of power plants and
infrastructure facilities. In addition, development and implementation of the Energy Sector Plan by the
government also contributed positively to the realization of this Project.
* Ironically, introduction of competition from new IPPs contributed to NPC's loss of market share and
exacerbated its financial difficulties.
- The protracted delays in the passage of the power sector restructuring bill by Congress have, in turn,
hampered the implementation of financial recovery action plan by NPC. In addition, as noted above,
the House and/or Senate versions of the power sector restructuring bill also have implications for
PNOC-EDC.
* The delayed passage of the Geothermal Bill has, in turn, affected adversely the finances and
sustainability of PNOC-EDC and their components under this Project.
*   The levels and timeliness of power tariff adjustments fell short of the appraisal expectation, thus
contributing to the unsatisfactory outcome in terms of the finances of NPC, project economics and
sustainability.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Project Management, including among others, coordination among the relevant departments,
procurement procedures and resettlement policies, has a significant impact on the performance of project
implementation.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
Overall, the total financing requirements (including interest during construction) amounted to
$1,317 million, which are slightly (1%) below the appraisal estimate of $1,334 million (Annex 2). The
substantial cost savings achieved by PNOC-EDC for its own components (18%) and by the BOT contracts
with private power producers (7%) were largely offset by the 21% cost overrun by the NPC.
As indicated in the financing arrangements (Annex 2), this project is a good example of
public-private partnership to leverage public sector financing with substantial private sector investments.
Actual Bank funding for this project was sourced from the loans for this project, the earlier Energy Sector
Loan and the subsequent Transmission Grid Reinforcement Project. Total Bank financing amounted to
- 1 1 -



$177.3 million, which were 26% lower than the appraisal estimate. As explained below, this was mainly
due to PNOC-EDC's under-utilization of Bank funding.
(a) PNOC-EDC's Components
PNOC-EDC's total financing requirements, including interest during construction (IDC) of $ 9.8
million but excluding BOT power plants, are currently estimated at $ 267.2 million, representing a 23%
cost underrun against the appraisal estimate. The significant cost savings are mainly attributable to (a)
discontinued development of the Alto Peak Sector; (b) considerably higher than expected use of
PNOC-EDC's in-house equipment and services in both well drilling and civil/structural works in steamfield
development; (c) lower actual cost than appraisal estimate as a result of competitive bidding; and (d)
significantly lower IDC mainly as a result of substantial under-utilization of the original loan amount of
both the Bank and the Export-Import Bank of Japan (JEXIM).
Of the original Bank loan ($114 million) to PNOC-EDC, $55.2 million were disbursed and $58.8
million cancelled. Similarly, of the original JEXIM loan of $114 million equivalent, disbursement
amounted to $53.3 million equivalent, and $54.3 million equivalent were cancelled. Separately, an earlier
Bank-financed Energy Sector Loan helped finance $8.5 million of well drilling expenditures, as compared
against the appraisal estimate of $13.3 million. Under-utilization of the above loans was mainly
attributable to (a) the cancellation of the development of the Alto Peak Sector due to the presence of acidic
fluids; and (b) the aforementioned PNOC-EDC's use of in-house equipment and services for economic and
efficiency considerations, but these expenditures were not eligible for reimbursement under the above loans.
Separately, the Global Environment Trust Fund (GET) grant allocated to PNOC-EDC, totaling SDR 10.8
million (or $15.7 million equivalent), were fully disbursed. The Bank loan and GET were closed on March
31, 2000 after a 9-month extension, and a grace period (up to July 31, 2000) was granted for loan/GET
disbursement against eligible goods and services delivered before the loan closing date.
(b) NPC's Components
The total financing requirements of NPC's components amounted to $470.4 million (including IDC
of $70.3 million), representing a 29% cost overrun against the appraisal estimate. This is mainly due to (a)
greater than expected length of the submarine cable as well as the need for cable protection; (b) various
ROW problems and re-routing of the lines due to unsuitable soil conditions; (c) substantially higher than
expected engineering/administrative expenses and IDC.
Of the original Bank loan (Ln 3746 of US$ 113 million), US$ 99.2 million were disbursed. The
loan was closed on schedule on June 30, 1999 and the undisbursed balance of US$13.8 million were
canceled. Due to appreciation of Japanese Yen against the US dollar during the early project
implementation stage, contracts with significant Yen portion had exhausted the original loan allocation. To
remedy this, $14.4 million of the component for rehabilitation of the Naga-Tayabas transmission line was
financed under the subsequent Transmission Grid Reinforcement Project. Separately, trust fund grants
administered by the Bank included: (a) GET allocated to NPC, totaling SDR 10.8 million (or $15.5 million
equivalent), were fully disbursed; and (b) Swedish Agency for International Technical and Economic
Cooperation (BITS) amounted to $46 million equivalent, as compared against the appraisal estimate of
$39 million equivalent. In addition, actual drawdown of loan from JEXIM and Eurobond issue partly
supported under an expanded cofmancing operation (ECO) amounted to $53.7 million equivalent (which is
close to the appraisal estimate of $56 million) and $100 million, respectively. Finally, internal cash
generation from NPC amounted to $143.7 million, representing a 243% increase against the appraisal
estimate. This is, in part, attributable to one of the contracts for Naga-Tayabas transmission lines
- 12 -



rehabilitation deemed to be not eligible for Bank financing when NPC did not rebid upon the very high bids
due to the urgency of this project component.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationalefor sustainability rating:
Overall, the prospects for project sustainability are uncertain in light of the considerable
uncertainties of the operating environment, including the protraced delays encountered in the passage of
enabling legislation critical for the recapitalization and financial recovery of NPC. In recent months, the
House and Senate passed their respective versions of the power sector restructuring bill. However, given
the technical complexities as well as the difficulties and contentious nature of the issues involved, coupled
with the politicization of the agenda, it remains uncertain as to the timing and scope of the reconciled
version of the bill to be passed by Congress.
In terms of responding to the power crisis, the Project has contributed to making it unlikely that
"ipower crisis" will happen again in the country in the foreseeable future. In fact, rather than suffering from
undercapacity, NPC now experiences a high reserve margin. Moreover, subsequent projects, including
Transmission Grid Reinforcement Project, continue to improve the robustness of NPC's transmission
network.
However, meeting the Project's physical objectives came at a high cost, and has contributed to the
perpetuation of NPC's already poor financial position and significant weakening of PNOC-EDC's liquidity
position until the expiry of the BOT power purchase agreement (in 2006). Thus, one of the project
objectives to strengthen the financial viability of NPC and PNOC-EDC have not been achieved.
Since the financial viability of NPC is critical to ensuring an effective and efficient power sector,
this means that the Project's sustainability as a whole is uncertain, taking into account the following
factors: (i) general sectoral uncertainty caused by the protracted delay in the passage of an enabling
legislation for power sector restructuring and the Geothermal Bill which would reduce the high royalty
imposed on the geothermal industry and level the playing field with nominally cheaper but more polluting
fossil fuel; and (ii) the current overcapacity in power generation is expected to continue over the medium
term, coupled with the fixed take-or-pay IPP obligations of NPC, has an adverse impact on the
Corporation's finances.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
(a) Transition Arrangements for the project's future operation
The steam supply system of PNOC-EDC as well as interconnection connecting the developed
power plants to PNOC-EDC Central switching station are operated by PNOC-EDC Leyte Geothermal
Production Field Office. The Field Office is in charge of operation and maintenance of PNOC-EDC
facilities in Leyte geothermal area, including production plan and coordination with the BOT power plants.
It includes adequate experts including geologists to operate the geothermal steam system. The BOT plants
will be turned over to PNOC EDC in 2007. Meanwhile, PNOC-EDC has formed a Power Department in
charge of monitoring the maintenance and operation of these plants and will be instituting in the next 2
years a formal training prograrn for its personnel. The BOT contracts further provide for training of
PNOC-EDC personnel I year prior to the formal turn-over.
- 13 -



Upon commissioning of the Leyte-Luzon HVDC interconnection system of NPC, the operation of
these systems was transferred from the NPC Engineering Project Offices, which were in charge of the
construction, to Regional Centers of NPC. Southern Luzon Regional Center is responsible for the
operation and maintenence of Naga converter station, OHDC lines between Naga and Matnog and
submarine cables. Visayas Regional Center is responsible for the operation and maintenence of Ormoc
converter station and OHDC lines between Ormoc and Cabacungan. Adequate maintenance would be
provided to the facilities based on NPC's guidelines for maintenance. Special tools, instruments and boats
for patrol and maintenance of the submarine cables are equipped with in the cable terminal stations of the
both sides.
(b) Performance indicators
The following indicators will be monitored annually through the existing data acquisition systems
from the Leyte Geothermal Production Field Office of PNOC-EDC and the Southern Luzon and Visayas
Regional Centers of NPC: (i) actual available energy and sales transferred to NPC Leyte-Luzon system
from geothermal plants in Leyte; (ii) percentage of geothermal energy among energy sources for power
generation in Luzon system; (iii) energy transferred from Leyte to Luzon through Leyte-Luzon HVDC
interconnection; (iv) system reliability of the Luzon system; (v) system losses in Luzon system; and (vi)
frequency deviation in the Luzon system.
(c) Follow-up by the Bank
The NPC transmission network has been expanded and reinforced under the Transmission Grid
Reinforcement Project (TGRP, Loan 3996/3997-PH), including the installation of the Northwestern Luzon
500 kV transmission lines. TGRP also includes the establishment of a National Load Dispatch Center,
which will allow for the operation of the interconnected transmission systems (Luzon, Visayas and
Mindanao) in the country, once the planned Leyte-Mindanao interconnection is installed in the future.
Under the TGRP, it was agreed with NPC that the Bank would monitor similar system performance
indicators mentioned above for the three transmission systems.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7. L Lending:
The overall Bank performance in project identification, preparation and appraisal is satisfactory, with
substantial inputs having been provided by Bank staff on both the policy front and extensive project
preparation. As cited by NPC's ICR (Annex 14), Bank support has also been critical in organizing the
financial engineering required for this large and complex Project. However, selected aspects of the Bank's
assessment had limitations, including (i) NPC's resettlement policy and action plan and the risks of
right-of-way issues; and (ii) the interrelated aspects of project entities' finances, BOT contracts and risk
analysis of the Project and entities. Moreover, the monitoring and evaluation indicators were oriented
toward project output rather than outcome.
7.2 Supervision:
The overall Bank performance in supervision of this complex project, with two implementation
agencies, is rated satisfactory.
*   Supervision of the procurement activities was generally satisfactory. However, there were inadequate
- 14 -



follow up actions with NPC on resettlement issues during most of the project implementation period.
Nevertheless, after the substantial completion of NPC's physical components, supervision efforts
intensified on both the project level and country portfolio management level.
*   Exceptionally frequent changes in task manager and team members hampered the continuity and
effectiveness of the supervision efforts.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
On balance, overall Bank performance is rated satisfactory. The above assessment of Bank
performance is consistent with the comments by NPC and PNOC-EDC in their ICR (Annexes 13 and 14).
Borrower
7.4 Preparation.
Overall, the performance of both NPOC-EDC and NPC during extensive preparation for this complex
proiect was rated satisfactory. Both corporations were committed to the Project and undertook the
necessary upfront actions required by the Bank. However, as noted above, the protracted delays
encountered by NPC in the implementation of the resettlement action plan reflected its inadequate
preparation and is rated highly unsatisfactory for this component.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
Many of the actions in the ESP have been implemented and substantial progress has been made in
reforming the energy sector (most notably in the full deregulation of the downstream oil industry).
However, protraced delays in the passage of power sector restructuring bill and geothermal bill, as well as
the levels and pace of power tariff adjustments, have significant adverse impact on the finances of the
implementation agencies, project economic viability and sustainability. Nevertheless, it should be noted
that the executive and legislative branches of the Philippine Government are independent of each other.
While the executive branch can make several commitments to the Bank regarding policy (such as certifying
a proposed bill), the passage of legislation is not within its sole control. Overall, the performance of the
government is rated satisfactorv.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
On balance, the overall performance of the implementation agencies was rated as satisfactory. Project
implementation by both entities was marked by many contracts being completed satisfactorily and within
budget for most of the components. PNOC-EDC is rated as highly satisfactory for implementing its overall
project components on schedule and below budget. On the other hand, as noted above, NPC's procurement
activities were tardy and its delayed implementation of the resettlement action plan is rated unsatisfactory.
NPC's performance was hampered, in part, by changes in management and staff working on the Project.
Separately, the financial objective of the Project was not achieved. However, as noted above (Sections 4
and 5), a number of the critical factors contributing to this result were outside the direct control of NPC
and PNOC-EDC during the project implementation period.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
On balance, overall Borrower performance is rated satisfactory.
- 15 -



8. Lessons Learned
* While "fast-track" BOT projects have proved crucial in alleviating power shortages, the economic
efficiency of individual private investments should be improved with due consideration for (a) a
cohesive sectoral approach, with special attention to prudent investment planning and financial
management as well as risk management; and (b) rationalization of prices and risk sharing
arrangements within a competitive and transparent framework.
* It may not be realistic to expect power projects developed with private funds under the "fast-tracked"
Independent Power Producer (IPP) Program to be least cost in the "traditional"sense; the additional
cost over the hypothetical "least-cost" alternative is the price to pay for mobilizing resources that would
otherwise not be available to the sector/country.
* The high cost of the IPP Program has been a contributing factor to the failure of the Project to meet its
financial objective and has adversely affected the project economics. Such an outcome indicates the
need for sufficient risk analysis/management in a highly uncertain operating environment, particularly
in a sector undergoing major structural reform.
* Conventional economic rate of return analysis is poorly suited to an environment where higher-cost,
sub-optimal investments are required to eliminate power shortages. In the case of NPC, the
transmission jnvestments to bring power from higher-cost plants are likely to be underutilized now that
the power crisis is over. The main economic benefits were reaped in the first few years when power
was scarce and the value of avoiding outages was very high. The quantification of benefits and the
estimation of the economic rate of return is therefore critically dependent on the estimated value of
unserved energy.
* The use of a "rate of return on assets" target for financial performance is inappropriate for a
company/sector with a very large and lumpy investment program.
*   In cases where such obligations as BOT contracts have significant impact on the entities' finances, the
legal agreements should made explicit reference to the treatment of such obligations in the definition of
financial covenants.
* Quality at entry is a critical success factor for project implementation. In particular, for the
resettlement component, resolution of the right-of-way (ROW) issue and completion of compensation
payment is one of the pre-conditions prior to project construction. Moreover, an adequate risk analysis
is essential for realistic expectations of project outcome.
3 In its ICR, NPC noted that as in the case of previous transmission lin. projects of the Corporation, the
perennial ROW problem should be given top priority in terms of adequate policies and guidelines
acceptable to affected landowners; adequate and qualified personnel to handle negotiations and
expropriation cases; secure full support of other government agencies involved in the processing of
ROW documents including speedy court decisions. These actions are vital in solving ROW problems of
similar projects in the future.
* In its ICR, PNOC-EDC noted that although the BOT scheme ensured the availability of private capital,
there is a need to plan for possible funding deficits resulting from imbalance between project revenues
and project operating and financing costs.
* The complications associated with two implementation agencies (in different subsectors) under one
project should be taken into account in the design of future projects. Indeed, in light of the diverse
performance of the two project entities, the rating of project performance and outcome could be
different if there had been two separate projects.
* There are no short cuts to a successful complex operation; above-average inputs of Bank resources and
broad staff skill mix for project design, appraisal and supervision are required.
* Frequent changes of task manager and team members are not conducive to efficiency and effectiveness
of the Bank's inputs. On the other hand, synergies may be achieved by a series of Bank interventions
with the same project team.
- 16 -



9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Both NPC and PNOC-EDC provided data which have been incorporated in the ICR and no
comments were received on the draft ICR provided to them.
(b) Cofinanciers:
Both JEXIM and BITS were provided with provided with the draft ICR and no comments were
received from them.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
10. Additional Information
- 17 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome I Impact Indicators:
lndlcetorlM111lx                    Pirpj.d Wnlsst PSR                    At.LetElmt
I. Leyte-Luzon Geothermal Project
- Energy transferred to NPC Luzon system   3,000 GWh per year (1997-1998) based on  3,188 GWh (July 1998 -June 1999)
from geothermal plants in Leyte        PPA
- NPC: Percentage of geothermal energy for - not available                    19.9% in 1998 (compared with 17.6% in
power generation in Luzon system                                             1996) - to be replaced with 1999 data
- NPC: Energy transferred from Leyte to  - not available                     3,190 GWh in 1999
Luzon through the HVDC interconnection
system
- NPC system reliability in Luzon system  - not available                    99.89% in 1999
NPC to engage TA consultancies for
Casecnan hydro project
PNOG-EDC to enter into BOT contract for
385MW power plant
NPC to recruit two advisers for one year and
five additional staff for its social and
environmental departments
Partly support financing of HVDC contract by
an Expanded Cofinancing Operation (ECO)
of the Bank
PNOC-EDC to maintain current ratio higher
than 1.0, maintain DSR above 1.25, and to
not incur additional debt if debt-to-equity ratio
greater than 70 to 30
NPC to maintain DSR above 1.3 and RORB
above 8%
NPC to (ii) install 19km submarine cable
linking Leyte to Luzon;
NPC to (i) construct 36km HVAC line in
Leyte, and 256km (Ormoc-Cabacunga) and
176km (Matnog-Naga) 230 kV HVDC lines
(iii) rehabilitate 205km 500kV Naga-Tabayas
line
1/ SAR did not identify monitoring indicators for the Leyte Luzon Project per se; appraisal estimates for specific indicators for
overall NPC operation and financial ratios are shown under the last PSR column.
Output Indicators:
IndictoiMttx                        ProjOted ii                  A       :S ActtElLtst Em atel
- PNOC-EDC to develop 440 MW steamfield - 385 MW steamfield developed        - 385 MW steamfield developed
- PNOC-EDC construct a pilot C02      - Delivery of equipment to be in March 2000, - Delivery of equipment completed in March
reinjection plant                     but installation will be beyond the loan  2000. Test commissioning to be in October
closing date                          2000. The final report to be in May 2001.
End of project
- 18 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
A. Project Cost by Component (in US$ Million equivalent)
Appraisal Actual/Latest Percentage of
Estimate   Estimate    Appraisal
US$ million US$ million
A. PNOC Geothermal Development
Goods and Equipment              167.0      117.77          71%
Works                             116.9      71.68          61%
Technical Assistance & Others     31.6       67.94         215%
Subtotal              315.5      257.39          82%
B. BOT Power Plant                 620.4       577.6         93%
C. NPC Transmission System
Supply and Erection Contract     316.8       359.6         114%
Technical Assistance & Others      14.5       42.6         294%
Subtotal              331.3       402.2         121%
Total Project Costs              1,266.9     1,237.2         98%
Interest during construction      66.7        80.1         120%
Total Financing Required         1.333.6     1,317.3         99%
-19 -



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate, in US$ Million)
1. Works - PNOC              82.2                 10.0                24.5      116.7
(36.8)               (4.0)                         (40.8)
2. Goods - PNOC              153.1      12.0                            1.8     166.9
(65.1)     (6.0)                                   (71.1)
NPC                 190.3                                    126.6
(106.4)
3. Consultancies &                                                                0.0
Training - PNOC                                            4.3                  4.3
(2.1)               (2.1)
NPC                                               8.5                  8.5
(6.6)               (6.6)
4. Compensation &
Administration - PNOC                                               27.3       27.3
NPC                                                  5.9        5.9
5. BOT Power Station                                                 620.4      620.4
TOTAL PROJECT COST          425.6       12.0      10.0      12.8     806.5    1,266.9
(208.3)     (6.0)     (4.0)     (8.7)      (0.0)   (227.0)
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate, in US$ Million)
1. Works - PNOC              32.0        9.6       2.2                28.0       71.7
(15.0)     (3.7)     (1.1)                         (19.8)
2. Goods-PNOC                 72.6       3.1       0.6       4.2      37.2      117.8
(34.3)     (1.5)               (2.1)               (37.9)
NPC                 327.7                                     32.0     359.7
(110.7)                                            (110.7)
3. Consultancies &
Training - PNOC                        7.3                 5.3       0.8       13.4
(3.6)               (2.4)                (6.0)
NPC                                               3.1       0.5        3.6
(2.9)               (2.9)
4. Compensation &
Administration - PNOC                                               54.6       54.6
NPC                                                 39.0       39.0
5. BOT Power Station                                                 577.6      577.6
TOTAL PROJECT COST          432.3       12.7       2.8      12.6     769.7    1,230.0
(160.0)     (8.9)     (1.1)     (7.4)      (0.0)    (177.3)
-20 -



B. Project Financing (in US$ Million equivalent)
Financing Plan      Appraisal Actual/Latest Percentage
(In US$ Million)    Estimate   Estimate  of Appraisal
1. IBRD - PNOC          114.0        55.2       48%
NPC             113.0        99.2        88%
Subtotal        227.0       154.4        68%
2. IBRD Energy
Sector Loan - PNOC     13.1         8.5        65%
3. IBRD Transmission
Grid Project - NPC                 14.4
4. JEXIM - PNOC         114.0        55.7        49%
NPC             56.0        53.7        96%
Subtotal       170.0       109.4        64%
5. BOT Contract         620.4       577.6        93%
6. ECO-Bond - NPC       100.0       100.0       100%
7. BITS grant - NPC      39.0        46.0       118%
8. GET grant - PNOC      15.0        15.7       105%
NPC          15.0         15.5      103%
Subtotal     30.0         31.2      104%
9. Internal Cash Gen.
PNOC                  92.0        132.1       144%
NPC                   41.9        143.7      343%
Total Financing    1333.6     1317.3       99%
- 21 -



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
Economic Rate of Return (in 1993 Constant Prices)
Year                Cost                  Unit       Sales /2      Benefit    Net Benefit
Investment   O  M/1    Total      Benefit
(US$million) (US$million) (US$million) (Usc/kWh)    (GWh)  (US$million)  (US$million)
1993      69.15                69.15                                              (69.15)
1994      32.60                32.60                                              (32.60)
1995      59.48                59.48                                              (59.48)
1996     131.66               131.66                                             (131.66)
1997     151.14     66.69     217.83     7.6795        180.55         13.87     (203.96)
1998     164.79    112.38     277.17     5.5448      1,481.40         82.14      (195.03)
1999      86.92    114.16     201.07     7.4321      2,901.96        215.68        14.60
2000       8.98     97.47     106.45     7.1233      2,878.59        205.05        98.60
2001                92.72      92.72     6.8280      2,809.07        191.80        99.08
2002                90.35      90.35     6.9466      1,969.99        136.85        46.50
2003                87.85      87.85     7.3000      1,688.31        123.25        35.40
2004                85.65      85.65     5.2632      2,054.13        108.11        22.46
2005                84.24      84.24     5.1399      2,926.37        150.41        66.17
2006                81.82      81.82     5.0194      2,926.37        146.89        65.07
2007                82.28      82.28     4.9018      2,926.37        143.44       61.16
2008                29.78      29.78     4.7869      2,926.37        140.08       110.30
2009                30.70      30.70     4.6747      2,926.37        136.80       106.10
2010                30.32      30.32     4.5651      2,926.37        133.59       103.28
2011                31.00      31.00     4.4581      2,926.37        130.46        99.46
2012                30.93      30.93     4.3536      2,926.37        127.40        96.47
2013                31.11      31.11     4.2516      2,926.37        124.42        93.31
2014                31.00      31.00     4.1519      2,926.37        121.50        90.51
2015                31.72      31.72     4.0546      2,926.37        118.65        86.93
2016                30.15      30.15     3.9596      2,926.37        115.87        85.72
2017                30.32      30.32     3.8668      2,926.37        113.16        82.83
2018                30.65      30.65     3.7762      2,926.37        110.50        79.85
2019                30.69      30.69     3.6877      2,926.37        107.91        77.23
2020                31.03      31.03     3.6012      2,926.37        105.39        74.36
2021                31.07      31.07     3.5168      2,926.37        102.92        71.85
2022                31.42      31.42     3.4344      2,926.37        100.50       69.09
Internal Economic Rate of Return      7.5%
NPV @ 10%          -107
NPV @ 12%          -158
Notes:
/1 Estimated 0 & M cost for the interconnection at 1.5% of the investment cost
/2 Net of 2.5% transmission loss
- 22 -



Comparative Cost Analysis: Leyte-Luzon (Interconnection) vs. Without Leyte-Luzon Solution
(Isolated Grid)
(in US$ Million 1993 Constant Prices)
Interconnection                         Isolated           Net
Year  Inv    Fuel   O & M    Total    Inv    Fuel   O & M    Total  Savings
1993     69                       69                                       -69
1994    234    719      431    1,384     202    719      431    1,351      -33
1995    510    567      509    1,585     477    567      509    1,552      -33
1996    483    734      548    1,765     469    734      548    1,751      -14
1997    448    894      672    2,014     533    894      605   2,032        19
1998    295    687      853    1,835     233    687      741    1,661     -175
1999     84    713    1,170    1,967     -      745    1,070    1,815     -152
2000    173    284    1,470    1,927     164    323    1,475    1,962       35
2001     84    312    1,512    1,908      84    349    1,515    1,948       40
2002    115    505    1,663    2,283     115    524    1,615   2,254       -29
2003    368    540    1,729    2,637     368    565    1,664    2,597      -40
2004    492    527    1,778    2,797     492    609    1,738    2,839       42
2005    562    544    1,918   3,024      562    618    1,920    3,100       76
2006    404    562    1,955   2,921      404    645    1,960    3,009       88
2007    533    582    1,965    3,080     533    669    1,972    3,174       94
2008    491    614    1,920    3,025    491    705    1,978    3,174       149
2009    159    667    1,930    2,756     159    752    1,986   2,897       141
2010    -      715    1,956   2,671      -      800    2,013   2,813       142
2011    -      715    1,956    2,671     -      800    2,013    2,813      142
2012    -      715    1,956   2,671      -      800    2,013   2,813       142
2013    -      715    1,957    2,672     -      800    2,013   2,813       141
2014    -      715    1,956   2,671      -      800    2,013   2,813       142
2015  (2,433)   715    1,957     239  (2,613)   800    2,013     200       -39
Present Value
10%   2,167  5,471   10,755   16,918   2,192  5,764   10,612  18,569      (37)
12%   2,315  4,785   10,755   14,222   2,020  5,016   8,805  15,841       (79)
15%   2,312  4,008   11,400   11,222   1,786  4,172   6,815  12,773    (115)
18%   2,033  3,436   12,032    9,077   1,586  3,555   5,415  10,556    (131)
- 23 -



Impact of GET Grant on Comparative Costs of Geothermal Plant vs. Alternative Coal
Plant (440 MW)
Geothermal Plant           Coal Plant
Invest- 0 & M Total Invest-      0 & M  Fuel Total   Net Dlff   GET  Net Saving
Year  ment  Cost Cost  ment             Cost Cost Cost before GET              Less GET
1993     69       0    69       0          0    0      0           -69    0          -69
1994     33       0    33      30          0    0    30             -3    0           -3
1995     59       0    59    133           0    0   133            74     7           81
1996    132       0   132    245           0    0  245            114   14           128
1997    151      67   218    106           0    0   106          -112     3         -109
1998    165    112   277                  14   19    33          -244     1         -243
1999     87    114   201                  14   39    52          -149    4          -145
2000       9     97   106                  14   39    52           -54     1         -53
2001             93    93                 14   39    52            40                -40
2002             90    90                 14   39    52            -38               -38
2003             88    88                 14   39    52            -36               -36
2004             86    86                 14   39    52            -33               -33
2005             84    84                 14   39    52            -32               -32
2006             82    82                  '4   39    52           -29               -29
2007             82    82                 14   39    52            -30               -30
2008             30    30                 14   39    52            23                 23
2009             31    31                 14   39    52            22                 22
2010             30    30                 14   39    52            22                 22
2011             31    31                 14   39    52            21                 21
2012             31    31                 14   39    52            21                 21
2013             31    31                 14   39    52            21                 21
2014             31    31                 14   39    52            21                 21
2015             32    32                 14   39    52            21                 21
2016             30    30                 14   39    52            22                 22
2017             30    30                 14   39    52            22                 22
2018             31    31                 14   39    52            22                 22
2019             31    31                 14   39    52            22                 22
2020             31    31                 14   39    52            21                 21
2021             31    31                 14   39    52            21                 21
2022             31    31                 14   39    52            21                 21
- 24 -



Present Values at the Discount Rates Shown:
Total cost (USSMillion 1993 Prices)        Marginal cost ($/kWh)         C02 reduced GET    Proj Savings
Geo Coal Savings Savings Power Sales          Geothermnal  Coal I(000 tons)  (S/tons   ($/tons)
-      -    =    exGEF inc GEF        Geo    Coal ex GET  wIGET  =                      -
8%  1,061   752    -309    -288  17,157   17,490   0.062  0.061  0.043       15,737     1.3       -18.3
10%   923   642    -280    -261  13,475   13,687   0.068  0.067  0.047        12,152     1.6       -21.5
12%   811   558    -253    -235  10,760   10,882   0.075  0.074  0.051         9,550    1.9        -24.6
13%   763   523    -240    -222   9,670    9,755   0.079  0.077  0.054         8,517    2.0        -26.1
14%   719  491    -227    -211   8,720    8,773   0.082  0.080  0.056          7,623    2.2        -27.6
16%   642   438    -204    -189   7,159    7,160   0.090  0.087 0.061          6,169    2.5        -30.6
-25 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage' of Project Cycle              No. of Persons and Specialty              Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)    Implementation     Development
Month/Year    Count        Specialty                        Progress          Objective
Identification/Preparation
February 1992                 6    1 FA, 2 PE, I EC, 2 ES
November 1992                 5    1 FA, 2 PE, I EA, I LW
April 1993                    4    1 PE, I EA, I EG, I FA, I EEc
Appraisal/Negotiation
June 1993                     7   1 FA, 2 PE, I EC, 2 EEc,
1 ES, 1 LW, I DO
Supervision
June 1994                      4   1 EC, I PE, I RS and 1 FA            S                  S
November 1994                  3   1 EA, I PE, I RS                     S                  S
February 1995                  7   1 PE, I EC, 1 PA, I EV               S                  S
I RS, I CP, 1 FA
December 1995                  2   1 PE, I ES                           S                  S
March 1996                     2   I ES, 1 RS                           S                  S
July 1996                      2   I ES, I FA                           S                  S
August 1997                    3  2 ES, I PvA                           S                  S
February 1998                  4  2 ES, 1 FA, 1 RT                      S                  S
December 1998                  2   1 ES, I OP                           S                  S
November 1999                  5  2 FA, I PE, 1 SI Spec,                U                  U
I OP
ICR
May 2000                      4    1 FA, I PE, I SI Spec.,              U                  U
IOP
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                    Actual/Latest Estimate
___________________  No. Staff weeks            USS  (,000)
Identification/Preparation                18.4                        56.6
Appraisal/Negotiation                    78.9                        235.7
Supervision                              131.6                       406.9
ICR                                         *                            *
Total                                   228.9                        699.2
* ICR SWs and the corresponding US$ amount are included in the quoted estimates under Supervision.
-26 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
L Macro policies                          O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
El Sector Policies                        O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
II Physical                               O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
O Financial                               OH OSUOM *N ONA
O Institutional Development               0 H  O SU *M  0 N  0 NA
O Environmental                           O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
Social
El Poverty Reduction               O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
O Gender                           OH OSUOM ON *NA
O Other (Please specify)           O H  OSUOM  * N  O NA
El Private sector development             0 H  0 SU 0 M  0 N  0 NA
E Public sector management                0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
El Other (Please specify)                 O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
- 27 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                 Rating
G Lending                                            OHSOS OU OHU
C Supervision                                        C HS * S   OU  OHU
O Overall                                            OHS OS   C U  3 HU
6 2 Borrower performance                             Rating
O Preparation                                        OHS * s O  U  O HU
C Government implementation performance              O HS O S   O U  C HU
C Implementation agency performance                  O HS OS   C U  0 HU
O Overall                                             OHS OS C U O HU
- 28 -



Key Performance Indicators - Energy Sector Plan Implementation Status
Issues/Areas of Action                      Required Action                             Implementing Agency/Schedule                 Status (by March 2000)
A. GENERAL/INSTITUTIONAL
I) Energy Sector Coordination               Establish the Department of Energy (DOE)    President/Congress, December 1992.           Done.
Formalize DOE organization.                 DOE Secretary, March 1993.                   Done.|
2) Privatization                            Propose clear congressional policy statement  ECC/President                              Done.
on private sector involvement in energy
projects.
a) NPC/Power Sector                       Complete OEA-commissioned study of           OEA-Price Waterhouse, November 1992.        Done.
privatization options
Submission of privatization plan.           DOE, NPC, September 1993.                   Done.
Approval of privatization plan.             Cabinet, March 1994.
I"I
Continue BOT approach for new projects;     NPC, June 1993.                              1000 MW Sual Coal Fired Plant in Luzon -
conduct bidding and come up with short list for                                          Energy Conversion Contract Signed in 1994;
the 900 MW and 200 MW BOT coal plants for                                                plant commissioning in 1999
Luzon and Mindanao, respectively.
200 MW Mindanao Coal Fired Plant deferred --
commissioning in 2006
Complete evaluation of bids.                October 1993.                                10 contracts for 2300 MW already signed with
the private sector. Other than the ABB BTO's
Awarding of contracts.                      December 1993.                              (600 MW) all are BOT contracts.
3) Oil Industry Deregulation                Congressional policy statement on oil industry    President/Congress, December 9, 1992.  Done (DOE Law).
deregulation.
Complete ERB Energy Pricing Study.          ERB/IDP, June 1993.                          Final study issued in March 1993.
Complete industry cost structure study.     DOE/K&M, August 1993.                        Draft report submitted March 1993.
Recommend presidential endorsement of bill  DOE/ERB/OP, September 1993.                  Done.
amending OPSF's law to effect automatic price
adjustments.



Key Performance Indicators for Project Operation - Energy Sector Plan Implementation Status (continued)
Issues/Areas of Action                     Required Action                                Implementing Agency/Schedule    Status (by March 2000)
Set maximum oil industry rate of return.       ERB/Oil Companies, September     Done. ERB set a 10.6% average ROR for Oil
1993.                            Companies (April 16, 1993)
Submit program for oil decontrol and other     DOE, 1996.                       Republic Act No. 8180, Oil Deregulation Law
deregulation activities,                                                        approved on March 29, 1996, but the law was declared
unconstitutional by the Supreme Court on November 5,
1997, and is therefore invalid. Congress approved a
new and more competitive deregulation law in
February 1998.
Approval of deregulation program.              Cabinet, 1996.                   - do -
Recommend presidential endorsement of ERB      ERB/OP, 1996.                    - do -
charter to allow decontrol of oil prices.
Deregulate dealership activities (deregulation  DOE, 1996.                      - do -
measures non-price related would be advanced
whenever feasible).
Remove inter-fuel price subsidies.             DOE/ERB, 1996.                   - do -
C,-I
o .. Draft bill rationalizing the tariff tax component of    DOE/ERB/OP, 1996,                                                        - do -
petroleum product prices.
Recommend presidential endorsement of draft bill.   DOE/OP, 1996.               - do -
Submit petroleum import/export liberalization  DOE/ERB, 1996.                   - do -
schedule.
4) Single Price-Regulatory Body for t)tilities  Legislation placing NPC and REC's under ERB  Congress/President.            Done. DOE Law in operation.
price regulation.
5) More Efficient Approval System for Energy    Presidential directive to DAR, DA, NEDA, DENR,   ECC, DAR, NEDA, DENR,      Done.
Projects                                   November 1992.                                 November 1992.
Agreement between DENR and RDC regarding       DENR/RDC, June 1993.             Done. Latest guidelines for ECC processing issued in
approval requirements and time limit for action.                                July 1994.
Agree to approve power projects on a program   NPC/NEDA, June 1993.             Completed March 1993.
basis instead per individual projects.
NPC to develop standard BOT contracts for various   NPC/NEDA, September 1993.   Model contracts for coal, diesel and gas turbines
power plant technologies.                                                       already developed.
Approval of standard contracts.                NEDA-ICC. One month after
completion of contract by NPC.



Key Performance Indicators for Project Operation - Energy Sector Plan Implementation Status (continued)
Issues/Areas of Action                     Required Action                               Implementing Agency/Schedule    Status (March 2000)
B. POWER SECTOR
I) Availability and Reliability of Supply  Ensure completion of fast track projects.     NPC/DOE, October 1993.           6 BOT contracts in operation.
Ensure implementation of power development    NPC/DOE, ongoing.                PDP approved by ICC and presented to the Cabinet in
program.                                                                       May 1993.
Submit plan to rehabilitate or retire/replace aging  NPC, December 1993.       Done.
plants.
Evaluate and approve NPC plan and allocate    NEDA. January 1994.              Done. OPSF and PAGCOR grants approved.
funding for technical assistance.
Adopt rehabilitation or retirement plan for old                                Rehabilitation of Sucat 2 & 3 completed.
plants.
2) NPC's Financial Viability               Conduct more effective public information program   NPC/Cabinet, Oct-Dec 1992.  Effective public information on price increase in place.
on the need for NPC rate increase.
Decision on acceptable rate of return base    ERB, September 1993.             Done. February 1993.
methodology.
Motion for early resolution by the Supreme Court    NPC, May 1993.             Tax exemption cases of NPC were resolved by the
of NPC fuel tax exemption cases.                                               Supreme Court favorably for NPC in the case of
Maceda vs. Macaraig (197 SCRA 771).
Approve automatic foreign exchange adjustment  NPC, May 1993.                  Formula applied once exchange rate exceeded
formula.                                                                       P28/dollar.
Implement rate adjustment to meet loan covenants.   NPC, December 1992.        NPC implemented tariff increase of P0. 18/kWh from
Develop annual projection of rate increase or  NPC, end of each year.          March 26, 1993, and additional P0.03/kWh from July
decrease investment and overall financial                                      1993.
requirement.
Propose to DBM the level of government equity  NPC, March each year.           Approved for 1993.
infusion to NPC. Submission of proposal for   DBM, June each year.             P3 billion from OPSF in 1993 approved by RA 7639,
annual equity infusion to NPC.                                                 in addition to the PI billion annually
Executive support of bill proposing equity infusion   DOE.                     Done.
to NPC.
Complete operational efficiency improvement   NPC/World Bank, December 1993.  First phase report completed in March 1993. Draft
study.                                                                         report for Second Phase completed end of June 1993.



Key Performance Indicators for Project Operation - Energy Sector Plan Implementation Status (continued)
Issues/Areas of Action                     Required Action                                 Implementing Agency/Schedule    Status (March 2000)
3) Rate Restructuring (Demand charges and  Complete nationwide consultation, especially in  NPC, August 1993.               Ongoing.
direct connections)                        Bacolod, Cebu and Mindanao,
Implement rate restructuring down to distribution  NPC/Cabinet, NEA/RECs,       Done.
level.                                         ERB/PUs, December 1993.
4) Bataan Nuclear Power Plant (BNPP)       Complete negotiations with Westinghouse.       NPC-BNPP, December 1992.          Negotiations failed.
Decision on BNPP operation.                    Cabinet, March 1993.             Proposal for conversion of BNPP to 1500 MW gas
fired plant (BOT) was approved but discontinued due
to excess generation capacity
5) Improve Electricity Distribution Efficiency    Set limit to distribution loss that can be recovered  NEA/ERB/ECC, ongoing.  ERB Resolution 91-22 has set to reduce losses
through tariff                                                                  permitted in tariffs from 14% to 10% in 5 years.
Presidential endorsement of anti-pilferage bill.  ECC/OP, March 1993.           Done. (RA # 7832).
6) Energy Efficiency Standards             Finalize standards for power intensive appliances.    OEA/BPS-DTI, June 1994.    Building efficiency guidelines published March 1993.
C. DOWNSTREAM OPERATIONS
()        I ) Refinery Expansion                      Decide price adjustment for non-crude increase  ERB, May 1993.                  Done.
Firm up PNOC expansion plans.                  PNOC/DOE, January 1994.          Done.
2) Coal Import Liberalization              Implement financial/technical support program for   OEA, January 1994.           Initial program formulated.
local coal.
Reduce volume and tariff restriction.          DOE/ERB/NEDA, June 1994.         All coals in temporary exclusion list until June 1996.
Anthracite and lignite having a 0% tariff and
bituminous 10% tariff to 1999 and 5% thereafter.
3) Institutionalize Energy Conservation    Executive endorsement of DOE bill with provisions   President.                   Done (DOE Law).
for continuation of energy conservation program.
D. UPSTREAM OPERATIONS
I) Geothermal Law to Encourage Private     Recommend presidential endorsement of pending  DOE/PNOC/OP, June 1993.           Senate hearings on SB 423 and 366 in April 1993. Still 
Sector Participation                       legislation on geothermal royalties and                                          pending.
development.
2) Improved Incentives for Oil and Gas     Recommend presidential endorsement of pending   DOE/OP, June 1993.
t Exploration                               legislation on oil and gas development.



Key Performance Indicators for Project Operation - Energy Sector Plan Implementation Status (continued)
Issues/Areas of Action                      Required Action                                 Implementing Agency/Schedule    Status (March 2000)
3) Continued Exploration Momentum           Conduct aggressive campaign to attract more oil                                   Done.
Generated by Recent Oil Discoveries         explorations.
4) Promote Development and Utilization of   Intensify research and development of           DOST-PCIERD/OEA/PNOC/             Ongoing.
Renewable Energy Technologies               altemative/renewable energy technologies.       NEA. Ongoing.
Promote utilization of cost-effective altemative  OEAINEA. Ongoing.               Ongoing.
energy systems.
Energy Sector Plan - Proposed Legislation
Issues/Areas of Action                      Required Action                                 Implementing              Status (March 2000)
Agency/Schedule
I) Energy Sector Coordination               Enact legislation creating the Department of    President/Congress        Done. RA #7638, An act cteating the Department of Energy.
Energy.                                        (December 9, 1992)
2) Oil Industry Deregulation                Enact legislation amending the OPSF Law.        December 1993.             RA #8180, Oil Industry Deregulation Act was passed in 1996,
but subsequently declared unconstitutional by the Supreme
Court. in November 1997. Congress approved a new and
more competitive deregulation law in February 1998.
3) Single Price-Regulatory Body for Utilities  Included in the DOE Law.                     December 1992.             Done.
Enact into law ERB charter amendment.          June 1994.                 Done. RA #'s 7638, 8180, 7832 & 8184.
4) NPC Financial Viability                  Approve annual equity infusion to NPC.          December each year.        Done. RA #7639, an Act providing payment in part of OPSF
Enactment of law authorizing OPSF equity infusion                         to NPC.
to NPC.
5) Improve Electricity Distribution Efficiency    Enact effective anti-power pilferage legislation.  December 1993.    Done. RA #7832, Anti-Pilferage of Electricity & Theft of
Enact law authorizing increase in NEA          March 1994.                Electric T/L Materials.
capitalization.
6) Rationalize Oil Prices                   Enact law rationalizing the tariff and tax component   1996.              Done. RA #8184, an Act Restructuring Excise Tax on
of petroleum products.                                                    Petroleum Products.
7) Energy Conservation                      Refile and enact law institutionalizing energy  December 1993.            Done. EO # 123, Institutionalizing the Committee on Power
conservation.                                                             Conservation and Demand Management
8) Geothermal Law                           Enact law to encourage private sector participation    December 1993.     Pending (SB #726 and SB #888).
in geothermal development,



Annex 8
Key Monitoring Indicators: NPC
Appraisal
tinanciai Year tnaing 31- Dec.      ~           ss         vy          v4        sY           Y96          IY9Y/        lyyb      
ACHIEVEMENT OF GOALS
Total NPC Energy Sales (GWh)                 23,835      24,897     29,592      32,344      34,788     36,499       39,894
Net NPC sales (Excl. Test-Run) - GWh         23,476      24,805     29,033      31.795      33,797     36,499       42,684
Power SoldJTotal Pop. (kWh/person)              371         380        443        474          500         514          551
MANAGEMENT/EFFICIENCY
I Days Accounts Receivable                       39          38         38         38           38           38          38
% ReceivablesonBilling                        10.8%      11.8%      10.3%      10.3%        10.3%        10.3%        10.3%
Total Number Employees                       15,675      15,682     16,085      16,085      16,085       16,085       16,085
#of Operational Ernployees                   12,761      12,583     12,979      12,979      12,979       12,979       12,979
Personnel Cost on Revenues                     3.8%       4.0%        5.0%       4.6%        4.3%         4.3%         4.0%
Sales per Oper. Employees (MWlt)               1,840      1,971      2,237      2,450        2,604      2,812        3,289
% Total Energy Losses and Plant Use            6.8%       6.5%        7.4%       7.0%        6.3%         6. 4%        6.9%
FINANCIAL RATIOS:
Operating Expenses/kWh                          1.29       1.37        1.42       1.63        1.95        2.04         2.17
Average Tariff- P/kWh                            1.6        1.7         1.9        2.1         2.4          2.5         2.7
Average Tariff Increase Centavos/kWh             20          11          15         19          35           13          12
Average Exchange Rate Pesos/iUS$                25.1       27.1        27.9        29         30.4         31.7        33.1
Average Tariff- USc,kWh                          6.4        6.3         6.7        7.1         7.9          8.0         8.0
Working Ratio(l)                              62.1%      59.6%       60.1%      64.1%       66.7%       65.7%          68%
Operating Ratio (2)                           81.0%      80.2%      76.5%       79.9%       81.3%       804%         81 8%
Rate of Return-NPC's Charter (3)               6.9%       7.3%        9.0%       7.7%        7.6%         7.9%         7.9%
Rate of Return on Revalued Assets (4)          7.2%       7.5%        9.4%       8.0%        8.0%         8.3%         8.3%
Rate on Capital Employed (5)                   2.0%       4.1%        7.3%       4.9%        6.0%         5.0%         5.6%
NetProfitonEquity                              2.8%       4.1%        7.3%       4.9%        6.0%         5.0%         5.6%
Self-Financing Ratio (3-years Avg.) (6)         4%         23%        19%         17%        20%           27%         64%
Debt Service Coverage (7)                       1.07        1.5        1.39       1.33        1.39         1.49        1.84
Interest Coverage (8)                           1.38        1.5        1.83       1.59        1.85         1.94        2.41
Debt/EquityRatio(9)                           -3.4%      56.8%      54.9%       53.2%       49.5%        44.1%        38.6%
IN CONSTANT 1993 PRICES
AverageTariff-P/kWh                             1.72       1.71        1.69       1.75        1.94         1.95        1.95
Real Tarifflncrease Centavos/kWh                  9          -1          -2         6           19            1         -
Real Tarifflncrease (Decrease)                 5.6%      -0.5%       -0.9%       3.3%       11.2%         0 5%        -0.2%
Critical Financial Indicators Between 1993-1998
Indicator                                      Min.   Average        Max. Indicator                       Min.    Average         Max.
Cash-Mill.Pesos                               1,623      4,412       8,310 DebtServiceRatio                 1.3          1.5        1.8
Average Tafiff- P/kWh                           1.69       1.88        1.95 Days Accounts Receiv.            38           38         43
Working Ratio                                59,6%       64.0%      68.0% Debt/Equity Ratio              38.6%       49.5%       56.8%
Rate of Return (Revalued)                      7.5%       8.3%       9.4%
1/ Operational expenses excluding depreciation / operational revenues
2/ Total operationi expenses (including depreciation & pro' for d/a)l divided by operational revenues
3. Operating income on net average fited assets plus one sioth of cash operating expenicrures
4/ Operating income on ne average revalued fixed assets in operation
5/ Profit before interest and taxes / total equity and reserves
6/ Cash available from operations / 3-year average capital expendttures
7/ Operating cash flov divided by debt service (pinocipal plus operational interest)
8/ Profit before interest and taxes / total interest (operational and capitalized)
9, Long-terra debt / (long-tetm debt plus total equity)
- 34 -



Key Monitoring Indicators: NPC
Actual Operational & Audited Financial Results
Financial Year Ending 31= Dec.             1992       1993       1994       1995       1996       1997       1998
ACHIEVEMENT OF GOALS:
otal NPC Energy Sales (GWh)             23,958     24,805     28,745     31,031     33,381    36,442     37,321
et NPC sales (Excl. Magellan & Test-Run)  23,875   24,712     28,520     30,356     32,549    36,442     36,429
Power Sold/Total Pop. (kWh/person)          395        409        474        452        487        496        508
MIANAGEMENT/EFFICIENCY:
Days Accounts Receivable                    38         39         36         38         37         38         44
%ReceivablesonBilling                    10.70%     11.91%     10.33%     11.13%     11.22%     11.75%     13.93%
Total Number Employees                   14,208     14,560     15,794      14,742     13,119    13.512     14,719
ofOperational Employees                 11,185     13,142     12,448     12,164     11,024      11583      11875
Personnel Cost on Revenues                3.76%      3.85%      4.97%      6.41%      6.39%      6.21%      5.23%
Personnel Cost on Operational Costs
Sales perOper. Employees (MWh)             2,142      1,887      2,309      2,651      3,028      3152       3143
I'Total Energy Losses &PlantUse           680%       6.80%      6.10%      6.80%      6.30%      590%       6.50%
FINANCIAL RATIOS:
AverageTariff-P/kWh                         1.58       1.64       1.77       1.73       1.96       2.12      2.38
Average Tariff Increase Centavos/kWh         18          6         13          -4        23         16         26
verage Tariff - USc/kWh                     6.3        5.9        7.3         6.6        7.4        5.3       6.1
Average Exchange Rate Pesos/US$            26.7       27.1       26.4       25.7        26.2      29.5       40.9
Working Ratio/I                           62.4%      60.3%      61.1%      56.9%      59.5%      64.1%      69.1%
Operating Ratio/2                         81.2%      83.5%      76.1%      78.0%      79.1%      84.9%      92.0%
Rate ofRetum-NPC's Charter/3               6.8%       5.7%       8.0%       7.0%       7.9%       6.9%      3.10%
Rate of Retum on Revalued Assets /4        7.1%       5.9%       83%        7.3%       8.2%       7.2%      3 20%
Rate on Capital Employed//5               11.4%      20.0%      18.8%      20.0%      222%       13.1%        14%
etProfit-MillionUS$                         91         51        282        152        211        104        -88
NetProfitonEquity                        6.10%       1.90%     7.20%       3.70%      5.60%      2.70%     -2.80%
Self-Financing Ratio (3-years Avg.)/6      7.2%     -11.4%      17.4%      -7.4%     -25.2%     -46.9%     -41.7%
Debt Service Coverage/7                     1.14       1.51       1.15       0.98       1 12       0.96       1.18
Interest Coverage/8                         1.32       2.36       2.37       2 39       2.75       1.43       1.32
Debt/Equity Ratio/9                       49.8%      57.1%      49 9%      59.0%      75.1%      79.7%      77.4%
IN CONSTANT 1993 PRICES:
Average Tariff- P/kWh                       1.72       1.64      1.66       1.53       1.60       1.62       1.70
Real TariffIncrease Centavos/kWh              9         -8          2         -14         7          2          8
Real Tariff Increase (Decrease)            5.6%      -4.7%       1.3%      -8.2%       4.7%       1.6%       4.9%
Critical Financial Indicators Between 1993-1998
Indicator                                  Min.  Average         Max.  Indicator                  Min.  Average         Max.
Cash-Mill.Pesos                                                       Debt Service Ratio           0.96      1.15        1.51
Average Tafiff - P/kWh                      1.64       1.93      2.38 Days Accounts Receiv.         36         39         44
Working Ratio                             59.5%      61.8%      69.1% Debt/Equity Ratio          49.9%      66.4%      79.70/
Rate of Retum (Revalued)                   3.2%       6.7%       8.3%
11 Operational expenses excluding depreciation I operational revenues
2/ Total operational expenses (including depreciation & prov. for d/a) / operational revenues
3/ Operating income on net average fixed assets plus one sixth of cash operating expenditures
4/ Operating income on net average revalued fixed assets in operation
51 Profit before interest and taxes / total equity and reserves
6/ Cash available from operations / 3-year average capital expenditures
71 Operating cash flow divided by debt service (principal plus operational interest)
8/ Profit before interest and taxes / total interest (operational and capitalized)
9/ Long-term debt I (long-term debt plus total equity); long term debt included BOT lease obligation
- 35 -



Annex 9
PNOC Energy Development Corporation
Financial Indicators
Appraisal
1991      1992       1993      1994       1995      1996       1997       1998
Revenues (peso:million)         1,367      1,499     2,373      3,463     4,504      5,679    11,032    18,533
Net Eamings                       395       421       1,031     1,770      1,837     2,170      3,209     3,700
Net Working Capital               434       -110     3,250      3,979     3,601      3,498      3,715     6,616
Capital Assets                 11,484    13,238    16,145    20,071    25,622    30,918    32,791    32,643
Long-Termn Debt (Foreign)       4,859      5,056     9,032    10,820    14,340    17,579    16,782    16,206
PNOC Advances                   3,231      1,774         0          0         0          0         0          0
Stockholders' Equity            4,009      6,576    10,504    13,597    15,250    17,203    20,091    23,421
Total Assets                   12,978    14,764    20,650    25,477    30,871    36,230    40,946    43,461
Current Ratio                     1.6       0.9        6.3       6.4        5.3        4.7       4.5        3.9
%LTDebtV(Debt+Equity)           67.2       51.6       46.8      44.3       48.5      50.5       45.5      40.9
Debt Service Times               48.9        2.4        2.2       3.5        2.8       2.1        2.8        1.7
Capital Expenditure             1,408      2,196     2,301      4,138     5,415      4,705      1,513       714
PNOC Energy Development Corporation
Financial Indicators
Actual
1991     1992     1993      1994     1995      1996     1997      1998     1999
Revenues (peso:million)      1,367    1,499    1,970    2,285    2,286    2,920    3,958    12,014    15,417
Net Eamings                   394      422       607     1,207      730      797      -140      535      638
Net Working Capital/I        -207      474      -341     -743      -118     1,147   -1,290    4,749    2,125
Capital Assets              11,484    12,496    15,927   18,324   22,721    25,128   69,582   68,762   72,643
Long-Term Debt (Foreign)    4,859    4,911     9,286    9,972    12,068   15,973    19,843   20,099   25,592
PNOC Advances                3,231    2,078        0        0         0        0         0        0
Stockholders' Equity        4,009    6,389    10,386   13,631    14,075   14,667    14,369   15,252    15,814
Total Assets                12,981    14,372   21,136   25,272   28,431    34,986   80,880   78,767   82,202
Current Ratio/I               1.6      1.0       2.9      4.2      1.8       2.2      0.9       0.7      1.2
Current Ratio /2              1.6      1.3       3.4      9.1      3.0       3.0      0.7       0.6      0.7
% LT Debt/(Debt+Equity) /1    67        53       48        43       47       53        58       57        64
% LT Debt/(Debt+Equity) /2    67        53       48        45       48       55        79       77        78
Debt Service Times /1         2.8       2.7      2.5       3.7      1.3       1.8      2.1       1.0      2.2
Debt Service Times /2          8.3      3.7      2.2       4.4      3.2       3.6      0.3       0.9      0.9
Capital Expenditure           616     1,128     1,047     679    1,325    1,257    1,165        773      392
Notes: 1) excludes the BOT lease obligations
2) includes the BOT lease obligations
3) 1991-1999: audited
- 36 -



PNOC-EDC
FINANCL,1 RATE OF RETURN ON PROJECT COMPONENTS:
STREAMFIELD OPERATIONS
(In Million Pesos Constant 1993 Price Terms)
Year   GWh        Revenues   Investment   0 & M    Depre- Cum. Recov.             Cost        Net      Govt   PNOC EDC    PNOC EDC
Sales    0.33/kWh       Cost*        Cost   ciation        Cost        Recovery   Proceeds  Share        Share        Cashflow
1993                                2,028                             1,217   =      = ---2(2,028)
1994                                 804                              1,699                                                         (804)
19951                               1,376                             2,525                                                        (1,376)
1996                                1,463                             3,403                                                        (1,463)
1997    3,000           626          785       154      193           4,221         564          63     38             25           (351)
1998    3,000          626           379       428      217           4,530         564          63     38             25           (218)
19991   3,060           639            17      395      218           4,589         575          64      38            26            189
2000    3,085   _       644          432       262      218           4,754         580          64      39             26           (89)
20011   3,000           626                    606      218           4,999         564          63      38            25            (18)
2002    3,000           626                    627      218           5,280         564          63      38            25            (38)
2003    3,000           626                    636      218           5,571         564          63      38            25            (47)
2004    3,000           626                    572      218           5,797         564          63      38            25              16
2005    3,000           626                    567      218           6,019         564          63      38            25             22
2006    3,000           626                    544      218           6,217         564          63      38            25             45
2007    3,000           626                    578       25           6,256         564          63      38            25             11
2008    3,000           626                    560         1          6,254         564          63      38            25             29
2009    3,000           626                    597                    6,287         564          63      38            25              (9)
2010    3,000           626                    574                    6,298         564          63      38             25            1(5
2011    3,000           626                    600   .6,334                         564          63      3 8           25             (I11)
2012    3,000           626                    591                    6,361         564          63      38            25              (3)
2013    3,000           626                    594                    6,392         564          63      38            25              (5)
2014    3,000           626                    583                    6,411         564          63      38            25              6
2015    3,000           6261                   610                    6,458         564          63      38            25            (22)
2016    3,000           626                    532                    6,426         564          63     38             25             57
2017    3,000           626                    534                    6,396         564          63     38             25             55
2018    3,000           626                    543                    6,375         564          63     38             25             45
2019    3,000           626                    539                    6,351         564          63      38            25             50
2020    3,000           626                    548                    6,335         564          63      38            25             40
2021    3,000           626                    544                    6,316         564          63      38            25             45
2022    3,000           6261              1    554 T                  6,306 T       564          63      38            25      -      35
- 37 -



PNOC-EDC
FINANCIAL RATE OF RETURN FOR INTEGRATED COMPONENTS
(In Million Pesos Constant 1993 Price Terms
Year   GWh        Gross      ECA /   Royalty  Steam    Gross   Depre-  Income    Net            Net      Add: Steam-    Total
Sales    Revenue   O & M        Fee      Cost   Margin  ciation    Tax    Income   Cashflow       Field CF     Cashflow
1993                                                                                                          (2,028)    (2,028)
1994                                                      _                                                     (804)      (791)
1995                                  _                                                                        (1,376)    (1,279)
1996                                                                                                           (1,463)    (1,340)
1997    3,000        1,849     1,848      6.21     626     -625                  0      -625       -625          -351   -937
1998    3,000        4,798    4,584      19.18     626     -413                  0      -413       -413          -218    -632
1999    3,060        4,979    3,776      18.22     639      565                186      378        378            189    577
2000    3,085        4,673     3,776     18.22     644      254                 81       173        173           -89     84
2001     3,000       4,545     3,400     18.22     626      519                166       353        353           -18    329
2002     3,000       4,545     3,279     18.22     626      639                205       435        435           -38    380
2003     3,000       4,545     3,164     18.22     626      754                241       513        513           -47    436
2004     3,000       4,545     3,134     18.22     626      784                251       533        533            16    502
2005     3,000       4,545     3,075     18.22     626      844                2701      574        574            22    531
2006     3,000       4,545     2,985     18.22     626      934                299      635         635            45    592
2007    3,000        4,545     2,972     18.22     626      946                303      644         644            11    556
2008     3,000       4,545      549      18.22     626    3370       424       943     2003        2427            29    2040
2009     3,000       4,545      554      18.22     626    3364       367       959     2038        2405            -9   2397
2010    3,000        4,545      560      18.22     626    3359       318       973     2068       2386             15   2401
2011     3,000       4,545      565      18.22     626    3353       276       985     2093        2368           -11   2357
2012     3,000       4,545      571      18.22     626    3347       239       995     2114        2353            -3   2350
2013    3,000        4,545      577      18.22     626    3342       207      1003     2132        2339             -5   2333
2014     3,000       4,545      583      18.22     626     3336       180     1010      2146       2326             6    2332
2015     3,000       4,545      588      18.22     626    3330       156      1016     2159        2314           -22    2292
2016    3,000        4,545      594      18.22     626    3324       135      1021     2169        2304            57    2361
2017    3,000        4,545      600      18.22     626    3318       117      1024     2177       2294             55    2349
2018     3,000       4,545      606      18.22     626     3312      101      1028     2184        2285            45    2330
2019    3,000        4,545      612      18.22     626     3306       88      1030     2188        2276            50    2326
2020    3,000        4,545      618      18.22     626    3300        76      1032     2192        2268            40    2309
2021    3,000        4,545      625      18.22     626    3294        66      1033     2195        2261            45    2305
2022     3,000       4,545      631      18.22     626    3288        57      1034     2197        2254            35    2288
FRR with sunk cost                10.3%
FRR without sunk cost             13.7%
- 38 -



Annex 10
Economic Value of Installed IPP Capacities'
I.   Background
The decision of the Aquino administration to mothball the 620 MW Bataan Nuclear
Power Plant in 1986 and the inability to install replacement capacities contributed to the
power crisis which started to be felt in the early nineties and the consequent decline in the
economic growth of the country. Data regarding GDP at 1985 prices, Electric Sales and IPP
installed capacities from 1986 to 1997 are shown in Chart 1.
II.  Economic Values of Installed IPP
1.  Impact of Electricity Supply on Economic Growth
Prior to the power crisis, the country was experiencing an average GDP growth rate at
constant 1985 prices of about 6.5% per annum and electricity demand growth rate of about
10%. In 1990, the GDP growth rate started to decline to 3% and went further down to
negative 0.5% in 1991 and 0.3% in 1992. During this period, electricity consumption was
almost flat due to the lack of power capacities.
With the entry of power plant capacities by Independent Power Producers starting
1992, its impact on the country's economic growth rate started to be felt, with the GDP
growing by 3.8% in 1993 to about 8.7% in 1997 before the impact of the Asian currency
crisis was felt by the country. During this period a total of 4,652 MW power plant
capacities were installed with electricity sales registering an average increase of about
11.5% per annum.
In could be seen from this analysis the importance of electricity supply to economic
growth.
2.  Economic Value of Installed IPP Capacities
Starting 1993, the economic growth experienced by the country can be mainly
attributed to the availability of power supply. From 1993 to 1997, the total value of the
incremental GDP growth was about P157 billion pesos or about $8.44 billion dollars. For
the same period, the additional electricity supplied by IPPs was about 11,323 gigawatt
hours. This translates to an economic value of P13.8/kwh or $0.745/kwh. In terms of
investment, the estimated cost of about $4.8 billion for the power plan installed by the IPP
has been more than compensated by the increased gross domestic product realized by the
country.
'Source: PNOC-EDC
- 39 -



Electricity Sales vs. GDP
40                                                                                                                           950. co
in nst
In 30                                                                                                                               850Bilant
Th                                                                                                                                         lio 19
Ous20                                                                                                                               750n 85
an                                                                                                                                         Pes
ds 10                                                                                                                              650 0s Pri
at ces
1986 1987 1988 1989 1990 1991 1992 1993 1994 1995 1996 1997
Years
,-   Electricity Sales, __U  Cumulative Installed IPP,  _ + GDP
1      1986        1987        1988        1989        1990        1991        1992        1993        1994       1995         1996        1997
ElectricitySales,GWH                   17.85      19.431     21.573      22.731      23.323      23.625      23.769      24.692      28.449      30.791      33.112      36.015
Cumulative InstalledIPP,MW                 0           0           0           0           0           0      0.072        1.278      2.472       3.605       4.305       4.652
GDP                                 591.423    616.923    658.581    699.448         720.69    716.522    718.941    734.156    766.368    802.866    848.451            891.53
-40 -



Annex 11
PHILIPPINES
Leyte-Luzon Geothermal Project (Ln. 3746 / 3747 - PH)
AIDE MEMOIRE
1.   A World Bank mission, comprising Ms. Selina Shum (Task Team Leader) and Mr. Mikio
Matsumura (Power Engineer) met with the relevant officials from the NPC and PNOC-EDC at
various times during the period May 15 to 31, 2000 for the preparation of an Implementation
Completion Report (ICR) for the Leyte-Luzon Geothermal Project. The mission was assisted by Mr.
Lanfranco Blanchetti-Revelli (Social Impact Specialist) and Ms. May Olalia (Operations Officer) in
the review of resettlement aspects. The mission would like to express its appreciation to NPC and
PNOC-EDC for their cooperation and hospitality. The findings and recommendations of the mission
are summarized below.
Project Implementation
A. PNOC-EDC's Project Components
2.   Physical Components. Overall, PNOC-EDC implemented its components satisfactorily and
on schedule, except for delays in the implementation of the CO2 reinjection plant.
(a) Development of a 385 MWgeothermal energyfield In total, 59 producer and injector wells
were drilled (9% lower than the appraisal estimate of 65 wells) and construction of steam
gathering systems and the related subtransmission systems was completed on schedule in mid-
1997. The capacity developed is lower than the appraisal estimate of 440 MW due to the
abandonment of the Alto Peak sector which proved to be problematic to develop. Nevertheless,
the combined system is able to surpass the required annual energy output specified under the
power sales agreement with NPC, with the power plants operating within the plant factor
commitment in the BOT contract.
(b) C02 reinjection pilot program. Due to the relatively novel and highly customized technology
required, the procurement of CO2 compressor was not successful several times until October
1999. As a result, the pilot CO2 reinjection plant was not completed at the loan closing date
(extended to March 31, 2000), although delivery of the compressor and
electrical/instrumentation materials was completed before the loan closing date. Installation will
be completed by August 2000 and test commissioning will begin in October 2000.
(c) Steamline Interconnection. Since May 1998, the steam capacity of the Mahanagdong sector
had continued to decline. Consequently, the output of the 120-MW Mahanagdong A plant
declined to 72MW by February 1999. PNOC-EDC managed to increase the output through
scale drillout, acidizing, drilling of additional wells and deposition inhibition techniques and the
plant has been operated above 100MW since April 1999. In order to avoid similar problems in
the future, PNOC-EDC started to interconnect the Mahanagdong sector with other sectors; this is
expected to be completed in December 2000.
3.   In response to the Bank's recommendation, a reservoir reassessment study was recently
completed by an independent consultant. The study basically confirmed the PNOC-EDC's
assessment of the Leyte reservoir and found PNOC-EDC's measures to stabilize and optimize the
steamfield to be well founded and practical. In addition, it is understood that PNOC-EDC is in the
-41 -



process of following up various actions recommended by the consultant, particularly in progressing
development of numerical simulation models of the Tongonan and Mahanagdong reservoirs in order
that future trends in steam availability may be predicted and reservoir management strategies
developed that optimize energy recovery from the entire Leyte Geothermal Project.
4.   BOT Contracts. PNOC-EDC carried out three BOT contracts with private companies to
construct and operate geothermal power plants (Malitbog Units 2 & 3, Mahanagdong, and the four
optimization plants, totaling 385 MW).
5.   Environmental Management. PNOC-EDC prepared a detailed Environmental Impact
Assessment (EIA) for the geothermal development. The Department of Environment and Natural
Resources (DENR), based on its own evaluation, issued an Environmental Compliance Certificate
approving the project implementation subject to protective measures during construction and
operation. PNOC-EDC implemented the protective measures properly. A multi-sectoral task force
composed of the DENR, NGOs, Local Government Units and PNOC regularly monitors compliance
with relevant standards. PNOC-EDC has so far had no violations pertaining to air and water quality.
6.   CO2 Absorption and Sequestration Study. As part of the CO2 abatement project component
financed under the Global Environment Trust Fund (GET) grant, the main objective of the study is to
estimate the carbon sequestration rate and to quantify the carbon sequestered by the different
vegetation types in the watershed area within the Leyte geothermal reservation. This study was
completed satisfactorily. Overall, the study provided one of the first primary data on the absorption
capacity of tropical vegetation for CO2. It documented the effects and measures adopted by the
geothermal sector to minimize the contribution to global warming. In addition, it provided a
protocol for the regular monitoring by PNOC of its CO2 loading to the atmosphere.
7.   Resettlement Program. The Corporation designed and implemented a resettlement program
for families affected by the geothermal development. The program included (a) protection of
residents from potential health hazards; (b) relocation of the residents from the project area; (c)
assistance for the relocated community in regaining their standard of living prior to relocation; and
(d) facilitating the formation of community institution and self reliance. The total number of
households affected by the Leyte Geothermal Project was 106 and the resettlement program was
successfully implemented, with about half of the affected households transferred to the newly
constructed relocation site.
8.   Project Component Cost and Financing. PNOC-EDC's total financing requirements,
including interest during construction (IDC) of $ 9.8 million but excluding BOT power plants, are
currently estimated at $ 267.2 million, representing a 23% cost underrun against the appraisal
estimate of $348.2 million (including IDC of $33.1 million). The significant cost savings are mainly
attributable to (a) discontinued development of the Alto Peak Sector; (b) considerably higher than
expected use of PNOC-EDC's in-house equipment and services in both well drilling and
civil/structural works in steamfield development; (c) lower actual cost than appraisal estimate as a
result of competitive bidding; and (d) significantly lower IDC mainly as a result of substantial under-
utilization of the original loan amount of both the Bank and the Export-Import Bank of Japan
(JEXIM).
9.   As of July 19, 2000, of the original Bank loan ($114 million) to PNOC-EDC, $55.2 million
were disbursed and $57.7 million cancelled. Similarly, of the original JEXIM loan of $114 million
equivalent, disbursement amounted to $53.3 million equivalent, and $54.3 million equivalent were
cancelled. Separately, an earlier Bank-financed Energy Sector Loan helped finance $8.5 million of
well drilling expenditures, as compared against the appraisal estimate of $13.3 million. Under-
utilization of the above loans was mainly attributable to (a) the cancellation of the development of
the Alto Peak Sector due to the presence of acidic fluids; and (b) the aforementioned PNOC-EDC's
-42 -



use of in-house equipment and services for economic and efficiency considerations, but these
expenditures were not eligible for reimbursement under the above loans. Separately, of the Global
Environment Trust Fund (GET) grant allocated to PNOC-EDC, totaling SDR 10.8 million, SDR 10
million were disbursed as of July 19, 2000. The Bank loan and GET were closed on March 31, 2000
after a 9-month extension, and a grace period (up to July 31, 2000) was granted for loan/GET
disbursement against eligible goods and services delivered before the loan closing date.
10.  BOT Power Plants. The total cost of the three contracts with private power producers
amount to $577.6 million, representing 7% lower than the appraisal estimate of $620.4 million.
11.  Monitoring Project Operation and Performance. The steam supply system of PNOC-EDC
as well as interconnection connecting the developed power plants to PNOC-EDC Central switching
station are operated by PNOC-EDC Leyte Geothermal Production Field Office. The Field Office is
in charge of operation and maintenance of PNOC-EDC facilities in Leyte geotherrnal area, including
production plan and coordination with the BOT power plants. It includes adequate experts including
geologists to operate the geothermnal steam system. PNOC-EDC has formed a Power Department in
the Field Office to monitor the maintenance and operation of these BOT plants and will institute
training program for PNOC-EDC staff. The BOT plants will be transferred to PNOC-EDC in the
year 2007 under the current contracts. The BOT contracts further provide PNOC-EDC personnel
with training one year prior to the formal turn-over of the plants. The mission discussed with
PNOC-EDC the performance indicators to be used to monitor future operation and development
impact. In order to evaluate the project objectives and impact as well as performance of geothermal
generation, the following performance indicators would be monitored: actual available energy and
sales from geothermal plants in Leyte to NPC Leyte-Luzon system
B. NPC's Project Components
12. Physical Components.
(a) Construction of two high voltage DC (HVDC) converter stations at Ormoc and Naga and related
electrode stations at Albuera and Calabanga. This component was completed in November 1997
and energized in March 1998, which was about eight months behind the appraisal schedule.
(b) Installation of submarine cables crossing the San Bernardio Strait between Cabacungan and
Matnog. This component was completed February 1997, but energized in March 1998 upon
completion of the entire HVDC transmission system.
(c) Construction of (i) a twin circuit HVDC overhead transmission line from Ormoc to Cabacungan
cable terminal and from Matnog cable terminal to Naga; and (b) electrode lines from Ormoc to
Albuera. This component was completed in January 1998 and energized in March 1998,
representing an eight months delay from the effective date (July 1997) for its power purchase
agreement (PPA) with PNOC-EDC. This was mainly attributable to Right-of-Way (ROW)
problems.
(d) Rehabilitation of the Naga-Tayabas transmission line. This component was completed in April
1998; this was behind the original schedule and the delays were due to frequently occurred
pilferage of tower parts and line materials.
13.  Resettlement and Land Acquisition. Under the Leyte Cebu and Luzon Geothermal Projects,
there have been significant delays in compensation payments by NPC, particularly for land
acquisition, which are partly beyond the control of NPC in such cases as missing or incomplete
documentation of some landowners. The mission's discussions with NPC focused on the following
-43 -



issues: (a) lack of personnel; (b) status of the recovery Action Plan; and (c) extension of the
recovery action plan.
(a) Lack ofpersonnel has hampered NPC's efforts to speed up the land compensation negotiation
process and to reconstruct the available data base. Particularly urgent is the situation in the
Leyte-Samar side. NPC indicated its commitment to increase the number of ROW negotiators
for the project. For the Leyte Luzon project, ideally the increase in personnel should include two
new teams, each composed of 4 persons. One of the teams will be operating on the Luzon side of
the transmission line and the other on the Leyte-Samar side. For the Leyte Cebu project, two
additional ROW negotiators will be required.
(b) Extension of the Recovery Action Plan. It was concluded that under both projects, the original
resettlement recovery action plan completion date (June 30, 2000) was overly optimistic. As
agreed with the mission, NPC provided the Bank with a revised schedule which will realistically
allow the completion of compensation for all cases which do not need to be expropriated
(Attachment 1).
(c) Recovery Action Plan Reporting. In light of the large quantity of data involved, NPC requested,
and the mission agreed, that the formerly monthly progress report be changed to every 1 1/2
months, starting from July 2000.
14.  Slow Disposition of Expropriation Cases. The mission met with provincial judges at Malolos,
Bulacan in order to understand details in the court procedure that may cause delays in the
implementation of the Recovery Action Plan. It is understood that the once-a-month settings of
expropriation cases is beyond the control of NPC, especially so when landowners are also
represented by counsel who are contributory to the delay in the disposition of the case. Further, NPC
Legal informed the mission that setting up or creating a special expropriation court is a matter within
the jurisdiction of the judiciary and representations, if any, should be done with the Supreme Court
through the Court administrator.
15.  Other Follow Up Actions. Following the meeting with the provincial judges, the mission
contacted the Flagship office at the Office of the President in order to seek assistance in accelerating
the implementation of the recovery action plans. Two issues in the implementation of the plans were
discussed: (i) the necessity of accelerating expropriation, and (ii) the necessity of simplifying the
registration of the Deeds of Sale. According to the flagship office, expropriation procedures may be
accelerated by establishing special expropriation hearings for the project. It was agreed that NPC
will contact the Flagship office in the next few weeks to study the possibility of holding project-
specific expropriation hearings and explore possible actions to streamline Deeds of Sale registration.
16.  Project Component Cost and Financing. The total financing requirements of NPC's
components amounted to $470.4 million (including IDC of $70.3 million), representing a 29% cost
overrun against the appraisal estimate of $365 million (including IDC of $33.6 million). This is
mainly due to (a) greater than expected length of the submarine cable as well as the need for cable
protection; (b) various ROW problems and re-routing of the lines due to unsuitable soil conditions;
(c) substantially higher than expected engineering/administrative expenses and IDC.
17.  Of the original Bank loan (Ln 3746 of US$ 113 million, US$ 99.2 million were disbursed.
The loan was closed on schedule on June 30, 1999 and the undisbursed balance of US$13.8 million
were canceled. Due to appreciation of Japanese Yen against the US dollar during the early project
implementation stage, contracts with significant Yen portion had exhausted the original loan
allocation. To remedy this, $14.4 million of the component for rehabilitation of the Naga-Tayabas
transmission line was financed under the subsequent Transmission Grid Reinforcement Project (Ln
3996/3997). Separately, trust fund grants administered by the Bank included: (a) GET allocated to
-44 -



NPC, totaling SDR 10.8 million (or US$15.5 million equivalent), were fully disbursed; and (b)
Swedish Agency for International Technical and Economic Cooperation (BITS) amounted to $46
million equivalent, as compared against the appraisal estimate of $39 million equivalent. In
addition, actual drawdown of loan from JEXIM and Eurobond issue partly supported under an
expanded cofinancing operation (ECO) amounted to $53.7 million equivalent (which is close to the
appraisal estimate of $56 million) and $100 million, respectively. Finally, internal cash generation
from NPC amounted to $141.6 million, representing a 279% increase against the appraisal estimate
of $41.9 million. This is, in part, attributable to one of the contracts for Naga-Tayabas transmission
lines rehabilitation deemed to be not eligible for Bank financing when NPC did not rebid upon the
very high bids due to the urgency of this project component.
18.  Monitoring of Project Operation and Performance. Upon commissioning of the Leyte-
Luzon HVDC interconnection system of NPC, the operation of these systems was transferred from
the NPC Engineering Project Offices (which were in charge of the construction) to Regional Centers
of NPC. Southern Luzon Regional Center is responsible for the operation and maintenance of Naga
converter station, OHDC lines between Naga and Matnog and submarine cables. Visayas Regional
Center is responsible for the operation and maintenance of Ormoc converter station and OHDC lines
between Ormoc and Cabacungan. Adequate maintenance would be provided to the facilities based
on NPC's guidelines for maintenance. Special tools, instruments and boats for patrol and
maintenance of the submarine cables are equipped with in the cable terminal stations of the both
sides.
19.  The mission discussed with NPC the performance indicators to be used to monitor future
operation and development impact. In order to evaluate the project objectives and impact as well as
system performance, it was agreed that the following performance indicators would be monitored:
(a) percentage of geothermal energy among energy sources for power generation in Luzon system;
(b) energy transferred from Leyte to Luzon through Leyte-Luzon HVDC interconnection; (c) system
reliability of the Luzon system; (d) system losses in Luzon system; and (e) frequency deviation in
the Luzon system.
C. NPC Finances
20.  Recent Finances. NPC's precarious finances are mainly attributable to factors beyond the
control of the Corporation, most notably its under-capitalization and inadequate tariff adjustments.
To meet its liquidity needs, NPC has incurred huge liabilities which, in turn, expose the Corporation
to expensive debt service obligations. Its financial difficulties have been exacerbated by the recent
regional financial crisis, particularly the impact of local currency devaluation, lower energy demand
and over-capacity in power generation (including "take-or-pay" obligations under IPP contracts).
Consequently, its net loss amounted to P 3.6 billion in 1998 and increased to P 5.9 billion in 1999.
Despite valiant efforts by NPC in cost cutting and other measures, financial turnaround of the
Corporation (as envisaged in its budget for 1999) did not materialize. Further deterioration of NPC's
finances was mainly due to lower than expected power sales and delayed implementation of the
proposed tariff adjustments (actual average tariff was 21% lower than the budgeted level). Indeed,
NPC has been in noncompliance with the financial performance covenants under the Bank-financed
projects since 1997; its return on rate base (RORB) was estimated at only 3.4% (far below the
covenanted minimum rate of 8%) and its debt service coverage ratio also fell short of the covenanted
minimum ratio of 1 time for 1999.
21.  Future Finances. The survival strategy of NPC includes, among others, seeking timely
approval for tariff adjustment applications, proactive marketing of power sales, continued cost
cutting measures and rationalization of IPP contracts (including shelving of projects not yet
contracted and, if possible, deferral of contracted projects through mutual agreement with the
-45 -



concened project sponsors).
22.  However, as demonstrated by its recent financial results, cost cutting and other measures
within the control of the NPC are far from adequate in restoring the financial health of the
Corporation; power sector restructuring, recapitalization and privatization of the NPC lie at the
heart of the Corporation's recovery program. In particular, the government is aware that the
Corporation's heavy reliance on foreign debt finance is unsustainable in the long run. The current
expectation for the passage of the Electricity Industry Reform Bill in the near term would enable
various measures to put NPC on the path to financial sustainability, most notably the conversion of
NPC's huge debt into equity would improve NPC's debt service coverage ratio significantly.
However, there are considerable uncertainties related to the scope and timing of NPC
recapitalization. In the absence of adequate remedial measures, NPC's finances will deteriorate
further in the year 2000, mainly due to MERALCO reneging on its power purchase agreement and
the recent commissioning of the Sual power plant, both of which exacerbate the problem of excess
generation capacity. Indeed, in order to avoid the loss of market share, the magnitude of NPC's
tariff adjustments is constrained by competition with the IPPs and self generation by the industrial
users.
23.  Follow Up Actions. In the interest of partnership, ADB is taking the lead in power sector
restructuring and privatization; the mission will continue to coordinate closely with the ADB on this
matter. In addition, to facilitate monitoring of NPC's precarious finances, it was agreed that NPC
would regularly update the Bank on its financial condition, including, inter alia, the status of tariff
increase application with the ERB and the Electricity Industry Reform Bill, and furnish the Bank
with its unaudited quarterly financial statements.
D. PNOC-EDC Finances
24.  PNOC-EDC's actual financial results fell short of the appraisal projections (for the period
1993-98) in termns of profitability, liquidity and capital structure indicators. This is, in part,
attributable to (i) delayed implementation of selected projects (brought about by the unexpected
change in the energy development policy of the Ramos administration, i.e., the displacement of
geothermal energy plants as a priority in energy development with coal-fired plants); (ii) non-
passage of the long delayed Geothermal Bill which would have reduced the royalty/tax payment of
the geothermal industry and level the playing field with nominally cheaper but more polluting fossil
fuel; (iii) foreign exchange loss (resulting from devaluation of the pesos); and (iv) write-offs of
unsuccessful exploratory costs.
25.  Under the provisions of the Project Agreement, PNOC-EDC is covenanted to maintain a
maximum debt/equity ratio of 70/30, a current ratio of not less than I time and a minimum debt
service coverage ratio of 1.25 time. Until 1997, PNOC-EDC had consistently complied with all of
the above financial performance covenants. However, it is ironic that the BOT scheme which helped
in financing the power plant has required PNOC-EDC to seek external financing in order to pay part
of the BOT obligations, due to the mismatch between electricity revenues (25 years sales contract
with NPC) and BOT payments (10 years contract). The liquidity squeeze at the Corporation has
been exacerbated by the peso devaluation and related impact on foreign debt service. Consequently,
even before the inclusion of BOT obligations as part of "debt", PNOC-EDC reported
noncompliance with (a) the current ratio covenant in 1997 and 1998; and (b) the covenanted debt
service coverage ratio in 1998. After the inclusion of BOT obligations as "debt", the Corporation
fell short of all three financial targets in 1997 and 1998.
26.  Based on PNOC-EDC's audited financial statements in 1999, prior to the inclusion of the
BOT lease obligations, its debt service coverage ratio was 2.2 times, current ratio at 1.2 times and
-46 -



debt/equity ratio at 64/37. On the other hand, after the inclusion of BOT lease obligations, its debt
service coverage ratio was only 0.87 time, current ratio at 0.68 time and debt/equity ratio at 78/22.
27.  Over the medium term, PNOC-EDC's latest financial forecast indicated its expectation of
improvement in profitability. However, even before the inclusion of BOT obligations, its debt
service coverage ratio is projected to fall below 1 time in 2001, mainly due to the bullet repayment.
After the inclusion of BOT obligations, the financial ratios would be weakened considerably. In
response to the Bank's concern about the need for prudent financial management, PNOC-EDC is
currently exploring various options to improve its finances, including the following: (a) request
PNOC Holding Company for an increase in PNOC-EDC's present capitalization; (b) consider low
cost concessional long-term financing, i.e. Miyazawa Initiative Phase 2 loan, to bridge the financial
gap during the BOT cooperation period; (c) pursue an increase in its sales volume to NPC, in line
with the recent thrusts of the DOE and NPC to increase the utilization of indigenous energy for
power uses; and (d) pursue the development of financially viable indigenous energy projects.
E. Next Steps
July 31, 2000     NPC and PNOC-EDC to send to the Bank their own ICR and all the necessary
data [including, inter alia, (a) latest project cost/financing/procurement
arrangements as well as financial rate of return for PNOC-EDC components;
and (b) inputs for economic analyses (least cost system development and
economic rate of return) and GET grant justification for both PNOC-EDC and
NPC components]
August 25, 2000    The Bank to send its draft final ICR to NPC/PNOC-EDC for comments
September 15,     NPC/PNOC-EDC to forward their comments on the draft ICR to the Bank.
2000
September 30,     The ICR will be finalized by the Bank; copies will be forwarded to
2000              NPC/PNOC-EDC and the relevant GOP agencies.
-47 -



Attachment I
LEYTE LUZON GEOTHERMAL PRO3ECT
REVISED RESETTLEMENT ISSUES RECOVERY ACTION PLAN
As of "a- 31. 2000
ITEM                    ACTION PLAN                        TARGET DEADLINE                STATUS/REMARKS
1.0  SUBMISSION OF RESErTLEMENT ISSUES                                                        Submitted
RECOVERY ACTION PLAN
2.0  UPDATED COMPENSATION STATUS BASELINE
INFORMATION
* Status Report (All Compensation Categories)                                           Submitted
* Summary of Payment for Land Acquisition            November 22, 1999                  Submitted
* Status of Land Acquisition (Summary & Masterlist)  November 22, 1999                  Submitted
* Status of Land Acquisition Under Expropriation     November 22 1999                   Submitted
(Summary & Masterlist)
3.0 ESCROW ACCOUNT
* Table summarizing escrow accounts for all          November 30, 1999                  Completed
compensation categories
Establish Escrow Account for all outstanding                               Escrow account has already been
compensations except for cases under expropriation    December 31, 1999              established.
* Earned interest from Escrow Account shall be given
to all landowners on the total amount to be
compensated reckoned from the date of opening
the escrow account to the date of payment and
computed based on the prevailing bank interest
rate.
4.0 PARCELLARY SURVEY
* Without Problems                                                                   100% Completed
* With Problems
Completion of Field Survey                         October 31, 2000
Submission of Lot Sketch Plan                     December 31, 2000
5.0 DEEDS OF SALE PROCESSING
* Without Problems                                  September 30, 2000
* With Problems                                      February 28, 2001
6.0  LAND COMPENSATION
* Without Problems                                  December 31, 2000
* With Problems                                        June 30, 2001
7.0 PAYMENT OF IMPROVEMENTS
* 100% Compensabon (w/o problems)                   December 31, 2000
* 100% Compensation (w/ problems)                      June 30, 2001
- 48 -



ITEM                  ACTION PLAN                      TARGET DEADLINE               STATUS/REMARKS
8.0 EASEMENT AND TOWER OCCUPANCY FEES
* Notify landowners by registered mail if they are  August 31, 2000
willing to accept or waive payment
* 100% compensation                                 June 30, 2001
9.0 PROGRESS REPORT
Every 1-1/2 month after
* Status of payment for all compensation categories submission of end of May
2000 report
* Status of expropriation cases                         -do-
LWP Res issus Rec Act Pn.sx/bgs
NOTE: NPC understands that this plan forms part of the Resettlement Action Plan and is committed to the completion of all the
compensations under the said plan by June 2001 except for cases wherein NPC has no control and cannot expedite
payment due to incomplete documentation by affected landowners. NPC, however, will exert all effort to assist the
landowners in completing the documentary requirements.
-49 -



LEYTE-CEBU INTERCONNECrION PROJ3ECT (IBRD 3700 PH)                                             l
REVISED RESETTLEMENT ISSUES RECOVERY ACTION PLAN
AS of May 31, 2000
ITEM                    ACTION PLAN                          TARGET DEADLINE               STATUS/REMARKS
1.0  SUBMISSION OF RESETTLEMENT ISSUES                                                         Submitted
RECOVERY ACTION PLAN
2    UPDATED COMPENSATION STATUS BASELINE
.  INFORMATION
* Status Report (All Compensation Categories)                                            Submitted
* Summary of Payment for Land Acquisition               October 31, 1999                  Submitted
* Status of Land Acquisition (Summary & Masterlist)     October 31, 1999                  Submitted
* Status of Land Acquisibon Under Expropriation        October 31, 1999                  Submitted
(Summary & Masterlist)
3.0 ESCROW ACCOUNT
* Table summarizing escrow accounts for all            October 31, 1999                  Completed
compensation categories
Establish Escrow Account for all outstanding                                 Escrow account has already been
compensations except for cases under expropriation  November 30, 1999        established.
* Earned interest from Escrow Account shall be given
to all landowners on the total amount to be
compensated reckoned from the date of opening
the escrow account to the date of payment and
computed based on the prevailing bank interest
rate.
4.0  DEEDS OF SALE PROCESSING
* Without Problems                                    September 30, 2000
* With Problems                                        February 28, 2001
5.0  LAND COMPENSATION
* Without Problems                                    December 31, 2000
* With Problems                                          June 30, 2001
6.0  EASEMENT
Notify landowners by registered mail if they are     August 31, 2000
willing to accept or waive payment
* 100% compensation                                      June 30, 2001
7.0 PROGRESS REPORT
Every 1-1/2 month after
* Status of payment for all compensation categories    submission of end of May
2000 report
_   Status of expropriation cases                            -do-
LaCJPRe~9Us ,2 ReCACtPIfl.js,t9S
NPC understands that this plan forms part of the Resettlement Action Plan and is committed to the completion of all the
NOTE:  compensations under the said plan by June 2001 except for cases wherein NPC has no control and cannot expedite
payment due to incomplete documentation by affected landowners. NPC, however, will exert all effort to assist the
landowners in completing the documentary requirements.
- 50 -



Annex 12
LEYTE LUZON GEOTHERMAL PROJECT
BORROWER'S IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PNOC-ENERGY DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
Original Objectives.
The objectives of the proposed Leyte Luzon Geothermal Project are to:
(a)    meet the rapidly increasing demand for power in Luzon using indigenous and
environmentally superior geothermal energy;
(b)   strengthen the energy sector by implementing institutional, planning and financial
improvements recommended by the ESP;
(c)    support the large ongoing private sector participation in power generation, and
facilitate it by extending the national grid;
(d)    strengthen NPC's capacity to evaluate environmental and social impacts;
(e)   introduce an Expanded Co-financing Operation in the Philippines; and
(f)    ensure the financial viability of NPC and PNOC-EDC for undertaking a long-
overdue investment program.
Revised Objectives.
The project's original objectives of the project were not revised during project
implementation.
Original Components.
PNOC's original components of the project are as follows:
(a)    Development of a 440 MW geothermal energy field to expand Leyte geothermal
capacity from 200 MW to 640 MW, including
i.    drilling of about 65 additional producer and injector wells in Malitbog,
Mahanagdong and Alto Peak;
ii.    contracting technical services for geothermal drilling;
iii.   constructing steam gathering systems;
iv.    constructing the related subtransmission systems in Leyte;
v.    constructing a pilot reinjection plant for C02
vi.   recruiting consultants to assist with project implementation;
(b)    enter into BOT contracts with private sector companies to construct and operate 440
MW geothermal power plants.
Revised Components. The following components were added to the original project
components in 1999 and resulted in the extension of the loan closing date by 9 months or
from June 30, 1999 to March 31, 2000.
(a) Construction of a 7 km steamline interconnecting all of the power plant steam collection
systems so that it could function as one integrated network equipped with operational
and production flexibility. PNOC-EDC introduced this component in 1999 after the
initial effects of commercial exploitation indicated that there would be temporary steam
deficiencies in some sectors and surplus steam in other sectors and that an
interconnection would be necessary to maximize the efficiency of the system.
(b) Updated reservoir assessment of the Leyte Geothermal Project to confirm the viability of
the steamline interconnection project. The World Bank required that this component be
- 51 -



carried out in order to confirmn PNOC-EDC's reservoir assessment and to confirm the
soundness of its proposal to construct a steam highway.
A. Achievement of Objectives and Outputs
Outcome/Achievement of Objectives. The outcome and achievement of the objectives
of the project to the extent of PNOC/PNOC-EDC'S participation are as follows:
(a) meet the rapidly increasing demand for power in Luzon using indigenous and
environmentally superior geothermal energy;
Achievement of the objective is satisfactory. The project contributed an
additional 383 MW to the Luzon grid using the indigenous and environmentally
superior geothermal energy.
The commissioning of the project and its eventual full dispatch in 1998
increased geothermal's share in indigenous energy mix from 12% in 1996 to 16% in
1998, while in terms of total energy mix, the project enabled geothermal energy to
climb from 5.07% to 6.4%.
(b) support the large ongoing private sector participation in power generation, and facilitate
it by extending the national grid;
Achievement of the objective is satisfactory. PNOC-EDC entered into three
(3) BOT agreements with two (2) private power companies for the construction and
1 0-year operation of three (3) geothermal power plants. The project paved the way
for the interconnection of the Leyte and Luzon grids.
(c) ensure the financial viability of PNOC-EDC for undertaking a long-overdue investment
program.
PNOC-EDC's financial viability in the long term was ensured by the following
factors emanating from project completion:
1.    Increased revenue due to increase in electricity generation;
2.    Increase in PNOC-EDC assets;
3.    Decreased dependence on NPC for utilization of geothermal steam by
transforming into an independent power producer;
Although PNOC-EDC is currently experiencing short term cash problems due
to the mismatch between its 1 0-year BOT contract obligations and its revenue
receipts from NPC, this has not reduced its ability to secure concessional financing
to finance the shortfall. The company expects to start reporting a comfortable cash
surplus in 2006 after completion of the BOT contracts.
OUTPUT BY COMPONENTS
Development of a 440 MW geothermal energy field to expand Leyte geothermal capacity
from 200 MW to 640 MW, including
i.    Drilling about 65 additional producer and injector wells in Malitbog,
Mahanagdong and Alto Peak. The outcome of this component is highly
- 52 -



satisfactory. PNOC-EDC was able to drill 59 (48 funded by Loan 3747 and 11
funded by Loan 3164) out of the 65 programmed wells. The balance of wells were
not drilled due to the discontinuance of the development of the Alto Peak Sector and
sufficient production and reinjection capacity had already been obtained from the
wells already drilled. The bulk of the well drilling was completed by 1997.
Abandonment of Alto Peak Sector Development. In January 1997, PNOC-EDC
informed the World Bank that it would indefinitely discontinue the development of
the Alto Peak Sector based on the following considerations:
* After the drilling of several wells in the sector, data indicated that the Alto Peak
resource consists of a high permeability central core of limited size (I sq. km
only) surrounded by cooler rocks which are poorly permeable. The core region
and immediate surrounds are the only areas where commercial geothermal
production can be obtained.
* Geothermal chemistries in the core are dominated by acid magmatic fluids and
high NCG (Non-Condensible Gas) levels.
* There is some localized occurrence of neutral fluids within the central core
region as demonstrated by one well. It is believed however, that with the
general dominance of acid fluids in the core, the neutral fluids in the well would
become acidic after some production time.
* A re-assessment of geothermal reserves indicates that the total resource at Alto
Peak has a development potential of 52 MW. However, when resource blocks
dominated by acidic fluids are removed from this, there is at best only 27 MW
of resource available and at worst, 10 MW, if the neutral fluid in the well
discussed previously turns acidic and the undrilled resource to the North proves
to be too cool to utilize.
- Economic analysis indicates that a minimum of 60 MW of neutral resource is
required to justify development.
Prior to the decision to abandon Alto Peak, PNOC-EDC also examined possible
technological solutions in the development of Alto Peak as follows:
*  The use of exotic materials such as high chromium and/or titanium for well
casings and steamfield piping and vessels. With the cost of these materials
being substantially greater than standard carbon steel (up to 30 times), the
economics of development at Alto Peak was clearly unfavorable
*  The use of reboilers to reduce the high NCG levels. Although untested in the
geothermal industry at a commercial level of steam production, the use of
reboilers remains a viable option for reducing gas levels and could be
implemented provided the problem with acid fluids can first be resolved.
ii.    Contracting technical services for geothermal drilling. Outcome of this
component is highly satisfactory. Throughout the project implementation, PNOC-
EDC was able to contract out technical drilling services contracts with
internationally known companies for directional drilling, well cementing,
hardbanding, inspection, fishing, acidizing, mud and corrosion control services. In
addition, PNOC-EDC entered into 2 contracts for the rental of three rigs from the
United States and India which were used to drill approximately 50% of the
programmed wells for the Leyte Luzon Geothermal Project.
iii.    Constructing steam gathering systems. Outcome of this component is highly
satisfactory. PNOC-EDC constructed fluid collection and disposal systems (FCDS)
in Mahanagdong and South Sambaloran capable of providing the requirements of
an aggregate power plant installation of 383 MW.
- 53 -



The South Sambaloran FCDS was completed on June 14, 1997 while the
Mahanagdong A and B FCDS was completed on April 30, 1997. For the
optimization project, the FCDS of Tongonan I and Mahanagdong A were completed
on June 22, 1997 and the FCDS for the Mahanagdong B Topping Plant and the
Malitbog Bottoming Plant were completed in August 1997 and on November 30,
1997, respectively. All systems were completed on schedule and well within budget.
iv.    Constructing the related subtransmission systems in Leyte. Outcome of this
component is highly satisfactory. The subtransmission system for the main plants
was completed on January 21, 1997 while the subtransmission system for the
optimization plants was completed on September 16, 1997 (Switchyards) and on
August 24, 1997 (Transmission Lines). The systems were completed on schedule
and well within budget.
v.    Constructing a pilot reinjection plant for C02. Outcome/achievement of the
project is less than satisfactory. As early as 1995, PNOC-EDC firmed up its
commitment to install and operate a pilot C02 injection project inTongonan, Leyte,
by creating a program defining the detailed design of the gas injection scheme.
Along with this program, a Memorandum of Agreement with NPC whose Tongonan
I Power Plant turbine would be the source of the non-condensible gases to be used
for the testing, was executed on November 29, 1995. However, due to the highly
specialized nature of the equipment required for the injection process, problems in
the procurement developed and several re-bids were undertaken. The considerable
delay in the procurement of the gas compressor therefore, made it impossible for
PNOC-EDC to conduct the testing of the project and to subsequently present the
results to the Bank before the Grant closing date. Despite the delay, PNOC-EDC
confirms that it shall pursue the C02 injection project and submitted to the Bank a
comprehensive operating plan for the gas injection trials. The gas compressor was
delivered last March 2000 and installation is currently ongoing. Testing is expected
to commence in September 2000 and will be completed by November 2000. Results
obtained will be made available to the Bank.
vi.    C02 Absorption and Sequestration in the Leyte Geothermal Reservation.
Outcome/ achievement of the project, one of the components of the GEF grant, is
highly satisfactory In 1997, in recognition of the potential role of tropical forests
in mitigating global warming, PNOC-EDC commissioned the University of the
Philippines Los Banos Foundation, Inc. to conduct a study of C02 sequestration in
the PNOC-EDC Geothermal Reservation in Leyte. PNOC-EDC's geothermal
reserves in Leyte included a large forested watershed that was assumed to serve as a
carbon sink to offset the carbon emissions of the geothermal plant. The study
therefore aimed to estimate the absorption index and amount sequestered by the
different vegetation species in the geothermal reservation.
Aside from improving the economics of the Leyte Geothermal Project (versus an
imported coal-fired power plant project), the Grant, through this study, enabled
PNOC-EDC, to prove that its activities in Leyte will not exacerbate global warming.
The study concluded that while the study area cannot absorb all the annual C02
emissions of the power plants, the amount of Carbon stored in the reservation as
well as the Carbon to be sequestered for 25 years will more than offset the total
Carbon that the power plants will emit in 25 years. The results of the study shall be
used to estimate the Carbon stocks and rate of carbon sequestration of the entire
Leyte geothermal reservation.
- 54 -



vii.   Recruiting  consultants  to  assist  with  project  implementation.  The
outcome/achievement of the component was highly satisfactory. For its technical
assistance requirements, PNOC-EDC hired consultants with extensive experience in
the development and construction of geothermal fields and power plants. The
contract was originally bid out for the Leyte Cebu geothermal project and was
subsequently amended to include the work under the Leyte Luzon project.  The
same firm was also hired to provide consultancy services for other fields such as
geoscientific, drilling and power engineering.
In accordance with World Bank requirements, PNOC-EDC also hired the services of
an overall project manager with extensive experience in operations and project
management
viii.   Construction of a 7 km steamline interconnecting all of the power plant steam
collection systems so that it could function as one integrated network equipped
with invaluable operational and production flexibility. (Additional
Component). Outcome/achievement of this component is satisfactory. Phase I,
which connects Upper Mahiao to Mahanagdong was completed in June 2000. The
entire interconnection project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2000.
ix.    Updated reservoir assessment of the Leyte Geothermal Project to confirm the
viability of the steamline interconnection project. (Additional Component).
Outcome/achievement of this component is satisfactory. The study was completed
on December 31, 1999 and confirmed PNOC-EDC's strategy in the exploitation of
the Leyte Geothermal Reservoir.
Execution of BOT contracts with private sector companies to construct and operate 440 MW
geothermal power plants.
The outcome/achievement of this component was satisfactory.
PNOC-EDC entered into the following BOT agreements to provide 383 MW capacity for
export to Luzon via the Leyte-Luzon link constructed by NPC:
Malitbog Power Plant - 2 x 77 M1W, at one station. A 10 year BOT contract was awarded
in September 1993 to construct and operate a 3 x 77 MW plant. The first unit intended for
the Leyte Cebu geothermal project was commissioned on July 25, 1996, while the 2nd and 3rd
units, intended to serve the Leyte Luzon Geothermal Project, were commissioned on July
25, 1997. Construction and installation of the 2 units was on schedule.
Mahanagdong A and B Power Plants - 3 x 60 MW, at two stations. A 10 year BOT contract
was awarded in July 1994 to construct and operate a 3 x 60 MW generation facility split over two
sites. Construction and installation were on schedule and the BOT contractor had little difficulty in
meeting the deadline for commercial operation on July 25, 1997.
Optimization Plants, 49 MW, at 3 stations. A further 49 MW of geothermal power is being
obtained from topping and bottoming plants resulting from field optimization studies. This 49 MW
consists of:
* A single 17.3 MW non-condensing HP turbine upstream of the existing Tongonan I
power plant (Tongonan I Topping Cycle);
* 3 x 6.4 MW non-condensing steam turbines upstream of each of the Mahanagdong A
and B power plants (Mahanagdong A and B Topping Cycles); and
- 55 -



* a 14.6 MW low pressure condensing steam turbine downstream of the Malitbog Power
Plant (Malitbog Bottoming Cycle).
All of the optimization power plants were bid out as a single BOT package. Construction work
was on schedule and the plants were progressively commissioned in late 1997 and early 1998.
Reduction in Capacity. The reduced installed capacity of 383 MW brought about by the
cancellation of the Alto Peak sector development turned out to be sufficient to meet and even
exceed NPC's annual contracted requirements of 3,000 GwH due to the higher power plant
efficiencies of BOT power plants (compared with existing NPC power plant efficiencies).
Conversely, the reduction in installed capacity served to improve the financial viability of the
project.
Project Cost and Financing. The total cost of the project amounted to US$844.83 Million including
interest during construction and was financed by (a) World Bank Loan 3747 for US$55.69 Million
(6.6% of total); (b) internal cash generation of US$122.53 Million equivalent (14.5% of total); (c)
Jexim cofinancing loan of US$55.69 equivalent (6.6% of total); (d) a grant from the Global
Environment Facility through the Global Environmental Trust Fund (GET) for US$15 Million
equivalent (1.8% of total); (e) 3 BOT contracts for the generating plants totaling US$577.6 Million
(68% of total); and (f) World Bank Loan 3164 or the Energy Sector Loan for US$8.48 Million (1%
of total).
The project's overall financing requirement inclusive of interest during construction was 13% lower
than appraisal estimates mainly due to the reduced actual cost of steamfield development by 18%
and the BOT power plants by 7%.
PNOC-EDC Geothermal Development. The cost of PNOC-EDC's geothermal development
amounted to US$257.4 Million, 18% less than appraisal estimates of US$315.5 Million, despite the
additional component of a steamline interconnecting the different power plant reservoirs. The
reduction in cost was mainly due to the cancellation of the development of the Alto Peak Sector, the
reduction of wells drilled from the programmed 65 to 59, and lower actual costs obtained as a result
of competitive bidding. Savings in loan drawdown on the other hand were due to the undertaking by
administration of civil and structural works and in-house drilling of approximately 50% of the
programmed wells.
Significant cost overruns were incurred in the costs of pipes and fittings due to changes in design;
the cost of engineering and supervision due to the cost of the project director's contract and technical
services consultancy contract, both of which were not accounted for in the SAR estimates; and the
cost of engineering and management which, as in the Leyte Cebu Project, was underestimated.
BOT Power Plants._The total cost of the 3 contracts with private power producers amount to
US$577.6 Million which was 7% lower than the appraisal estimate of US$620.4 Million.
Of the $114 Million World Bank Loan, only $55.69 was disbursed. $49.67 Million was
cancelled from the loan on April 20, 1999 because of the (a) discontinued development of the 80
MW Alto Peak Sector; (b) use of PNOC-EDC owned rigs to drill some of the wells thus making
corresponding expenses ineligible for funding under the loan; and (c) undertaking of civil and
structural works in-house by PNOC-EDC in order to complete the project on schedule. An additional
$8 Million was cancelled from the remaining loan amount on June 26, 2000 after the Bank denied
PNOC-EDC request to reimburse its in-house rig costs from the loan.
- 56 -



Similar cancellations of JPY5,195.4 Million (US$49.67 equivalent) and JPY500 (US$4.67
Million equivalent) were cancelled from the Jeximbank Loan on July 30, 1999 and June 26, 2000,
respectively.
The SDR 10.8 Million GEF Grant, on the other hand, was fully utilized by March 31, 2000
and fully disbursed by July 31, 2000.
Financial Rate of Return. It was noted that the Project Financial Rate of Return (Annex 15,
page 5) tables in the SAR for the Leyte Luzon Geothermal Project are identical to those
presented in the SAR of the Leyte Cebu Geothermal Project and that there has obviously
been some error in the compilation of the Leyte Luzon SAR.
Nevertheless, the re-evaluated Financial Rate of Return is 9.1% under the following major
assumptions:
1.    Levelized cash flow computations were based on 1999 cost levels
2.    Electricity sales revenues based on Leyte PPA Nominated Energy of 3,000 GwH
(Yr. 1997-first 7 mos. Of 1999 and last 5 months of Yr. 2000 and beyond) and 3,145
GwH (last 5 months of 1999 - first 7 months of Yr. 2000)
3.    Electricity selling price based on Leyte Luzon PPA BER of P1.55 per KwH (N. E.
of 3,000 GwH) and unified Leyte A PPA BER of P1.581 (N. E. of 3,145 Gwh)
Electricity Sales revenues based on Leyte A PPA Contracted Energy of 3,000 GwH
4.    ECA fees based on actual Nominated Capacities for Malitbog (2 units),
Mahanagdong and Optimization Power Plants with VAT in 1997 and 1998.
5.    Royalty and income tax on steam operations based on a steam price of P0.33 per
KwH.
6.    PD 1442 still in effect with no amendatory legislation for additional fiscal incentives
for geothermal
7.    Power plant depreciation after takeover using double declining method.
8.    Corporate income tax rates: 1997 = 35%; 1998 = 34%; 1999 = 33%; 2000 and
beyond = 32%.
B. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
a.    Factors Outside the Control of Government or Implementing Agency
Delay in completion of NPC Component. NPC's component of the Leyte Luzon
geothermal project was completed only on August 2, 1998, (13 months after the
completion of Leyte Luzon's main plants) due to difficulties encountered in land
purchases and acquisition of right of ways.
Asian Financial Crisis. The Asian Financial Crisis, as stated in the Leyte Cebu
ICR was a significant external factor beyond the control of the government and the
implementing agency. The sharp devaluation of the Philippine Peso and its
consequent downward effect on the Philippine economy and therefore power
demand has had a significant impact on PNOC-EDC's financial status.
b.    Factors Generally Subject to Government Control
Passage of Omnibus Power Sector Reform Bill. The Omnibus Power Sector Reform Bill involves
the restructuring of the Power sector and the privatization of the National Power Corporation, aimed
at creating competitive electricity markets to drive down electricity prices, shifting market risks to
the private sector and relieving government of the heavy burden of financing the sector.
- 57-



The versions in the lower house (namely, HB 8457- Electricity Industry Reform Act) and 4 bills in
the Upper House (namely, SB 1712 - Creation of the National Transmission Company; SB 1621 -
Amending the DOE Law; SB 1943 - Amending EO 172 Creating the Energy Regulatory Board);
and SB 2000 (Electric Power Industry Policy Act) have been separately approved by the House of
Representatives and Senate and are currently being taken up jointly by a Bicameral Conference
Committee. The bicameral sessions have since been suspended due to the failure of the House and
Senate panels to reconcile several contentious issues including the legal entanglements arising from
the Senate's decision to tackle the privatization and restructuring in 4 separate bills. The passage of
the reconciled versions of the bill is expected to be achieved not earlier than September 2000.
Impact of Omnibus Power Sector Reform Bill on PNOC-EDC. Under HB 8457, NPC shall be
spun off into 6 generation companies (GenCos) wherein NPC shall allocate responsibilities for its
liabilities, in forrn of equity, loans or contracts to spin-off companies. NPC shall also divest its
transmission and subtransmission assets to NTC (National Transmission Company). SB 2000
provides for a joint legislative and executive committee to determine the privatization of NPC. In
both cases, NPC's privatization may entail a review of PNOC-EDC's contracts with NPC to
determine the avenues to effect possible reduction in electricity prices.
SB 2000 also provides for the parity of tax treatment between indigenous and non-indigenous
sources of energy which is a favorable aspect for PNOC-EDC as it results in a material reduction in
geothermal steam prices making it more competitive with other sources of energy. Lastly, SB 2000
also specifies that the privatization of hydro and geothermal generating systems shall be deferred
until the privatization of all other generating systems has been completed.
c.    Factors Generally Subject to Implementing Agency Control
Competence and Professionalism of BOT Contractors. BOT contractors engaged were of high
professional caliber and the construction of the power plants were carried out in a highly efficient
and competent manner resulting in their timely completion.
Extensive Experience of PNOC-EDC in Steamfield Development. PNOC-EDC's extensive
experience and competence in steamfield development allowed for timely and cost-efficient
completion of the project.
A.    Sustainability
The project's sustainability during is project life is likely with prudent management of the
geothermal reservoir. An independent resource re-assessment conducted 6 months after the
commencement of commercial exploitation of theLeyte reservoir advised that the following
actions be undertaken to ensure sustainability of the reservoir:
1.    The design and construction of the steamline interconnection assume top priority so
that the existing excess in available steam within the Tongonan production sectors
can be utilized in Mahanagdong or in other fields which may henceforth show
capacity decline.
2.    The current shortfall in steam supply to the Mahanagdong plants should continue to
be made up by drilling new wells from existing production well pads in the
Mahanagdong steamfield and by the workover of existing wells that show signs of
chemical scaling
3.    Numerical simulation models of the Tongonan and Mahanagdong reservoirs should
be completed so that future trends in steam availability may be predicted and
- 58 -



reservoir management strategies can be developed to optimize energy recovery from
the entire Leyte geothermal project.
Initial simulation studies conducted in the early 1990s indicated that maintenance
and replacement wells would be immediately required within the first few years of
commercial production of the greater Tongonan field.  Based on the simulation
results, as many as 12 make-up and replacement wells would be required within the
first year of production, 6 of which would be in Mahanagdong. However, based on
actual operations of the field, only 2 wells were drilled in Mahanagdong since
commissioning in 1997, and no additional drilling has been required in the other
sectors. Furthermore, except in Mahanagdong, the capacities of the plant have been
maintained without well workovers. Drillout of blockages caused by mineral
deposition were undertaken in Mahanagdong wells to sustain the individual well
capacities. Results therefore indicate that the simulation study provided a more
conservative figure in terms of the number of well requirement and cost of M&R
drilling.
The updated simulation study currently being carried out for Tongonan and
Mahanagdong is ongoing as of report's writing. Although preliminary matches
were already obtained between actual data and simulation model, there is still a need
to come up with a more accurate representation of the field in order to provide a
more reliable prediction of the field performance over the life of the plants. The
modeling study is further complicated by the intense dynamism of the reservoir
wherein significant changes in reservoir behavior are still occurring since the
commencement of commercial exploitation in 1996. It therefore appears that the
field has still not stabilized since commercial operation commenced. Nevertheless,
the simulation study is proceeding smoothly and PNOC-EDC expects to complete
the matching within the year.
Difficulty in completing the earlier simulation study byPNOC-EDC is also due to
the lack of pre- and post-graphics processors of the simulation software which will
aid in the evaluation of the simulation runs. The graphics processors will provide
visual representation of the simulation runs during modeling and will speed up the
run analyses. This was partly addressed with the acquisition in April 1999 of a pre-
processor through the GEF fund.  PNOC-EDC is currently sourcing out and
evaluating possible post-processors which PNOC-EDC can use to further accelerate
the simulation study completion.
Transitional Arrangements for Future Operations. The BOT plants will be turned over to
PNOC EDC in 2007. PNOC-EDC in the meantime has formed a Power Department in
charge of monitoring the maintenance and operation of these plants and will be instituting in
the next 2 years a formal training program for its personnel in the maintenance and
operations of these plants. The BOT contracts further provide for training of PNOC-EDC
personnel 1 year prior to the formal turn-over.
Performance Indicators. Indicator of the performance of the project is annual nominated
energy or annual available energy.
- 59 -



D. Bank and Borrower's Performance
Bank. Bank's performance was satisfactory.
Borrower.  The borrower's performance was satisfactory. All project components and
obligations were carried out and completed either on or ahead of schedule. Procurement and
disbursement was carried out satisfactorily with a few exceptions since the borrower was
familiar with the Bank's procurement and disbursement guidelines.
E. Lessons Learned
1.    The BOT financing mode versus other financing modes that could have been made
available by the World Bank to PNOC-EDC is expensive. In addition, the resultant
shorter term BOT contracts (10 years) and the longer term electricity sales contract
(25 years) result in a financing gap which has to be managed by sourcing out bridge
financing and implementation of prudent financial management.
2.    For BOT projects and all other projects with innovative financing modes, the
treatment of the components that make up financial covenants agreed upon should
be clearly defined in the loan agreement to prevent future ambiguities and possible
default by borrower.
- 60 -



Annex 13
LEYTE LUZON GEOTHERMAL PROJECT
BORROWER'S DRAFT IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
NATIONAL POWER CORPORATION
A. STATEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
Project Background
The five indigenous energy sources that could be developed potentially during the conceptual
stage of the project were coal, hydropower, geothermal, oil, and natural gas with the following
general considerations:
*  Geothermal reserves are not yet fully evaluated but its power potential is expected to exceed
6,000 MW. About 1,000 MW are already produced and another 640 MW can be
immediately developed to support the Leyte-Luzon and Leyte-Cebu interconnections.
*  Proven oil reserves amount to only 4 million tons and have been declining.
*  Discovery of natural gas offshore of Palawan which is expected to provide 8 trillion cubic
feet; but requires substantial exploration to confirm the size of the deposit and its economic
viability.
-  Total coal reserves are estimated at about 1,500 million tons but most of this coal is low
grade and expensive to mine.
-  Hydro resources are quite substantial, with a theoretical power potential in excess of 10,000
MW but the better sites are not readily accessible requiring longer tie lines. In addition, their
development has become uncertain given environmental concerns; higher initial capital
investment and long development period; and, resistance of affected residents and guerilla
activities in the remote areas. As a result, no single project has been completed in the last
decade. There are various proposed run-of-river small hydro projects but those feasible
could not add more than 300 MW to the system.
Consequently, the most promising and sustainable indigenous source, considered during the
project conceptual stage, came out to be the geothermal energy.
The projected increase in the growth of Gross Domestic Product (GDP) from 3.5% per annum
between 1990 to 1995 to 5.5% per annum between 1995 to 2000 is expected to result in the rise of
energy consumption by 6.4% per annum. This expectation would prove the need and would warrant
the development and implementation of a generation expansion program.
Because of the above considerations, the selection of the geothernal fields in Tongonan,
Leyte to be the indigenous source for power generation became most appropriate. The geothermal
field is found to be capable of supporting the steam requirement of geothermal power plants with a
total combined capacity of 640 MW. With this available capacity, the interconnection of the island
of Leyte to the Cebu-Negros-Panay grid and to the Luzon grid is required to warrant the full
utilization of the energy that will be produced. Thus, the power development scheme consisting of
the Leyte-Luzon and the Leyte-Cebu Interconnection Projects by the National Power Corporation
(NPC or the Borrower); and, the Leyte Geothermal Plants by both the Philippine National Oil
Company (PNOC) and its subsidiary, the Energy Development Corporation (EDC) was realized.
- 61 -



Project Objectives
The main objectives of the Leyte-Luzon Interconnection Project under IBRD Loan No. 3746-
PH of the World Bank (WB or the Bank) are as follows:
1. Meet the rapidly increasing demand for Luzon using indigenous and environmentally superior
geothermal energy;
2. Strengthen the energy sector by implementing institutional, planning and financial
improvements recommended by the Energy Sector Plan (ESP);
3. Support the large ongoing private sector participation in the power generation, and facilitate it by
extending the national grid;
4. Strengthen the Borrower's capabilities in environmental and social impact analysis;
5. Introduce expanded co-financing operation (ECO) financing in the Philippines; and
6. Ensure the viability of NPC and PNOC for undertaking a long overdue investment program.
PNOC will be responsible both for the development of the steamfield resource and for
electricity generation on the basis of Build, Own and Transfer (BOT) contracts with private sector
companies to construct 440 MW geothermal power plants. On the other hand, NPC will be
responsible for the transmission of power from the Leyte Geothermal fields of PNOC to the Luzon
Grid using High Voltage Direct Current (HVDC).
The very serious power crisis experienced by the country from 1991 to 1992 made the funding
of the Leyte-Luzon Geothermal Project by the Bank very timely and most welcome. The Project's
objectives are consistent with the Government's highest priority, i.e., to reform and improve the
energy sector.
Project Components
There are two major and distinct projects covered by the loan, namely:
1. The Leyte-Luzon Interconnection Project - this involves the interconnection ofLeyte and Luzon
islands to transmit 440 MW at 350 kV monopolar facility to the Luzon Grid through a HVDC
transmission network, consisting of (a) Submarine Cables; (b) Converter, Electrode & Cable
Terminal Stations; and (c) Overhead Transmission Lines & Electrode Lines. This project covers
a distance of nearly 500 km. Since the HVDC power transmission is a new technology in the
country, the services of consultants were tapped to assist in the implementation.
2. The Naga-Tayabas Rehabilitation Project - this involves the rehabilitation of the 205 km. extra
high voltage (EHV or 500 kV) overhead transmission lines between Naga and Tayabas
Substations in Luzon Island. The original line was completed in 1987 but extensive damages due
to typhoons and pilferage were incurred afterwards, thus needing such rehabilitation. This
project will reinforce the transfer capability in the Bicol Region (Southern Luzon) and to
transmit power from Bicol to the Luzon Grid. This line is therefore is a vital link of theLeyte-
Luzon HVDC Power Transmission Line. The Naga-Tayabas section is actually the 2nd phase of
the Naga-Kalayaan 500 kV Rehabilitation Project, after having completed rehabilitation of the
Kalayaan-Tayabas section (1st phase) which was energized in February 1996.
-62 -



B. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
Physical Objectives
The Leyte-Luzon Interconnection Project successfully achieved its objectives by completing
the following:
(a) Construction of two (2) converter stations (one in Ormoc, Leyte Island and the other in Naga,
Luzon Island) and related remote electrode stations; construction of two (2) cable terminal
stations (also one in Cabacungan, Leyte Island and the other in Matnog, Luzon Island). These
were completed on November 5, 1997 and were energized on March 17, 1998.
(b) Installation of about 23 km. submarine cables linking the cable terminal stations inLeyte and
Luzon Islands. The installation of submarine cables was completed two (2) months ahead of
schedule. As early as February 28, 1997, the installation of the cables was already completed.
This was energized much later on March 17, 1998 upon the completion of the overhead
transmission lines and electrode lines.
(c) Construction of 468 km (187 km in Luzon & 281 km in Visayas) of HVDC overhead
transmission lines from the two converter stations to their respective cable terminal stations, and
construction of electrode lines linking the two converter stations to the electrode stations.
Completion was delayed mainly due to ROW problems.
As a whole, this interconnection project commenced on June 15, 1994. The original target
completion of the project was on June 30, 1997, to meet the target operation date of July 25, 1997
based on the signed agreement between NPC and PNOC. Because of the several factors causing the
delays, NPC and PNOC eventually moved the target completion to November 29, 1997.
Physical completion of the entire project was achieved in November 1997 and switch-on
ceremonies were held on December 13, 1997. The actual energization was accomplished later on
March 17, 1998 and actually delivered power to the Luzon grid in limited capacity as its test and
commissioning phase started. The system tests were also delayed due to various reasons, foremost of
which, was the systems limitations of the existing system ofNPC that prevented the full testing and
commissioning. Consequently, all tests were declared completed on August 10, 1998 and
commercial operation officially commenced on August 11, 1998.
Likewise, the Naga-Tayabas Rehabilitation Project successfully achieved its objectives. The
rehabilitation works between Naga and Tayabas in Luzon Island started in April 1997 and completed
in April 1998. With this, the reinforcement of power transfer capability in the Southem Luzon has
been realized, with the line now serving as a vital link of the Leyte-Luzon HVDC Transmission
Line.
During the early implementation of the Leyte-Luzon Interconnection Project, the Japanese
Yen greatly appreciated against the US Dollar, affecting the contracts denominated in Yen,
exhausting the amount originally allocated. As a result, the Bank could not issue its commitment to
support portion for the rehabilitation of theNaga-Tayabas Transmission Line under the Leyte-Luzon
loan. As the Bank itself recommended, the project was eventually lined-up for funding under the
Transmission Grid Reinforcement Loan (TGRL), WB Loan No. IBRD 3996-PH. Hence, the
contracts for the supply of power conductors, overhead groundwires and optical groundwires were
excluded from the Leyte-Luzon loan and included in the TGRL The rehabilitation works proper, was
maintained under the Leyte-Luzon loan.
- 63 -



It should be noted that the preparation of designs for a hydroelectric power project at
Casecnan in Luzon Island was cancelled and the preparation of Feasibility Study became the
responsibility of NIA as lead agency for the Casecnan Project.
Financial Objectives
The original project cost, based on the Bank's allocation, was US$ 365 Million. Funds were
sourced out from the WB, Japan-Eximbank, Swedish Board for Investment and Technical Support
(BITS) Grant, Global Environment Trust (GET) Grant and ECO-financing loan. However, due to
various variation orders to meet existing field conditions and increase in the payment of ROW
claims incurred during construction, the actual project cost increased to US$ 473 Million (nearly
30% more than the appraisal estimate).
The submarine cables, overhead transmission lines and consultancy services were funded by
WB, Japan-EximBank and GET Grant. The converter and electrode stations were funded under the
ECO-Loan and BITS Grant
On June 6, 1995, the Bank agreed to NPC's request for reallocation of loan, increasing the
available fund for contracts for the installation of submarine cables, overhead transmission lines and
consultancy services for the Leyte-Luzon Interconnection Project. Cost changes were due to the
following:
*  Increase in actual length of the submarine cables as well as the need for cable protection.
*  Various ROW problems and re-routing of the lines due to unsuitable soil conditions.
*  Increase in the administrative and engineering costs provided in the Power Crisis Act of 1993
*  Variation Orders due to field changes to meet existing conditions
Perhaps, one the more notable feats was that the loan did not require extension beyond the
original closing date of June 30, 1999. The project, on the average, was physically completed around
1-1/2 year before closing date, giving ample time to process remaining disbursements from the loan.
While the loan agreement noted that the project was expected to be completed by June 30, 1998, the
project was physically completed by the end of 1997.
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
The major problems encountered during the implementation of the Project were as follows:
1. Delay in the effectivity of loan and contracts:
(a) Due to delays in complying with the loan pre-conditionalities, the contract effectiveness of
all major project components were affected. From contract signing, it took 303 cal. days for
the submarine cables contract to become effective (168 cal. days for the overhead lines
contract, and 127 cal days for the stations contract). This resulted to the movement of the
project target completion date, based on the NPC-PNOC Power Purchase Agreement (PPA)
and the Loan Agreement, from July 25, 1997 to November 29, 1997.
(b) Postponement of bidding schedules in order to: i) incorporate additional provisions/contract
specifications required by the Bank, ii) accommodate complaints and clamor of bidders aired
through the Bank, and iii) conduct re-bidding because of substantial variations between the
Borrower and Bank estimates.
- 64 -



(c) Prolonged effectivity of the contracts following the Bank's strong stand not to issue the
special commitment which is required to establish the Letter of Credit, without the
Borrower's compliance on the power rate restructuring for Visayas and Mindanao.
(d) Re-allocation of funds for some contracts having Japanese Yen currency contract
denominations due to the appreciation of the Japanese Yen against the US Dollar. With this
re-allocation, financing of some projects had to be withdrawn from the loan, such as the
Feasibility Study of Casecnan Hydroelectric Project and the supply contracts for the
rehabilitation of the Naga-Tayabas EHV Transmission Line.
2. Delay during project construction and test/commissioning:
(a) The foremost problem during construction was ROW. There was minimal lead-time
allocated for ROW acquisitions, and inconsistent policies on ROW valuation/acquisition of
land and land rights, among others.
(b) Problems that are direct offshoots of some deficiencies in the specifications.
(c) Suspension of the test and commissioning from May 4 to 17, 1998, in compliance with the
directive of the "Task Force Halalan (Election)" of the System Operations, to maintain the
grid security and stability during the critical phase of the Presidential election in the country.
(d) Deferment of the schedule of testing for reasons of national security, to likewise maintain
systems stability and security during the turnover of the reigns of the government from the
previous to the present administration.
(e) Deferment of the energization of Line I of the Naga-Tayabas EHV T/L Project. This line is
needed for the full power test and over-load test.
(f) Limitation on time for the testing of the HVDC system due to systems limitations. For
instance, testing had to be scheduled on very early mornings, with limited time of only one
hour and only on specific days of the week - even while test actually required from 2 to 4
hours.
(g) Replacement of defective thyristor valve resistors and converter transformer
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
The Leyte-Luzon HVDC Transmission Line project has been in commercial operation since
August 11, 1998. Presently, Luzon is benefited with up to 440 MW power supply from the Leyte
Geothermal fields of PNOC. The completed project also assures Luzon of continuous and reliable
power supply using an environmentally preferable indigenous source.
The project is ensured of continued support by the government to maintain the achievements
done, considering that the project is in line with the government thrust as follows:
*  Sustained power development - there is enough steam economically and financial viable to
sustain energy production during the economic life of the geothermal plants.
*  Promotion of private sector participation in energy projects - the generation facilities were
contracted by private power utilities. Potential private players will have a bigger market with
the expansion of the national grid.
-65 -



*  Utilization of indigenous resources and reduction of dependency on oil fired plants - the
Philippines is rich in geothermal steam and with its full development, the country could save
its dollar reserves which would have been allocated for importation of oil.
*  Favors use of environmentally superior power facilities - the submarine cable is non-
pollutant as compared to a thermal plant (if one such plant must have to be installed instead
of a submarine cable to serve the target area). The use of geothermal steam for power
generation, followed by re-injection of the effluent liquid and gases into the ground, is
environmentally superior to other fossil fuels because it produces much lower emission of
carbon dioxide, sulfite and nitrogen oxide.
E. BANK PERFORMANCE
The performance of the Bank in this project is satisfactory. The Bank exerted diligent efforts
in assisting to reform NPC, and the energy sector, in general. The Bank, through the completed
project, helped to alleviate the power crisis, expand base load power capacity and assist the
Borrower in expanding and reinforcing the required transmission system. With Bank's support, the
Government has already implemented far-reaching reforms in the power sector, as it has adopted
policies and strategies and made institutional improvements which conform to Bank policies.
Bank's intervention in the sector has been critical in helping define the improved policies and
actions in the Energy Sector Action Plan, establishing and strengthening the Borrower's finances and
institutional arrangements, improving its efficiency and promoting private sector generation of
power, to ensure a robust implementation of its power program. Bank's support has also been critical
in organizing the financial engineering required for the Leyte-Luzon Interconnection Project. By
completing the sector study "Toward Improvement Management of Environmental Impacts", the
Bank has also supported a balance between the country's energy development and sound
environmental practices.
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
The performance of the Borrower was generally satisfactory. During project preparations,
most requirements were readily submitted by the Borrower to the Bank which in turn readily gave its
No-Objections to the project implementation. Exception is made on the pre-condition requiringNPC
and Meralco to have a signed Power Purchase Agreement, which was delayed for eight months.
With the signing of the NPC-Meralco PPA in March 1995, the Borrower satisfactorily complied the
Bank's requirements for loan effectivity.
There were instances of postponement of bidding schedules in order to incorporate additional
provisions/contract specifications required by the Bank, thus causing delays in implementation.
Further, pre-qualification procedures of the Borrower were not effective enough to disqualify
contractors and suppliers which are financially unstable.
During project implementation, the Borrower experienced difficulties with perennial ROW
problems. The Borrower was not able to ensure timely acquisition of lands and ROW, causing delays
in erection/construction works. There were disagreements with landowners on the price of the
affected properties forcing the Borrower to file expropriation cases which took time to resolve in the
courts. Variation orders were implemented and affected financial performance. Some delays were
also attributed to other government agencies and even local government officials who intervened in
the process and aggravated the ROW acquisition.
- 66 -



G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
The overall outcome of the project was satisfactory. The project has achieved most of its
major objectives and is likely to maintain satisfactory results, with only a few minor shortcomings.
The project proved instrumental in fostering the development of geothermal resources in the
Philippines. It also served as an important catalyst is improving the sustainability of the overall
power sector through its efforts in effecting the financial recovery of the Borrower. More so, it must
be emphasized that such recovery is genuine in that it included electricity tariff increases with
automatic adjustment mechanisms, rather than relying on significant and distorting subsidies or
direct budgetary transfers from the government.
The main objective was achieved, i.e., to supply the Luzon grid with an initial power of 440
MW by harnessing the geothermal reserves of Leyte, representing a big step towards the ultimate
goal of interconnecting the different island grid into a single national grid to be known as the
Philippine National Grid. The project components as per SAR are successfully completed and
energized, to wit: (a) Submarine Cables, (b) Converter, Electrode & Cable Terminal Stations; and (c)
Overhead Transmission Lines & Electrode Lines.
Considering that the project commenced in June 1994, it was physically completed after
around 3-1/2 years in November 1997 and was in commercial operation after more than four (4)
years in August 1998. This shows the substantial period between physical completion, energization,
testing and commercial operation. But, overall, the delay was mainly due to extensive period
incurred for contract effectivity and ROW problems for the overhead transmission line contracts. It
should be noted that while the other major components such as the converter stations, cable
terminals stations and submarine cables were completed much earlier than the overhead transmission
lines, the test of the whole system test required the completion of the overhead lines.
The other objective of rehabilitating the Naga-Tayabas line, which is part of the backbone
transmitting energy from Southern Luzon to Manila was physically achieved. But financially, this
project showed how the currency fluctuations affect the appraisal estimates, requiring additional
funds outside the original loan to make possible the allocation of funds for the contracts under the
interconnection project, which is the primary loan component. Overall, the successful completion of
both projects indicated the flexibility of both Borrower and the Bank during difficult times.
H. FUTURE OPERATIONS
Damage to the transmission line and power interruption can be caused by explosion, fire,
typhoon or sabotage. These problems will be dealt with by regular inspection by a transmission line
monitoring group, and by an emergency response program. An effective and timely response to such
emergencies will require adequate manpower and transportation equipment. Regular clearing of the
transmission line route using labor will be required.
An alarming frequency of pilferage and sabotage of NPC transmission line facilities by
lawless elements threatens the continuous delivery of generated power. Much of the transmission
line route is far from military camps and detachments. A comprehensive and integrated program has
been formulated by the Borrower to encounter the problem of pilferage and acts of sabotage against
transmission lines and facilities. Part of the program generates public awareness, cooperation and
support in protecting NPC's transmission line facilities. It also grants monetary payments to
communities for overseeing the lines and for helping in the recovery of pilfered transmission line
materials or the apprehension and prosecution of pilferers/saboteurs.
A land management group will develop a land utilization or rehabilitation program along the
transmission line route, ensuring control of erosion in areas affected by the transmission line.
-67 -



Under the Borrower's restructured organization, there are two main groups, namely Core
Businesses and Non-core Businesses. The operation is classified under Core Businesses with 2 main
groups, namely Generation Company (GENCO) and Transmission Line Company (TRANSCO).
The Leyte-Luzon HVDC Transmission Line is presently handled by TRANSCO, and is responsible
for its adequate staffing, training, management, operation and maintenance. Presently, the
maintenance of the submarine cables is handled mainly by operations personnel based in the Luzon
side, specifically in Naga, Bicol Region.
In order to monitor future operation and development impact of the project, the following
performance indicators in the Luzon Grid are proposed to be monitored; a) Per Cent System losses
(energy output/energy input) b) Per Cent System Reliability (energy supplied to distribution
system/energy to be supplied to distribution system; and c) Frequency deviation (number of days per
year which recorded more than 40 times of system frequency beyond control target of 60+/- 0.3 Hz).
In the 1990 Long-Range Power Transmission Study submitted by NPC Consultants, the
Leyte-Luzon HVDC Transmission Line will be uprated from 440 MW to 880 MW in the near future.
I. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
To avoid, or at least minimize, recurrence of the problems experienced during the
implementation of the project, the following measures are recommended:
1. During Tendering and Award of Contract:
(a) Design and pre-construction activities must be well planned and coordinated to assure
completed and accuracy of inputs to technical specifications.
(b) Cost estimates must be thoroughly reviewed and evaluated before conduct of bidding.
(c) Borrower and the Bank should mutually work out solutions to speed up approval of bid
evaluation results and issuance of disbursement clearances.
(d) The preparation of technical specifications must undergo a thorough study, investigation and
evaluation .
(e) The scope of work for each contract pay item must be clearly defined to avoid variation
orders.
(f) For projects containing complex technical component, available references and studies
should be ascertained if these are suitable for project appraisal.
2. During Project Construction
(a)    The solution to ROW problem should be prioritized in terms of policies and guidelines
acceptable to affected landowners.
(b)    ROW activities should be given appropriate lead time depending on the size of the
project and the expected magnitude of ROW efforts (from 2 to 4 years or more if needed),
thus providing a modicum of assurance that the ROW is acquired prior to the start of
construction activities.
-68 -



(c)    A common schedule of values for all affected improvements and the different
classification of land usage for each project should be adopted, as a matter of policy, to
expedite ROW claims.
(d)    A  system  of instructions and procedures delineating all the required steps and
documentation for all types of claims should be developed and implemented.
(e)    Inter-office or inter-agency coordination should be standardized to facilitate processing
of problematic ROW claims, i.e. expropriation cases, legal action, appraisal, registration of
deed, registration of title/untitled lands, etc.
(f)    Full support of other government agencies involved in the processing of ROW
documents should be secured, particularly for the speedy court decisions on expropriation
cases.
(g)    There must be adequate and qualified personnel to handle negotiations and expropriation
cases.
(h)    When procurement contracts contain materials that experiences sudden, unexpected
increase in price on world markets, Bank and Borrower should mutually exert efforts to
minimize the time of bid processing and evaluation to be able to award the contract
promptly.
3. For the Borrower to maintain sufficient cash flows to service satisfactorily future borrowing, it
must continue to insure that tariff levels are broadly in line with the Long-Run Marginal Cost
(LRMC) of generation and transmission and that all user groups are charged a tariff that matches
the average LRMC of generation and transmission.
4. The Borrower must continue to design power projects where the financial and economic benefits
are transparent and where subsidies from the Government are not required for any development
works.
-69 -



