Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
GET GRANT NUMBER TF-028649 PH
Global Environment Trust
Fund Grant Agreement
(Leyte-Luzon Geothermal Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
acting as Trustee of the Global Environment
Trust Fund
Dated September 12, 1994
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT TRUST FUND GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 12, 1994, between REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES (the 
"Recipient") and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT acting as 
Trustee (the "Trustee") of grant funds provided by Participants of the Global 
Environment Facility into the Global Environment Trust Fund (the "GET").
WHEREAS (A): The International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the 
"Bank") pursuant to Resolution No. 91-5 of March 14, 1991, of the Executive Directors 
of the Bank (the "Resolution"), established the Global Environment Facility consisting 
of the GET, Cofinancing Arrangements with the GET and the Ozone Projects Trust Fund, 
to assist in the protection of the global environment and promote thereby 
environmentally sound and sustainable economic development;
WHEREAS (B): Certain members of the Bank (the "Participants") have provided 
resources by way of grant into the GET and the Participants have requested the Bank, 
and the Bank has agreed, to administer such grant funds as Trustee, for the purposes 
of, and in accordance with, the provisions of the Resolution;
WHEREAS (C): The Recipient, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested 
assistance from the resources of the GET in the financing of the Project, and the 
Trustee has determined that such assistance would be in accordance with the provisions 
of the Resolution;
WHEREAS (D): By a Loan Agreement of even date herewith between the Recipient's 
National Power Corporation ("NPC") and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available 
to NPC an amount equivalent to one hundred thirteen million dollars ($113,000,000) to 
assist in financing part of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in said 
Page  2
Loan Agreement, and on the conditions set forth in the related Guarantee Agreement of 
even date herewith between the Recipient and the Bank;
WHEREAS (E): By a Loan Agreement of even date herewith between the Recipient's 
Philippine National Oil Company ("PNOC") and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make 
available to PNOC an amount equivalent to one hundred fourteen million dollars 
($114,000,000) to assist in financing part of the Project on the terms and conditions 
set forth in said Loan Agreement, and on the conditions set forth in the related 
Guarantee Agreement of even date herewith between the Recipient and the Bank and 
related Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and the Philippines 
National Oil Company -Energy Development Corporation ("PNOC-EDC");
WHEREAS (F): The Trustee has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the GET Grant to the Recipient upon the terms and conditions set forth in 
this Agreement.
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. (a) The following provisions of the General Conditions Applicable 
to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the 
modifications set forth in paragraph (b) of this Section (the "General Conditions") 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(i)
Article I;
(ii)
Sections 2.01 (1), (2), (3), (4), (6), (8), (9), (10), (11), (15), 
(18) and (20), 2.02 and 2.03;
(iii)
Section 3.01;
(iv)
Section 4.01 and the first sentence of Section 4.09;
(v)
Article V;
(vi)
Sections 6.01, 6.02 (a), (c), (d), (e), (f), (i) and (k), 6.03, 
6.04 and 6.06;
(vii)
Section 8.01 (b);
(viii)Sections 9.01 (a) and (c), 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09;
(ix)
Sections 10.01, 10.03 and 10.04;
(x)
Article XI; and
(xi)
Sections 12.01, 12.02, 12.03 and 12.04.
(b)
The General Conditions shall be modified as follows:
(i)
a new paragraph shall be added to the end of Section 2.01 to read 
as follows: "the term "Special Drawing Rights" and the symbol 
"SDR" mean special drawing rights as valued by the International 
Monetary Fund in accordance with its Articles of Agreement";
(ii)
the term "Bank", wherever used in the General Conditions, other 
than in Sections 2.01 (8) and 6.02 (f) thereof and the last use of 
such term in Section 5.01 thereof, means the Trustee except that 
in Section 6.02, the term "Bank" shall also include the 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development acting in 
its own capacity;
(iii)
the term "Borrower", wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the Recipient;
(iv)
the term "Loan Agreement", wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means this Agreement;
(v)
the term "Loan" and "loan" wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means the GET Grant; 
Page  3
(vi)
the term "Loan Account" wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the GET Grant Account.
(vii)
a new sub-paragraph shall be added after sub-paragraph (j) and 
before sub-paragraph (k) in Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions, as follows:
"An extraordinary situation shall have arisen in which any further 
disbursement under the GET Grant would exceed the resources available 
for disbursement from the GET."
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise 
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions, the Recitals to this 
Agreement, the NPC Loan Agreement and the PNOC Loan Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth, and the following terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"Category" means a withdrawal category set forth in the table in 
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
"Fiscal Year" means the twelve (12)-month period corresponding to any of 
the Recipient's financial years, which period commences on January 1 and ends on 
December 31 in each calendar year;
(c)
"NPC Subsidiary Grant Agreement" means the subsidiary grant agreement to 
be entered into between the Recipient and NPC pursuant to the provisions of Section 
3.02 (a) of this Agreement;
(d)
"PNOC Subsidiary Grant Agreement" means the subsidiary grant agreement to 
be entered into between the Recipient and PNOC pursuant to the provisions of Section 
3.02 (b) of this Agreement;
(e)
"NPC Guarantee Agreement" means the agreement of even date herewith 
between the Recipient and the Bank relating to the NPC Loan Agreement, as such may be 
amended from time to time; and such term includes all schedules and agreements 
supplemental to the NPC Guarantee Agreement;
(f)
"NPC Loan Agreement" means the agreement of even date herewith between 
the Bank and NPC pursuant to which the Bank has agreed to make a loan to NPC to assist 
in financing part of the Project, as such agreement may be amended from time to time; 
and such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the NPC Loan 
Agreement;
(g)
"PNOC Guarantee Agreement" means the agreement of even date herewith 
between the Recipient and the Bank relating to the PNOC Loan Agreement, as such 
guarantee agreement may be amended from time to time; and such term includes all 
schedules and agreements supplemental to the PNOC Guarantee Agreement;
(h)
"PNOC Loan Agreement" means the agreement of even date herewith between 
the Bank and PNOC pursuant to which the Bank has agreed to make a loan to PNOC to 
assist in financing part of the Project, as such agreement may be amended from time to 
time; and such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the PNOC 
Loan Agreement;
(i)
"PNOC-EDC Project Agreement" means the agreement of even date herewith 
between the Bank and PNOC-EDC relating to the PNOC Loan Agreement, as such project 
agreement may be amended from time to time; and such term includes all schedules and 
agreements supplemental to the PNOC-EDC Project Agreement; and
(j)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The GET Grant
Section 2.01. The Trustee agrees to make available to the Recipient, on the 
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agree-ment, the GET Grant in an 
amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty-one million six hundred thousand 
Special Drawing Rights (SDR21,600,000). 
Page  4
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the GET Grant may be withdrawn from the GET 
Grant Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Trustee shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for carrying out the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the GET Grant.
(b)
The Recipient shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain 
in dollars a special deposit account in Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Trustee, including appropriate protection against 
set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special 
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1999, or such later date as the 
Trustee shall establish. The Trustee shall promptly notify the Recipient of such later 
date.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall: (a) 
cause NPC to carry out Part A of the Project, and cause PNOC to ensure that PNOC-EDC 
shall carry out Part B thereof, in both cases (i) with due diligence and efficiency, 
(ii) in conformity with appropriate administrative, energy, engineering, financial and 
power utilities practices, and (iii) in accordance with appropriate safety, health and 
environmental standards acceptable to the Bank; and (b) provide, and cause each of NPC 
and PNOC to provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required for the Project.
Section 3.02. (a) The Recipient shall make available to NPC the proceeds of the 
GET Grant allocated to Category (1), on a grant basis under a subsidiary grant 
agreement to be entered into between the Recipient and NPC under conditions which 
shall have been approved by the Trustee.
(b)
The Recipient shall make available to PNOC the proceeds of the GET Grant 
allocated to Category (2), on a grant basis under a subsidiary grant agreement to be 
entered into between the Recipient and PNOC under conditions which shall have been 
approved by the Trustee.
(c)
The Recipient shall exercise its rights under each of the NPC Subsidiary 
Grant Agreement and PNOC Subsidiary Grant Agreement in such manner so as to protect 
the interests of the Recipient and the Trustee and to accomplish the purposes of the 
GET Grant, and except as the Trustee shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall not 
assign, amend, abrogate or waive the NPC Subsidiary Grant Agreement or the PNOC 
Subsidiary Grant Agreement, or any provision thereof.
Section 3.03. Except as the Trustee shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project, and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the GET Grant, shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 
3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Recipient shall maintain, or cause to be maintained, records and 
separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices 
the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the 
departments or agencies of the Recipient responsible for carrying out the Project or 
any part thereof.
(b)
The Recipient shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, including those for the Special Account, for each Fiscal 
Year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Trustee;
Page  5
(ii) 
furnish to the Trustee as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six (6) months after the end of each such year, the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Trustee shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Trustee such other information con-cerning said 
records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Trustee shall 
from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the GET Grant 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one (1) year after the Trustee has received 
the audit report for the Fiscal Year in which the last withdrawal 
from the GET Grant Account was made, all records (contracts, 
orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing 
such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Trustee's representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
Fiscal Year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
Section 4.02.  (a)  The Recipient shall cause each of NPC, PNOC and PNOC-EDC to 
maintain records and separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound 
accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
(b)  The Recipient shall cause each of NPC, PNOC and PNOC-EDC to:
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) 
for each Fiscal Year audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Trustee;
(ii)
furnish to the Trustee as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six (6) months after the end of each such year:  (A) 
certified copies of its financial statements for such year as so 
audited; and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Trustee shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Trustee such other information concerning such 
records, accounts and financial statements and the audit thereof 
as the Trustee shall from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Trustee
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Sections 6.02 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
The Recipient, or any other authority having jurisdiction, shall have 
taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of any of NPC or PNOC or 
PNOC-EDC or the suspension of any of their operations so as to materially and 
adversely affect the ability of NPC or PNOC or PNOC-EDC to carry out any of their 
respective obligations under the NPC Loan Agreement, the PNOC Loan Agreement or the 
PNOC-EDC Project Agreement.
(b) 
The right of NPC to withdraw any part of the proceeds of the NPC Loan 
under the NPC Loan Agreement shall have been suspended by the Bank.
Page  6
(c) 
The right of PNOC to withdraw any part of the proceeds of the PNOC Loan 
under the PNOC Loan Agreement shall have been suspended by the Bank.
(d) 
NPC shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the NPC 
Subsidiary Grant Agreement.
(e)
PNOC shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the PNOC 
Subsidiary Grant Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. This Agreement shall not become effective until evidence 
satisfactory to the Bank shall have been furnished to the Bank that:
(a) This Agreement has been fully executed on behalf of the Recipient and the 
Bank;
(b) 
All conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the NPC Loan Agreement 
have been fulfilled, other than those related to the effectiveness of this Agreement;
(c) 
All conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the PNOC Loan Agreement 
have been fulfilled, other than those related to the effectiveness of this Agreement;
(d) 
The NPC Subsidiary Grant Agreement has been executed on behalf of the 
Recipient and NPC; and
(e) 
The PNOC Subsidiary Grant Agreement has been executed on behalf of the 
Recipient and PNOC. 
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Trustee:
(a)
The NPC Subsidiary Grant Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified 
by each of the Recipient and NPC, and is legally binding upon the Recipient and NPC in 
accordance with its terms; and
(b)
The PNOC Subsidiary Grant Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified 
by each of the Recipient and PNOC, and is legally binding upon the Recipient and PNOC 
in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.04.  This Agreement shall continue in effect until the GET Grant has 
been fully disbursed and the parties to this Agreement have fulfilled all their 
obligations thereunder.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Recipient; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Secretary of Finance of the Recipient is designated as 
representative of the Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Recipient:
Secretary of Finance
Department of Finance
Manila
Republic of the Philippines
Cable address:
Telex:
SECFIN
40268
Page  7
Manila
CB-CONF
For the Trustee:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA),
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC).
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
By /s/ Raul Ch. Rabe
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
  Acting as Trustee of the
  Global Environment Trust Fund
By /s/ Callisto Madavo
Acting Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the GET Grant
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the GET Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the GET Grant to each 
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each 
Category:
  Amount of the
GET Grant Allocated
     % of
  (Expressed in
 Expenditure
Category
  SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Goods and
    10,400,000
26% of foreign
related expenditures 
for
installation
goods, 26% of
for Part A(1)(C)
local expenditures
(ex-factory cost)
for goods and 26%
for installation
services.
(2)
Consultants'
400,000
100%
services for
Part A(2) of
Page  8
the Project
(3)
Drilling services
    9,500,000
90%
for Part B (1) (a)
of the Project
(4)
Goods and
    1,300,000
100% of foreign
related
expenditures and
installation
and 100% of local
for Part B (1)(c)
expenditures (ex-
factory cost) for
goods and 100% for
installation
services.
TOTAL
   21,600,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) The term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Recipient for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b) The term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Recipient or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Recipient.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in aggregate amount not to exceed two million one hundred 
twenty-four thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 2,124,000) may be made on account of 
payments made for expenditures before that date but after October 1, 1993.
4.
The Trustee may require withdrawals from the GET Grant Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for goods, works 
and services not exceeding the equivalent of two hundred thousand dollars ($200,000), 
under such terms and conditions as the Trustee shall specify by notice to the 
Recipient.
5.
If the Trustee shall have determined at any time that any payment made from the 
GET Grant Account was used for any expenditure not consistent with the provisions of 
this Agreement, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Trustee, refund to 
the Trustee for deposit into the GET Grant Account, an amount equal to the amount so 
used or the portion thereof as specified by the Trustee.
SCHEDULE  2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to (1) strengthen the efficiency of the energy 
sector, (2) assist in meeting the rapidly increasing demand for electrical power 
within the Recipient's Luzon Island by expanding PNOC-EDC's geothermal power 
generation capacity and expanding and reinforcing NPC's systems for the transmission 
of geothermally generated electric power, (3) strengthen the institutional 
capabilities and financial viability of NPC and PNOC-EDC and (4) promote private 
sector participation in geothermal power generation projects within the Recipient's 
territory.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Recipient and the Trustee may agree upon from time to time to achieve 
such objectives:
Part A:  NPC
(1)  Carrying out of a program to interconnect the electrical power systems of Leyte 
and Luzon Islands with a high voltage direct current transmission network, consisting 
of:
(a)   Construction of a 440 megawatt 350 kilovolt monopolar facility, consisting 
of two converter stations, one at Ormoc in Leyte Island and the other at Naga in Luzon 
Island, and related remote electrode stations;
Page  9
(b)   Construction of two cable terminal stations, one at Cabacungan on Leyte 
Island and the other at Matnog on Luzon Island, and provision and installation of 
about 19 kilometers of high voltage direct current submarine cables across the San 
Bernardino Strait in order to link said terminal stations;
(c)   Construction of: (a) about 430 kilometers of twin circuit high voltage 
direct current overhead transmission lines from the two converter stations to be 
constructed under the Project to their respective cable terminal stations; and (b) 
electrode lines linking the two converter stations to be constructed under the Project 
and their respective remote electrode stations; and
(d)    Rehabilitation of the transmission line between Naga and Tayabas on Luzon 
Island.
(2) Carrying out of a program to strengthen the environmental and social engineering 
departments of NPC.
(3) Preparation of designs for a hydroelectric power project at Casecnan in Luzon 
Island.
Part B:  PNOC-EDC
(1)  Carrying out of a program to develop a 440 megawatt geothermal energy field on 
Leyte Island, consisting of the:
(a)  Drilling of about 65 producer and injector wells in the Malitbog, 
Mahanagdong and Alto-Peak sectors of the island, to develop geothermal resources;
(b)  Construction of steam gathering systems and power transmission systems to 
expand the island's geothermal capacity by 440 megawatts; and
(c)  Carrying out of a pilot program to recover and reinject carbon dioxide 
emitted from geothermal wells into geothermal reservoirs, consisting of drilling of 
injection wells and provision of surface processing and evacuation facilities and 
utilities.
(2)  Construction of a 440 megawatt geothermal power plant.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1998.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
1. 
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I 
and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published 
by the Bank in May 1992 (the "Guidelines").
2.
For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid referred to in paragraph 2.13 
of the Guidelines shall provide that, when contract award is delayed beyond the 
original bid validity period, the successful bidder's bid price will be increased for 
each week of delay by two (2) pre-disclosed correction factors acceptable to the 
Trustee, one to be applied to all foreign currency components and the other to the 
local currency component of the bid price. Such an increase shall not be taken into 
account in the bid evaluation.
3.
In the procurement of goods and works in accordance with this Part A, the 
Recipient shall use the relevant standard bidding documents issued by the Bank, with 
such modifications thereto as the Trustee shall have agreed to be necessary for the 
purposes of the Project.  Where no relevant standard bidding documents have been 
issued by the Bank, the Recipient shall use bidding documents based on other 
internationally recognized standard forms agreed with the Trustee.
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
Page  10
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in the territory of the Recipient may be granted a 
margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 
2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
Limited International Bidding:
Drilling services, high temperature equipment and materials required for 
geothermal development estimated to cost the equivalent of two million dollars 
($2,000,000) or less per contract up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the 
equivalent of fourteen million eight hundred thousand dollars ($14,800,000) may be 
procured under contracts awarded through limited international bidding procedures on 
the basis of evaluation and comparison of bids invited from a list of at least three 
qualified suppliers eligible under the Guidelines and in accordance with the 
procedures set forth in Sections I and II of the Guidelines (excluding paragraphs 2.8, 
2.9, 2.55 and 2.56 thereof).
Part D:
Review by the Trustee of Procurement Decisions
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
(a)
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of three 
million dollars ($3,000,000) or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to 
be made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that 
the two (2) conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Trustee 
pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Trustee prior to the making 
of the first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
said procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the Trustee 
pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Trustee as part of the evidence 
to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which withdrawals from the GET Grant Account are to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure.
2.
The figure of fifteen percent (15%) is hereby specified for purposes of 
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded to consultants:  
(A) whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be 
satisfactory to the Trustee; and (B) who shall be selected in accordance with 
principles and procedures satisfactory to the Trustee on the basis of the "Guidelines 
for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing 
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
The term "Eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2), (3) and (4) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
The term "Eligible Expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the GET Grant allocated from time to time to the Eligible 
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c) 
The term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to one 
Page  11
million dollars ($1,000,000) to be withdrawn from the GET Grant Account and deposited 
into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3. 
After the Trustee has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall furnish 
to the Trustee a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Trustee shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the GET Grant 
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Recipient 
shall have requested.
(b)
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Trustee requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Trustee shall specify.
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Trustee the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to para-graph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Trustee shall, on behalf of the 
Recipient, withdraw from the GET Grant Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount as the Recipient shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other 
evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for Eligible 
Expenditures. All such deposits shall  be withdrawn by the Trustee 
from the GET Grant Account under the respective Eligible 
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4. 
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the Recipient 
shall, at such time as the Trustee shall reasonably request, furnish to the Trustee 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures.
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Trustee 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a) 
If, at any time, the Trustee shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly from the GET Grant Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b) 
Once the total unwithdrawn amount of the GET Grant allocated to the 
Eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered 
into by the Trustee pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to 
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the GET Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount 
of the GET Grant allocated to the Eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as 
the Trustee shall specify by notice to the Recipient. Such further withdrawals shall 
be made only after and to the extent that the Trustee shall have been satisfied that 
all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such 
notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
6.
(a) 
If the Trustee shall have determined at any time that any payment out of 
the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Trustee, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Trustee: 
(A) provide such additional evidence as the Trustee may request; or (B) deposit into 
the Special Account (or, if the Trustee shall so request, refund to the Trustee) an 
amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or 
justified. Unless the Trustee shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Trustee 
into the Special Account shall be made until the Recipient has provided such evidence 
or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
Page  12
(b) 
If the Trustee shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
Eligible Expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Trustee, 
refund to the Trustee such outstanding amount.
(c) 
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Trustee, refund to the Trustee all 
or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d) 
Refunds to the Trustee made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the GET Grant Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
