                                        Document of
                                    The World Bank




                                                                  Report No: 32423

                         IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                             (SCL-45450 PPFB-P2291 PPFB-P2290)

                                           ON A

                                          LOAN

                           IN THE AMOUNT OF US$150 MILLION

                                          TO THE

                                 GOVERNMENT OF INDIA

                                         FOR THE

              UTTAR PRADESH POWER SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT




                                        May 24, 2005




Energy and Infrastructure Unit
South Asia Region

                            CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                              (Exchange Rate Effective )

                              Currency Unit = Indian Rupee (Rs.)
                                    Rs. 100 = US$ 2.28
                                  US$ 1.00 = Rs. 43.78

                                    FISCAL YEAR
                                  April 1   March 31

                       ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AP             Andhra Pradesh
AT&C           Aggregate technical and commercial
CAS            Country Assistance Strategy
CIDA           Canadian International Development Agency
Discoms        Distribution companies
EBITDA         Earnings Before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation and Amortization
EMP            Environmental Management Plan
ERR            Economic Rate of Return
ESMU           Environmental and Social Management Unit
FRP            Financial Restructuring Plan
FRR            Financial Rate of Return
FY             Fiscal Year
GOI            Government of India
GoUP           Government of Uttar Pradesh
GWh            Gigawatt-hour
IBRD           International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICR            Implementation Completion Report
IPP            Independent power producers
kV             Kilovolt
kWh            Kilowatt-hour
MU             Million unit (unit=1 kWh)
OPCS           Operations Policy and Country Services
PAD            Project Appraisal Document
QAG            Quality Assessment Group
SP&P           Social Policy and Procedures
T&D            Transmission and distribution
UP             Uttar Pradesh
UPERC          Uttar Pradesh Electricity Regulatory Commission
UPPCL          Uttar Pradesh Power Corporation, Ltd.
UPSEB          Uttar Pradesh State Electricity Board
VRS            Voluntary Retirement Scheme
WTP            Willingness to Pay

                             Vice President:    Praful C. Patel
                          Country Director      Michael F. Carter
                           Sector Manager       Penelope Brook
          Task Team Leader/Task Manager:        Pedro E. Sanchez

                                            INDIA
         UTTAR PRADESH POWER SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   4
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         4
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            8
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            14
6. Sustainability                                                                15
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 15
8. Lessons Learned                                                               18
9. Partner Comments                                                              19
10. Additional Information                                                       25
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             26
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             27
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             29
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             38
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             40
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                41
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            42
Annex 8. Financial Overview of the Power Sector                                  43

Project ID: P035172                                              Project Name: UTTAR PRADESH POWER SECTOR
                                                                 RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Team Leader: Pedro E. Sanchez                                    TL Unit: SASEI
ICR Type: Core ICR                                               Report Date: May 24, 2005


1. Project Data
                  Name: UTTAR PRADESH POWER SECTOR                            L/C/TF Number: SCL-45450; PPFB-P2291;
                          RESTRUCTURING PROJECT                                                 PPFB-P2290
    Country/Department: INDIA                                                          Region: South Asia Regional
                                                                                                Office

        Sector/subsector: Power (97%); Other social services (3%)
                 Theme: State enterprise/bank restructuring and privatization (P); Regulation
                          and competition policy (P); Infrastructure services for private sector
                          development (P); Pollution management and environmental health
                          (S); Participation and civic engagement (S)


  KEY DATES                                                             Original                Revised/Actual
          PCD: 11/02/1999                                  Effective: 08/11/2000                08/11/2000
      Appraisal: 11/11/1999                                    MTR: 10/01/2002                  10/01/2002
      Approval: 04/25/2000                                   Closing: 12/31/2004                12/31/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:       GOVERNMENT OF INDIA/UTTAR PRADESH POWER CORPORATION
                                        LTD. (UPPCL)
                    Other Partners:

STAFF                        Current                                       At Appraisal
Vice President:              Praful C. Patel                               Mieko Nishimizu
Country Director:            Michael F. Carter                             Edwin R. Lim
Sector Manager/Director:     Penelope J. Brook                             Alastair J. McKechnie
Team Leader at ICR:          Pedro E. Sanchez                              Mohinder Gulati
ICR Primary Author:          Michael Haney


1.1     The State of Uttar Pradesh, with a population of 166 million, is India's largest state and one of its
poorest. In terms of human development indicators, it ranks among the least developed states in the
country. While only 20% of the rural population has access to electricity, agriculture accounts for some
42% of Gross State Domestic Product and 75% of employment in the state. These basic facts about Uttar
Pradesh are important determinants of the dynamics of power sector reforms in the state.

1.2     The World Bank first provided support to the development of the power sector in Uttar Pradesh
(UP) through the Uttar Pradesh Power Project, approved by the Bank's Board of Executive Directors in
1988 in the amount of US$350 million; most of this amount was eventually cancelled. In the decade that
followed, various initiatives in support of power sector reform were started but no substantive progress was
made due to the political instability arising from frequent changes of government and the lack of support
for reform. In late 1997, a reformist government took office. Acknowledging the deep fiscal crisis and
economic stagnation in which the state found itself, the new government invited the Bank to collaborate in
the formulation and implementation of a broad-based program of economic reform.

1.3      These developments in UP coincided with the elaboration of the Bank's 1998 Country Assistance
Strategy that identified support to reforming states as a central component of the Bank's assistance to
India. Given Uttar Pradesh's size and disproportionately high level of poverty (it has been estimated that
8% of the world's poor live in UP, while the state's population is less than 3% of total world population),
the prevailing view at the time was that the state government's renewed reform focus represented an
opportunity for poverty reduction with global implications. The Bank responded to this opportunity with a
multifaceted program of technical advice and financial support.

1.4      The power sector enjoyed a prominence in the overall policy dialogue between Uttar Pradesh and
the Bank in view of its significant fiscal impact as well as important role in economic development. A
Bank economic report, India-Uttar Pradesh: From Fiscal Crisis to Renewed Growth (November 1998),
identified three factors as obstacles to growth and poverty reduction in Uttar Pradesh: (i) inadequate
infrastructure in general, and in particular shortages and unreliability in power supply, with the attendant
adverse effects on investment and growth in agriculture and industry; (ii) poor development of human
resources, the result of years of inadequate and ineffective spending on education and health; and (iii) a
decline in the quality of governance that raised transaction costs throughout the economy and negatively
affected the perceptions of businesses and external donors of the desirability of investing in the future of
Uttar Pradesh. It is of note that the power sector has linkages to all three of these factors that stifled
economic growth and frustrated efforts at poverty reduction in UP. In the case of the first and third factors,
the relationship is direct; in the case of the second factor, the relationship is indirect but indisputable, as the
significant fiscal resources consumed by the power sector were obviously not available to finance
expenditures on health and education.

1.5      The Uttar Pradesh Power Sector Restructuring Project was developed as an integral part of a
larger package of Bank assistance to UP that included the Uttar Pradesh Fiscal Reform & Public Sector
Restructuring Loan/Credit (Loan/Credit No. SCL-45460/IDA-33410), which was designed to address the
fiscal impact of power sector reforms (among others) through support to a medium-term fiscal framework.
The investment project (the subject of this ICR), which was presented to the Bank's Board of Executive
Directors together with the adjustment operation, was designed to complement the broad fiscal reform
efforts through specific investments in the context of a sector reform program (based in part on the
experiences of other states that were reforming their power sectors with World Bank support, Orissa,
Haryana and Andhra Pradesh). Both operations sought to support the transformation of the power sector
from a significant burden on the state budget and a constraint to economic development to a net
contributor to the state's budget and economy.

1.6      As detailed in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD), GoUP had demonstrated its willingness to
take difficult decisions and implement power sector reform through a number of actions: (i) a regulatory
commission was established in September 1998; (ii) in January 1999, GoUP issued a power sector policy
statement; (iii) the UP Electricity Reform Bill was enacted by GoUP in July 1999; and (iv) in January
2000, the UP State Electricity Board (UPSEB) was functionally separated into three companies: a thermal
generation company, a hydropower company, and a single company combining the transmission and
distribution systems (UP Power Corporation Limited, or UPPCL). It was expected that UPPCL would
soon be further unbundled into separate companies for transmission and distribution, and that some part
(perhaps all) of the distribution system would imminently be offered for sale to the private sector. These
were necessary, difficult first steps that called for the demonstration of steadfast political will. The mere
declaration of GoUP's intention to reform UPSEB provoked a strike by power sector employees in 1999
and again in January 2000 that attracted sympathy demonstrations by power sector employees in many
states across the country. With widespread public support for the proposed reforms and consensus across
the political spectrum, the Government of India and GoUP were able to resolve these strikes and maintain


                                                        - 2 -

the momentum of the reform program.

1.7      GoUP also prepared a provisional Financial Restructuring Plan (FRP) for the power sector in 1999
which sought to address the financial problems of the sector and restore its creditworthiness over several
years through a number of mechanisms: (i) cleaning-up of the UPSEB balance sheet and preparation of the
provisional opening balance sheets of the successor entities; (ii) budget and other forms of support in the
transition period; and (iii) debt rescheduling and large-scale debt write-off. (See Annex 8 for details on the
financial standing of the sector.) In March 2000 (i.e. before the presentation of the project to the Bank's
Board of Executive Directors), in a letter to the Bank GoUP stated its intention to allocate almost Rs 25
billion to the power sector during that year, which was a controversial decision that, in the event, was not
implemented.

1.8      Following project effectiveness in August 2000, the implementation of the reform program
diverged from the agreed schedule almost immediately. In the first year of project implementation, the
financing that GoUP provided to UPPCL was not in keeping with the commitments it had assumed and
which were important in securing the Bank's support. Some of GoUP's actions during that period
contradicted its stated goals for the reform of the power sector. For example, GoUP's decision to provide
escrows on the revenues of the distribution system to the benefit of independent power producers (IPPs)
who were expected to play an important role in the state's ambitious generation expansion plan (which in
the event did not materialize), was inconsistent with its policy of attracting the private sector to the
distribution business.

1.9      While the implementation of the physical investments financed under the loan proceeded in a
generally satisfactory fashion, the implementation of the sector reform program suffered from numerous
problems that worsened over time. In January 2003, the Bank suspended disbursements under the loan due
to non-compliance by GoUP and UPPCL with numerous covenants under the Loan Agreement and the
corresponding Project Agreements, including in particular those pertaining to: (i) payment of compensation
to individuals affected by the project, and submission of audit reports; (ii) provision of adequate financial
support by GoUP to the power sector; (iii) finalization of a satisfactory financial restructuring plan (which
was necessary to provide clean balance sheets to the successor entities); and (iv) the establishment of
distribution companies as entities separate from the transmission company. Suspension was lifted in
August 2003, upon completion of actions that were deemed sufficient to remedy these deficiencies,
including a revised FRP under which GoUP assumed additional liabilities from the power sector and
creation of four distribution companies.

1.10     Shortly following the lifting of the suspension, a new state government came to office in September
2003. The new government (apart from announcing a new power policy calling for increased private
participation in the sector) mandated an increase in the power supply to the rural areas from 8 to 14 hours
a day, considering this increase essential to support irrigation as well as for general social purposes. In the
absence of adequate compensation from the state budget, this decision by GoUP aggravated the utility's
already precarious financial condition as power for rural consumers is sold at a tariff far below the actual
cost of supply. Citing this reason as well as a deterioration in the project's key performance indicators and
an increase in the number of unmet covenants, the Bank downgraded the project's development objective
rating to "Unsatisfactory" and the loan closed with this rating in December 2004. The Implementation
Progress rating was "Satisfactory" throughout project implementation. The effective period of project
implementation--that is, not counting the seven months during which disbursements were suspended--was
less than four years; despite this constraint, disbursements effected under the project represented 97% of
the loan amount.




                                                      - 3 -

2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        U
                      Sustainability:      UN
    Institutional Development Impact:      M
                  Bank Performance:        S
             Borrower Performance:         U


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  U
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes




3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The development objectives of the project as defined in the PAD were:
(i) to support the initiation of the power sector reform process through the establishment of the new legal,
regulatory and institutional framework; the creation of new power corporations; and the launch of the
preparatory work for the privatization of the distribution business;
(ii) to reduce the most critical constraints in the power system to help improve the quality of supply and
establish the benefits that could be expected from power sector reform; and
(iii) to build and develop support among key stakeholders in the state for power sector reform.

The key performance indicators associated with these development objectives were (in summary): existence
of a fully functional regulator; incorporation of new distribution companies; comprehensive distribution
privatization strategy approved by GoUP; Financial Restructuring Plan under satisfactory implementation,
with adequate financing as required by GoUP; tariff adjustments as required for meeting the financial
objectives permitted by the regulator and implemented; specified time-bound levels of improvement in bill
collection from Government and non-Government consumers; specified targets for increasing the number of
consumers billed on basis of metered consumption in Lucknow and Ghaziabad; specified target for
reduction in forced interruptions in the distribution system; specified time-bound targets for UPPCL's
return on equity; and continued communications on reform program.

3.1.1     Assessment. An overview of the general economic, political and social context in which this
project was developed is given in the Introduction. The centrality of power sector reform to economic
development in India is universally accepted. In the case of Uttar Pradesh, the relevance of power sector
restructuring was heightened by the sector's significant negative fiscal impact and by the degree to which
the sector posed a real constraint to economic development (through frequent brown-outs and black-outs,
voltage fluctuations that burn out motors, load-shedding, exceptionally high levels of technical and
commercial losses that drained financing from the budget and from industrial consumers through
cross-subsidization, etc.). Reform of the power sector was, and remains, a matter of the highest priority for
Uttar Pradesh and, on the national level, for the Government of India.




                                                           - 4 -

3.1.2    The project was consistent with the focus in the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy on reforming
states, and with the sector-related goal of reducing infrastructure bottlenecks. In their broad formulations,
the project development objectives were relevant and comprehensive, covering general sector reform as well
as the physical investments designed to further the implementation of the sector reforms. One might
question whether the third development objective (to build and develop support among key stakeholders in
the state for power sector reform) is a development objective per se, or more appropriately seen as a good
practice that is subordinate to the first development objective (to support the reform program). However,
for purposes of the present assessment the distinction is ultimately immaterial, and the assumption is made
that in presenting this issue as a separate development objective, the project team made a conscious
decision to stress the importance of this activity. It may be observed that the key performance indicators
reflected aspirations for far-reaching, overall improvements in the sector and in this sense extended the
reform ambitions of the project beyond those embodied in the project development objectives, which is a
design consideration that proved problematic at the stage of implementation (see discussion below of
quality at entry). If the reform objectives were ambitious, this was at least in part a reflection of broad
expectations about the potential for reform shared at the time by the Bank and the reforming states.

3.2 Revised Objective:
Project objectives were not revised.

3.3 Original Components:
3.3.1    Project Component 1: Transmission System Rehabilitation and Augmentation (US$83 million, or
38% of the project's $220 million base cost). This component was designed to reduce transmission system
bottlenecks and the associated losses by adding strategically placed transmission lines and increasing the
number and capacity of substations. Based on load flow studies carried out for the projected system
conditions in 2001-02, sub-components were identified that included 400kV, 220kV and 132kV
transmission lines and substations, and capacitors.

3.3.2    Project Component 2: Sub-Transmission and Distribution System Strengthening (US$66 million,
30% of base cost). Distribution investments financed under the project focused on the improvement of
33kV lines and 33/11kV substations across the state and critically overloaded city distribution systems.
The allocation for this project component was divided between a subcomponent for the improvement of the
distribution system in the capital city of Lucknow and a subcomponent for improvement of the most
overloaded parts of the distribution system (33kV and below) elsewhere in the state.

3.3.3    Project Component 3: Metering System Improvement (US$58 million, 26% of base cost). The
metering improvement works financed under the Bank loan included (in the original plan) replacement of
15,000 trivector meters; 470,000 single phase meters for all the residential consumers of Lucknow and
Ghaziabad; and 300,000 three-phase electronic meters for high-value industrial, commercial and residential
consumers throughout the state. The component also provided for the procurement of boundary meters for
measurement of energy exchange between the new companies.

3.3.4    Project Component 4: Technical assistance (US$8 million, 4% of base cost). Of the total amount
allocated to this component, US$3 million was set off against a Project Preparation Facility already used
by UP, leaving US$5 million to finance technical assistance in the areas of restructuring implementation;
regulatory and legal framework; power purchase agreements; load forecast and investment planning;
environmental and social policy; joint venture distribution companies; and communications.

3.3.5    Project Component 5: Voluntary Retirement Scheme (US$5 million, 2% of base cost). This
component was designed to provide financing for severance payments to workers who elected not to



                                                       - 5 -

continue their employment in UPSEB successor companies. The Voluntary Retirement Scheme (VRS) had
not been developed at the time of project appraisal but the expectation was that a VRS acceptable to the
concerned parties and consistent with Bank policy would be developed in the course of project
implementation and that there would be a demand for these funds.

3.3.6    Assessment. The project components are consistent with the project development objectives, if
somewhat obviously and understandably biased towards the physical investments representing the bulk of
loan proceeds. The focus on transmission and distribution rehabilitation was appropriate given the high
level of technical losses in transmission and distribution. The decision to build all new transmission lines
with double circuit support to provide second circuit support in the future as and when needed was a
foresightful and economical response to the acute problem of obtaining rights of way in this most densely
populated state.

3.3.7    The metering component was a sound investment choice; metering is a fundamental part of any
power system's commercial infrastructure. More emphasis could have been put on addressing the
significant problem of rural metering (which would have provided an important link with the third
development objective). At the same time, in view of the extremely low level of metering (it was estimated
that about 55% of total consumption was un-metered before the project and a large portion of existing
meters was defective), it is clear that improvement of the situation in the urban areas was also an urgent
priority for UPPCL and a more pragmatic starting point.

3.3.8    The technical assistance component was designed to support the reform program in its many
aspects and was the most appropriate vehicle for such in the context of an investment loan. It is another
question, however, whether a reform program of the ambitious scope of the present case can be adequately
supported by a technical assistance project component with a small allocation.

3.3.9    The inclusion of the Voluntary Retirement Scheme as a project component was a good choice to
facilitate the use of Bank funds to finance severance (on occasion this has been a complicated matter in
other projects) and also sent a positive signal to counterparts in UP about the importance of agreeing with
the power sector work force acceptable terms for voluntary retirement.

3.4 Revised Components:
There was no formal revision of the project components.

3.5 Quality at Entry:

3.5.1    The project was not reviewed by QAG for quality at entry. There are numerous positive aspects of
the project preparation process that merit mention here. The PAD presents a comprehensive overview of
the UP power sector at the time of appraisal. The project team had a solid grasp of the issues confronting
the power sector in general and UP in particular, the result of long experience in the country and sector.
Adequate arrangements were made for project implementation by the time of appraisal, including the
creation of a separate project management unit to manage the investments planned under the project.
Procurement arrangements were handled well, which allowed the implementation of the physical
investments to stay on track despite the otherwise problematic course of project implementation. Bank
safeguard policies were also adequately addressed (see para. 7.6.5ff).

3.5.2    At the same time, the project design included flaws that dogged the project throughout its
implementation and largely influenced the unsatisfactory progress towards the achievement of the project
development objectives. The most fundamental observation in this regard is that the inclusion of a highly



                                                      - 6 -

ambitious reform component in what was essentially a loan for physical investments (from the perspective
of the allocation of funds) was a poor project design decision, as it introduced a tension into the project
design that persisted throughout the course of project implementation. It is appropriate to evaluate this
fundamental project design decision in the broader context within the Bank in which it was made. The
inclusion of ambitious reform objectives in an investment loan was considered best practice in the period
during which this project was developed; indeed, a power sector reform project proposed in this period
most likely would not have received sectoral endorsement if it lacked a major reform component. From this
perspective, this design flaw is more appropriately viewed as a Bank-wide failure in advocating a particular
model of project rather than as a design shortcoming that is specific to this project.

3.5.3    However, the project design also included flaws that are specific to the project itself and that
warrant a quality-at-entry rating of unsatisfactory. Primary among these is the incongruity of the project
development objectives as formulated and the key performance indicators (KPIs) and the related covenants
that were used to interpret or measure the progress towards achievement of the project development
objectives. Second, the KPIs and related covenants imposed conditions that were not adequately supported
on the level of the project components, leaving the borrower accountable for performance in these areas
without providing the resources to improve performance.

3.5.4    With respect to the first of the identified project-specific design flaws, it may be noted that the first
development objective, which calls for support to the initiation of the reform process with an emphasis on
institutional reforms, does not call for the financial rehabilitation of the sector. But the corresponding KPIs
and covenants give prominence to this subject and, indeed, the poor state of the sector's finances
overshadowed the project's implementation and was the chief determinant of the DO rating of
Unsatisfactory with which the project closed. Without the additional overlay of these conditions that are
not embodied in the project development objectives, the likelihood of a DO rating of Satisfactory would
have been greatly enhanced. The problem of correspondence also exists between the second DO
(representing the overwhelming bulk of loan proceeds) and the KPIs, but is of a somewhat different nature.
In this case the KPIs do not adequately allow for an unambiguous demonstration of the reduction of the
"most critical constraints in the power system" that is called for under this DO. And there is no meaningful
performance indicator that captures the third development objective (developing support for power sector
reform among key stakeholders).

3.5.5    The number (51) of the project's legal covenants was excessive and made for difficulties in
monitoring and reporting in the course of project implementation. Recognizing that today's prevailing view
in favor of streamlining of conditions was not the prevailing view at the time of project preparation, it still
appears that more effort could have been made to limit the number of covenants to a more manageable
number.

3.5.6    An important aspect of quality at entry is the assessment made at appraisal of the Borrower's
"reform readiness" and commitment to see through controversial, socially sensitive reforms requiring a long
period of implementation. While this assessment is necessarily speculative, as Bank staff are outside
observers of political processes (which in any event are notoriously difficult to predict in India's vibrant
democracy), a degree of robustness can be brought to the design process through a systematic evaluation of
project risks and development of associated mitigation measures. In this case, the treatment of project risks
and associated mitigation measures could have been stronger. The project was given an overall risk rating
of "Substantial", while a rating of "High" would have been more appropriate given the nature of the
challenge posed by power sector restructuring in UP. Some important specific risks were given somewhat
facile treatment in the PAD, as reflected in the claim that "the reform process has become irreversible" in
response to the risk that political commitment might erode. A more thoughtful, realistic assessment of the


                                                       - 7 -

risks could have informed the process of project design and helped avoid some of the difficulties of
implementation through presenting options other than the extreme case of suspension of disbursements (e.g.
phasing of investment packages against benchmarks) as a "last resort" measure.

3.5.7    Of note in this regard is the assessment of GoUP's willingness and ability to provide a high level of
subsidization to the utility, as stated in a letter to the Bank before the presentation of the project to the
Bank's Board of Executive Directors. Consultations carried out in the course of the preparation of the ICR
indicated that the Bank's country economists who prepared and managed the Uttar Pradesh Fiscal Reform
& Public Sector Restructuring Loan/Credit were concerned that the original agreement on the high level of
subsidies to finance the losses of the power sector was unrealistic, unaffordable and failed to provide an
incentive for the utility to reduce losses. This raises the question of the consistency of the policy
prescriptions of the respective Bank teams and at a minimum suggests that considerably more caution
should have been used in assessing GoUP's ability to commit large-scale financing to the power sector. In
the event, the actual level of subsidies provided to the utility was much lower than stated in the letter to the
Bank.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
4.1.1    Overall, unsatisfactory, due to inconsistent implementation of the power sector reform program
across the range of key power sector entities and the continued use of the sector as a vehicle to achieve
social and political ends without due consideration for the sector's viability. This has been a significant
factor in prolonging the sector's suboptimal performance and compromises the sustainability of such
restructuring of the sector as has taken place. While nominally some aspects of the development objectives
were achieved, most of the project's key performance indicators have not been achieved (see Annex 1). The
financial condition of the sector is persistently grave, and this condition of chronic crisis comes at a high
opportunity cost to the impoverished state. At the same time, the difficulty of distilling a single outcome
rating (moreover, on a scale limited to four points) from the complex, multifaceted experience of the
implementation of this project must be noted. There is a divergence between the satisfactory outcome of
the implementation of the physical investments and the outcomes of the reform program as supported by
the loan. Also, the problem of the appropriate time period for the evaluation exists. It is generally possible
to meaningfully evaluate physical investments shortly after they are rendered operational, particularly those
that are "upstream", such as transmission lines, are not sensitive to institutional arrangements and do not
entail a customer interface. In contrast, complex reforms that entail fundamental institutional reform
necessarily require a longer period for meaningful evaluation. For purposes of this assessment, the decision
was made to assign a greater weight to the poor results to date achieved under the reform program in view
of the hierarchy of the relationship between the policy environment and the sustainability of physical
investments: the value of sound investments is clearly compromised by a suboptimal policy environment
and the sector's chronic financial crisis.

4.1.2    Development Objective 1 (to support the initiation of the power sector reform process through the
establishment of the new legal, regulatory and institutional framework; the creation of new power
corporations; and the launch of the preparatory work for the privatization of the distribution business):
Unsatisfactory. In broad strokes, the core problems of the power sector in UP remain today what they
were at the time of project appraisal. In analyzing the poor performance of the UP power sector, the PAD
noted that "the root causes of these chronic problems are the pervasive interference by the Government in
most decisions affecting UPSEB's operations and expansion, the lack of a commercial orientation, and the
absence of adequate internal controls, accountability and modern utility management practices in UPSEB."
While power sector reforms have yielded some achievements in specific areas, this analysis remains



                                                         - 8 -

broadly applicable today.

4.1.3     The experience of the last several years has demonstrated the enormous difficulty of maintaining
momentum with the reform program against the backdrop of a number of changes of government (including
a period of central rule, when no representative government could be formed in the state). Perhaps even
more harmful to the continuity of the implementation of the reform program has been the failure to bring in
a new management team at functional levels to ensure the rapid re-orientation of the working culture in the
power sector enterprises, although the hiring of some professional managers of high caliber must be
acknowledged.

4.1.4     The institutional transformation of the sector is an unfinished work. A technically competent
regulatory agency has been functioning for several years, but its ability to induce efficiency improvements
in the sector through the tools at its disposal (tariff orders, directives, etc.) is neutralized by the
politicization of the sector and the related issue of the utility's persistent operational deficiencies. And
while the de jure unbundling of the vertical monopoly has led to the creation of separate corporate entities
in generation, transmission and distribution, the de facto relations between the various successor entities, to
the extent that they are observable, are in no material way different from those that prevailed in the
vertically bundled utility. The transmission company retains the authority of the erstwhile UPSEB and
directly controls the distribution companies. The two state generators provide power to the transmission
company and, when necessary, serve as a financial buffer by allowing the accumulation of arrears for
power delivered. This financial flexibility offered by (or extracted from) the state generators--which is
generally not the conduct of commercially oriented enterprises, and has impacted on the generators' ability
to operate and maintain plant in accordance with industry standards--is particularly important to GoUP
and UPPCL now that state utilities' debts to the central generating stations have entered the domain of the
fiscal relations between the central and state governments.

4.1.5     This development objective calls for the launch of the "preparatory work for the privatization of the
distribution business", and the relevant performance indicator is the approval of a comprehensive
distribution privatization strategy including the optimum configuration of system. In 2003, GoUP issued a
new Power Policy calling for private participation in the power sector under which the government initiated
the process of inviting private participation in the generation and distribution segments of the sector. In
November, 2004, GoUP solicited expressions of interest for the privatization of the distribution system
without having developed a comprehensive distribution privatization strategy. Subsequently, there has
been no progress in this matter (e.g. the request for proposals containing the proposed privatization
transaction structure has not been issued as of May 2005) and there is lack of clarity on how and when the
process will go forward.

4.1.6     Data on the aggregate revenues and expenditures of the distribution and transmission companies
over the period 2001-2005 illustrate the severity of the sector's financial condition.

UPPCL Profit/Loss Statement, 2001-2005 (Rs. billion)
FY ending March 31                                                        2001     2002     2003   2004 2005
                                                                                                   (Prov.) (Est.)
(i) Total Revenue                                                            66.7     68.2    66.1     74.9   76.6
(ii) Total Cash Operating Expenditure                                        80.5     77.5    75.5     86.3   94.6
(iii) Surplus (deficit) after cash operating expenditures (EBITDA) (i-ii)   -13.8     -9.3     -9.4   -11.4  -18.0
(iv) Profit (loss) after tax                                                -24.5    -22.6    -21.7   -28.5  -29.2
(v) Subsidies and grants                                                      2.4      8.6     8.3     10.3   10.6
(vi) Incentive from central power utilities                                     0        0       0      9.5    n.a.




                                                          - 9 -

4.1.7    The sector continues to report very large losses that are not adequately covered by the subsidies
provided by the State. This bleak financial picture represents the failure of the efforts to bring performance
indicators into line with the agreed targets (variations exist in the targets agreed between the Bank and
GoUP and those agreed between the utility and the regulator, but the general experience is the same). In
the context of the support provided by the Bank, a pivotal role in the restoration of financial health to the
restructured sector and, more generally, in advancing the reform of the sector was assigned to successive
Financial Restructuring Plans (FRP), satisfactory implementation of which was a key performance
indicator (which was not achieved). The specific purpose of the FRP was to provide clean opening balance
sheets to the entities that succeeded UPSEB and to put forward detailed operating and financial projections
for the successor entities that would, in turn, determine GoUP's financing commitments to the sector
through the period of restructuring. The estimates for the required financing commitments in the various
versions of the FRP were driven by assumptions concerning such core operational issues as reductions in
technical and commercial losses, tariff increases, demand growth projections, and so on. In actual
experience, the assumptions made in the FRPs diverged significantly from the operating performance of the
sector, actual tariff increases, and the level of subsidization provided by GoUP. These shortcomings
manifested themselves in terms of chronic non-compliance with numerous legal covenants, in particular
those pertaining to the sector's financial sustainability (levels of receivables, cost recovery and return on
equity). The dramatic rise in the utility's debt as a percentage of its turnover underscores the unsustainable
nature of this situation: from 45% in FY2001, this indicator rose to an estimated 70% in FY2004.

4.1.8    Data on technical and commercial losses (which taken together give aggregate technical and
commercial (AT&C) losses) provide the operational complement to the financial data:

                                         FY02                 FY03                 FY04
                                       Target      Actual    Target    Actual     Target     Actual
T&D Technical Losses                          33.4        41       31.3        36       30.4       32.8
Collection Efficiency (%)                      85         81        88         79         91         84
AT&C Losses (%)                               45.9       52.7      41.4      49.2       36.7       43.6
Source: UPERC, Petition No. 183 of 2004 (Final Tariff Order for FY05, November 10, 2004)

4.1.9    The targets given in the above table are those stipulated by the regulator in the multiyear
framework of loss reduction targets that was introduced in 2000. The data suggest a general trend towards
improvement (the improvement in collections from government offices is of particular note, although
ultimately a small factor in the determination of overall collection efficiency), but they also show loss levels
that remain very high even in FY2004.

4.1.10 Concerning tariffs and tariff policy, a few observations are of note. While the Power Sector Policy
Statement by GoUP that was included in the PAD stated that the regulator would set tariffs to allow cost
recovery, progress towards this goal has been minimal, with the attendant consequences for the sector's
financial performance. The initial FRP projected tariff revisions in the range of 10-12% annually, but the
actual tariff adjustments have been much lower (3% in FY01, 1.7% in FY02, 3% in FY03, 1.7% in FY04
and 2.7% in FY05). The underlying reasons for this include delayed filings with UPERC as well as the low
adjustments approved. The inadequate tariff revisions have resulted in a higher than projected cash gap,
leading to problems in debt service and to payments to power and fuel suppliers. Also, high levels of
cross-subsidization continue, although the regulator is attempting to gradually phase these out in keeping
with the Electricity Act, 2003 (i.e. the driver in this process is national legislation, not state policy)




                                                       - 10 -

4.1.11 Looking forward, there may be a negative impact on sector's finances in the short to medium term
as a result of the open access provision of the Electricity Act (2003), as it is likely that some industrial
consumers will move away from the grid or from the state sector suppliers to obtain cheaper supplies. Also
the recent massive program for rural electrification launched by GoI aimed at providing electricity to all
un-electrified villages and households in the next five years will have significant financial consequences for
the power utilities and the state given that at present only 20% of rural households in UP have access to
electricity and the rural tariffs are well below cost-recovery levels.

4.1.12 Development Objective 2 (to reduce the most critical constraints in the power system to help
improve the quality of supply and establish the benefits that could be expected from power sector reform):
Satisfactory. A load flow study of the transmission network that was carried out in early 2005 estimated a
reduction in transmission system losses resulting from the Bank-financed investments equivalent to about
46 MW, which corresponds to an ERR of 30% for the transmission component, which is a satisfactory
result and consistent with the component estimate made at appraisal. (Reference: Evaluation of World
Bank Funded Transmission Projects, prepared by the CIDA-financed Energy Infrastructure Services
Project-II and UPPCL, March 2005.) The same study also examined the investment package for the
capital Lucknow, and found a significant reduction in overloaded lines and transformers in the Lucknow
area. It was also found that the voltage profile in the Lucknow area had improved considerably because of
the additional substations and lines.

4.1.13 Development Objective 3 (to build and develop support among key stakeholders in the state for
power sector reform): Unsatisfactory. The information that was available for this assessment reveals
relatively little emphasis during project implementation on the need to develop support for reforms among
key stakeholders aside from the occasional general reference to this subject. While the PAD describes
already completed communication campaigns and the Government's intentions at the time to engage
advisors specializing in social marketing, there does not appear to have been a systematic approach to
consultations with key stakeholders that, if handled effectively, could have made a crucial difference in
public perceptions of the power sector reform program and, in turn, in the Government's own perceptions
of what was politically feasible. Given the political weight of rural Uttar Pradesh and the perception of its
significance in determining the dynamics of power sector reform, any serious effort at building support for
reforms would have to be based on agreeing (in the broad, not formal, sense of the word) with rural
consumers of power a socially and politically acceptable quid pro quo, e.g. increased tariffs and
commitment to pay bills according to a meter in return for increased reliability of power supply. Farmers
should be interested in such an approach, as the real cost of power to them is far greater than the low tariffs
they pay: motors burnt-out from voltage fluctuations and unpredictability of supply take a heavy toll on the
farmer who relies on irrigation pumps. The actual experience of power sector reforms clearly indicates that
the problem of agricultural power consumption has not been embraced as central to the reform of the power
sector. Little has changed in this regard.

4.2 Outputs by components:
4.2.1    The implementation of the first three project components (investments in transmission, distribution
and metering) is considered Highly Satisfactory. Investments generally proceeded as planned and, as
noted above, despite the 7-month period of suspension of disbursements, 97% of the loan amount was
disbursed. A physical audit of the Bank-financed investments was carried out by ASCI Hyderabad and the
general finding was that installation of the investments was satisfactory. (Reference: UPPCL: Independent
Appraisal of Project Management and Reform Programme of UP Power Sector Restructuring Project,
Final Report, ASCI Hyderabad, April 2005.) Savings under the project allowed for additional procurement
of meters so that actual procurement of single-phase meters was 1,000,500 (versus 470,000 planned) and



                                                      - 11 -

the procurement with loan proceeds of three-phase meters was 435,000 (versus 300,000 planned).
Moreover, in the last year UPPCL has launched a hand-held metering initiative, entailing out-sourcing of
metering, billing and collection activities, to maximize the benefit from the increased level of metering. As
of October 2004, the initiative was underway in five towns, contracts had been awarded for another nine
towns, and tenders invited for seven more towns in UP.

4.2.2    The implementation of Project Component 4, Technical Assistance, is considered Unsatisfactory
in view of the low impact of the technical assistance that was procured under the loan. Reflecting the
delays in the implementation of the reform program, disbursements under this component were poor (54%
of the total allocation). The outcome under Project Component 5, Voluntary Retirement Scheme, is also
considered Unsatisfactory due to the failure to develop a scheme and to use financing that was available
under this component to facilitate the rationalization of the work force through voluntary retirement. The
problems of over-staffing and the poor skills mix of the existing workforce remain acute.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

4.3.1    This is the fourth Bank project in support of state-level power sector restructuring projects for
which ICRs have been prepared (the others being Haryana, Andhra Pradesh (AP) and Orissa). In the AP
ICR, the estimation of project benefits could be precise, because detailed benefit evaluation studies had
been done at appraisal, as well as at the end of the project, for all three components of the project. In
Orissa, no benefit studies were available, and therefore the ICR economic analysis relied on an estimate of
returns based on an assessment of the incremental cost and benefits streams derived from the aggregate
financial statements (for the consolidated distribution and transmission businesses created in the
unbundling). In UP, the only component for which a specific benefit estimate was available is
transmission. Therefore for this component alone benefits were estimated using the standard approach,
while for the investment program as a whole, the incremental approach was required.

4.3.2    At appraisal, the overall economic rate of return for the investments to be financed by the project
was estimated at 29%, with estimates for the individual project components as detailed in the table below.
Based on the best available information and an assessment of the incremental cost and benefit streams of
the consolidated transmission and distribution businesses of UPPCL, the ICR estimates the baseline ERR
of the overall investment program at 18%. Including a very conservative estimate of the economic benefits
of pilferage (and/or defective meters) increases the ERR to 25%. Based on the load flow study of the
transmission network that was carried out in early 2005, the ERR for the transmission component has been
estimated at 30%, which is a satisfactory result and consistent with the component estimate made at
appraisal.

Economic rate of return
                   Appraisal      ICR
Transmission              25%             30%
Distribution              26%
Metering                  36%
Total                     29%         18-25%



4.3.3    The difference in the overall ERR estimated at appraisal and the analogous estimate for the ICR is
accounted for primarily by a lower assumed willingness-to-pay in the analysis carried out for the ICR.
Details on the economic analysis carried out for the ICR are given in Annex 3.



                                                     - 12 -

4.4 Financial rate of return:
4.4.1    As shown in the table below, the overall financial return estimated at appraisal was 33%. The high
financial returns projected for the metering component is consistent with the results of a detailed survey
conducted for the Andhra Pradesh ICR (which estimated financial returns on the metering component at
over 100%, reflecting significant increases in billing and collections within 6 months of the installation of
new meters), while the modest financial returns anticipated for distribution and transmission is a
consequence of the assumption that incremental energy would be sold at the average tariff (which includes
a substantial portion of power sold at far below cost to agriculture). In the case of UP, the financial rate of
return of the completed project has been estimated at 20%, which is significantly below the appraisal
estimate of 33%. This result is highly sensitive to collection efficiency; a small improvement in the
collection efficiency would result in a significant improvement in the FIRR.

Financial rate of return
                   Appraisal      ICR
Transmission               10%
Distribution                9%
Metering                   86%
Total                      33%             20%

4.4.2    Details on the financial analysis carried out for the ICR are given in Annex 3.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
4.5.1    Support to the process of institutional reform was central to the project and included in the first
development objective. While some formal (de jure) attributes of institutional change were effected earlier
on in the process--most obviously, the unbundling of UPSEB into separate generating companies and a
company combining transmission and distribution--the de facto reality is that the power system as a whole
still functions broadly along the lines of UPSEB and remains vulnerable to political interference in its
operations. In their present constellation, the power sector entities in UP are legally separate but not yet
acting entirely as commercially-oriented enterprises

4.5.2    In the years following its creation in 1998, UPERC has established itself as a competent regulatory
agency that has embraced its mandate to safeguard the public interest while encouraging the utility to
undertake efficiency improvements. UPERC plays an important role in carrying out the responsibilities
conferred upon it by such recent national legislation as the Electricity Act, 2003 (which calls for the
introduction of an open access regime and elimination of cross-subsidies, among other reforms). At the
same time, the limitations on UPERC's ability to influence the utility's operations are clear; each UPERC
tariff order devotes a chapter to the various entities' compliance with its directives, and the degree of
non-compliance is often significant.

4.5.3    While the institutional development impact of the support offered under the loan is limited from
today's perspective, it is important to keep in mind that even narrowly de jure institutional reforms such as
the creation of legally separate distribution companies (one of the positive results that emerged from the
temporary suspension of disbursements under the loan) may, under future conditions, prove to be the
all-important first steps towards establishing a truly commercially-oriented sector. These are long-term,
difficult processes that cannot be fully instituted over a project implementation period of less than four
years.




                                                      - 13 -

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
For purposes of this evaluation, "government" is considered to be the Government of Uttar Pradesh and the
"implementing agency" is understood to be UPPCL.

l Creation in November 2000 of the state of Uttaranchal from part of the territory of Uttar Pradesh by
    decision of Government of India, resulting in the loss to Uttar Pradesh of some 2/3 of its hydroelectric
    generation assets, as well as the loss of about 10% of the undivided UP's share in the central
    generating stations. The two actions by GOI placed an additional financial burden on Uttar Pradesh
    that was estimated by GoUP at Rs 4 billion per annum.

l National-level legislation and other initiatives (such as the Electricity Act of 2003; the
    Availability-Based Tariff mandated by the Central Electricity Regulatory Commission; and the Montek
    Singh Ahluwalia Committee report of April 2002 as a result of which SEBs' arrears to central
    generating stations became subjects of central-state fiscal relations) that have generally had the effect
    of advancing power sector reform, but sometimes with unforeseen consequences for state-level power
    sector reform programs (e.g. the drive to improve payments to central generating stations, while
    effective, led to a greater accumulation of arrears to the state generating stations).

l The tariff increases allowed by UPERC were considerably below those on which the FRP had been
    based, which created an additional financial burden for which no compensation was made available.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
l Power sector policy in the state of Uttar Pradesh, and consistency of government actions with the stated
    goals of the power sector policy. As noted in the Introduction, some of GoUP's actions have
    contradicted its stated goals for the reform of the power sector. For example, although privatization of
    the distribution system has been put forward as one of the building blocks of the reform program since
    the late 1990s, GoUP's decision to provide escrows on the revenues of the distribution system to the
    benefit of independent power producers (IPPs) was obviously inconsistent with the declared intention to
    attract the private sector to the distribution business. More generally, the chronic under-financing by
    GoUP of its obligations has probably reduced the private sector's perceptions of the attractiveness of
    the distribution business in UP. (At the same time, it should be noted that GoUP has been striving to
    implement other aspects its power sector policy, e.g. inviting private sector participation in generation.)
    Also, as the owner of the state's power system, GoUP has ultimate authority over the management of
    the utility and could have taken more pro-active measures to improve sector governance, reduce the
    high levels of losses, and so on.

l Budget allocations to the power sector in keeping with agreements and to compensate non-commercial
    mandates imposed on the sector. Most recently, GoUP's decision in 2003 to provide more power for
    irrigation and for general social objectives in rural locations without adequate compensation for this
    mandate has had a detrimental impact on the utility's finances.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
l Operational aspects of the power sector (as the implementing agency was the utility). Of particular
    note here is the link between the core operational responsibilities of the utility (to supply power
    reliably, minimize technical and commercial losses, etc.), and the poor results achieved under the
    reform program. A more pro-active stance on improving the utility's operational parameters would


                                                      - 14 -

     have relieved the pressure that was caused by GoUP's under-funding of its obligations.

l Staffing and operations of the project management unit. The project management unit generally
     executed its responsibilities well, as evidenced by the good performance in procurement and
     disbursements and, after a bumpy start, in matters pertaining to the social and environmental safeguard
     policies.

5.4 Costs and financing:
At the time of appraisal, it was estimated that the total project costs would be US$220 million, of which the
Bank would provide US$150 and the remainder (US$70 million) would be provided by the Borrower. The
original cost estimates were high in some cases, as demonstrated by the existence of savings that emerged
early on in project implementation, making possible the procurement of additional meters. Based on latest
data from UPPCL (May 2005), the actual counterpart funding provided by GoUP over the life of the
project was about Rs. 2.34 billion, or US$55.7 million (using the rate of exchange in May 2005).

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Unlikely, in view of the sector's financial insolvency and the prevailing suboptimal policy environment. In
broad strokes, the core problems of the power sector in UP remain today what they were at the time of
project appraisal: the lack of a commercial orientation, political interference in the operations of the utility,
tariffs that on average are well below cost (even a theoretical efficient cost, i.e. after losses are reduced to
reasonable levels). The value of physical investments that would otherwise give a good economic return
will be compromised under such circumstances. At the same time, the difficulty of meaningfully evaluating
the prospects for sustainability only a few months after loan closure must be noted. The ultimate impact of
the achievements to date of the reform program (utility unbundling, establishment of the regulator, etc.) will
likely take some time to manifest itself and may prove to be positive and lasting.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
None required given that the project was implemented by UPPCL using its own staff, who continue with
operational responsibilities at the company.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
Many aspects of the project team's performance over the phases of identification and appraisal were of
good quality, including the technical, financial, and economic analyses of the power sector and the
application of these analyses to project preparation. The project team's handling of the technical aspects of
the investments financed under the loan and the related procurement arrangements were commendable.
Nonetheless, in view of the project design flaws described in section 3.5 (Quality at Entry), including the
assessment of government commitment, the risk analysis and the development of appropriate incentives for
project sustainability, and with the understanding that the "Bank" in this context signifies a broader
institutional identity than the project team, including sector and country management, the rating for Bank
lending is unsatisfactory. An important consideration in this evaluation is the apparent contradiction
between the fiscal conditionality of the present loan (high levels of subsidization to the power sector) and
the stipulations of the Uttar Pradesh Fiscal Reform & Public Sector Restructuring Loan/Credit, which
generally called for a reduction in fiscal deficits. This contradiction between two Bank projects that were
presented to the Board on the same day as a package should have been more effectively dealt with by
country management.



                                                      - 15 -

7.2 Supervision:
Satisfactory. There was a high degree of continuity in the project team and a good mix of skills. Formal
supervision missions were complemented with close contacts between the Delhi-based team members and
counterparts in Lucknow, and frequent, less formal meetings in Delhi and Lucknow. The team's
supervision documentation was thorough, covering all aspects of the project with detailed annexes. The
team's documentation demonstrates the extent of its responsiveness to the challenging circumstances of
project implementation. These qualities are illustrated by the team's handling of the suspension of
disbursements, which was a difficult decision that the team approached with due thoughtfulness and with a
clear focus on working with the client to remedy the deficiencies that had triggered the suspension.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Taking into consideration the ratings for lending and supervision, the overall rating for the Bank's
performance is given as marginally Satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Satisfactory. GoUP took a number of decisive actions in the course of project preparation that
demonstrated its commitment to reforming the power sector, notably as concerns providing the basic
legislative and regulatory framework required to carry out reforms. The initiation of the unbundling of
UPSEB in January 2000 was a bold act under the conditions of the time, and the Government's response to
the strikes that followed this act was resolute.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
Unsatisfactory. The problems of project implementation began immediately following project
effectiveness and were the result of a divergence between GoUP's declared power sector policy and
GoUP's actions vis--vis the power sector. Areas of particular concern were: (i) the prolonged process of
the unbundling of UPSEB, which took place in two phases and was completed de jure only after the Bank
suspended disbursements in 2003, while the de facto separation has yet to be fully achieved, and (ii) the
failure to adequately compensate the utility for the social mandates GoUP imposed on it. As the owner of
the state's power system, GoUP has ultimate authority over the management of the utility and could have
taken more pro-active measures to improve sector governance, insist on greater accountability in the sector,
demand better performance in reduction of the high levels of losses, and so on.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
Satisfactory, within the confines of this investment operation and given the implementing agency's
limitations in influencing the larger policy environment in which it functions.

7.6.1 Financial Management. With the exception of some instances of delay in the initial years, the flow
of funds under the project from GoUP to UPPCL was generally smooth. A format for monitoring this
aspect of the project was developed which proved effective in managing the fund flows, and although the
relevant legal covenant (15 days) was not strictly adhered to, project implementation was never seriously
hampered as a result of funds flow issues. Provision of counterpart funding under the project was irregular
and not tied in with the actual requirement of funds. During the latter part of the project, a large amount
was still required from GoUP to reimburse the special account advance given by IBRD.

7.6.2    The project/SOE audit reports from UPPCL were generally delayed (one of the reasons for the
suspension of disbursements was poor performance in the submission of audit reports), but no major
accountability issues emerged from the audit process. The unbundling of UPSEB posed a major problem
from the financial management perspective. UPSEB was a unitary entity that conducted its business with


                                                     - 16 -

more than 400 separate accounting units. Following the corporatization of its successor entities in two
separate phases, the finance function required a significant amount of response time to produce the entity
audit reports. The opening balances ("the transfer scheme") for the newly created corporate entities were
also not fully reconciled, which gave rise to audit delays. The creation of the State of Uttaranchal resulted
in a similar problem.

7.6.3    The financial disruption caused by the unbundling of UPSEB was accompanied by implementation
of some initiatives in the financial management area as a result of which the power sector companies, after
having been in default for quite some time, have finalized their audits up to FY2003. Some of the
distribution companies have also started hiring financial management professionals in order to provide
more financial autonomy and discretion in their operations. In addition, UPPCL has recently advertised to
hire professional accountants to strengthen its capacity in this area. However, this effort needs to be
scaled-up to so that more professionals at the requisite senior levels are hired.

7.6.4    Procurement. Following some delays in the very early phase of project implementation, UPPCL
management made a committed and successful effort to establish a fully functional project implementation
unit and provided good managerial oversight of the unit's activities through project implementation.
Satisfactory procurement arrangements were put in place and procurement under the project was handled
well, as evidenced by the high level of disbursements by the project closing date despite the seven-month
loan suspension. UPPCL became the first state power utility in India to open letters of credit for all of its
suppliers. UPPCL also made extensive use of the Bank's facility for direct payment of suppliers for
contracts above a certain threshold, and selected a consultant through international competition for quality
checking on equipment during the manufacturing process and on finished goods. The project management
unit in UPPCL worked diligently to prepare specifications, bidding documents and contracts according to
the agreed plan.

7.6.5    Social and Environmental Safeguards. Prior to project appraisal, GoUP approved the "Social
Policy and Procedures for Transmission and Distribution Projects" (SP&P) which provided a framework
for addressing the adverse impacts of land acquisition and loss of assets due to implementation of civil
works under the project. The Bank reviewed the SP&P and found it to be consistent with the Bank's OD
4.30, Involuntary Resettlement.

7.6.6    To implement the SP&P, an Environmental and Social Management Unit (ESMU) was established
at UPPCL. Under the SP&P, UPPCL was required to (i) select routes for transmission lines which
minimize social consequences; (ii) identify the project-affected titleholders; (iii) carry out consultations with
those affected; (iv) provide assistance for crop loss and grants for land affected by erection of towers; (v)
provide a budget for implementation of the SP&P. The implementation of these measures has resulted in
the reduction of land acquisition from 17 hectares to 9 hectares, and of the number of affected marginal
farmers from 100 to 53 farmers. The SP&P provided for institutional strengthening in the form of staff
training, maintenance of a monitoring and evaluation (M&E) database and submission of progress reports.

7.6.7    While performance in compensating individuals impacted by the project was poor in the early
phase of project implementation (this was one of the reasons for the suspension of disbursements), good
progress was made in remedying this shortcoming. An independent end-term evaluation was carried out to
evaluate the processes adopted in implementing the SP&P and the outcomes achieved in the process.
(Reference: UPPCL Social Policy & Procedures: End Term Evaluation Report, Study Point Samiti,
Lucknow.) The report indicates that disbursement of assistance as per entitlements had been highly
satisfactory and the consultation process adopted with affected people helped minimize grievances.




                                                     - 17 -

7.6.8     The overall environmental management of the project is considered to be satisfactory. The efforts
to mainstream environmental considerations in subproject planning and implementation were appreciable,
although more attention is required to improve performance through regular monitoring, evaluation,
reporting and dissemination. During the preparation phase of the project, studies were undertaken to
identify environmental issues relevant to the project based on which an Environmental Management
Framework was developed by UPPCL in consultation with the Bank to address these issues during project
implementation. Subsequently Environmental Management Plans (EMPs) for individual subprojects were
prepared by UPPCL.

7.6.8     The EMPs developed for the individual subprojects, especially the measures relevant to the
planning stage of individual subprojects, were implemented reasonably well. Noteworthy among them is
the alternative analysis during the planning stage to minimize the environmental damage associated with the
routing of the transmission lines. In contrast, the implementation of environmental measures in the
post-construction phase (including monitoring and reporting) has been weak. This is primarily due to lack
of capacity and lack of continuity of environmental staff.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Unsatisfactory, with the understanding that this rating is determined by the poor implementation of the
reform program relative to the commitments the Borrower entered into at the time of negotiations. The
investment component of the loan was handled well, but on its own does not justify a "Satisfactory" rating
given the agreed content of the project.

8. Lessons Learned

The scope and nature of reforms pursued under a loan should be consistent with the lending
instrument and firmly grounded in a realistic appreciation of the Bank's relative leverage in a given
situation. This operation was an investment loan in which, by definition, disbursements were determined
by contract implementation and as such, ill-suited to serve as drivers of a contentious and challenging
reform program. Reform expectations in this case were unrealistically high given the relatively short period
of project implementation and even more so relative to the Bank's limited contribution to the utility's
overall investment program. The financing provided by the Bank was equivalent to only about 18% of the
utility's actual investments over the years of project implementation. This, even combined with the
emphasis within the parallel fiscal reform operation, was not sufficient to effect a dramatic change in the
political/economic balance in the sector; indeed it is questionable whether any size of Bank operation could
have yielded dramatic results in a state as large and challenging as Uttar Pradesh over such a short period
of time. Objectives should thus be set in proportion to the size of the operation and expectations limited to
reflect the Bank's leverage.

Assessments of "reform readiness" and "political commitment" are necessary, but not sufficient to
guarantee implementation of complex reforms. A great body of literature, including that produced by
the World Bank, speaks of the importance of political commitment to ensuring success in implementation
of difficult economic reforms. While the absence of political commitment would obviously not bode well
for a nascent reform program, the experience of this project demonstrates that there is a risk in the Bank's
over-emphasizing--perhaps primarily to itself--the importance of demonstrating upfront political
commitment, particularly in a democratic system such as exists in India, where governments can and do
change along with government priorities. One possible response to this problem is to require more upfront
reform actions before commencing the project. Another approach to dealing with this problem relates to
the first lesson cited above: a more appropriate link between the reform objectives and the lending
instrument would help avoid the inconsistency and tension between reform implementation and



                                                      - 18 -

implementation of physical investments that are inherent in operations structured along the lines of this
project. Greater attention to building support for reform among stakeholders throughout project
preparation and implementation is clearly called for in the case of contentious, complex reform programs,
and would help mitigate the risk of an erosion of "reform readiness". In this context, it is appropriate to
note the consultations held between the Bank, GOI and reforming states in 2003 on lessons from early
reform experiences. The consultations, which have been reflected in the new CAS, focused on (i) how to
identify key prerequisites for reform; (ii) how to design reform processes with credible approaches to
inevitable political issues; and (iii) how the Bank might rethink its rules of engagement to maximize the
value of its support to India. While, in a sense, these lessons have already been learned, they were
significantly informed by the UP experience.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:




                                                     - 19 -

Comments of UPPCL on draft ICR relating to loan No.Ln-4545-IN for US $ 150 Million.

History of the loan

The power sector reform in UP has been an important agenda for GoUP as well as GoI. The



                                     - 20 -

proposal for funding the UP Power Sector reforms was initiated in the World Bank way back in 1988 and
at that point of time the loan of US$ 350 million was approved by the Bank's Board Executive in 1988 but
for unknown reasons most of this amount was cancelled and only US$ 150 million could be available after
12 years in the year 2000. Thus it is evident that the size of loan was quite inadequate keeping in view the
original objective which was conceived at the time of start of the funding process to UP for power sector
reforms. Further from the above table it is clear that this loan was primarily meant for strengthening and
augmentation of transmission and distribution system and change of             electro mechanical meters to
electronic meters. UPPCL has been able to implement various schemes as envisaged in the project and the
utilization has been to the extent of 96%. In the ICR the bank has rated the implementation part as highly
satisfactory.

         Rating of the project

         While sanctioning the loan the borrower and the bank signed various agreements and agreed on
certain covenants to improve the financial position of the power sector so as to reduce the fiscal burden on
the GoUP. A list of Performance Indicators and the outcome is as under:-

                  Indicator/Matrix                                 Outcome(as per draft ICR)
i)Regulatory Commission fully functional.              i) Achieved
ii) New Distribution Companies incorporated.           ii) Achieved
iii) Financial Restructuring Plan under satisfactory iii) FRP revised in 4/2003 but implementation not
implementation, and the government continues to satisfactory, actual financing by GoUP insufficient
provide the required financing support.                 Not achieved.
iv) Tariff adjustments, as required for meeting the iv) Not achieved.
financial objectives, permitted by the Regulatory
Commission and implemented.
v) Comprehensive distribution privatization strategy v) Not achieved.
(including optimum configuration) prepared and
approved by GoUP.
vi) Improvement in bill collection from non  vi) Achieved in FY04 (85% vs target of 84%), not
Government consumers                                   achieved in FY 05 (as on 9/04, 74% vs. target of
                                                       86%).
vii)   Improvement      in   bill  collections  from vii) Achieved in FY 04 (82% vs target of 80%),
Government departments.                                not achieved in FY05 (as on 9/04, 78% vs. target
                                                       of 90%).
viii) Increase in the number of consumers billed on viii) Effectively achieved (8/04, 19.5% vs. target of
basis of meter reading.                                20%).
ix) Reduction in forced interruptions.                 ix) Not achieved.
x)UPPCL Return on Equity.                              x) Not achieved.
FY 2002-2004: cover operating costs and interests,
FY 2005  9%

         The comments of UPPCL on certain parameters on which negative observations have been made
are as under:-

         Tariff Adjustment




                                                    - 21 -

          UP Govt. has created the independent Regulatory Commission to deicide the electricity tariff. The
financial restructuring plan submitted to the bank assumed tariff increases ranging from 8 to 12 % but the
Regulatory Commission allowed tariff increases ranging from 1.7 to 4.4% as stated in para 4.1.10 of
ICR. Before the unbundling of power sector in UP the tariffs of most of the categories have been lower
than the cost of supply and the corporation proposed sizable increase in tariffs but the Regulatory
Commission allowed nominal increase which was just enough to take care of inflation but did not
contribute towards bridging the gap between the cost of supply and the tariff. This jeopardized the financial
position of the sector and was one of the main reasons for not achieving certain objectives as elaborated in
the ICR. Tariff rationalization is a key requirement for financial turnaround of distribution sector but
probably UPERC could not appreciate the problem in the correct perspective, hence the observation of the
Bank.

          Comprehensive distribution privatization strategy

          The ICR has mentioned that this objective was not achieved. But the Corporation has a feeling that
the assessment of the Bank is not based on facts. As is evident from the information given below that the
significant progress has been made in privatization of distribution business in Uttar Pradesh. Various
activities which have been completed for distribution privatization are as under:-

Sl.No.                                 Task                                          Completed in
    i.    Creation of five distribution companies                                         2003
   ii.    Power policy announcement by GoUP for privatization of                       Decr. 2003
          distribution
   iii.   Appointment of independent consultants for privatization                     Decr. 2004
          process
   iv     Issue of RFQ                                                                 Jan. 2005
   v.     Selection of consultants for base level losses                               Jan. 2005
   vi.    Selection of consultants for inventory verification and                      Jan. 2005
          valuation
  vii.    Preparation of business plan                                                 Jan. 2005
  viii. Presentation before W.B, GoUP and FIs for transitional                         Jan. 2005
          finance
   ix.    Preparation of RFQ documents                                                March 2005

          From the above it is clear that most of the pre-requisites for distribution privatization have already
been completed or are in the process of completion. It can not be said that the Corporation has failed to
prepare comprehensive distribution and privatization strategy. In fact further process of privatization is
held up for the want of commitment of funding of transitional finance by funding agencies for which efforts
are still on.

          Improvement in Bill collection from Government Consumers

          The ICR mentioned that the target of 90% collection from Government consumers has not been
achieved in F/Y 05. In fact the observation is based on the data upto September 2004. But on the basis of
full year data the collection from government consumers is 92% as per details given below:

          Billing                  524 crores



                                                      - 22 -

         Collection                 482 crores
         % of collection            92% (Target 90%)

         In view of the above the observation in the draft ICR need to be revised.

         Reduction in forced interruption

         Against the target of 25% the corporation has been able to achieve 19.3%. The short fall was due
to the fact that the distribution and transmission system is very big and the work of strengthening and
augmentation takes considerable time. The bank's finance was quite insufficient to take care of entire
requirement of the State. However, the corporation has tried to avail funds from various other agencies and
the Government. In the areas where the funds have been provided by the Bank, the situation has improved
considerably.

         Return on Equity

         The objective of earning return on equity could not be achieved because of wide gap between the
cost of supply and the tariff. The tariff increase was not enough even to cover the annual revenue
requirement without return on equity therefore there was no point in aspiring for return of equity.

         Project Design flaw

         As already mentioned the Bank's loan was primarily meant for system improvement and
augmentation of capacity. There was no component, except for change of meters, which could have helped
the utility to reduce the line losses and improve the collection efficiency. The LT system and arial bunched
conductor is required to curb theft for which no funds were available in this project. The entire rural
segment is un-metered and it requires an investment of over Rs.400 crore to install the meters in rural
areas. In addition to this, for effective energy audited meters are required on distribution transformers. U.P.
has got more than 7 lacs transformers and metering of distribution transformers entails an expenditure of
over Rs.200 crores. These requirement were not considered while preparing this project. But the financial
objectives were laid down without providing commensurate resources. This indicates a very serious flaw
in project design .

         Other issues

         In ICR certain observations have been made in various paragraphs on which the Corporation has
its own reservations, we would like to elaborate the situation further in the following paragraph:-

         Para-1.7 :-       The ICR incorporates the observation that policy of          providing Escrows to
Independent Power Producers was inconsistent with its policy of attracting the Private Sector to the
distribution business. In this connection it is clarified that expansion of generation is also important to meet
the ever increasing power demand in the State. In the current situation none of the IPPs is in a position to
get funding from the financial institutions unless it has escrow cover available for the sale of power to
distribution utilities. In our view giving escrow to generation projects is not going to hinder the process of
privatization of distribution business.

         Para-1.9 :- In this para of the draft ICR it has been mentioned that because of increase in power
supply to rural areas and inadequate compensation by the State Govt., the project was down graded to
unsatisfactory rating. On this issue it is to be clarified that the Government has a social obligation towards


                                                       - 23 -

the rural areas also to ensure adequate supply of power to meet the agricultural requirement and also the
power for other purposes. This is a well accepted fact that unless adequate power supply is made available
in the rural areas the quality of life and the economic growth is not possible. Earlier we were giving 8 hours
supply in rural areas which was not enough to meet the requirement of agriculture sector and the small
industries. In other parts of the country also such stringent restrictions on rural supply were not imposed.
As such the decision of the Government to increase the supply of rural areas was keeping in view the
general public interest and for ensuring growth of the State's economy. Regarding compensation for
increased supply in the rural areas this is to be clarified that the Regulatory Commission had worked out
subsidy support of Rs. 1500 core in FY.05 against which the Government paid only Rs.1002 crore to the
Corporation. The balance amount could not be paid due to the budgetary constraints. It is worthwhile to
mention that the State of Uttar Pradesh has been grappling with resource constraint for the last many
years. To bridge the revenue gap, the Govt. had approached the Bank for structural adjustment loan but
unfortunately after releasing one installment of SAL, the Bank stopped further funding under the SAL. We
feel that there was lack of coordination between the Fiscal Team and the Power Sector Team of the World
Bank. The Fiscal Team insisted on reduction of revenue deficit and fiscal deficit of the Government.
whereas the power sector team wanted increased financial assistance to the power sector. This was a
contradictory situation. Had the Bank released the structural adjustment loan to GoUP as per the
programme, the Govt. of Uttar Pradesh would have been in a better position to provide additional fund for
power sector in the State. Still the Govt. of Uttar Pradesh provided the following assistance to power
Sector after the unbundling of UPSEB.

        Sl.No    Financial assistance by GOUP                      Million Rs.            Million USD
        .
    1.           GOUP loans and accrued interest written off                   201,160             4,373

    2.           Terminal liabilities retained by GOUP                          61,760             1,343
    3.           GPF liabilities takenover by GOUP                              16,345               355
    4.           Liabilities of central sector undertakings                     23,100               502
                 retained by GOUP
    5.           Power purchase liabilities taken over by                       55,375             1,204
                 GOUP
    6.           Equity given by GOUP                                           21,932               477
    7.           Capital Grants                                                  5,933               129
    8.           Revenue Subsidy                                                40,581               882
                 Total support                                                 426,186             9,265



         Para-7.5 :-    In   draft ICR the Government implementation performance has been rated as
unsatisfactory on the basis of certain vague observations. It is strongly felt that GoUP met all the
obligations and took necessary actions as contemplated            in the loan agreement and covenants. The
unbundling of UPSEB was done as per the plan and formation of distribution companies was also done
within the loan period. The Government met with all financial covenents and assumed huge liabilities to
make the power sector viable. The statement of support as given above makes it amply clear that a State
like U.P., which is starved of resources has contributed huge resources to the Power Sector. Regarding
privatization of distribution business also there is no issue pending at the level of State Govt. Therefore we
request that the rating of Government performance should be changed from unsatisfactory to satisfactory.




                                                     - 24 -

        Para-7.7 :- In this para overall performance of the borrower has been rated unsatisfactory. We
strongly feel that the basic objective of loan was strengthening and augmentation of distribution and
transmission system which has been achieved by the Corporation. The loan utilization was 96% and all the
fiscal benefit which were contemplated have been achieved by the Corporation. The investment components
has been rated as highly satisfactory . Merely because some of the objectives were achieved partially, the
overall performance of the borrower should not be rated as unsatisfactory.


(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information




                                                  - 25 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                      1
                Indicator/Matrix                  Projected in last PSR                 Actual/Latest Estimate
(i) Regulatory Commission fully functional                                 (i) Achieved
(ii) New Distribution Companies Incorporated                               (ii) Achieved
(iii) Financial Restructuring Plan under                                   (iii) FRP revised in 4/03 but implementation
satisfactory implementation, and the                                       not satisfactory, actual financing by GoUP
government continues to provide the required                               insufficient - Not achieved.
financing support.
(iv) Tariff adjustments, as required for                                   (iv) Not achieved
meeting the financial objectives, permitted by
the Regulatory Commission and
implemented.
(v) Comprehensive distribution privatization                               (v) Not achieved
strategy (including the optimum
configuration) prepared and approved by
GoUP
(vi) Improvement in bill collection from                                   (vi) Achieved in FY04 (85% vs target of
non-Government consumers.                                                  84%), not achieved in FY05 (as of 9/04, 74%
                                                                           vs. target of 86%)
(vii) Improvement in bill collections from                                 (vii) Achieved in FY04 (82% vs target of
Government departments                                                     80%), not achieved in FY05 (as of 9/04, 78%
                                                                           vs. target of 90%)
(viii) Increase in the number of consumers                                 (viii) Effectively achieved (8/04, 19.5% vs.
billed on basis of meter Reading                                           target of 20%)
(ix) Reduction in forced interruptions                                     (ix) Not achieved.
(x) UPPCL Return on Equity:                                                (x) Not achieved.
FY2002 - 2004: cover operating costs and
interest; FY 2005 - 9%


Output Indicators:
                                                                      1
                Indicator/Matrix                  Projected in last PSR                 Actual/Latest Estimate




1 End of project




                                                        - 26 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal     Actual/Latest  Percentage of
                                                          Estimate       Estimate        Appraisal
                     Component                            US$ million   US$ million
Component 1: Transmission System Rehabilitation and         83.00           61.60               74
Augmentation
Component 2: Sub-Transmission and Distribution System       66.00           61.10               93
Strengthening
Component 3: Metering System Improvement                    58.00           69.90              121
Component 4: Technical Assistance                            8.00             8.80             110
Component 5: Voluntary Retirement Scheme                     5.00             0.00               0

Total Baseline Cost                                        220.00          201.40
                        Total Project Costs                220.00          201.40
                  Total Financing Required                 220.00          201.40


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB             NCB                2        N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                          5.00             19.00         1.00          5.00         30.00
                                  (4.00)          (13.00)      (1.00)          (0.00)      (18.00)
2. Goods                         130.00             5.00         6.00          13.00       154.00
                                (111.00)           (4.00)      (4.00)          (0.00)      (119.00)
3. Services                       0.00              0.00         8.00          0.00          8.00
including Technical               (0.00)           (0.00)      (8.00)          (0.00)       (8.00)
Assistance and
Refinancing PPF
4. Miscellaneous                  0.00              0.00         5.00          0.00          5.00
Voluntary Retirement              (0.00)           (0.00)      (5.00)          (0.00)       (5.00)
Scheme
5. Transport and Insurance        0.00              0.00         0.00          6.00          6.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Establishment and              0.00              0.00         0.00          17.00        17.00
General Expenses                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
   Total                         135.00            24.00        20.00          41.00       220.00
                                (115.00)          (17.00)      (18.00)         (0.00)      (150.00)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB             NCB                2      N.B.F.      Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                          0.15             18.88        0.00           0.00        19.03
                                  (0.13)          (6.35)       (0.00)         (0.00)       (6.48)



                                                - 27 -

  2. Goods                                126.92              0.20              0.00             0.00             127.12
                                         (110.99)            (0.19)            (0.00)            (0.00)          (111.18)
  3. Services                              0.00               0.00              5.78             0.00              5.78
  including Technical                     (0.00)             (0.00)            (4.15)            (0.00)           (4.15)
  Assistance and
  Refinancing PPF
  4. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
  Voluntary Retirement                    (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
  Scheme
  5. Transport and Insurance               0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
  6. Establishment and                     0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
  General Expenses                        (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
      Total                               127.07             19.08              5.78             0.00             151.93
                                         (111.11)            (6.54)            (4.15)            (0.00)          (121.81)

    1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

    2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
      of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
      managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                      Percentage of Appraisal
       Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                               Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.




TOTAL                         150.00       70.00         0.20       145.40        55.70      0.20       96.9      79.6    100.0




                                                          - 28 -

   Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

This annex summarizes the economic analysis of the project carried out for the ICR. The full economic
analysis report, Implementation Completion Report UP Power Sector Restructuring Project: Economic
Analysis, including detailed calculations of the ERR, the risk assessment and financial analysis, is available in
the project files. The table numbers in this abridged version of the economic analysis correspond to those in
the final report.

Summary

At appraisal, the economic rate of return for the UP investment program was estimated at 29%. A sensitivity
analysis indicated robustness to the main uncertainties, with the ERR in the range of 12.4% to 53%. The
overall financial return was estimated at 33%.

Table 1: Summary of results
                                        Appraisal       ICR
Economic returns      Transmission       23.7-25%        29.7%
                      Distribution        25-26.4%
                      Metering              36.3%
                      Total                   29%     17.7-25%
Financial returns     Transmission            10%
                      Distribution             9%
                      Metering                86%
                      Total                   33%           20%



Based on the best available information and an assessment of the incremental cost and benefit streams of the
consolidated transmission and distribution business, the ICR estimates the baseline ERR of the overall
investment program at 17.7%. Including a very conservative estimate of the economic benefits of pilferage
(and/or defective meters), increases the ERR to 25%. A risk assessment estimates the probability of the hurdle
rate not being achieved at 15%.

Specific benefit estimates were available only for the transmission component, based on a load flow study of
the transmission network. This shows an ERR of 29.7%, which is a satisfactory result in line with what one
would expect given that the bulk of the T&D investments supported by the Bank in UP went to upgrading
critical bottlenecks.

Methodology

The methodology used here to estimate the economic and financial returns is imperfect, though it is the only
one available under the circumstances. For the transmission component of the Bank's investment programme,
we have a specific benefit estimate. The Bank's contribution to the transmission component (Rs 299 crores in
FY01 to FY05) accounts for 50% of the total (Bank) investment (Rs 641 crores) over the same period, so we
may be confident that 50% of the Bank's investment has a good economic return of 29.7%.

However for the distribution and metering components we have no specific benefit estimate, and we have only
the overall economic and financial flows to work with, and only for a limited time slice (FY 03 and FY04).
For the years in question, the Bank's share of the investment programme in FY03 and 04 is about Rs 400



                                                      - 29 -

crores (table 14), or 26% of the total Rs 1,550 crores of capital investment during the same period. Thus our
estimate of ERR (17.7-25%) for the aggregate investment programme captures only this 26% of the Bank's
total contributions.

Nevertheless, since the Bank's programme supported the rehabilitation of the most critically overloaded parts
of the T&D system, it is far more likely that the component supported by the Bank has a greater economic
return than the average for all T&D investment (some of which was simply to meet the requirements for
serving new customers), than it would have a lower ERR than the average. Moreover, as noted in our analysis
of self-generation costs, there is good evidence that the actual WTP will be higher than the Rs 3.00/kWh
assumed for our baseline, though to assess exactly how much higher would require a level of detailed analysis
of the demand patterns that goes beyond the scope of this report.

Therefore, despite the various uncertainties, the 17.7-25% ERR that we report for the baseline ICR estimate of
ERR may be asserted as credible (and conservative): the investment component of the UP Power Sector
Restructuring Project may therefore be viewed as successful in generating good economic returns.



Approach for the ICR economic analysis

This project is the fourth of the World Bank state-level power sector restructuring projects for which ICRs
have been completed (the others being Haryana, Andhra Pradesh (AP), and Orissa). In the AP ICR, the
estimation of ERR could be fairly precise, because detailed benefit evaluation studies had been done both at
appraisal, as well as at the end of the project, for all three components of the project (i.e. for transmission, for
distribution, and for metering). In Orissa, no benefit studies were available, and therefore the ICR economic
analysis relied on an estimate of returns based on assessment of the incremental cost and benefits streams
derived from the aggregate financial statements (for the consolidated distribution and transmission businesses
created in the unbundling).

In UP, the only component for which a specific benefit estimate is available is transmission. Therefore for this
component alone benefits may be estimated using the standard approach. However, for the investment project
as a whole, the incremental approach is required.

Several problems arise in applying this approach to UP. The first is the creation of the new State of
Uttaranchal: thus for UP (the recipient of the Bank's investment funds), the starting year has to be FY2002
(rather than FY2001, the first year in which disbursements were made). The improvements in the system
attributable to the FY2001 investments that would be reflected in the FY2002 results are therefore not
captured by the analysis. However, of the total IBRD disbursements of Rs 641 crores (Table 10), only Rs 32
crores (5%) were disbursed in FY2001, whereas 19.4% of the overall investment program from FY2001 to
FY2005 was spent in FY2001.

Table 10: The T&D investment program (Rs Crores)
                            total   2000-01   2001-02      2002-03  2003-04       2004-05
                                                                            (up to Jan 05)
total capital            3631.93     704.95     704.95      743.31   807.64        671.08
expenditure
Year-wise proportion                 19.4%       19.4%      20.5%    22.2%          18.5%


IBRD funds                 640.98     31.96     100.71      201.59   197.99        108.73
Year-wise proportion                  5.0%       15.7%      31.5%    30.9%          17.0%



                                                          - 30 -

The second problem is that, given the preparation of the ICR economic analysis in March 2005, the FY2005
figures are necessarily estimates, which therefore requires caution. The most recent tariff order, dated 11th
November 2004, illustrates the problems (Table 11). Regulators' estimates often contain an element of
pressure on the utilities (e.g. in the matter of losses), and UPERC's tariff orders have been no exception.
Estimates of GWh sales and power purchases were reasonably accurate, but the corresponding expenditures
(and average prices) less so.

Table 11: Estimates and actuals for FY2004
                                   FY 2004 estimate   FY 04 Tariff order FY 04 Actuals
                                   (Utility estimate)   (Regulator's
                                                         estimate)
Sales                  GWh              26,907            26,431            26,710
Customer revenue       RsCrores                                             7,311
Average tariff         Rs/kWh                                                2.74


T&D loss               %                 32.8%             30.4%            34.5%
Power purchase         GWh              40,040            37,975            40,771
Power purchase cost    RsCrores          6,504             6,257            6,872
Average purchase price Rs/kWh             1.62              1.65             1.69


Table 12 compares the various estimates for FY2005. The revised Financial Restructuring Plan (April 2003)
appears somewhat optimistic, as is the Regulator's estimate (UPERC, Tariff Order FY2004-2005, Petition
183 of 2004, Lucknow, 10 November 2004). Certainly all of the forecasts have underestimated the actual
(financial) price of power purchases (which is 1.86 Rs/kWh in the first six months of FY2005, reflecting,
among other things, a 16.7% increase in coal prices in June 2004).

Table 12: Comparison of estimates for FY2005
                                   UPPCL estimate      FRP estimate       Regulator's
                                                                           estimate
Cash collections       RsCrores          7,127             7,390
Power purchase bill    RsCrores          6,512             6,444            7,220
Energy purchased       GWh              40,500            39,607            41,868
Power purchase price   Rs/kWh             1.61              1.63            1.724
GWh sold               GWh                                                  28,964


Since (with the exception of the actual power purchase price), the half-year forecasts of UPPCL match the
actual half year performance reasonably well, the UPPCL estimate for FY 2005 is used (Table 13). For the
power purchase price, the actual half-year value for FY2005, Rs 1.86/kWh, is taken.

Table 13: Comparison of UPPCL half-year estimates with actuals
                                   UPPCL estimate         Actual
Cash collections       RsCrores         19,970            21,602
Power purchase bill    RsCrores          3,234             4,062
Energy purchased       GWh              19,970            21,602
Power purchase price   Rs/kWh             1.62              1.86


Finally, the third problem is that FY2003 was an atypical year. UPPCL cut back significantly on power
purchases from expensive central generating stations in FY2003 in wake of the tripartite agreement and as
supply to unremunerative areas was cut (to average 8 hours/ day). However after the state elections, the new



                                                       - 31 -

government that took office in September 2003 took a policy decision to increase power supply to rural areas
from 8 hours/day to 14 hours/day resulting in pressure on UPPCL for higher power purchases to meet the
increased demand. Therefore, were one to use FY2002 as the base year, the unusual conditions of FY 2003
distorts the analysis (and results in unreasonably high estimates of ERR, as the incremental flows experience a
decreases in the first year). Even though the proportion of the total investment program that is being assessed
is correspondingly smaller if one uses FY2003 as the base year, this produces the most robust results.

We therefore evaluate the FY 2003-2004 time slice of the investment program by assessing the incremental
cost and benefit streams based on the FY2005 estimates.           In other words, the assumption is that the
incremental effects of the FY2003-2004 time-slice investment program, which are captured as cumulative
effects by subtracting the FY 2004 and 2005 costs and benefits from their FY2003 figure, and which are then
assumed to remain constant for the remaining 20-year lifetime of the investments. There is no reason to
believe that these incremental benefits would be diminished over time (provided they are properly maintained),
since T&D investments are most unlikely to become stranded in the same way as possible generation
investments (if demand does not materialize, or if some new generation technology makes the previous
investments financially or technologically obsolete).      For investment in transmission reinforcement and
distribution, one may be reasonably sure that the benefits achieved by FY2005 will endure. The details of the
T&D investment program, and the sources of funds, are shown in Table 14.




                                                        - 32 -

Table 14: The overall investment program


                                                                                                     2004-05 (up
    (Rupees crore)                 TOTAL       2000-01       2001-02       2002-03      2003-04      to Jan 05)

    Capital Expenditure
         Transmission                  734.26        149.41        81.96         127.28      165.75        209.86
         Distribution                 2098.91        455.34       479.79         399.63      459.45         304.7
         Metering                      420.73           6.51       53.44         118.26      139.81        102.71
         Technical services              13.24          4.39         2.32           1.93       2.67           1.93
         IDC                           364.79           89.3       87.44          96.21      39.96          51.88
         Inventory                            0            0             0            0           0              0
         TOTAL                        3631.93        704.95       704.95         743.31      807.64        671.08
    Capital Funds
         Equity                        841.87        270.00        120.4         205.27      129.32        116.88

         Grant                         531.27           4.70      173.04         150.75      136.47         66.31

         Loans                        1747.98        137.66       349.91         418.98      495.62        345.81
                        GoUP           266.29         59.46        51.52          80.31          25             50
                        IBRD           640.98         31.96       100.71         201.59      197.99        108.73
                        REC              10.18             0             0            0           0         10.18
                        PFC            600.97           0.87       63.43         117.14      242.63         176.9
                        IDBI             95.09        43.85        32.53          18.71           0              0
                        NOIDA            18.59             0       18.59              0           0              0
                        UPSIDC            5.48          1.52         2.73           1.23          0              0
                        NCR              110.4             0       80.40              0          30              0

         Other capital receipts        510.82        292.59        61.61         (31.69)     46.23         142.08
         TOTAL                        3631.94        704.95       704.96         743.31      807.64        671.08
    memo items:
    IBRD share of total                   18%            5%          14%            27%       25%             16%
    Economic costs (excluding IDC)        3267          616           618           647        768            619


source: UPPCL, Memorandum of March 14, 2005



The economic rate of return (ERR)

Using actual realization (i.e. tariff calculated on the basis of what is collected from consumers) results in an
ERR of 1.3%, which is unsatisfactory, but clearly unrealistic and needlessly pessimistic.

When we repeat the analysis at a constant WTP of Rs3.00/kWh (as assumed in the appraisal), the ERR
computes to 41.6%. This compares to the corresponding estimate at appraisal (for the overall program) of
29%. However, the question remains as to whether 3 Rs/kWh (at 2000 prices) is reasonable average figure for
WTP? At 2004 price levels, this is Rs3.59/kWh, which is below the actual industrial (and railways) tariffs,
but substantially above domestic and agricultural tariff.




                                                        - 33 -

Table 18: WTP and actual tariffs in FY2004
Category                          Rs/kWh
PAD assumptions
WTP at 2000 price levels               3.00
WTP at 2004 price levels               3.59
Actual 2004 tariff:
Average                                2.27
Domestic (Light & Fan)                 1.50
Commercial                             3.29
Industrial                             4.16
Irrigation & Agriculture               1.25
Traction (Railways)                    4.46
Public Lighting/ PWW etc.              4.25
Other Bulk Consumers within State      1.89



Since what matters to the analysis is the incremental effect of the investment program, some insight may be
gained from the composition of demand growth: to whom was the additional energy sold. It is of course
impossible to say how much of the demand growth was made possible solely by the T&D loss reductions, and
how much would have occurred in the absence of the investment program. Table 19 shows that of the total
GWh growth in sales between 2003 and 2004 (1992 GWh), 67% went to domestic consumers, while only 16%
went to high-paying industrial consumers. Thus the average tariff applicable to this demand increment is only
Rs1.97/GWh (as opposed to the overall average of Rs 2.27 Rs/GWh!!).

Table 19: Increase in GWh sales from FY2003 to FY2004
                                   growth     tariff
                                            Rs/kWh
Domestic (Light & Fan)                67%      1.50
Commercial                             8%      3.29
Industrial                            16%      4.16
Irrigation & Agriculture               7%      1.25
Traction (Railways)                   -1%      4.46
Public Lighting/ PWW etc.             -3%      4.25
Other Bulk Consumers within State      6%      1.89
                           average             1.97



In other words, such energy sales growth as did occur (whether from sales of energy previously lost in T&D,
or through economic growth and new connections) was sold at less favorable terms than the average tariff,
because a disproportionate share of growth went to low-paying customers. The domestic sector accounted for
67% of the growth in demand, while agriculture and irrigation claimed only 7% of the demand growth. This
suggests caution in using high values of WTP.




                                                     - 34 -

The cost of self-generation

Another measure of the WTP is the cost of self-generation. The costs of self-generation were calculated for
three applications: a small 50 kW generator (as might be used by a commercial establishment), running on
HSD (auto-diesel); a large 400kW generator (as might be used by larger industries) running on fuel oil (LSHS,
low sulfur heavy stock); and a 5 HP agricultural pumpset/generator running on light diesel oil (LDO). Fuel
prices are as reported for Lucknow retail outlets for HSD, and ex-storage depot for LDO and LSHS (so the
delivered cost would in fact be somewhat higher than as taken here to reflect transportation costs). The
self-generation cost ranges from 3.72Rs/kWh for large industrial plants using LSHS to Rs8.77/kWh for small
units using auto-diesel. For agriculture and commerce, the diesel (self-)generation costs are substantially
higher than the tariff; but for industry, somewhat lower than the tariff (suggesting for the latter an average
WTP close to the tariff).

Table 20: Self generation costs v. tariff
              Self-generation          2004 Tariff
               (from Box 1),      (average realization)
                  Rs/kWh                 Rs/kWh
Commercial          8.77                   4.25
Agricultural        7.55                   1.51
Industrial          3.72                   4.51



Diesel generating costs have increased sharply over the past few years as a consequence of the new GoI
pricing policy that has brought ex-refinery prices aligned to world levels. In 1999, the retail price of auto
diesel (in Delhi) was 10.35Rs/litre, at which price the cost of generation at small self-generators was Rs
4.5/kWh, as opposed to Rs 8.77/kWh today. The first sharp diesel price increase occurred in October 1999,
when the ex-storage depot diesel price was increased by 40% (and Delhi retail prices increased to 13.9
Rs/litre). More importantly, in 1999 fuel oil was only Rs9/litre, resulting in a self-generation price for large
industrial of Rs2.42/kWh, significantly below typical industrial tariffs of around Rs 4/kWh that prevailed in
most Indian States. It is hardly surprising that industrial consumption supplied by the grid declined in the late
1990s, the result of steep increases in the industrial tariff through the 1990s. Sales peaked in 1996 (at 6,674
GWh), followed by decreases in every year until 2003, when sales were only 4,514 GWh. Since then, as a
consequence of the combined effect of a level tariff (in fact declining in real terms) and of increases in the
self-generation cost, industrial sector sales are again increasing.


Conclusions on WTP

The estimates of self-generation costs suggest high values WTP for most consumers, ranging from 3.72
Rs/kWh (at 2004 price levels) for large industrial users to Rs 7.55 for diesel agricultural pumps and over
8Rs/kWh for small standby generators. However, these would have to be regarded as upper bounds of WTP,
applicable only to a first tranche of consumption, and should not be taken as representative of average WTP.
Calculation of the average WTP requires knowledge of the shape of the demand curve, for which there are no
reliable estimates in the case of UP.

The ERR is very sensitive to the WTP assumption, and therefore absent a detailed study of demand that would
permit credible estimates of the demand curve, caution is indicated. Using a conservative estimate of WTP at
Rs 2.5/kWh (at 2000 prices), the ERR calculates to 17.7%, which is therefore adopted in this report as the
baseline.



                                                         - 35 -

Sensitivity analysis

Details of the sensitivity analysis are given in the full report. The analysis of the sensitivity of the ERR to
WTP showed that the switching value for WTP (i.e. the value at which the ERR is exactly equal to the 12%
hurdle rate) at 2004 prices is Rs 3.30Rs/kWh (or 2.4Rs/kWh at 2000 prices).

A second critical assumption of this analysis is the economic cost of purchased power, for which we use a
value of Rs1.91/kWh (at 2000 prices). This corresponds to that of the marginal hydro purchase in FY 2004 of
Rs 2.29/kWh (for purchases from Naptha Jakhri). To the extent that some part of T&D loss reduction savings
reduce fossil energy, a somewhat lower price might be justified: the FY2004 average purchase price from
NTPC was 1.69 Rs/kWh, almost certainly below the economic cost. The FY05 tariff order shows FY2004
imports from the Eastern region at Rs 1.92/kWh (variable cost only). Short of running a merit order dispatch
simulation for every year with and without the investment program, the marginal cost of power purchases can
only be set by assumption: The analysis of the sensitivity of ERR to the assumed value yielded a switching
value of Rs2.52/kWh at FY04 prices (or 2.1Rs/kWh at 2000 prices), which is comfortably above the actual
2004 marginal cost from Naphta Jhakri of Rs2.29/kWh.



Economic benefits of pilferage

The estimate of economic benefits discussed above considers only paying customers. But in a system such as
UP, a substantial part of "T&D losses" is in fact the consumption of pilferers. Clearly, pilferers derive
economic benefit from their consumption, which merits consideration in economic analysis. While it is
generally true that the economic cost of supplying pilferers exceeds the economic benefits of pilferers'
consumption, to include the former but not the latter results in an underestimate of the net economic benefits.
This holds true even if some part of non-technical losses is due to defective meters, or problems in billing
rather than theft per se, for the consequence is the same: that part of consumption that is not recorded by a
defective meter still provides economic benefits to the consumer.

Table 21 shows the assumptions used: total T%D losses are assumed to be 50% technical and 50%
non-technical. The latter are thus assumed to have fallen from 19.9% in FY02 to 17% in FY04 (unfortunately
there are no detailed estimates of the breakdown of losses: these are our best estimates based on experience
elsewhere.)

Table 21: Non-technical losses
                                  FY01 FY02 FY03         FY04    FY05
Total T&D lossrate          [%]   0.398   0.424 0.334     0.345   0.339
which technical             [%]   0.199   0.212 0.167   0.1725   0.1695
Hence non-technical losses  [%]    0.199 0.212  0.167   0.1725   0.1695


Unfortunately (though hardly surprising), there exists no empirical study of pilferers' demand curves from
which to base reliable estimates of pilferer's actual demand curves from which an average WTP could be
based. Clearly, the average WTP will be
 below the WTP of paying customers (in the same customer category)
 below the tariff
 greater than zero

Revising calculations based on an average pilferer's WTP of one half of that of paying consumers increases
the ERR increases from 17.7% to 25 %



                                                        - 36 -

Benefit-cost analysis of the transmission program

UP commissioned an evaluation of the World Bank-funded transmission projects (Reference: Evaluation of
World Bank Funded Transmission Projects, prepared by the CIDA-financed Energy Infrastructure Services
Project-II and UPPCL, March 2005.). This conducted a load flow analysis of the transmission system with
and without the additional transmission links funded by the Bank. The "economic evaluation" (in Section 6 of
the study) claims net benefits (and NPV) of Rs17,222 million (based on an NPV of cost of Rs 2,998 million
and NPV of benefits of Rs20,220 million). The calculations are documented in a Table, reproduced here as
Table 24. No estimate of ERR is presented in the report.

Table 24 Estimation of transmission system benefits
                                                   [unit]                         [value]
Capacity benefit                           (MW)                                     46.4
Reduction in Demand Loss


Estimation of Equivalent Generator
  Type of generator                                                       Gas Fired Combined Cycle
  Auxiliary Consumption                    (%)                                       5
  Capacity of required generator           MW                                       48.8
  Unit Cost of generator                   (Rs. Crores/Mw)                           3.0
  Total cost of generator with IDC         (Rs. Crores)                             322.4


Energy Benefit
  Energy required to cover losses          MU                                       278.7
  Unit Cost of Production in energy        (Rs./kWh)                                 1.0
  Total cost of energy                     (Rs.Crores/annum)                        27.87


Total Saving in the first year             (Rs.Crores)                              350.2
Note:   the   energy    benefits    will
continue for several years
Source: Evaluation of World Bank's Funded Transmission Projects, op.cit., Table 9


A rigorous calculation of economic returns to the transmission investment programs is presented in Table 25
of the final report. The key assumptions include:

 the total (IBRD-supported) transmission investment costs (Rs 2,349 million) have been allocated across the
2001-2005 time-slice based on the disbursement pattern for the overall investment program shown in Table 9.
 The avoided economic cost of purchased energy is taken at Rs2/kWh
 The energy and capacity benefits are taken pro-rata with the investment program, but with a one-year lag.

The result shows an ERR of 29.7%, and an NPV of Rs 1,764 million. This is a plausible estimate consistent
with similar calculations done in AP (for which the ERR, calculated on the basis of similar load flow studies,
was 46 %), and with the appraisal estimate of 23-25% (See Table 1 above).




                                                                         - 37 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              5/01/1998                 3    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);
                                             ENERGY SPECIALIST (1);
                                             FINANCIAL ANALYST (1)


 Appraisal/Negotiation
              07/20/1999                9    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);
              07/28/1999                     FINANCIAL ANALYSTS
                                             (2); ENERGY
                                             SPECIALISTS (2); SOCIAL
                                             SPECIALIST (1);
                                             ENVIRONMENT
                                             SPECIALIST (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT
                                             SPECIALIST (1);
                                             FINANCIAL
                                             MANAGEMENT
                                             SPECIALIST (1)
              10/25/1999              15     TASK TEAM LEADER (1);
              11/14/1999                     POWER ENGINEER (1);
                                             ENERGY SPECIALISTS (3);
                                             LEAD SPECIALIST (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (1); ENVIRONMENT
                                             SPECIALISTS (2); SOCIAL
                                             SPECIALIST (1); FINANCIAL
                                             MANAGEMENT SPECIALISTS
                                             (2); PRINCIPAL FINANCIAL
                                             MANAGEMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (1); PROGRAM ASSISTANT
                                             (1); OTHERS (1)

              03/17/2000                4    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);
                                             SENIOR COUNSEL (1);
                                             FINANCIAL ANALYST (1);
                                             PRINCIPAL FINANCIAL
                                             MANAGEMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (1)

 Supervision
              8/31/2000                                                       S               S
              12/08/2000                4    SR. FINANCIAL ANALYST            S               S
                                             (2); SR. ENERGY SPECIALIST
                                             (1); FINANCIAL ANALYST (1)
              04/27/2001                7    TASK TEAM LEADER (1); PR.        S               S
                                             FINANCIAL ANALYST (1);




                                              - 38 -

                                                  ENGINEERING (1);
                                                  FINANCIAL ANALYST (1);
                                                  ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT
                                                  (1); GOVERNANCE (1);
                                                  ENVIRONMENT (1)
               10/24/2001                                                                S          S
               5/2/2002                                                                  S          U
               9/27/2002                                                                 S          U
               2/03/2003                                                                 S          U
               08/05/2003                    6    TASK LEADER AND                        S          S
                                                  ECONOM (1); FINANCIAL
                                                  ANALYST (1); ENERGY
                                                  SPECIALIST (1); FINANCIAL
                                                  MANAGEMENT S (1);
                                                  RESEARCH ANALYST (1);
                                                  SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT SPE
                                                  (1)
               01/15/2004                   10    LEAD ENERGY ECON./TL (1);              S          U
                                                  SR. ENERGY SPEC. (1); SR.
                                                  FINANCIAL ANALYST (1);
                                                  SR. FIN. MANAG. SPEC (1);
                                                  CONSULTANT (FMS) (1);
                                                  RESEARCH ANALYST (1);
                                                  PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                                  (1); EXT. AFFAIRS OFFICER
                                                  (1); ENV. SPECIALIST (1);
                                                  SOC. DEV. SPECIALIST (1)
               5/28/2004                                                                 S          U
               10/29/2004                                                                S          U

 ICR
               4/29/2005                     2     SR. ENERGY SPECIALIST                 S          U
                                                   (1); RESEARCH
                                                   ANALYST (1)




(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                       Actual/Latest Estimate
                                       No. Staff weeks                  US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                  NA*                             339.2
  Appraisal/Negotiation                        150                            392.3
  Supervision                                 245.9                           709.1
  ICR                                           9.3                            43.0
  Total                                       955.0                        1,686.5
* MIS database is no longer available to provide Staff weeks data for Identification/Preparation.




                                                  - 39 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 40 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 41 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

1.      Evaluation of World Bank Funded Transmission Projects, prepared by the CIDA-financed Energy
Infrastructure Services Project-II and UPPCL, March 2005.

2.      UP Power Sector Restructuring Project: Economic Analysis, Implementation Completion Report,
March 2005.

3.      UPPCL: Independent Appraisal of Project Management and Reform Programme of UP Power
Sector Restructuring Project, Intermediate Status Report, ASCI Hyderabad, February 2005.

4.      UPPCL Social Policy & Procedures: End Term Evaluation Report, Study Point Samiti, Lucknow.




                                                  - 42 -

     Additional Annex 8. Financial Overview of the Power Sector

This annex analyses the financial improvements planned when the project was appraised; the subsequent issues
affecting the sector's financial performance; the current financial situation of the sector; and the impact on the
state finances. The sector continues to suffer large cash losses and is in severe financial distress. During
FY2004, the transmission and distribution business had a cash deficit of about Rs. 16,000 million (about US$
365 million) that was financed mainly through a mix of borrowings, and deferment of payment to state
generators. The situation is expected to further deteriorate in the current year with an increased cash deficit as a
result of higher power purchases necessitated by the Government mandated increases in supply requirements to
agriculture for irrigation purposes because of poor rains and the increased power purchase price because of
increase in coal prices. The primary cause of financial crisis continues to be inadequate tariffs and system
inefficiency. The tariffs have shown slight improvements during the course of the project, but the pace has not
matched what was forecast during project preparation and at the same time, the progress in reducing
cross-subsidies has also been slow. Collections, especially from government consumers, have shown significant
improvement in the recent years.

Financial reform actions envisaged in the transfer scheme

As described in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD), as a part of the implementation of the reform program
the Government of Uttar Pradesh (GoUP) prepared a Financial Restructuring Plan (FRP) for the power sector in
1999. The FRP provided for cleaning up of erstwhile Uttar Pradesh State Electricity Board's (UPSEB) balance
sheet, preparation of the provisional opening balance sheets for the successor entities and detailing operating and
financial projections for the successor entities for the first ten years of operation. The finalized transfer scheme
involved GoUP writing off Rs. 201 billion of loans to UPSEB together with accumulated interest and GoUP
retaining Central Plan Allocation (CPA) liabilities of Rs. 25 billion (as against amounts in the provisional
transfer scheme of Rs 190 billion and of Rs. 23 billion, respectively). Further GoUP also retained and agreed to
service employee pension and gratuity liabilities of Rs. 62 billion (as against provisional transfer scheme figure
of Rs. 27 billion). The Unchahar plant of UPSEB was transferred to NTPC at the time of unbundling in
settlement of Rs. 9 billion of outstanding dues. The loan rescheduling envisaged with LIC under the transfer
scheme is yet to be agreed upon.


Subsequent issues affecting financial performance
Since the project inception and initial unbundling a number of important developments with a significant
influence on the power sector have taken place:

(a) The formation of a separate state of Uttaranchal out of Uttar Pradesh and subsequent transfer of
transmission and distribution of Uttaranchal area to a new entity in November, 2001, because of which UP lost
access to most of the low-cost hydroelectric power since it was geographically located in the new state and UP
also lost access to about 10% of the undivided UP's share in the output of the central generation stations. The
impact of this was an additional financial burden of about Rs. 4 billion per annum on UP. The average cost of
power purchase for UP increased from about Rs. 1.50/unit in FY2001 to Rs. 1.66/unit in FY2003.

(b) The signing of a Tripartite agreement by GoUP with GoI that involved securitization of past outstanding
dues of state power utilities towards Central Generating Stations (CGS) and fuel suppliers in the form of long
term bonds. The impact of this was to create Rs. 52 billion worth of bonds for UPPCL payables to Central
Generators that were removed from UPPCL's balance sheet and taken over by GoUP. In addition, an amount of
Rs. 9 billion was securitized towards coal payables by UPRVUNL and Central plan allocation liabilities. Under



                                                            - 43 -

the terms of the securitization scheme, accounts payable of UPPCL to the power/ fuel suppliers in excess of 60
days are penalized in the form of supply regulations, deductions from central plan assistance etc. The agreement
also includes incentives for UPPCL from the Central Generators to pay for future power purchases on a timely
basis.

(c) Inadequate and delayed tariff adjustments that adversely affected the sector's finances. While the initial FRP
projected tariff revisions 10-12% annually during FY 2001-05, the actual tariff adjustments were much lower in
the region of 12% for the entire period. The underlying reasons include delayed filings by utilities with UPERC
(for example, the tariff filing for FY2003 was made in August 2002 as against the December 2001 norm) as
well as the low adjustments approved. The inadequate tariff revisions resulted in a higher than projected cash
gap leading to problems in payment to power and fuel suppliers and also lenders.

                   Tariff               FY200     FY200     FY200      FY200      FY2005
                   Adjustments          1         2         3          4
                 FRP Assumption         9.7%      11.2%     11.8%      12.4%      10%
                                                                                  (6%)*
                 Actual                 3%        1.7%      3%         1.7%       2.7%
                                                            w.e.f.                w.e.f
                                                            Nov.                  Nov.
                                                            2002                  2004
                   * As per revised FRP

In the five tariff orders that the regulatory commission has issued since unbundling, there has been slight
movement over time towards reducing the high degree of cross-subsidization of domestic and agricultural
consumers by industrial and commercial consumers, but the relative progress achieved over time has been
insufficient to address the fundamental financial imbalance built into the existing system of tariffs. This
indicates the need for more efforts on tariff rationalization, particularly in view of the Electricity Act 2003,
which mandates progressive reduction in cross-subsidies as one of the reform elements (apart from other reform
provisions like open access and captives definition that allow for more options for consumers and may lead to
the highly subsidizing categories opting for alternative supplies where the cross subsidy burden is not so heavy).

               Movement of Cross-Subsidisation for Key Consumer Categories Over the Years

                     Category              FY2001    FY2002       FY2003       FY2004 FY2005
          Domestic                            -41%         -38%        -25%        -25%      -33%
         Commercial                             47%        48%          43%         43%        0%
         PTW                                   -83%        -73%        -72%        -69%      -64%
         Small & Medium Power                   47%        42%          44%         44%       61%
         Large & Heavy Power                    59%        54%          57%         46%       41%
Source: Tariff Order 2004-05, UPERC

The table above shows the gap between the average assessment rate approved by the regulator and the average
cost of supply to the consumers as a ratio of the average cost of supply; a negative number signifies a
beneficiary of cross-subsidies (domestic consumers and private tube wells) and a positive number indicates a
contributor of cross-subsidies.

(d) The delays in support from GoUP and inadequate cash support from GoUP for the costly government



                                                           - 44 -

imperatives such as mandated increase in hours of supply, have put pressure on the utilities financial position.

A revised FRP, incorporating individual projections for the proposed distribution companies (Discoms) and the
transmission company, was prepared and approved in April 2003 taking into account the new developments.
Under the revised FRP, securitization of UPPCL's power purchase payables to UPRVUNL amounting to Rs. 10
billion (since the unbundling of UPSEB) through issue of long term bonds on similar terms as the securitization
scheme for the central utilities was approved. Further GoUP agreed to write-off about Rs. 13 billion of
accumulated GoUP loans and interest thereon to UPPCL against receivables from GoUP departments and
agencies that had accumulated since the unbundling of UPSEB. GoUP has further retained the General
Provident Fund (GPF) liabilities of employees amounting to Rs. 14 billion.

Power sector's current financial performance

As a result of the above, together with slower than expected improvements in collection efficiency, the financial
performance of the sector continues to be poor, with large deficits. The cash shortfall has been financed through
delays in loan servicing to financial institutions as well as payment defaults to state generating stations.

UPPCL/ Discoms have been able to bring down T&D losses through a number of efficiency improvement
measures including replacement of defective meters, initiating computerization of billing and collection systems,
use of hand held machines for billing, etc. The significant improvement in FY2003 was, in part, due to the
control exercised by UPPCL in power purchases (pursuant to acceptance of recommendations of Expert
Committee on settlement of outstanding dues) which limited power purchases to affordable levels, as well as
rostering supply to unremunerative areas. However, after the state elections, the new government that took
office in September 2003 took a policy decision to increase hours of power supply to rural areas for irrigation
purposes due to poor rains thereby forcing UPPCL to go in for higher power purchases to meet the resultant
increased demand. Inadequate support from the state government for the mandated increase in supply to rural
areas where the tariffs are below actual cost of supply and the increase in average power purchase costs (due to
increase in prices of coals and low efficiency of state generating stations) have put further pressure on the
sector's finances. The average cost of power purchase for UP increased from Rs. 1.66/unit in FY2003 to Rs.
1.94/unit in FY2005.

                 Table: Financial performance of Transmission and distribution business

           (Rs. billion)           FY2001           FY2002        FY2003          FY2004        FY2005 (Est.)
                                                                                   (Prov.)
  Revenue                                    66.7         68.2           66.1            74.9                76.6
  Operating expenditure                      80.5         77.5           75.5            86.3                94.6
  EBITDA w/o subsidy                        -13.8         -9.3           -9.4           -11.4                -18.0
  Net profit/(Loss) w/o subsidy             -24.5       -22.6           -21.7           -28.5                -29.2
  Cash Subsidy                                2.4          8.6            8.3            10.3                10.6


  Debt                                       30.0         33.9           47.5            52.5                  n.a.
  Debt as a % of turnover                   45%          50%            72%              70%                   n.a.
  Cash gap (after subsidy)                   23.1         20.1           12.8            16.1                  n.a.


  Electricity Purchased (MUs)             40,661       41,838         37,096            40,772              42,864
  % increase                                               3%           -11%              10%                  5%



                                                           - 45 -

  Electricity Sales (MUs)                   25,119     26,364            24,717          27,393              28,539
  % increase                                                5%             -6%             11%                   4%
  T&D Loss (%)                              38.2%       37.0%           33.4%            32.8%                33.4%
  n.a.: not available

Improvement in collections has been a key focus area for UPPCL/ Discoms. Though performance didn't show
much improvement during the initial two years, there has been significant improvement afterwards, especially in
Government collections. The driving factors for the same have been (a) improved/ adequate budgetary
provisions for the government departments for payment of bills (b) putting in place a mechanism for regular and
timely payments by the government departments.

             Collection Efficiency           FY2001         FY2002          FY2003         FY2004          FY2005
                                                                                                            (Est.)
             Government                             41%           52%            73%              82%              n.a.
             Non-Government                         83%           85%            81%              85%              n.a.
             Bulk                                                 60%            79%              97%              n.a.
             Over all Collection                    78%           78%            80%             86%              84%
             efficiency
             PAD/ FRP Assumptions
             Government                             90%           92%            95%              98%           90%$
                                                                                               (80%)$
             Non-Government                         82%           83%            85%              88%           86%$
                                                                                               (84%)$
         $: As per revised FRP of April, 2003

Going forward, the enactment of Electricity Act 2003 by GoI allowing for greater competition through open
access provisions may have a negative impact on sector's finances atleast in the short to medium term, as it is
likely that some industrial consumers will move away from the grid or from the state sector suppliers to obtain
cheaper supplies. Also the recent massive program for rural electrification launched by GoI aimed at providing
electricity to all un-electrified villages and households in the next five years will have significant financial
consequences for the power utilities and the state given that at present only 20% of rural households in U.P. are
having access to electricity and the rural tariffs are well below cost-recovery levels.

Impact on state finances

The impact of all the financial stress in the sector has been a greater burden on the state finances than was
originally planned as indicated in the table below and a cash deficit for the utilities that is being financed by a
mix of increasing debt of the sector and defaults on supplier payments/ debt servicing.

                            Net Support from the Government to the UP Power Sector

(Rs. in billion)     FY200      FY200      FY200     FY200     FY200      FY200      FY200      FY200     FY200    FY200
                        0          1          2        3          4          5          6          7         8        9
PAD/ Original            11.3        18.9      18.8     14.7       13.0        2.6       -2.3       -2.6       -2.9    -3.3
FRP
Revised FRP               n.a.        n.a.      n.a.    15.2       22.4       21.8       22.8       27.7      24.3    22.0
Actuals                              19.8      13.0       0.4      72.3       19.9       n.a.       n.a.       n.a.    n.a.



                                                            - 46 -

(UPPCL/
Discoms but
excluding
generation
utilities)
n.a.:not applicable/ available

The revised FRP prepared in April 2003 envisages a support of Rs. 171 billion from GoUP during FY2004-09
for the power sector (i.e. generation, transmission and distribution) i.e. about 7.3% of state's GSDP towards
current operations, investments and servicing past burden.

The technical, commercial and financial losses of the sector represent a constraint not only to the growth of the
State which requires quality power for development, but also a constraint to the social sectors from where funds
are diverted to finance the power sector losses. In all, the financial situation is neither acceptable nor
sustainable for the state. It was noted at the time of project preparation for this project, that the financial
hemorrhage had to be stopped  this remains relevant today. GoUP and the utilities need to take strong action in
addressing the fundamental ills plaguing the sector in order to improve the operational and financial health of the
power sector in the state.




                                                          - 47 -

- 48 -

