Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4545 IN
Project Agreement
(Uttar Pradesh Power Sector Restructuring Project)
among
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
 AND DEVELOPMENT
and
UTTAR PRADESH POWER CORPORATION LIMITED
and 
UTTAR PRADESH RAJYA VIDYUT UTPADAN NIGAM LIMITED
and 
UTTAR PRADESH JAL VIDYUT NIGAM LIMITED
Dated May 19, 2000
LOAN NUMBER 4545 IN
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 19, 2000, among 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
(the Bank) and UTTAR PRADESH POWER CORPORATION LIMITED 
(UPPCL) and UTTAR PRADESH RAJYA VIDYUT UTPADAN NIGAM 
LIMITED (UPRVUNL) and UTTAR PRADESH JAL VIDYUT NIGAM 
LIMITED (UPJVNL).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date 
herewith between India, acting by its President (the 
Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to lend to 
the Borrower an amount of one hundred fifty million 
dollars ($150,000,000), on the terms and conditions 
set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition 
that UPPCL, UPRVUNL and UPJVNL agree to undertake such 
obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in this 
Agreement; 
(B)
by the Uttar Pradesh Project Agreement of 
even date herewith between the Bank and the State of 
Page  2
Uttar Pradesh (Uttar Pradesh), Uttar Pradesh has 
undertaken certain obligations towards the Bank as set 
forth in the Uttar Pradesh Project Agreement;
(C)
by the Subsidiary Loan Agreements to be 
entered into by Uttar Pradesh with UPPCL, UPRVUNL and 
UPJVNL, the proceeds of the loan provided for under 
the Loan Agreement and made available to Uttar Pradesh 
will be relent to UPPCL, and to UPRVUNL and UPJVNL as 
the case may be,  on the terms and conditions set 
forth in such Subsidiary Loan Agreements; and
(D)
the Bank has received a letter dated 
January 31, 2000 from Uttar Pradesh enclosing a policy 
statement designed to restructure, reform and develop 
the power sector in Uttar Pradesh (hereinafter the 
Reform Program or Program) and declaring Uttar 
Pradesh’s commitment to the execution of such Program.
WHEREAS UPPCL, UPRVUNL and UPJVNL in 
consideration of the Bank’s entering into the Loan 
Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake 
the obligations set forth in this Agreement.
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as 
follows: 
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise 
requires, the several terms defined in the Loan 
Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so 
defined) have the respective meanings therein set 
forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) UPPCL, UPRVUNL and UPJVNL 
declare their commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan 
Agreement, and, to this end, UPPCL shall, subject to 
paragraph (e) of this Section, carry out Parts A, B, 
C, the relevant activities under Part D.2 and Part E 
of the Project, and UPRVUNL and UPJVNL shall carry out 
the relevant activities under Parts D.2 and E of the 
Project, all with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, 
engineering, and technical practices, and shall 
provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, 
the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for their respective Parts of the Project.
(b)
In carrying out Parts A, B and C of the 
Project, UPPCL shall at all times comply with the 
objectives, policies and procedures set out in the 
Social Policies and Procedures and in the Resettlement 
Action Plan.
(c)
Without limitation upon the provisions of 
paragraph (a) of this Section, and except as the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, works to be carried out by 
UPPCL under Parts A, B and C of the Project 
respectively shall meet the criteria set forth or 
Page  3
referred to in the Schedule to this Agreement and 
UPPCL shall submit to the Bank for its approval, the 
works proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan including all details in respect of the 
criteria to be met and such other information as the 
Bank shall reasonably request.
(d)
UPPCL shall carry out the works approved 
for financing pursuant to the provision of paragraph 
(c) of this Section 2.01 under the following 
arrangements:
(i)
for activities under Parts A, B 
and C of the Project, in accordance with 
technical specifications and standards 
satisfactory to the Bank; and
(ii)
for activities under Parts A and B 
of the Project, in accordance with the 
objectives, policies, principles and time 
schedule of the environmental 
management plan, the resettlement and rehabilitation 
plan formulated pursuant 
to the 
provisions of Paragraph (3) of the Schedule to this 
Agreement and in 
accordance with the 
Environmental Framework and Safeguards for 
Transmission 
Projects, the Environment 
Management Plan, the Social Policies and Procedures 
and the Resettlement Action Plan as the 
case may be.
(e)
UPPCL shall be responsible for carrying 
out the activities under Part B of the Project and the 
relevant activities under Part C and Part D.2 of the 
Project only until such time that Distribution 
Companies are established as set out in Section 2.06 
of this Agreement and the transfer scheme referred to 
in such Section is implemented.
Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, procurement of goods, works and consultants’ 
services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by 
the provisions of Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) UPPCL, UPRVUNL and UPJVNL 
shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 
9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General 
Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and 
services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition) in respect of their 
respective Parts of the Project.
(b)
For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the 
General Conditions and without limitation thereto, 
UPPCL, UPRVUNL, and UPJVNL shall: 
(i)
prepare, on the basis of 
guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to the 
Bank not later than six (6) months 
after the Closing Date or such later date 
as may be agreed for this purpose between the 
Bank and UPPCL, UPRVUNL and 
UPJVNL, a plan for the future operation of their 
respective Parts of the 
Project; 
and
Page  4
(ii)
afford the Bank a reasonable 
opportunity to exchange views with UPPCL, 
UPRVUNL, and UPJVNL on the said plan.
Section 2.04. UPPCL, UPRVUNL and UPJVNL shall 
duly perform all the obligations under their 
respective Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the 
Bank shall otherwise agree, UPPCL, UPRVUNL and UPJVNL 
shall not take or concur in any action which would 
have the effect of assigning, amending, abrogating or 
waiving the respective Subsidiary Loan Agreement or 
any provision thereof.
Section 2.05. UPPCL, UPRVUNL, UPJVNL and 
Distribution Companies shall, with the participation 
of Uttar Pradesh, by December 31, 2001 submit to the 
Bank a report detailing the outcome of the 
negotiations with their lenders and suppliers on 
rescheduling UPPCL’s, UPRVUNL’s, UPJVNL’s and 
Distribution Companies’ overdue payables, current debt 
from lenders, debt service in default, and debt 
service falling due from FY 2001 to FY 2005.
Section 2.06. UPPCL shall upon the establishment 
of Distribution Companies and the implementation of a 
transfer scheme, in accordance with the provisions of 
the Reform Act and satisfactory to the Bank, for the 
purpose of transferring to the Distribution Companies 
its distribution undertaking, including such property, 
interest in property, rights, liabilities and 
personnel relating thereto as shall be specified in 
such transfer scheme:
(a)
take all such measures as shall be 
necessary or required in order to enable each 
Distribution Company to obtain a license under the 
Reform Act from the Regulatory Commission; and
(b)
on or about the date that the transfer 
scheme referred to in this Section is implemented: 
(i)
agree with Uttar Pradesh on 
necessary revisions to the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement between Uttar Pradesh and UPPCL 
in order to take account of such 
transfer satisfactory to the Bank; and 
(ii)
enter into a Subloan and 
Implementation Contract, satisfactory to the Bank, 
with each Distribution Company setting 
out the responsibility of the 
Distribution Company to carry out the relevant 
activities under Parts B, C and 
D.2 of 
the Project, and containing adequate provisions to 
protect the interest 
of the Bank 
and Uttar Pradesh. 
Section 2.07. UPPCL shall duly perform and 
require each Distribution Company through the Subloan 
and Implementation Contract to duly perform all the 
respective obligations under the relevant Subloan and 
Implementation Contract entered into with each 
Distribution Company. Except as the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, UPPCL shall not take or concur in any 
action, and require each Distribution Company through 
the Subloan and Implementation Contract, not to take 
or concur in any action, which would have the effect 
Page  5
of assigning, amending, abrogating or waiving the 
relevant Subloan Agreement and implementation contract 
with each Distribution Company.
Section 2.08. UPPCL shall:
(a) 
take all such actions as may be necessary 
or required, including the provision of consents as 
the shareholder of each Distribution Company in order 
to enable each Distribution Company to perform its 
obligations under the Subloan and Implementation 
Contract with UPPCL; and 
(b)
cause each Distribution Company, as long 
as UPPCL holds a majority of shares in such company, 
to make every year in accordance with the procedures 
established by the Regulatory Commission, tariff 
submissions to the Regulatory Commission in order to 
enable them to earn rates of return in order to 
achieve the financial targets set out in the Financial 
Restructuring Plan, and the Revised Financial 
Restructuring Plan or as prescribed by the Regulatory 
Commission, whichever is higher.
Section 2.09. UPPCL, UPRVUNL and UPJVNL shall: 
(a) 
not later than December 31, 2000, provide 
to the Bank a Voluntary Retirement Scheme, 
satisfactory to the Bank, setting out, inter alia, the 
criteria, principles and procedures for the payment of 
compensation to surplus employees in connection with 
the implementation of the Reform Program; and 
(b) 
implement the Voluntary Retirement scheme 
in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 2.10. UPPCL, UPRVUNL and UPJVNL shall: 
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate 
to enable each of them to monitor and evaluate on an 
ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators 
satisfactory to the Bank, the carrying out of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference 
satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to the Bank, on 
or about March 31, 2002, a report integrating the 
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities 
performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, 
on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the 
Project during the period preceding the date of said 
report and setting out the measures recommended to 
ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and 
the achievement of the objectives thereof during the 
period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Bank, by June 30, 2002, 
or such later date as the Bank shall request, the 
report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, 
and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure 
the efficient completion of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the 
conclusions and recommendations of the said report and 
the Bank’s views on the matter.
Section 2.11. (a) UPPCL, UPRVUNL and UPJVNL 
Page  6
shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange views with 
the Bank with regard to the progress of the Project 
and the Program, the performance of their obligations 
under this Agreement and under each Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes 
of the Loan.
(b)
UPPCL, UPRVUNL and UPJVNL shall promptly 
inform the Bank and the Borrower of any condition 
which interferes or threatens to interfere with the 
progress of the Project and the Program, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, or the 
performance by UPPCL, UPRVUNL and UPJVNL of their 
obligations under this Agreement and under the 
respective Subsidiary Loan Agreement. 
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of 
UPPCL, UPRVUNL and UPJVNL
Section 3.01. UPPCL, UPRVUNL and UPJVNL shall:
(a)
carry on their operations and conduct 
their affairs in accordance with sound administrative, 
financial and public utility practices under the 
supervision of qualified and experienced management 
assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers;
(b)
at all times operate and maintain their 
plant, machinery, equipment and other property, and 
from time to time, promptly as needed, make all 
necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in 
accordance with sound engineering, financial and 
public utility practices; and
(c)
take out and maintain with responsible 
insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the 
Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such 
amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate 
practice. 
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) UPPCL, UPRVUNL and UPJVNL 
shall maintain records and accounts adequate to 
reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices 
its operations and financial condition and to register 
separately the operations, resources and expenditures 
in respect of the Project.
(b)
UPPCL, UPRVUNL and UPJVNL shall:
(i)
have the said records, accounts 
and financial statements (balance sheets, 
statements of income and expenses and 
related statements) for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently 
applied, 
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank, as soon as 
available but in any case not later than six 
months after the end of each such year:
Page  7
(A) 
certified copies of its 
financial statements for such year as so 
audited; and
(B) 
the report of such audit by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other 
information concerning said records, accounts 
and financial statements as well as the audit 
thereof as the Bank shall from 
time to 
time reasonably request.
(c)
UPPCL shall:
(i)
not later than December 31, 2000 
engage consultants, under terms of reference 
satisfactory to the Bank, for reviewing the 
accounting standards and policies 
of UPPCL in order to ensure that they are consistent 
with national accounting 
standards;
(ii)
ensure that such review is 
completed no later than June 30, 2001; and
(iii)
no later than March 31, 2002, 
implement the recommendations of such review in 
a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the 
provisions of Section 4.01 of this Agreement, UPPCL, 
UPRVUNL and UPJVNL shall carry out a time-bound action 
plan acceptable to the Bank for the strengthening of 
the financial management system for their relevant 
Parts of the Project in order to enable them, not 
later than March 31, 2001, or such later date as the 
Bank shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project 
management reports acceptable to the Bank, each of 
which for such relevant Parts of the Project:
(i)
(A) 
sets forth actual sources 
and applications of funds both cumulatively 
and for the period covered by said 
report, and projected sources and 
applications of funds for the six-month period 
following the period 
covered by said report; and 
(B)
shows separately 
expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Loan 
during the period covered by 
said report and expenditures proposed to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan during the six-month period 
following the period covered by said report;
(ii)
(A) 
describes progress in 
Project implementation, both cumulatively and for 
the period covered by said report; 
and 
(B)
explains variances between 
the actual and previously forecast 
implementation targets; and 
Page  8
(iii)
sets forth the status of 
procurement under the Project and expenditures under 
contracts financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan, as at the end of the 
period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan 
referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section, UPPCL, 
UPRVUNL and UPJVNL shall prepare, in accordance with 
guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to the 
Bank not later than 45 days after the end of each 
calendar quarter a Project Management Report for such 
period.
Section 4.03. UPPCL, UPRVUNL and UPJVNL shall 
take all such measures as may be necessary or 
required, satisfactory to the Bank, for the purpose of 
ensuring that they achieve the financial and 
operational targets set out in the Financial 
Restructuring Plan and the Revised Financial 
Restructuring Plan.
Section 4.04. UPPCL, shall, every year in 
accordance with the procedures established by the 
Regulatory Commission, make tariff submissions to the 
Regulatory Commission in order to enable them to earn 
rates of return in order to achieve the financial 
targets set out in the Financial Restructuring Plan, 
and the Revised Financial Restructuring Plan or as 
prescribed by the Regulatory Commission, whichever is 
higher.
Section 4.05. (a) Except as the Bank shall 
otherwise agree:
(i)
UPPCL, UPRVUNL and UPJVNL shall, 
from time to time, take all such measures 
(including, without limitation, 
adjustments of the structure and levels of 
tariffs) and conduct its operations and 
affairs in such manner as to: 
(A)
in Fiscal Year 2001, 
generate revenues from all sources related to 
operations and net non-operations 
income sufficient to cover all 
expenses related to operations including 
administration, adequate 
maintenance, taxes, payments in lieu of taxes; 
(B) 
in FY 2002 to 2004, generate 
revenues from all sources related to 
operations and net non-operations income 
sufficient to cover all 
expenses related to operations including 
administration, adequate 
maintenance, taxes, payments in lieu of taxes, and 
interest and other 
charges on 
debt; 
(C) 
in each subsequent Fiscal 
Year earn such rate of return on equity as 
may be permissible under applicable 
notifications issued by the 
Borrower (Government of India) in case of 
UPRVUNL and UPJVNL, and in 
case of UPPCL such rate as may be prescribed by the 
Page  9
Regulatory Commission; 
and
(ii)
UPPCL, UPRVUNL, and UPJVNL shall 
not incur any debt, unless a reasonable 
forecast of its revenues and expenditures 
shows that the estimated net 
revenues including subsidy paid in cash of the 
relevant company for each 
Fiscal 
Year beginning with 2004 shall be at least 1.2 times 
the estimated debt 
service requirements 
in such year on all debt of that company, including 
the 
debt to be incurred.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
The term “debt” means any 
indebtedness of UPPCL, UPRVUNL, or UPJVNL maturing 
by its terms more than one year after the 
date on which it is originally 
incurred.
(ii)
Debt shall be deemed to be 
incurred:
(A) 
under a loan contract or 
agreement or other instrument providing for 
such debt or for the modification of its 
terms of payment on the date 
of such contract, agreement or instrument; and 
(B) 
under a guarantee agreement, 
on the date the agreement providing for 
such guarantee has been entered into.
(iii)
The term “net revenues” means the 
difference between: 
(A) 
the sum of revenues from all 
sources related to operations and net 
non-operating income; and
(B)
the sum of all expenses 
related to operations including administration, 
adequate maintenance, taxes and 
payments in lieu of taxes, but 
excluding provision for depreciation, other 
non-cash operating charges 
and interest and other charges on debt.
(iv)
The term “net non-operating 
income” means the difference between:
(A) 
revenues from all sources 
other than those related to operations; and
(B) 
expenses, including taxes 
and payments in lieu of taxes, incurred in 
the generation of revenues in (A) above.
(v)
The term “debt service 
requirements” means the aggregate amount of repayments 
(including sinking fund payments 
and lease payments, if any) of, and interest 
and other charges on debt.
(vi)
The term “reasonable forecast” 
Page  10
means a forecast, satisfactory to the Bank, 
prepared by UPPCL, UPRVUNL, or UPJVNL, 
not earlier than twelve months prior to 
the incurrence of the debt in question.
(vii)
Whenever for the purposes of this 
Section, it shall be necessary to value, in 
terms of the currency of the Borrower, debt 
payable in another currency, such 
valuation shall be made on the basis of the prevailing 
official rate of 
exchange at 
which such other currency is, at the time of such 
valuation, 
obtainable for the 
purposes of servicing such debt, or, in the absence of 
such 
rate, on the basis of a rate of 
exchange acceptable to the Bank.
(viii)
“Net income” means total operating 
revenues from the sale of electricity and 
from other services incidental thereto; less all 
administration, operating and 
maintenance expenses, adequate provision for 
depreciation, and taxes 
(including income taxes), interest and other charges 
on debt.
(ix)
The term “interest and other 
charges on debt” means and includes all interest 
accrued on debt, excluding interest 
charges which are incurred in financing 
capital expenditures during construction, if 
such charges are capitalized, and 
any other charges payable on debt.
(x)
The term “capital expenditures” 
means all expenditures incurred on account of 
fixed or capital assets, including interest 
charged to construction, related 
to the 
operations of UPPCL, UPRVUNL, or UPJVNL.
(xi)
“Expenses” means the sum of all 
operating expenses, taxes on income and 
profits, depreciation and interest 
charged on all debentures, bonds and loans.
(xii)
“Operating expenses” means the 
cost of power generated as well as purchased, 
fuel, operating, maintenance, management and 
administrative expenses, and all 
taxes 
accruing during the financial year, other than taxes 
on income and 
profits of 
UPPCL, UPRVUNL, or UPJVNL.
(xiii) “Taxes on income and profits” 
consists of income taxes and other levies 
accrued by UPPCL, UPRVUNL, or UPJVNL  
according to the provisions of any 
legislation or regulation applicable in this 
respect.
(xiv)
“Depreciation” means a provision 
derived in accordance with the straight-line 
method based on the useful life of assets as 
stipulated in the Borrower’s 
notification G.S.F. No. 1330 (E) dated December 12, 
1986, issued under the 
provisions of Section 68 of the Electricity (Supply) 
Page  11
Act, based on the gross 
value of 
UPPCL, UPRVUNL, and UPJVNL’s fixed assets in service 
at the beginning 
of each year.
Section 4.06. (a) UPPCL, UPRVUNL, and UPJVNL 
shall take all steps necessary to maintain each of 
their accounts receivable (net of provisions) at a 
level not exceeding an amount equivalent to six months 
of proceeds of their sales of power in Fiscal Year 
2001, five months in Fiscal Year 2002, four months in 
Fiscal Year 2003 and three months in Fiscal Year 2004 
and thereafter.
(b)
UPPCL shall take all steps necessary to 
maintain its accounts payable at a level not exceeding 
six months of purchase of power in Fiscal Years 2001 
and 2002, five months in Fiscal Year 2003, four months 
in Fiscal Year 2004 and three months in Fiscal Year 
2005 and thereafter.
(c)
UPRVUNL and UPJVNL shall take all steps 
necessary to maintain each of their accounts payable 
at a level not exceeding one month’s purchase of fuel 
and other consumables beginning in Fiscal Year 2001.
Section 4.07. Each of UPPCL, UPRVUNL and UPJVNL 
shall furnish to the Bank by December 31 of each 
Fiscal Year during the implementation of the Project 
commencing with Fiscal Year 2001: 
(a)
its five year financial projections, 
including their updated Investment Plan and financing 
plan for review by the Bank and for comments, if any; 
and
(b)
a report reviewing the adequacy of its 
tariffs to meet the requirements set forth in Section 
4.05 (a) (i) and (ii) of this Agreement. 
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into 
force and effect on the date upon which the Loan 
Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations 
of the Bank and of UPPCL, UPRVUNL and UPJVNL 
thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the 
Loan Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its 
terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify UPPCL, 
UPRVUNL and UPJVNL thereof.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this 
Agreement shall continue in full force and effect 
notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under 
the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or 
permitted to be given or made under this Agreement and 
any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Page  12
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request 
shall be deemed to have been duly given or made when 
it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, 
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is 
required or permitted to be given or made at such 
party’s address hereinafter specified or at such other 
addresses as such party shall have designated by 
notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for 
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 
(MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 
(MCI)
For UPPCL:
Uttar Pradesh Power Corporation Limited
Lucknow, Uttar Pradesh
India
For UPRVUNL:
Uttar Pradesh Rajkiya Vidyut
   Utpadan Nigam Limited
Lucknow, Uttar Pradesh
India
For UPJVNL:
Uttar Pradesh Jal Vidyut
   Nigam Limited
Lucknow, Uttar Pradesh
India
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted 
to be taken, and any documents required or permitted 
to be executed under this Agreement on behalf of 
UPPCL, UPRVUNL or UPJVNL may be taken or executed by 
its Chairman or by such other person or persons as 
UPPCL, UPRVUNL or UPJVNL shall designate in writing, 
and UPPCL, UPRVUNL and UPJVNL shall furnish to the 
Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the 
authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in 
several counterparts, each of which shall be an 
original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting 
through their duly authorized representatives, have 
caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in New Delhi, India, as of the day and year 
first above written.
Page  13
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Edwin R. Lim
Country Director, India
UTTAR PRADESH POWER
   CORPORATION LIMITED
By /s/ R. K. Narain
Authorized Representative
UTTAR PRADESH RAJYA VIDYUT
   UTPADAN NIGAM LIMITED
By /s/ Mukesh P. Singh
Authorized Representative
UTTAR PRADESH JAL VIDYUT
   NIGAM LIMITED
By /s/ Mukesh P. Singh
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE
Eligibility Criteria
The following eligibility criteria shall apply 
for activities to be carried out under Parts A, B and 
C of the Project by UPPCL referred to in Section 2.01 
(c) of this Agreement.
1.
The justification (in the context of the overall 
Uttar Pradesh Power Sector Investment Plan) and 
technical feasibility shall have been established to 
the satisfaction of the Bank.
2.
All clearances/approvals including environmental 
clearances shall have been obtained from the relevant 
ministries, departments, agencies or other authorities 
of the Borrower and Uttar Pradesh and documented in 
the project report.
3.
An environmental assessment shall have been 
carried out, and an Environmental Management Plan, if 
needed, based on the environment assessment report and 
the Environment Framework and Safeguards for 
Transmission Projects, and a plan for the handling of 
materials to be replaced in the rehabilitation 
program, satisfactory to the Bank, shall have been 
prepared;
4.
Resettlement Action Plan in accordance with the 
Social Policy and Procedures, satisfactory to the 
Bank, shall have been prepared.
Page  14
5.
Procurement plan shall have been prepared in 
accordance with the overall procurement strategy, 
namely bulk procurement of main items, turnkey 
construction by prequalified contractors (except for 
these owner-supplied main items).
