Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4056 IN
Uttaranchal Project Agreement
(Uttar Pradesh and Uttaranchal Rural Water Supply 
and Environmental Sanitation Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
and
STATE OF UTTARANCHAL
Dated July 30, 2002
LOAN NUMBER 4056 IN
UTTARANCHAL PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 30, 2002 between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and STATE OF UTTARANCHAL, 
acting by its Governor (Uttaranchal).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement dated July 22, 1996, as amended to date (the Loan 
Page  2
Agreement) between India, acting by its President (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has 
agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount equal to fifty-nine million six hundred 
thousand United States dollars ($59,600,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan 
Agreement, but only on condition that the State of Uttar Pradesh and Uttaranchal agree to 
undertake such obligations towards the Bank as are set forth in the Loan Agreement, the Project 
Agreement and this Agreement;
WHEREAS Uttaranchal, in consideration of the Bank’s entering into the Loan 
Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the 
Loan Agreement, as amended, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General Conditions (as so 
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) Uttaranchal declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project as 
set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project 
through the PMU with due diligence and efficiency, in accordance with the Implementation 
Manual, and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and rural water supply and 
environmental sanitation practices and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section and 
except as the Bank and Uttaranchal shall otherwise agree, Uttaranchal shall carry out the Project 
in accordance with the implementation program set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods, works 
and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Uttaranchal Project Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) Uttaranchal shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 
9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and 
services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition, 
respectively) in respect of the Uttaranchal Project Agreement.
(b)
For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions, and without 
limitations thereto, Uttaranchal shall prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than six (6) 
months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the 
Page  3
Bank and Uttaranchal, a plan satisfactory to the Bank for the future operation of the Project.
Section 2.04. (a) Uttaranchal shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange views with the 
Bank with regard to progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations under this 
Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b)
Uttaranchal shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which interferes or 
threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the 
Loan, or the performance by Uttaranchal of its obligations under this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) Uttaranchal shall maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect in 
accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect 
of the Project of the departments or agencies of Uttaranchal responsible for carrying out the 
Project or any part thereof.
(b)
Uttaranchal shall:
(i)
have its records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section 
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than six 
months after the end of each such year, the report of such audit by said 
auditors of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records, 
accounts and the audit thereof, as the Bank shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
Section 3.02. Uttaranchal shall appoint a firm of chartered accountants with terms of 
reference and qualifications acceptable to the Bank to review the overall operation of the 
financial management system of the Project, and maintain such firm throughout the Project 
implementation period.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon which 
the Agreement Amending the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Page  4
Section 4.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of Uttaranchal 
thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in 
accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify Uttaranchal thereof.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force and effect 
notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made under this 
Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in 
writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made when it shall be 
delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, telex or facsimile to the party to which it is 
required or permitted to be given or made at such party’s address hereinafter specified or at such 
other address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or 
making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
 Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
  64145 (MCI)
For Uttaranchal:
Secretary to the Government of Uttaranchal
Department of Drinking Water
Dehradun, Uttaranchal
India
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document required or 
permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of Uttaranchal may be taken or 
executed by the Secretary to the Government of Uttaranchal, Department of Drinking Water, or 
such other person or persons as Uttaranchal shall designate in writing, and Uttaranchal shall 
furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature 
of each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of which 
shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
Page  5
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in New Delhi, 
India, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Edwin R. Lim
Country Director, India
STATE OF UTTARANCHAL
By /s/ Jayant Keshav Natu
Authorized Representative
Page  6
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I
:
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A
:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January 1996 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this 
Section, as applicable.
Part B
:
Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
(i)
Except as provided in paragraph 2 below, equipment and materials for Part A of 
the Project, and (ii) contracts for goods, works and related services for Regional Schemes may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of 
the Guidelines.
2.
National Shopping
Equipment and materials under Part A of the Project estimated to cost $25,000 
equivalent or less per contract may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national 
shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the 
Guidelines.
3.
National Shopping/Direct Contracting
Contracts for goods, works and related services for Single Schemes may be procured, 
whenever possible, by inviting bids from at least two Support Organizations in accordance with 
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines, or in Project Villages where only one Support 
Organization is available, on a sole source basis, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 
3.7 of the Guidelines, both under procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Part C
:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for contracts, 
the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.  
Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement 
plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
Page  7
(a)
With respect to: (i) each contract for goods, works and related services for 
Regional Schemes estimated to cost the equivalent of $300,000 or more; and (ii) each contract 
for equipment and materials for Part A of the Project estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines 
shall apply.
(b)
Uttaranchal shall furnish to the Bank, for the Bank’s review and approval, prior 
to execution: (i) the first 50 contracts under the First batch Schemes; and (ii) each contract for 
goods, works and related services for Single Schemes estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$100,000 or more.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II
:
Employment of Consultants
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of the “Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the 
World Bank as Executing Agency” published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant 
Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts shall be based on the standard 
form of contract for consultants’ services issued by the Bank, with such modifications thereto as 
shall have been agreed by the Bank. Where no relevant standard contract documents have been 
issued by the Bank, other standard forms acceptable to the Bank shall be used.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of the 
Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short lists, selection 
procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts, shall not apply to:  
(a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent each, or (b) contracts for the employment of individual consultants estimated to cost 
less than $50,000 equivalent each. However, said exceptions to prior Bank review shall not apply 
to:  (a) the terms of reference for such contracts; (b) single-source selection of consulting firms; 
(c) assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the Bank; (d) amendments to 
contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising the contract value to $100,000 
equivalent or above; or (e) amendments to contracts for the employment of individual consultants 
raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.
Page  8
SCHEDULE 2
Implementation Program
1.
Uttaranchal shall:  (i) select the Support Organizations participating in the Project in 
accordance with eligibility criteria agreed with the Bank; and (ii) review the adequacy of such 
criteria at the end of the Implementation Phase of each batch of Schemes, and only introduce 
changes thereto that are acceptable to the Bank.
2.
Uttaranchal shall:  (i) select the Schemes under the Project in accordance with eligibility 
criteria agreed with the Bank; and (ii) review the adequacy of such criteria at the end of the 
Implementation Phase of each batch of Schemes, and only introduce changes thereto that are 
acceptable to the Bank.
3.
Uttaranchal shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate 
on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the Bank, the carrying out of 
the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; and
(b)
carry out the Project in accordance with recommendations set forth in a report 
prepared following monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of 
this Section, to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof. 
4.
Uttaranchal shall:  (i) furnish to the Bank not later than August 31, 2002, for the Bank’s 
review and comments, the draft strategic plan for the water and environmental sanitation sector 
under Part C (a) of the Project; and (ii) finalize such a plan, taking into consideration the Bank’s 
comments, not later than September 30, 2002.
5.
Uttaranchal shall cause the PMU to enter into arrangements with each Support 
Organization and Project Village under terms and conditions, acceptable to the Bank, which shall 
include, inter
alia
,
that: (i) each Support Organization shall maintain separate accounts in respect 
of each Scheme being carried out by such Support Organization under the Project in accordance 
with the accounting manual prepared by the PMU as part of its Implementation Manual; (ii) each 
Support Organization shall furnish to the PMU prior to each payment an updated Scheme 
accounts; and (iii) the PMU shall not make any payment to such Support Organization until the 
accounts referred to in (ii) above have been found satisfactory by the PMU.
6.
Uttaranchal shall cause the PMU:  (i) to engage independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank to audit the accounts referred to in paragraph 5 above; and (ii) not to proceed with signing 
the contract for the Implementation Phase of the Scheme until the audit report for the accounts 
concerning the first two payments made to such Support Organization for the Planning Phase of 
such Scheme are received and found satisfactory by the PMU.
7.
Uttaranchal shall cause the PMU to furnish to the Bank, for the Bank’s review and 
comments:  (i) without limitation to the provisions of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions, not 
later than one month after the end of each quarter and Fiscal Year, starting 2002, its quarterly and 
Page  9
annual progress reports, respectively, of the activities carried out under the Project; and (ii) not 
later than December 31 of each year, starting 2002, its annual work program, including budget 
provisions, for the Project.
8.
Uttaranchal shall implement the recommendations of the studies carried out under Parts 
C(d) and C(f) of the Project in a manner that is satisfactory to the Bank.
9.
Uttaranchal shall cause the PMU to ensure that any land acquisition for Single Schemes 
under the Project shall be carried out on a voluntary basis and in accordance with an agreement 
satisfactory to the Bank between such land occupant and VWSC.
10.
Without limitation to the provisions of Section 2.01 of this Agreement, Uttaranchal shall 
take all actions as may be necessary to provide in a timely manner all funds needed for the 
effective implementation of the Project.
