Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4545 IN
Loan Agreement
(Uttar Pradesh Power Sector Restructuring Project)
between
INDIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
 AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated May 19, 2000
LOAN NUMBER 4545 IN 
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 19, 2000, between INDIA, acting by its President (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received a letter dated January 31, 2000, from the 
State of Uttar Pradesh (Uttar Pradesh) enclosing a policy statement designed to 
restructure, reform and develop the power sector in Uttar Pradesh (hereinafter the 
Reform Program or Program) and declaring Uttar Pradesh’s commitment to the execution 
of such Program; 
(B)
the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, which Project forms the 
first phase of the Reform Program, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing 
of the Project;
(C)
the Project will be carried out by the Uttar Pradesh Power Corporation 
Limited (UPPCL), Uttar Pradesh Rajya Vidyut Utpadan Nigam Limited (UPRVUNL), and Uttar 
Pradesh Jal Vidyut Nigam Limited (UPJVNL) with the Borrower’s and Uttar Pradesh’s 
assistance; and 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement, in the Uttar Pradesh Project Agreement of even date herewith between the 
Bank and Uttar Pradesh, and the Project Agreement of even date herewith between the 
Page  2
Bank, UPPCL, UPRVUNL and UPJVNL. 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 
through December 2, 1997) with the modification set forth below (the General 
Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
Section 2.01, paragraph 9, is modified to read:
“‘Euro’ and ‘EUR’ each means the lawful currency of the member states of 
the European  Union that adopt the single currency in accordance with the Treaty 
establishing the European  Community, as amended by the Treaty on European Union.”
(b)
A new paragraph (d) is added to Section 3.04 to read:
“If the Bank shall at any time receive less than the full amount then due 
and payable 
to it under the Loan agreement, the Bank shall have the right to allocate 
and apply the 
amount so received in any manner and for such purposes under 
the Loan Agreement as the Bank 
shall in its sole discretion determine.”
(c)
Section 11.01 is modified by replacing, in the second sentence, the word 
“radiogram” with the word “facsimile” and adding a new sentence at the end of the said 
Section to read:
“Deliveries made by facsimile transmission shall also be confirmed by 
mail.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a)
“Distribution Companies” means companies incorporated under the Indian 
Companies Act, 1956, as amended, and as may be established by UPPCL as set out in 
Section 2.06 of the Project Agreement; each such company is individually referred to 
as a “Distribution Company”;
(b)
“Electricity Act” means the Electricity (Supply) Act, 1948 of the 
Borrower, as amended from time to time; 
(c)
“Eligible Categories” means categories (1), (2), (3) and (4) set forth in 
the table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(d)
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods and services 
referred to in Section 2.02 (a) of this Agreement;
(e)
“Environmental Framework and Safeguards for Transmission Projects” means 
the document of that name dated February 21, 2000 prepared by UPSEB and adopted for 
implementation by UPPCL, and satisfactory to the Bank, for dealing with adverse 
environmental aspects resulting from implementing transmission projects; 
(f)
“Environment Management Plan” means each EMP, satisfactory to the Bank, 
prepared by UPPCL in accordance with the Environmental Framework and Safeguards for 
Transmission Projects for dealing with the adverse environmental impacts resulting 
from implementing the Project;
(g)
“Financial Restructuring Plan” means the Plan dated March 11, 2000, 
prepared by Uttar Pradesh for the purpose of ensuring, inter alia, that UPPCL, UPRVUNL 
and UPJVNL and Distribution Companies achieve the financial and operational targets 
set out in such Plan;
Page  3
(h)
“Fiscal Year” and “FY” mean the Fiscal Year of the Borrower, Uttar 
Pradesh, UPPCL, UPRVUNL, UPJVNL and Distribution Companies beginning on April 1 of a 
calendar year and ending on March 31 of the following calendar year; 
(i)
“Indian Rupee” and “Rs” mean the currency of the Borrower; 
(j)
“Investment Plan” means the investment measures included in the Project 
Implementation Plan; 
(k)
“Project Implementation Plan” means the Plan dated March 10, 2000, 
prepared by Uttar Pradesh, UPSEB and UPPCL for the purpose of implementating the 
Project;
(l)
“Project Agreement” means the agreement among the Bank, UPPCL, UPRVUNL 
and UPJVNL of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and 
such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement; 
(m)
“Project Management Report” means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 3.02 of the Uttar Pradesh Project Agreement and Section 4.02 of the Project 
Agreement; 
(n)
“Project Preparation Advance” means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Bank to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange of letters dated December 
21, 1993 and January 31, 1996 between the Borrower and the Bank;
(o)
“Reform Act” means the Uttar Pradesh Electricity Reforms Act, 1999 
providing, inter alia, for restructuring of the electricity industry, rationalization 
of the generation, transmission, distribution and supply of electricity, private 
sector participation in the electricity industry, and the adoption of measures for the 
development and management of the electricity industry, as the provisions of this 
Reform Act may be amended from time to time;
(p)
“Regulatory Commission” means the Uttar Pradesh Electricity Regulatory 
Commission established by Uttar Pradesh under the Reform Act as referred to in Section 
2.02 (f) of the Uttar Pradesh Project Agreement;
(q)
“Resettlement Action Plan” or “RAP” means the plan dated  February 21, 
2000, prepared by UPSEB and adopted for implementation by UPPCL, and any further RAP 
prepared by UPPCL, satisfactory to the Bank, for dealing with the resettlement and 
rehabilitation of people displaced or affected as a result of implementation of the 
Project;
(r)
“Revised Financial Restructuring Plan” means the plan to be submitted by 
Uttar Pradesh to the Bank pursuant to Section 2.02(d) of the Uttar Pradesh Project 
Agreement;
(s)
“Social Policies and Procedures” means the Social Policies and Procedures 
dated February 21, 2000, prepared by UPSEB and adopted by UPPCL, and satisfactory to 
the Bank, for dealing with the social and land acquisition aspects of the Project;
(t)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement;
(u)
“Subloan and Implementation Contract” means the contract agreementto be 
entered into between UPPCL and Distribution Companies pursuant to Section 2.06 of the 
Project Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term 
includes all schedules to the Subloan AgreementSubloan and Implementation Contract; 
(v)
“Subsidiary Loan Agreement” means each of the agreement to be entered 
into by Uttar Pradesh with UPPCL, UPRVUNL and UPJVNL pursuant to Section 2.02 of the 
Uttar Pradesh Project Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and 
such term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(w)
“Transfer Scheme” means the Uttar Pradesh Electricity  Reforms Transfer 
Scheme dated January 14, 2000 promulgated by Uttar Pradesh pursuant to the provisions 
of the Reform Act for purposes, inter alia, of transferring the assets, properties, 
Page  4
liabilities, proceedings and personnel related to the transmission and distribution 
undertaking of UPSEB to UPPCL, the thermal generation undertaking to UPRVUNL and the 
hydro generation undertaking to UPJVNL; 
(x)
“UPJVNL” means the Uttar Pradesh Jal Vidyut Nigam Limited, a company 
incorporated under the Indian Companies Act, 1956, as amended, for the purposes of 
engaging in the business of, inter alia, carrying out hydro generation activities;
(y)
“UPPCL” means the Uttar Pradesh Power Corporation Limited, a company 
incorporated under the Indian Companies Act, 1956, as amended, for the purpose of 
engaging in the business of, inter alia, procurement, transmission, and supply of 
electric energy in accordance with the Reform Act; 
(z)
“UPRVUNL” means the Uttar Pradesh Rajya Vidyut Utpadan Nigam Limited, a 
company incorporated under the Indian Companies Act, 1956, as amended, for the purpose 
of engaging in the business of, inter alia, carrying out thermal generation 
activities;
(aa)
“UPSEB” means the Uttar Pradesh State Electricity Board established under 
the provisions of the Electricity (Supply) Act, 1948, of India as amended to the date 
of this Agreement;
(bb)
“Uttar Pradesh” means the State of Uttar Pradesh, a State of India, and 
includes any successor thereto; 
(cc)
“Uttar Pradesh Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Bank 
and State of Uttar Pradesh of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time 
to time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Uttar 
Pradesh Project Agreement; and
(dd)
“Volunteers Voluntary Retirement Scheme” means each of the scheme of 
UPPCL, UPRVUNL and UPJVNL formulated pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.09 of the 
Project Agreement.
Section 1.03. Each reference in the General Conditions to the Project 
implementation entity shall be a reference to, as appropriate, to each of UPPCL, 
UPRVUNL, UPJVNL and each Distribution Company.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to one 
hundred fifty million dollars ($150,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and in respect of the fee referred 
to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement.
(b)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount required to 
repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
cancelled. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2004 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date. 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in an amount equal to one 
percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan. On or promptly after the Effective Date, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
Page  5
itself the amount of said fee.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the 
date of this 
Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest Payment Date 
occurring 
thereafter, and after the initial period, each period 
from and including an 
Interest Payment Date to, but excluding the 
next following Interest Payment 
Date.
(ii)
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 2.07 
of this 
Agreement.
(iii)
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank 
offered rate for six-month deposits in dollars for 
value the first day of such 
Interest Period (or, in the case of the 
initial Interest Period, for value the 
Interest Payment Date occurring 
on or next preceding the first day of such 
Interest Period), as 
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage 
per annum.
(iv)
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: (A) 
three-fourths of one 
percent (3/4 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the 
weighted average margin, for such 
Interest Period, below (or above) 
the London interbank offered rates, or other 
reference rates, for 
six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s outstanding 
borrowings or 
portions thereof allocated by the Bank to fund single currency 
loans 
or portions thereof made by it that include the Loan; as reasonably 
determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total 
Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof. 
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.06, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest 
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower 
of the new basis. The basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period 
unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in 
which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan. 
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on \0b
January 15 and July 15 in each year. 
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in accordance 
with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without any 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under this Agreement, 
shall cause Uttar Pradesh to carry out or to ensure that UPPCL, UPRVUNL and UPJVNL and 
Distribution Companies, as the case may be,   carry ies out the Project with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, 
Page  6
engineering, and technical practices, and shall take or cause to be taken all action, 
including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary 
or appropriate to enable UPPCL, UPRVUNL, and UPJVNL and Distribution Companies to 
perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which 
would prevent or interfere with such performance. 
(b)
The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Loan available to Uttar 
Pradesh in accordance with the Borrower’s standard arrangements for developmental 
assistance to the States of India.
(c)
The Borrower shall release to Uttar Pradesh funds equivalent to the 
amounts withdrawn by the Borrower from the Loan Account, including those deposited in 
the Special Account, promptly after such withdrawal.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works, and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to 
this Agreement. 
Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree that the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by 
UPPCL, UPRVUNL and UPJVNL pursuant to Section 2.03 (a) of the Project Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Loan Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with sound 
accounting 
practices, records and separate accounts reflecting 
such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Loan Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; and
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records.
(b)
The Borrower shall: 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) (i) of 
this section 
and those for the Special Account for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance 
with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the 
Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
months after the end of each such year the report of 
such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested, including a separate opinion 
by said auditors as to whether the 
Project Management Reports 
or the statements of expenditure submitted during 
such fiscal year, 
together with the procedures and internal controls involved 
in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals; 
and 
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time 
to time reasonably 
request. 
Page  7
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
Uttar Pradesh shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under 
the Uttar Pradesh Project Agreement.
(b)
UPPCL, UPRVUNL or UPJVNL shall have failed to perform any of their 
respective obligations under the Project Agreement.
(c)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Loan 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that Uttar Pradesh, UPPCL, UPRVUNL or UPJVNL will be able to perform their respective 
obligations under the Uttar Pradesh Project Agreement or the Project Agreement.
(d)
An event shall have occurred which shall make it improbable that the 
Reform Program or a significant part thereof will be carried out.
(e)
Uttar Pradesh or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of the Regulatory Commission, 
UPPCL, UPRVUNL, UPJVNL or any Distribution Company or for the suspension of operations 
of any of them.
(f)
The Reform Act, the Transfer Scheme Rules or the Memorandum or Articles 
of Association of UPPCL, UPRVUNL, UPJVNL or any Distribution Company, shall have been 
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and 
adversely the operations or the financial condition of UPPCL, UPRVUNL, UPJVNL, any 
Distribution Company or the Regulatory Commission, as the case may be, or the ability 
of Uttar Pradesh, UPPCL, UPRVUNL or UPJVNL, as the case may be, to carry out the 
Project or to perform their respective obligations under the Project Agreement or the 
Uttar Pradesh Project Agreement, or the ability of any Distribution Company to perform 
its obligations under the relevant Sub-loan agreement and implementation contract 
referred to in Section 2.06 of the Project Agreement.
(g)
UPPCL or any Distribution Company shall have failed to obtain a license 
under the Reform Act from the Regulatory Commission or any such license is terminated, 
or any such license is altered, varied, modified or amended in a manner that 
materially and adversely affects the ability of UPPCL or any Distribution Company to 
carry out the Project or to perform their respective obligations under the Project 
Agreement or any Sub-loan agreement and implementation contract referred to in Section 
2.06 of the Project Agreement.
(h)
Except as set out in Section 2.06 of the Uttar Pradesh Project Agreement, 
and Section 2.06 of the Project Agreement, UPPCL shall have taken any action which has 
the effect of altering, varying, modifying, adding or otherwise changing the terms 
upon which any property, interest on property, rights, liabilities and personnel have 
been transferred to UPPCL under the Transfer Scheme Rules prepared pursuant to the 
Reform Act so as to affect materially and adversely the operations or the financial 
condition of UPPCL, or its ability to carry out the Project or to perform its 
obligations under the Project Agreement.
(i)
Any Distribution Company shall have failed to perform any of its 
obligations under the relevant Subloan and Implementation Contract referred to in 
Section 2.06 of the Project Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that the events specified in 
paragraphs (a), (b), (e) and (f) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur. 
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as additional condition to the 
Page  8
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement with the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions, namely that Subsidiary Loan Agreements, satisfactory to the Bank, 
has been executed on behalf of Uttar Pradesh and UPPCL, UPRVUNL and UPJVNL.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank:
(a)
that the Uttar Pradesh Project Agreement has been duly authorized or 
ratified by Uttar Pradesh and is legally binding upon Uttar Pradesh in accordance with 
its terms;
(b)
that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by UPPCL, 
UPRVUNL and UPJVNL and is legally binding upon UPPCL, UPRVUNL and UPJVNL in accordance 
with its terms; and
(c)
that each Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified 
by Uttar Pradesh, UPPCL, UPRVUNL and UPJVNL and is legally binding upon Uttar Pradesh, 
UPPCL, UPRVUNL and UPJVNL in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. Any Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint Secretary, Director, 
Deputy Secretary or Under Secretary of the Department of Economic Affairs in the 
Ministry of Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower 
for the purpose of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Secretary to the Government of India
Department of Economic Affairs Ministry of Finance
New Delhi, India
Cable address: 
Telex:
ECOFAIRS
953-31-66175 FINE IN
New Delhi
953-31-61430 FINE IN
For the Bank:
International Bank for 
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
New Delhi, India, as of the day and year first above written.
INDIA
Page  9
By /s/ R. S. Sharma
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Edwin R. Lim
Country Director, India
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
A.
General
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
 Amount of the
Loan Allocated
    % of
 (Expressed in 
 Expenditures
Category
Dollar Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Civil works
   16,500,000
80%
(including 
installation)
(2)
Consultants' ser-
    5,000,000
100%
vices
(3)
Goods
 
  119,000,000
100% of foreign expen-
ditures, 100% of local
expenditures (ex-factory
cost) and 80% of local
expenditures for other 
items procured locally
(4)
Payments under the      5,000,000
100%
Voluntary Retirement
Scheme
(5)
Refunding of Project
   3,000,000
Amount due pursuant 
Preparation Advance
to Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement
(6)
Fee
          1,500,000
Amount due under 
Section 2.04 of this
Agreement
TOTAL
 150,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower. 
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
Page  10
made in respect of payments made for expenditures:
(a)
prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals in an 
aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of $5,000,000 may be made on account of 
payments made for expenditures before that date but after March 1, 2000; or
(b)
under Category 4 of the table set out in paragraph 1 of Section A of this 
Schedule unless the Voluntary Retirement Scheme shall have been approved by the Bank.; 
or
(c)
incurred by any theDistribution Company ies orof the project for the 
relevant activities under Parts B, C and D.2 of the project, after the implementation 
of the transfer scheme referred to in Section 2.06 of the Project Agreement, until 
UPPCL has entered into a Subloan and Implementation Contract, satisfactory to the Bank 
with such each Distribution Company, as referred to in Section 2.06(b)(ii) of the 
Project Agreement.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: 
(a)
goods and works under contracts not exceeding $200,000 equivalent and 
$300,000 equivalent respectively, under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower; 
(b)
services under contract not exceeding $100,000 equivalent for employment 
of consulting firms and $50,000 equivalent for employment of individual consultants 
under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower; 
and
(c)
payments under the Voluntary Retirement Scheme.
B.
Special Account
1.
The Borrower shall open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in the 
Reserve Bank of India on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
2.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been opened, withdrawals from the Loan Account of amounts to be deposited into the 
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
until the Bank shall have received:
(i)
the first Project Management Report referred to in Section 3.02 
(b) of the 
Uttar Pradesh Project Agreement and Section 4.02 (b) 
of the Project Agreement; 
and 
(ii) 
a request from the Borrower for withdrawal on the basis of Project 
Management Reports, 
withdrawals shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this 
Schedule 1; and
(b)
upon receipt by the Bank of a Project Management Report pursuant to 
Section 3.02 (b) of the Uttar Pradesh Project Agreement and Section 4.02 (b) of the 
Project Agreement, accompanied by a request from the Borrower for withdrawal on the 
basis of Project Management Reports, all further withdrawals shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.
3.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures. For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures.
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not 
be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
Page  11
(a)
if the Bank determines at any time that any Project Management Report 
does not adequately provide the information required pursuant to Section 3.02 of the 
Uttar Pradesh Project Agreement or Section 4.02 (b) of the Project Agreement;
(b)
if the Bank determines at any time that all further withdrawals should be 
made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account; or
(c)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of (A) the records and accounts for the Special Account or (B) the records 
and accounts reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were made on 
the basis of Project Management Reports.
5.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the 
Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part 
the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to 
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions. Upon such notification, the Bank shall 
determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the Special Account 
may be made and what procedures should be followed for making such deposits, and shall 
notify the Borrower of its determination.
6.
(a)
If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of the Special 
Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or was not 
justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Bank, provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request, or 
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the 
Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment.  Unless the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Bank determines at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures 
during the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to subparagraph (a), (b) or (c) of this 
paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement.
Annex A to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account when withdrawals are not 
made on the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
For the purposes of this Annex the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount 
equivalent to $14,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the 
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex; provided, however, that unless 
the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an 
amount equivalent to $7,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Loan Account, plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered 
into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall equal or 
exceed the equivalent of $20,000,000.  ; and
2.
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish 
the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis 
of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the 
Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested.
Page  12
(b)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Bank requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank 
shall specify. Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special 
Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn 
by the Bank from the Loan Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories.
3.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan minus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of 
the General Conditions shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the 
Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify 
by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to 
the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on 
deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in 
making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
Annex B to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account when withdrawals are made 
on the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
Except as the Bank may otherwise specify by notice to the Borrower, all 
withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the Special 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. Each such 
deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account 
under one or more of the Eligible Categories.
2.
Each application for withdrawal from the Loan Account for deposit into the 
Special Account shall be supported by a Project Management Report.
3.
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Loan, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into 
the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: 
(a) 
the amount so requested; and
(b) 
the amount which the Bank has determined, based on the Project Management 
Report accompanying said application, is required to be deposited in order to finance 
Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following the date of such report; 
provided, however, that the amount so deposited, when added to the amount indicated by 
said Project Management Report to be remaining in the Special Account, shall not 
exceed the equivalent of $28,000,000. \0cSCHEDULE 2 Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to: (a) assist Uttar Pradesh in implementing 
its Reform Program; (b) reduce the most critical bottlenecks of the power system; and 
\0b(c) continue to build support among key stakeholders for power sector reform.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Transmission System Augmentation
The rehabilitation and expansion of the transmission system to remove the most 
critical constraints including:
(a)
relieving the overloaded lines and substations;
(b)
eliminating the low voltage pockets in the transmission system;
Page  13
(c)
expanding the system to meet the growing load demand; and 
(d)
improving the quality and reliability of the power supply.
Part B:
Strengthening Subtransmission and Distribution System
The rehabilitation and expansion of the subtransmission and distribution 
system to:
(a)
reduce overloading in the power and distribution transformers and feeders; 
(b)
improve the voltage profile, system reliability and efficiency; 
(c)
reinforce the system to meet the growing demand; and 
(d)
improve customer service.
Part C:
Metering System Improvement
Improving the metering system through:
(a) 
providing high accuracy and better quality electronic meters to high 
revenue yielding consumers; and
(b) 
accurate measurement of energy exchanged between UPPCL, UPRVUNL, UPJVNL 
and Distribution Companies.
Part D:
Technical Assistance 
1.
Provision of technical assistance to Uttar Pradesh in implementing the Power 
Sector Reform Program and to assist in the institutional development of the Regulatory 
Commission.
2.
Provision of technical assistance and training to UPPCL, UPRVUNL, UPJVNL and 
Distribution Companies for implementing the Power Sector Reform Program, institutional 
development, including improving environment management capabilities, and for 
implementing the Project.
Part E:
Voluntary Retirement Scheme:
Provision of financial support (ex-gratia severance payment) to the staff of 
UPPCL, UPRVN and UPJVNL accepting theTHE vVoluntary rRetirement sScheme implemented as 
a measure of improvement in operational efficiency and productivity.
*
 *
 *         *         *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2004.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
 Payment of Principal  
Date Payment Due
(Expressed in Dollars)*
January 15, 2006
3,020,000 
July 15, 2006
3,120,000 
January 15, 2007
3,225,000 
July 15, 2007
3,330,000 
January 15, 2008
3,435,000 
July 15, 2008
3,550,000 
January 15, 2009
3,665,000 
July 15, 2009
3,785,000 
January 15, 2010
3,905,000 
July 15, 2010
4,035,000 
January 15, 2011
4,165,000 
Page  14
July 15, 2011
4,300,000 
January 15, 2012
4,440,000 
July 15, 2012
4,585,000 
January 15, 2013
4,735,000 
July 15, 2013
4,890,000 
January 15, 2014
5,050,000 
July 15, 2014
5,215,000 
January 15, 2015
5,385,000 
July 15, 2015
5,560,000 
January 15, 2016
5,740,000 
July 15, 2016
5,930,000 
January 15, 2017
6,120,000 
July 15, 2017
6,320,000 
January 15, 2018
6,525,000 
July 15, 2018
6,740,000 
January 15, 2019
6,960,000 
July 15, 2019
7,185,000 
January 15, 2020
7,420,000 
July 15, 2020
7,665,000
_______________________ 
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in dollars to be repaid, except 
as provided 
in Section 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
Section I:
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General 
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
Preference for Domestically Manufactured Goods and Domestic Contractors
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower and works 
to be carried out by domestic contractors.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Goods estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of $5,000,000, and works, including 
installation estimated to cost less than $5,000,000 equivalent per contract, upto an 
aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of $16,500,000 may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding advertised nationally, in 
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
2.
International or National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
Page  15
aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of $5,000,000, may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of international or national shopping procedures in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
Direct Contracting
Goods including proprietary computer software, audio/video equipment, and 
reference standards/books, estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $50,000 per 
contract, and with Bank’s prior agreement, and in exceptional cases, as an extension 
of the existing contract for Goods/Works of similar nature for value not exceeding the 
equivalent of US$100,000 in each case, both up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
the equivalent of US$4,000,000 may be procured in accordance with paragraph 3.7 of the 
Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken 
in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and 
with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for civil works estimated to cost the equivalent 
of $300,000 or more and each contract for goods awarded under Part B of Section I of 
this Schedule and the first two contracts awarded under Part C.1 of Section I of this 
Schedule irrespective of value, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
3.
Post Review 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II:
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof, applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  
The short list of consultants for services under Part D of the Project, estimated to 
cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Quality Based Selection
Page  16
Services of consultants for complex or highly specialized assignments under Part 
D of the Project that meet the requirement of paragraph 3.2 of the Consultancy 
Guidelines may be procured under contracts in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 3.2 through 3.4 of the Consultancy Guidelines.
2.
Single Source Selection
Services of consultants under Part D of the Project which are estimated to cost 
less than $100,000 equivalent per contract up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the 
equivalent of $1,000,000 may, with the Bank’s prior agreement, be procured in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
3.
Individual Consultants
Services of consultants under Part D of the Project that meet the requirements 
set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines, up to an aggregate amount not 
to exceed the equivalent of $1,000,000 may be procured under contracts awarded to 
individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 
of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval. The contract shall be awarded 
only after said approval shall have been given. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
