Page  1
                                                       CONFORMED COPY
                                                   LOAN NUMBER 4056 IN
                           Project Agreement
            (Uttar Pradesh Rural Water Supply and Environmental
                          Sanitation Project)
                                between
                INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                             AND DEVELOPMENT
                                  and
                         STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH
                          Dated July 22, 1996
                                                   LOAN NUMBER 4056 IN
                           PROJECT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated July 22, 1996, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH,
acting by its Governor (Uttar Pradesh).
      WHEREAS  by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
India, acting by its President (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank
has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various
currencies equivalent to fifty-nine million six hundred thousand
dollars ($59,600,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the
Loan Agreement, but only on condition that Uttar Pradesh agree to
undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in this
Agreement;
      WHEREAS Uttar Pradesh, in consideration of the Bank's entering
into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake
the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                              ARTICLE I
                             Definitions
      Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several
terms defined in the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement
and the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings
therein set forth.
Page  2
                             ARTICLE II
                       Execution of the Project
      Section 2.01. (a) Uttar Pradesh declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through PMU
with due diligence and efficiency, in accordance with the
Implementation Manual, and in conformity with appropriate administra-
tive, financial and rural water supply and environmental sanitation
practices and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the Project.
      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of
this Section and except as the Bank and Uttar Pradesh shall otherwise
agree, Uttar Pradesh shall carry out the Project in accordance with the
implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procure-
ment of the goods, works and consultants' services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement.
      Section 2.03. (a) Uttar Pradesh shall carry out the obligations
set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the
General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services,
plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Uttar Pradesh Agreement.
      (b)   For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions,
and without limitations thereto, Uttar Pradesh shall prepare and
furnish to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing
Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the
Bank and Uttar Pradesh, a plan satisfactory to the Bank for the future
operation of the Project.
      Section 2.04. (a) Uttar Pradesh shall, at the request of the
Bank, exchange views with the Bank with regard to progress of the
Project, the performance of its obligations under this Agreement, and
other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
      (b)   Uttar Pradesh shall promptly inform the Bank of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress
of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, or the
performance by Uttar Pradesh of its obligations under this Agreement.
                              ARTICLE III
                          Financial Covenants
      Section 3.01. (a) Uttar Pradesh shall maintain records and
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting
practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of
the Project of the departments or agencies of Uttar Pradesh
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
      (b)   Uttar Pradesh shall:
            (i)   have its records and accounts referred to in para-
                  graph (a) of this Section for each fiscal year
                  audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
                  principles consistently applied, by independent
                  auditors acceptable to the Bank;
            (ii)  furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any
                  case not later than six months after the end of each
                  such year, the report of such audit by said auditors
                  of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall
                  have reasonably requested; and
            (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
Page  3
                  said records, accounts and  the audit thereof, as the
                  Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
                                 ARTICLE IV
                        Effective Date; Termination;
                        Cancellation and Suspension
      Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on
the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
      Section 4.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and
of Uttar Pradesh thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the
Loan Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its terms, and the
Bank shall promptly notify Uttar Pradesh thereof.
      Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue
in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension
under the General Conditions.
                                  ARTICLE V
                           Miscellaneous Provisions
      Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be
given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between the
parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice
or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made when it
shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, telex or
radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given
or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other
address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party
giving such notice or making such request. The addresses so specified
are:
      For the Bank:
            International Bank for
               Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                    Telex:
                  INTBAFRAD                   197688 (TRT),
                  Washington, D.C.            248423 (RCA),
                                               64145 (WUI) or
                                               82987 (FTCC)
      For Uttar Pradesh:
            Secretary to the Government of Uttar Pradesh
            Department of Rural Development
            Lucknow, Uttar Pradesh
            India
      Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and
any document required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement
on behalf of Uttar Pradesh may be taken or executed by the Secretary to
the Government of Uttar Pradesh, Department of Rural Development, or
such other person or persons as Uttar Pradesh shall designate in
writing, and Uttar Pradesh shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence
of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such
person.
      Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counter-
parts, each of which shall be an original, and all collectively but one
instrument.
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in
Page  4
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.
                  INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                     RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                  By /s/  D. Joseph Wood
                                                 Regional Vice President
                                                              South Asia
                  STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH
                  By /s/  N. Valluri
                                              Authorized Representative
                              SCHEDULE  1
                 Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I:  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     General
      Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the pro-
visions of Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in January 1995 and
revised in January 1996 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions
of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:     Procurement Procedures
1.    National Competitive Bidding
      (i) Except as provided in paragraph 2 below, equipment and
materials for Part A of the Project, and (ii) contracts for goods,
works and related services for Regional Schemes may be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of para-
graphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.    National Shopping
      Equipment and materials under Part A of the Project estimated to
cost $25,000 equivalent or less per contract may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the
Guidelines.
3.    National Shopping/Direct Contracting
      Contracts for goods, works and related services for Single
Schemes may be procured, whenever possible, by inviting bids from at
least two Support Organizations in accordance with paragraphs 3.3
and 3.4 of the Guidelines, or in Project Villages where only one
Support Organization is available, on a sole source basis, in
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.8 of the Guidelines,
both under procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Part C:     Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.    Procurement Planning
      Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for
bidding or to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement plan for
the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and
Page  5
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix
1 to the Guidelines.  Procurement of all goods and works shall be
undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been
approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.    Prior Review
      (a)   With respect to (i) each contract for goods, works and
related services for Regional Schemes estimated to cost the equivalent
of $300,000 or more; and (ii) each contract for equipment and materials
for Part A of the Project estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000
or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1
to the Guidelines shall apply.
      (b)   Uttar Pradesh shall furnish to the Bank, for the Bank's
review and approval, prior to execution (i) the first 50 contracts
under the First batch Schemes; and (ii) each contract for goods, works
and related services for Single Schemes estimated to cost the equiva-
lent of $100,000 or more.
3.    Post Review
      With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of
this Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to
the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II: Employment of Consultants
1.    Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded
in accordance with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guide-
lines). For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts shall be
based on the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued
by the Bank, with such modifications thereto as shall have been agreed
by the Bank. Where no relevant standard contract documents have been
issued by the Bank, other standard forms acceptable to the Bank shall
be used.
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section,
the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review
or approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures, letters of
invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts, shall not
apply to (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated
to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each, or (b) contracts for the
employment of individual consultants estimated to cost less than
$50,000 equivalent each. However, said exceptions to prior Bank review
shall not apply to (a) the terms of reference for such contracts, (b)
single-source selection of consulting firms, (c) assignments of a
critical nature, as reasonably determined by the Bank, (d) amendments
to contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising the
contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above, or (e) amendments to
contracts for the employment of individual consultants raising the
contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.
                             SCHEDULE 2
                       Implementation Program
1.    Uttar Pradesh shall complete, not later than April 1, 1997, the
transfer of responsibility for the rural water supply sector from its
Department of Urban Development to its Department of Rural Development.
2.    Uttar Pradesh shall (i) select the Support Organizations partici-
pating in the Project in accordance with eligibility criteria agreed
with the Bank; and (ii) review the adequacy of such criteria at the
end of the Implementation Phase of each batch of Schemes, and only
introduce changes thereto that are acceptable to the Bank.
3.    Uttar Pradesh shall (i) select the Schemes under the Project in
accordance with eligibility criteria agreed with the Bank; and (ii)
review the adequacy of such criteria at the end of the Implementation
Page  6
Phase of each batch of Schemes, and only introduce changes thereto that
are acceptable to the Bank.
4.    Uttar Pradesh shall:
      (a)   maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to
monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators
satisfactory to the Bank, the carrying out of the Project and the
achievement of the objectives thereof;
      (b)   prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank,
and furnish to the Bank, not later than June 30, 1999, a report
integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities
performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress
achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding
the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to
ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement
of the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
      (c)   review with the Bank, by December 31, 1999, or such later
date as the Bank shall request, the report referred to in paragraph
(b) of this Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required to
ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of
the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations
of the said report and the Bank's views on the matter.
5.    Uttar Pradesh shall (i) furnish to the Bank not later than
December 31, 1999, for the Bank's review and comments, the draft
strategic plan for the water and environmental sanitation sector
under Part C.1 of the Project; and (ii) finalize such a plan, taking
into consideration the Bank's comments, not later than June 30, 2000.
6.    Uttar Pradesh shall cause PMU to enter into arrangements with
each Support Organization and Project Village under terms and con-
ditions, acceptable to the Bank, which shall include, inter alia,
that (i) each Support Organization shall maintain separate accounts
in respect of each Scheme being carried out by such Support Organi-
zation under the Project in accordance with the accounting manual
prepared by PMU as part of its Implementation Manual; (ii) each
Support Organization shall furnish to PMU prior to each payment an
updated Scheme accounts; and (iii) PMU shall not make any payment
to such Support Organization until the accounts referred to in (ii)
above have been found satisfactory by PMU.
7.    Uttar Pradesh shall cause PMU (i) to engage independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank to audit the accounts referred to in paragraph
6 above; and (ii) not to proceed with signing the contract for the
Implementation Phase of the Scheme until the audit report for the
accounts concerning the first two payments made to such Support
Organization for the Planning Phase of such Scheme are received and
found satisfactory by PMU.
8.    Uttar Pradesh shall cause PMU to furnish to the Bank, for the
Bank's review and comments (i) without limitation to the provisions
of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions, not later than one month
after the end of each quarter and Fiscal Year, starting 1996, its
quarterly and annual progress reports, respectively, of the activities
carried out under the Project; and (ii) not later than December 31 of
each year, starting 1996, its annual work program, including budget
provisions, for the Project.
9.    Uttar Pradesh shall (i) carry out the studies under Parts C.4
and C.6 of the Project in accordance with terms of reference agreed
with the Bank; and (ii) discuss with the Bank, not later than June
30, 2000, and June 30, 2001, respectively, the results of those
studies.
10.   (a)   Uttar Pradesh shall cause PMU to ensure that any land
acquisition for Single Schemes under the Project shall be carried
out on a voluntary basis and in accordance with an agreement
satisfactory to the Bank between such land occupant and VWSC.
Page  7
      (b)   For Regional Schemes, the development plan referred to
in Part C.2 of the Project shall include a policy framework, accept-
able to the Bank, addressing potential impact on any persons who may
be affected by construction of such Regional Schemes.
