Page  1
                                                     CONFORMED COPY
                                                LOAN NUMBER 4056 IN
                           Loan Agreement
                (Uttar Pradesh Rural Water Supply and
                  Environmental Sanitation Project)
                               between
                                INDIA
                                 and
                INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                           AND DEVELOPMENT
                         Dated July 22, 1996
                                                    LOAN NUMBER 4056 IN
                            LOAN AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated July 22, 1996, between INDIA, Acting by its
President (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
      WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing
of the Project;
      (B)   the Project will be carried out in the State of Uttar
Pradesh with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance,
the Borrower will make available to the State of Uttar Pradesh the
proceeds of the Loan as provided in this Agreement; and
      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement, in the Project Agreement of
even date herewith between the Bank and the State of Uttar Pradesh;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                              ARTICLE 1
                    General Conditions; Definitions
Page  2
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications thereto set forth below (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
      (b)   The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
            "Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise
            agree, no withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of
            expenditures in the territories of any country which is
            not a member of the Bank or for goods produced in, or
            services supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the
            purpose of any payment to persons or entities, or for
            any import of goods, if such payment or import, to the
            knowledge of the Bank, is prohibited by a decision of
            the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter
            VII of the Charter of the United Nations."
      (c)   In Section 6.02, subparagraph (k) is relettered as sub-
paragraph (l) and a new subparagraph (k) is added to read:
            "(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under
            which any further withdrawals under the Loan would be
            inconsistent with the provisions of Article III, Section
            3 of the Bank's Articles of Agreement."
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several
terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the
following additional terms have the following meanings:
      (a)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section
2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
      (b)   "Uttar Pradesh" means the State of Uttar Pradesh, a State
of the Borrower, or any successor thereto;
      (c)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank
and Uttar Pradesh of even date herewith, as the same may be amended
from time to time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements
supplemental to the Project Agreement;
      (d)   "PMU" means the Project Management Unit, established under
the Department of Rural Development of Uttar Pradesh, registered as a
society under the Societies Registration Act, 1860, and operating in
accordance with its Memorandum of Association and Rules;
      (e)   "Rules" means the Memorandum of Association and Rules of
PMU dated May 11, 1994, as amended;
      (f)   "DPMUs" means the district level Project Management Units;
      (g)   "Village" means any local area whether compact or other-
wise, recorded as a village in the revenue records of the District
concerned and includes an area which Uttar Pradesh may, by a general
or special order, declare to be a village;
      (h)   "Project Villages" means about 1,000 villages in the
districts of Dehradun, Tehri, Chamoli, Pauri, Pithoragarh, Uttarkashi,
Nainital, Udham Singh Nagar, Almora, Jhansi, Lalitpur, Banda, Hamirpur,
Mahoba and Jalaun  in Uttar Pradesh;
      (i)   "Scheme" or "Schemes" mean rural water supply and
environmental sanitation facilities to be planned and implemented in
the Project Villages in accordance with the criteria referred to in
paragraph 3 of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement;
      (j)   "Single Schemes" means the Schemes to be carried out under
the Project in one or two Project Villages;
Page  3
      (k)   "Regional Schemes" means the Schemes to be carried out
under the Project in more than two Project Villages;
      (l)   "VWSC" means Village Water and Sanitation Committee;
      (m)   "VWSC Order" means Uttar Pradesh Government Order No.
4430/33-1-95-373l95, dated December 15, 1995, establishing VWSC as
a Subcommittee of the Village Panchayat, under Section 29 (6) of
Uttar Pradesh Panchayat Raj Act, 1947;
      (n)   "Support Organization" means any non-governmental organi-
zation or any other community based organization meeting the
eligibility criteria referred to in paragraph 2 of Schedule 2 to the
Project Agreement, to be selected by PMU to develop a Scheme and to
provide necessary support to the VWSC in planning and implementing
a Scheme;
      (o)   "Implementation Manual" means PMU's (i) operations manual,
including a PMU/DPMU accounting manual and a Support Organization
accounting manual; (ii) training manual; (iii) monitoring and
evaluation manual; (iv) technology manual; and (v) standard prices
and rates schedule;
      (p)   "Planning Phase" means the stage during which the community
development activities under Part B 1 (i), (ii) and (iii) of the
Project are initiated, and in which each Scheme is planned and designed;
      (q)   "Implementation Phase" means the stage during which the
community development activities under Part B 1 (i), (ii) and (iii)
are completed, and in which each Scheme is constructed;
      (r)   "First batch Schemes" means the Schemes planned for about
124 initial Project Villages under the Project;
      (s)   "Second batch Schemes" means the Schemes planned for about
276 Project Villages under the Project after the First batch Schemes;
      (t)   "Third batch Schemes" means the Schemes planned for about
375 Project Villages under the Project after the Second batch Schemes;
      (u)   "Fourth batch Schemes" means the Schemes planned for about
375 Project Villages under the Project after the Third batch Schemes;
      (v)   "Batch" or "Batches" mean any one or more of the above
batches; and
      (w)   "Fiscal Year" means the Borrower and Uttar Pradesh fiscal
year, starting April 1, and ending March 31 of each year.
                               ARTICLE II
                                The Loan
      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of fifty-nine million six hundred thousand dollars
($59,600,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the
Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such
withdrawal.
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree,
to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
      (b)   The Borrower may, for the purposes of  the Project, open
and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in the Reserve Bank
of India on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits
Page  4
into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be May 31, 2002 or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify
the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.
      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding Semester,
plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay
interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate applicable during
such Interest Period.
      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
determined in respect of such Semester.
      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:
            (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on
                  the date immediately preceding each date specified
                  in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, beginning with the
                  Interest Period in which this Agreement is signed.
           (ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
                  reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as
                  a percentage per annum, of the outstanding borrowings
                  of the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982, excluding
                  such borrowings or portions thereof as the Bank has
                  allocated to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and
                  (B) loans which may be made by the Bank after July 1,
                  1989 bearing interest rates determined otherwise
                  than as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
          (iii)   "Semester" means the first six months or the second
                  six months of a calendar year.
      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months' notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:
            "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
            amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
            time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to the Cost of
            Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
            Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each
            of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
            the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal
            amount outstanding during the preceding Interest Period,
            calculated at the rates applicable during such Interest
            Period."
            "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter,
            the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
            Borrowings determined in respect of such Quarter."
            "(c)  (iii) 'Quarter' means a three-month period commencing
            on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a calendar
            year."
      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semi-
annually on March and September 1 in each year.
Page  5
      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                             ARTICLE III
                      Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement,
and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction upon any of its
other obligations under the Loan Agreement, shall cause Uttar Pradesh
to perform in accordance with the respective provisions of the Project
Agreement all the obligations of Uttar Pradesh therein set forth, shall
take or cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds,
facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to
enable Uttar Pradesh to perform such obligations, and shall not take
or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with
such performance.
      (b)   The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Loan available
to Uttar Pradesh in accordance with the Borrower's standard arrange-
ments for developmental assistance to the States of India.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procure-
ment of the goods, works and consultants' services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement.
      Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the
obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and
9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods
and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance
and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by Uttar
Pradesh pursuant to the respective Section 2.03 of the Project
Agreement.
                             ARTICLE IV
                         Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements
of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance
                  with sound accounting practices, records and accounts
                  reflecting such expenditures;
           (ii)   ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
                  bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such
                  expenditures are retained until at least one year
                  after the Bank has received the audit report for the
                  fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the
                  Loan Account was made; and
          (iii)   enable the Bank's representatives to examine such
                  records.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in para-
                  graph (a) (i) of this Section and those for the
                  Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in
                  accordance with appropriate auditing principles
                  consistently applied, by independent auditors
                  acceptable to the Bank;
           (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                  any case not later than six months after the end
                  of each such year the report of such audit by said
                  auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
Page  6
                  Bank shall have reasonably requested, including a
                  separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the
                  statements of expenditure submitted during such
                  fiscal year, together with the procedures and
                  internal controls involved in their preparation,
                  can be relied upon to support the related with-
                  drawals; and
           (iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information concern-
                  ing said records and accounts and the audit thereof
                  as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
                              ARTICLE V
                        Remedies of the Bank
      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Condi-
tions, the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   Uttar Pradesh shall have failed to perform any of its
obligations under the Project Agreement.
      (b)   As a result of events which have occurred after the date
of the Loan Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen
which shall make it improbable that Uttar Pradesh will be able to
perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.
      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is  specified, namely that
the events specified in paragraphs (a) or (b) of Section 5.01 of this
Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days
after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower.
                             ARTICLE VI
                     Effective Date; Termination
      Section 6.01. The following is specified as an additional matter,
within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to
be included in the opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Bank,
namely, that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified
by Uttar Pradesh, and is legally binding upon Uttar Pradesh in
accordance with its terms.
      Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
                             ARTICLE VII
             Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 7.01. Any Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint
Secretary, Director, Deputy Secretary or Under Secretary of the
Department of Economic Affairs in the Ministry of Finance of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Secretary to the Government of India
            Department of Economic Affairs
            Ministry of Finance
            New Delhi, India
            Cable address:                     Telex:
                  ECOFAIRS                     953-31-66175 FINE IN
                  New Delhi                    953-31-61430 FINE IN
Page  7
      For the Bank:
            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                     Telex:
                  INTBAFRAD                    197688 (TRT),
                  Washington, D.C.             248423 (RCA),
                                                64145 (WUI) or
                                                82987 (FTCC)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.
                  INDIA
                  By /s/ N. Valluri
                                          Authorized Representative
                  INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                     RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                  By /s/ D. Joseph Wood
                                            Regional Vice President
                                                         South Asia
                               SCHEDULE 1
               Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the
Loan to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so
to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                             Loan Allocated           % of
                             (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category              Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Goods, works and
    services for the
    Schemes under
    Part B of the Project
    (a)  Planning Phase       6,500,000          100%
    (b)  Implementation      37,300,000          80%
         Phase
(2) Equipment and               500,000          100% of foreign
    materials for                                expenditures,
    Part A of the Project                        100% of local
                                                 expenditures
                                                 (ex-factory
                                                 cost) and
                                                 80% of local
                                                 expenditures for
                                                 other items
Page  8
                                                 procured locally
(3) Consultants'              8,300,000          100%
    services, studies,
    training and
    advertising cost
(4)  Incremental operating    2,800,000          90% until
     costs                                       March 31, 1998;
                                                 75% until
                                                 March 31, 2000;
                                                 and 50% until
                                                 March 31, 2002
(5)  Unallocated              4,200,000
                             __________
         TOTAL               59,600,000
                             ==========
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that
of the Borrower;
      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower; and
      (c)   the term "incremental operating costs" means operation
and maintenance costs of additional vehicles, equipment, office space,
administration and travel costs, and salaries of additional staff,
incurred by PMU for the Project.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures:
      (a)   prior to the date of this Agreement, except that with-
drawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,000,000 may be made
on account of payments made for expenditures before that date but
after July 31, 1995;
      (b)   under Category (1) until the technology manual, under the
Implementation Manual, satisfactory to the Bank, has been completed;
and
      (c)   for Regional Schemes under Part B.2 of the Project until
the development plan under Part C.2 of the Project has been completed,
and an agreement has been reached with the Bank on a set of eligibi-
lity criteria for such Regional Schemes.
4.    The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made
on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for (a)
goods under category (2) for contracts not exceeding $100,000 equiva-
lent, contracts for Single Schemes not exceeding $100,000, and con-
tracts for Regional Schemes not exceeding $300,000 equivalent, except
for the first 50 contracts under the First batch Schemes; (b) services
under contracts not exceeding $100,000 equivalent for employment of
consulting firms and $50,000 equivalent for employment of individual
consultants, respectively; (c) training and advertising; and (d)
incremental operating costs, all under such terms and conditions as
the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
                             SCHEDULE 2
                     Description of the Project
      The objectives of the Project are to: (i) deliver sustainable
health and hygiene benefits to the rural population, through improve-
ments in water supply and environmental sanitation services, which
Page  9
will increase rural incomes through time savings and income opportu-
nities for women, test an alternative to the current supply driven
service delivery mechanism and promote sanitation and gender aware-
ness; and (ii) promote the long-term sustainability of the rural water
supply and sanitation sector by providing assistance to Uttar Pradesh
to identify and implement an appropriate policy framework and strategic
plan for the sector.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from
time to time to achieve such objective:
Part A:     Strengthening and Operation of PMU and DPMUs
      Strengthening PMU and DPMUs through the provision of equipment
and materials, consultants' services and training, and incremental
operating costs.
Part B:     Selection and Construction of Single and Regional Schemes
1.    Community Development:
      (a)   Capacity building:  strengthening of community organi-
zation/mobilization through provision of workshops, group discussion,
information campaigns and participatory community action planning,
training and non-formal education;
      (b)   Provision of hygiene and environmental sanitation aware-
ness training; and
      (c)   Women development initiatives: Provision of training to
assist (a) women develop skills required to realize the benefits of
improved water supply; (b) improve woman's access to the formal
credit system; (c) promote women's role in planning and implementing
water supply and environmental sanitation Schemes including environ-
mental resource enhancement initiatives; and (d) encourage partici-
pation by women in resource mobilization activities such as collection
of user charges, and monitoring and evaluation.
2.    Construction of Single and Regional Schemes:
      (a)   carrying out of survey design and provision of construction
assistance;
      (b)   construction, augmentation and rehabilitation of water
supply and environmental sanitation Schemes, including spring/stream
gravity, tubewells with handpumps/electric pumps, and stream pumping;
      (c)   protection of the catchment area through activities
including the establishment of tree nurseries, reforestation, alterna-
tive energy sources to fuelwood, erosion control and other site
specific programs;
      (d)   construction of village drains and community drains;
      (e)   construction of demonstration and household human waste
disposal facilities;
      (f)   carrying out of environmental management activities such
as construction of filtration structures for community ponds, solid
waste disposal and mosquitoes and flies control; and
      (g)   monitoring of construction activities.
Part C:     Studies and Sector Development
      Carrying out the following:
      (a)   a water supply and environmental sanitation sector policy
study, and preparation of long term strategic plan for the sector;
      (b)   a development plan for Regional Schemes;
Page  10
      (c)   a major statewide awareness campaign on sanitation and
gender issues;
      (d)   a water quality and leak detection study;
      (e)   preparation of a follow-up water supply project in Uttar
Pradesh;
      (f)   a study on expanding technology options for rural water
supply and environmental sanitation; and
      (g)   special studies, as required, to improve the capacity of
the rural water supply and environmental sanitation sector to deliver
services.
                         *        *        *
      The Project is expected to be completed by November 30, 2001.
                              SCHEDULE 3
                        Amortization Schedule
                                           Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (Expressed in dollars)
March 1, 2002                                    1,155,000
September 1, 2002                                1,195,000
March 1, 2003                                    1,240,000
September 1, 2003                                1,280,000
March 1, 2004                                    1,325,000
September 1, 2004                                1,375,000
March 1, 2005                                    1,420,000
September 1, 2005                                1,470,000
March 1, 2006                                    1,520,000
September 1, 2006                                1,575,000
March 1, 2007                                    1,630,000
September 1, 2007                                1,685,000
March 1, 2008                                    1,745,000
September 1, 2008                                1,805,000
March 1, 2009                                    1,870,000
September 1, 2009                                1,935,000
March 1, 2010                                    2,000,000
September 1, 2010                                2,070,000
March 1, 2011                                    2,145,000
September 1, 2011                                2,220,000
March 1, 2012                                    2,295,000
September 1, 2012                                2,375,000
March 1, 2013                                    2,460,000
September 1, 2013                                2,545,000
March 1, 2014                                    2,635,000
September 1, 2014                                2,725,000
March 1, 2015                                    2,820,000
September 1, 2015                                2,920,000
March 1, 2016                                    3,020,000
September 1, 2016                                3,145,000
                       Premiums on Prepayment
      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:
      Time of Prepayment                          Premium
                                     The interest rate (expressed as a
                                     percentage per annum) applicable to
                                     the Loan on the day of prepayment
                                     multiplied by:
Page  11
Not more than three years                         0.15
      before maturity
More than three years but                         0.30
      not more than six years
      before maturity
More than six years but                           0.55
      not more than 11 years
      before maturity
More than 11 years but not                        0.80
      more than 16 years
      before maturity
More than 16 years but not                        0.90
      more than 18 years
      before maturity
More than 18 years before                         1.00
      maturity
                             SCHEDULE 4
                           Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2),
(3) and (4) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equi-
valent to $4,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall other-
wise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount
equivalent to $2,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals
from the Loan Account plus the total amount of all outstanding
special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02
of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent
of $6,000,000.
2.    (a)   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclu-
sively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of
this Schedule.
      (b)   Each payment (including a payment under a letter of credit)
for an eligible expenditure in an amount to or less than the equivalent
of $1,000,000 shall be made exclusively out of the Special Account.
The Bank may from time to time, by notice to the Borrower, revise the
threshold amount specified in the preceding sentence.
3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account
shall be made as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the
Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggre-
gate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request
or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from
the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
Page  12
      (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                  deposits into the Special Account at such intervals
                  as the Bank shall specify.
           (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents
                  and other evidence required pursuant to paragraph
                  4 of this Schedule for the payment or payments in
                  respect of which replenishment is requested. On the
                  basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on
                  behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
                  Account and deposit into the Special Account such
                  amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as
                  shall have been shown by said documents and other
                  evidence to have been paid out of the Special
                  Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account
under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equi-
valent amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and
other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account,
the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request,
furnish to the Bank such documents and other evidence showing that
such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule,
the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the
Special Account:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
      (b)   if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank,
within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this
Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to the
Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the records
and accounts for the Special Account;
      (c)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower
of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to the
provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
      (d)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding
special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02
of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwith-
drawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall
follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the
Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to
the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such
notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule;
or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the
Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank)
an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree,
no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made
Page  13
until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or
refund, as the case may be.
      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall,
promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such out-
standing amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b)
and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
