Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 5455-KO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
KOREA
SECOND INDUSTRIAL FINANCE PROJECT
May 9, 1985
Projects Department
East Asia and Pacific Resional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
As of April 1, 1985
$1      =      11~w850
$1 million   =      W1 850 million
U 1          =      0.001176
W I million  =      $1,176
W I billion  =      $1.176 million
W1 1 trillion =     $1.176 billion
ACRONYMS
ADB                 -   Asian Development Bank
BOK                 -   Bank of Korea
CNB                 -   Citizens National Bank
DFC                 -   Development Finance Company
DMB                 -   Deposit Money Bank
ERR                 -   Economic Rate of Return
Exim Bank           -   Export/Import Bank of Korea
FRR                 -   Financial Rate of Return
IFD                 -   Industrial Finance Debenture
KAIST               -   Korea Advanced Institute of Science and Technology
KBI                 -   Korea Banking Institute
KDB                 -   Korea Development Bank
KLB                 -   Korea Long-Term Credit Bank
KTAC                -   Korea Technology Advancement Corporation
KTDC                -   Korea Technology Development Corporation
MOF                 -   Ministry of Finance
NIF                 -   National Investment Fund
SKI                 -   Small and Medium Industry
SMIB                -   Small and Medium Industry Bank
SMIPC               -   Small and Medium Industry Promotion Corporation
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
January-December



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
KOREA
SECOND INDUSTRIAL FINANCE PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:              The Republic of Korea
Beneficiaries:         Korea Long-Term Credit Bank (KLB) and Korea Develop-
ment Bank (RDB) for the credit component; Government
agencies and other financial institutions for the
technical assistance component.
Amount:                US$222.0 million equivalent.
Terms:                 The proposed loan would be at the Bank's standard
variable interest rate plus commituent fee. The
credit component of the loan (US$220 million) for
KLB and KDB would have two separate amortization
schedules, neither exceeding 15 years, but conforming
substantially to the aggregate of the amortization
schedules applicable to the specified investment
projects financed out of the proceeds of the proposed
loan by each institution. The technical assistance
component (US$2.0 million) would have a fixed
amortization schedule, repayable in 15 years, including
3 years of grace.
Relending Terms:       The Government of Korea would relend the proceeds of
the credit component to KLB and KDB on the same terms
as the Bank loan, but with an administration fee of
0.05%. $120 million equivalent of the credit component
would be allocated to KLB, and RDB's portion would be
$100 million equivalent. KLB and KDB would onlend the
funds to their clients at a variable interest rate at
least 2% above the effective cost of the Bank loan
with maturities not exceeding 13 years including
grace periods of up to three years, except where
longer grace periods would facilitate commercial
cofinancing of subprojects. Subborrowers would
bear the foreign exchange and interest rate risks on
the loan.
Proceeds of the technical assistance component would
be onlent by the Government on the same terms and
maturity as-the Bank's loan to financial institutions
sending their personnel to project-supported training
activities.
Project Description:   The project constitutes the primary vehicle for Bank
involvement in financial sector reform in Korea. The
policy dialogue over the FY85-87 period would be based
on a Policy Letter from the Minister of Finance that
ITh docment has a resticted ditbution and may be used by ripients oy in the performance of I
th  ofiTa duies Its conutt may not otewis be dsiwed vithot Word Bank autw   I



outlines a monitorable program of reform through
decontrol of interest rates, reduction of directed
credit, commercial bank liberalization and supervision,
control of corporate indebtedness and equity market
development.
The project would provide credit to cover the foreign
exchange cost of industrial equipment imported by
private firms seeking to acquire, build, modernize
or replace productive assets. The median economic
rate of return estimated for subprojects approved
under the first Industrial Finance Project is 25Z,
and similar investment performance is expected under
the proposed project.
The project would also provide technical assistance
for the training of managers in private financial
institutions and in related Government agencies. The
project would also address ffiancial and institutional
issues related to KLB and RDB that were initiated under
previous projects involving these institutions.
Given KLB and KDB's record in utilizing Bank loans,
institutional risks in the proposed project are
minimal. The institutional arrangements for the
technical assistance component will require
careful supervision because of their innovative
nature and the number of institutions that are
expected to participate. The only significant
question is whether financial sector
reform would progress more slowly than expected
because of unforeseen changes in domestic and
international conditions. The Government remains
committed to the gradual implementation of far-
reaching financial reform; its cautious and consistent
approach appears likely to succeed.
6 mos.            Bank FY                6 mos.
Estimated Disbursments:       1986    1987    1988    1989    1990    1991
Annual                        13.3    70.9    75.6    42.4    17.6      2.2
Cumulative                    13.3    84.2   159.8   202.2   219.8   222.0
Rate of- return:       not applicable



KOREA
SECOND INDUSTRIAL FINANCE PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.  THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR                      .......               .......    1
II.    THE FINANCIAL SECTOR ....................................... .                 2
Financial Structure    ..         ..............................   ..         2
Development of Financial Instruments ........O-............                   4
Government Controls and Intervention                  . . .                   5
Financial Sector Issues               .      ......................           6
Decontrol of Interest Rates ................                                  7
Reduction of Directed Credit                      . .                         9
Commercial Bank Liberalization and Supervision ..............                10
Control of Corporate Indebtedness                    ..                      12
Equity Market Development                      ...                           13
Monitoring Financial Reform                       ..                         14
III.    THE INDUSTRIAL LENDING STRATEGY ...............  ...............              15
Past Operations.         ...........................................         15
Lending Strategy in the 1980s                         ...    15
IV.  THE PROJECT ............  16
A. Objectives and Description                          .        .            16
B. Korea Long-Term Credit Bank                       .         .             17
Institutional Aspects ...................................               17
Resource Allocation                     .... . .                        18
Economic Impact and Promotional Activities             .      .         19
Financial Condition and Performance                   .      .          20
Resource Mobilization ......                               .            22
Future Role ....................   23
C. The Korea Development Bank                  ....... . .                   23
Institutional Aspects                             . .    23
Resource Allocation .............                        .              24
Developmental Impact                       ..                           26
Financial Cozdition and Performance               ... .                 26
Resource Mob4llization .......... .........................             28
Future Role ............................................oe.             30
D.  Technical Assistance ...... ..... ........                      .       30
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission to Korea in
October 1984, Mission members included:  J. D. Von Pischke (Mission Leader),
K. Siraj, K. McCollom, C. Magnus, F. Iqbal, E. Njomo (World Bank), and H. B.
B. Oliver and K. Toft (Consultants).



Page No.
V.    THE PROPOSED BANK LOAN ......................................          32
Features of the Proposed Loan              ...32
Project Benefits and Riskss..                               ..    35
VI.    AGREEMENTS AND UNDERSTANDINGS REACHED
AT NEGOTIATIONS .36
ANNEXES
1.    Draft of the Minister's Financial Sector Policy Letter
2.    Financial Policy and Reforms under the Second Industrial
Finance Project
3.    The Korea Long Term Credit Bank
4.    The Korea Development Bank
5.    Financial Sector Data
6.    Estimated Cumulative Disbursements of Proposed Loan
7.    Project File
Tables in Annexes
Annex 3,  Table 1:    List of Directors of KLB
Table 2:    Summary of Operations, 1968-84
Table 3:    Characteristics of Loans Approved, 1968-84
Table 4:    Sectoral Distribution of Loans Approved, 1968-84
Table 5:    Characteristics of Equity and Convertible Debenture
Investments Approved, 1968-84
Table 6:    Economic Impact of KLB-Financed Projects; Partial
Economic Indicators
Table 7:    KLB's Financial Assistance to Small and Medium
Enterprises, 1980-84
Table 8:    Subprojects Approved for Financing Under Loan 1932-KO
Table 9:    Subprojects Approved for Financing Under Loan 2309-KO
as of March 31, 1985
Table 10:   Audited Balance Sheets, 1980-84
Table 11:   Audited Income Statements, 1980-84
Table 12:   Summarized Cash Flow Statements, 1980-84
Table 13:   Key Indicators, 1980-84
Table 14:   Ratio Analysis, 1980-84
Table 15:   Status of Loan Portfolio as of December 31, 1984
Table 16:   Analysis of Loans in Arrears, 1980-84
Table 17:   Collection Performance, 1980-84
Table 18:   Terms and Conditions of Long-Term Borrowings as
of December 31, 1984
Table 19:   Issuance of KLB Debentures, 1980-84
Table 20:   Statement of Resources
Table 21:   Projected Operations, 1985-89
Table 22:   Resource Mobilization Program, 1985-89
Table 23:   Projected Balance Sheets, 1985-89
Table 24:   Projected Income Statements, 1985-89
Table 25:   Projected Cash Flow Statements, 1985-89
Table 26:   Projected Ratio Analysis, 1985-89



- 111 -
Annex 4,  Table 1:    Board of Directors of KDB
Table 2:    Summary of Loan Operations, 1980-84
Table 3:    Characteristics of Loans Committed 1980-e4 and
Outstanding as of December 31, 1984
Table 4:    Sectoral and Geographical Distribution of Loans
Committed 1980-84 and Outstanding as of
December 31, 1984
Table 5:    Summary of Investment Operations, 1980-84
Table 6:    Characteristics of Equity Investment Committed
1980-84 and Outstanding as of December 31, 1984
Table 7:    Summary of Guarantee Operations, 1980-84
Table 8:    Characteristics of Guarantees Committed 1980-84 and
Outstanding as of December 31, 1984
Table 9:    KDB's Outstanding Loan Portfolio by Source, 1980-84
Table 10:   Economic Impact of KDB-Financed Projects, 1978-83:
Partial Economic Indicators
Table 11:   Subprojects Approved Under Loan 1933-KO
Table 12:   Subprojects Approved Under Loan 2309-KO as of
March 31, 1985
Table 13:   Summarized Balance Sheets, 1980-84
Table 14:   Summarized Income Statements, 1980-84
Table 15:   Cash Flow Statements, 1980-84
Table 16:   Indicators of Financial and Operational Performance,
1980-84
Table 17:   Funding Cost and Lending Rate as of December 31, 1980-84
Table 18:   Portfolio Status, 1980-84
Table 19:   Analysis of Loans in Arrears, 1980-84
Table 20:   Resource Position as of December 31, 1984
Table 21:   Net Increase in Total Resources Outstanding (1980-84)
by Source of Funding
Table 22:   IFD Operations, 1980-84
Table 23:   Foreign Currency IFD Operations, 1980-84
Table 24:   Long-Term Foreign Currency Borrowings as of
December 31, 1984
Table 25:   Projected Approvals, Commitments and Disbursements,
1985-89
Table 26:   Borrowing Program to Meet Commitments, 1985-89
Table 27:   Projected Balance Sheets, 1985-89
Table 28:   Projected Income Statements, 1985-89
Table 29:   Projected Cash Flow Statements, 1985-89
Table 30:   Indicators of Financial and Operational Performance,
1985-89
Table 31:   Actual Foreign Borrowings Against Projections, 1983-84
Annex 5,  Table 1:    Financial System Asset Structure
Table 2:    Use of Financial Instruments



- iv -
ATTACHMENTS
Annex 3, Attachment 1: Statement of Investment and Operational Policies
Attachment 2: Development Strategy, 1985-1986
Annex 4,  Attachment 1:  Policy Statement
Attachment 2: Outline of Development Strategy for 1985-90
CHARTS
Annex 3, Chart 1: KLB Organization Chart IBRD No. 27208
Annex 4, Chart 1: KDB Organization Chart IBRD No. 26812



KOREA
SECOND INDUSTRIAL FINANCE PROJECT
I. THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
1.01      Three features characterize Korea's industrial development since
1960: rapid growth, export orientation and successful diversification, and
debt dependence. At 15%, Korea's manufacturing sector growth rate ranks among
the highest in the world between 1960 and 1983. Korea's dynamic growth has
been led by exports, especially by manufactured exports. In 1962, Korea's
total commodity exports were US$55 million, while in 1983 they reached US$24.4
billion with manufactured exports accounting for over 93%. The structure of
manufactured exports has changed substantially from one based largely on light
industrial goods (e.g., textiles, wood products) to a range of products
including machinery, basic metals, and chemical products. For example, the
share of machinery in total exports increased from 9% in 1970 to 32% in 1983
while that of wood products declined from 11% to 0.3%.
1.02      Industrial growth and diversification have been financed largely by
debt. Korean corporations are highly leveraged. The inflation-adjusted
average debt-to-equity ratio among manufacturing enterprises, around 1.5:1, is
high by international standards. Korea's external debt has risen from $22
million in 1960 to over $43 billion in 1984, making it the fourth largest
borrower among developing countries.
1.03      Korea's remarkable industrial development during the 1960s was
associated with a generally dirigiste approach within which the Government
maintained comprehensive export incentives, an extensive system of guided,
concessional credit and substantial expenditure on human and physical infra-
structure investments. This approach was also considered appropriate for the
next stage of industrial development, and beginning about 1974 the Government
promoted a shift from light and simpLe industries to heavy and sophisticated
industries (e.g., shipbuilding, chemicals) on the assumption that this
anticipated the country's changing competitive advantage.
1.04      The interventionist approach did not meet with as much success after
1974, due partly to its inherent weaknesses and partly to the second oil shock
in 1979 and the subsequent world recession. The promotion of heavy and
chemical industries contributed to an increase in debt and excess capacity as
Korea sought to maintain investment rates in priority sectors despite sharply
higher oil prices and interest rates, and lower sales. Capacity utilization
in the manufacturing sector fell from 88% in 1978 to 732 in 1980, w:-th no
significant improvement in 1981 and 1982. Light industries had difficulties
obtaining funds and their development fell below planned targets and their
products slipped in export competitiveness. Between mid-1979 and 1981, GNP
was stagnant and real per capita income adjusted for terms of trade declined
by about 10Z.



-2-
1.05      These circumstances caused the Government to begin to question the
policy of choosing sectors to develop and of promoting them through large
infusions of cheap credit. The Government recognized that the economy is too
large and complex to be efficiently guided by direct controls. Consequently,
direct intervention is being gradually reduced in favor of direction from
incentives and market signals.
1.06      This change is reflected in the Fifth Five Year Plan (1982-86) and
in agreements made with the World Bank under the structural adjustment loans
of 1981 and 1983 and the Industrial Finance Project of 1983. Broadly speak-
ing, Government is now committed to policies of industrial, trade and finan-
cial liberalization. This approach and improved world economic conditions are
contributing to the recovery of the Korean economy. In the manufacturing
sector net profit as a percentage of sales rose from -1.1 in 1980 to 1.7 in
1983, and the ratio of net worth (equity) to total assets increased from 17%
to 22%. Prospects for further industrial development are bright. Value added
in manufacturing is expected to grow by 10% annually over the next several
years and a deeper and broader industrial structure should resuLt from efforts
to diversify exports and promote research and development.
II. FINANCIAL SECTOR
2.01      The Korean financial system has grown rapidly.  Average consolidated
assets of the system increased from W 9.6 trillion in 1975 to W 102.6 trillion
in 1984. With this growth have come changes in structure (Annex 5). Finan-
cial development during the 1970s included the rapid growth of a second-tier
market and the emergence and spread of new types of financial instruments.
FinanciaL Structure
2.02      The financial sector in Korea consists of three tiers or systems
differentiated largely by degree of government regulation: a heavily regula-
ted primary system composed of the Bank of Korea (BOK), commercial and specia-
lized banks that collect deposits and make loans, and development banks; a
less regulated secondary system of insurance, investment, finance and securi-
ties companies; and an unregulated tertiary system of informal lenders and
agents known as the curb market. Table 1 shows how the asset structure of the
regulated financial system changed between 1975 and 1984. (Similar data are
not available for the curb market.) The secondary system has grown rapidly
and has an asset market share equal to 27% (as compared with only 10% less
than a decade ago), while the market share of the BOK has slipped from 23% to
12% and that of commercial banks from 37Z to 30%. This realignment in
structure occurred because of the ability of most secona tier institutions to
raise deposits and lend at interest rates higher than those permitted banking
institutions, and the growing demand for financial services more flexible than
those traditionally provided by commercial banks. Recognizing that this
difference in regulatory treatment may be penalizing commercial banks to an
undesirable extent, Government has moved recently towards greater parity of
treatment.



-3-
Table 1: FINANCIAL SYSTEM ASSET STRUCTURE /a
(In W billion and percent)
1975                   1984
Assets        X        Assets        Z
The Primary System                           8,667       90         74,836       73
1.  The Bank of Korea                      2,174       23        11,807       12
2.  Deposit Money Banks                    5,562       57        51,913       50
(i) Coummercial banks                (3,632)    (37)        (31,287)    (30)
(ii) SpeciaLized banks                (1,930)    (20)        (20,626)    (20)
3.  Development Banks                        931       10        11,116       11
The Secondary System                           957       10         27,779       27
4.  Savings & Trust Institutions             355        4         9,158         9
5.  Insurance Companies                      207        2         4,963        5
6.  Investment & Finance Companies           395       4         13,658       13
Total                                 9,624      100        102,615      100
/a   Assets are in current prices and exclude acceptances and guarantees.
1984 data are mid-year figures.
2.03      The primary banking system is dominated by deposit money banks.
Seven private'-city banks" with a nationwide network of branches, ten private
local banks with regional operations, and more than 50 branches of foreign
banks account for 30Z of financial assets. The Government has increased the
autonomy and flexibility of commercial banks, and has allowed them to issue
certificates of deposit, undertake commercial paper and trust business, and
differentiate interest rates within a narrow band to reflect cost and risk
characteristics of their loans. Foreign bank branches experienced rapid
growth from a small base during 1975-84. Their role is likely to be further
enhanced by a recent measure allowing them parity in regulatory treatment with
domestic banks by 1986. Six specialized banks account for a further 20% of
total financial assets, their share having remained constant since 1975.
These banks were created by the Government to serve particular sectors such as
small industry, exporters, housing and agriculture.
2.04      Commercial and specialized banks account for approximately 70% of
total lending to the manufacturing sector in Korea. The bulk of their lending
is short-term. However, long-term equipment financing constitutes almost 40%
of the manufacturing sector lending of some specialized banks.
2.05      Development banks' market share is 11% and has remained roughly
constant. There are three such banks, the Korea Development Bank (KDB), the
Korea Long-Term Credit Bank (KLB), and the Korea Export-Import Bank. The bulk
of the Bank Group's industrial lending is channelled through KDB and KLB,
which are important sources of equipment finance for the manufacturing sector.



- 4 -
2.06      The second tier financiaL system contains savings and trust institu-
tions, insurance companies, venture capital firms, short-term finance com-
panies, and securities dealers. Each of these groups of institutions has more
than doubled its asset share over the last ten years, while the short-term
investment finance companies (SIFC) have more than trebled theirs.
2.07      SIFCs were established in 1972 as alternative channels for funds
that flowed through the curb market: 10 existed by 1974 and 32 were operating
by 1983. They raise deposits and lend at rates higher than those permitted
commercial banks, and deal in commercial paper. Their rapid growth is largely
due to this regulatory flexibility, and is reflected in the increase in the
ratio of funds loaned by SIFCs to funds loaned by commercial banks from 11 in
1974 to 40Z in 1983. Net profit ratios of SIFCs and commercial banks indicate
that the former are doing much better. Net profit to net worth was 12.0% and
2.0%, respectively, in 1983 and a similar pattern prevailed in earlier
years. The higher profitability of SIFCs is probably also due to their
relative freedom from Government regulation, especially in loan allocation.
SIFCs are able to orient their activities towards a seLected group of
customers, especially those that do business with the corporation(s)
affiliated with the finance company as shareholders.
2.08      The curb market is noninstitutional, composed of deposit takers,
lenders, agents and financial brokers whose activities are beyond supervision
by Covernment authorities. Recent estimates of its size range from W 1.0 to
1.5 trillion, approximately 6X of total domestic credit to the private
sector. This informal short-term finance market operates as a "safety valve"
by providing relief from constraints in the formal credit sector where rates
and voLumes are subject to government control. It also caters to high risk
business shunned by banks on commercial, legal or other grounds, and offers
anonymity and the prospect of higher returns to depositors willing to accept
the accompanying risk.
Development of Financial Instruments
2.09      Table 2 indicates how the use of financial instruments has changed
in recent years. Two trends are immediately obvious: (a) loans have declined
in relative usage while trade credit has become more important and (b)
commercial paper has become increasingly acceptable and popular although, in
relative terms, transaction volume remains low.   More detailed data reveal
rapid growth of the securities market, within which the bond and debenture
market has grown faster than the stock market.



5
Table 2: USE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS /a
(In W billion and percent)
1974                         1982
Instrument            Volume      Z                Volume      Z
Loans                  4,117      64               43,079       55
Trade credit             643      10                11,506      15
Securities             1,641      26               20,967       27
Commercial paper          43       1                2,645        3
Total                6,444    100                78,197      100
/a   End of year balances outstanding.
2.10      The most significant development in the bond market over the past
decade has been the growing popularity of primary corporate bonds. The amount
outstanding grew at an annual compound rate of 77% between 1975 and 1982,
raising their share to 85Z of the bond market. By 1982 almost 97Z of corpo-
rate bonds carried bank guarantees. Guaranteed corporate bonds serve as an
indirect form of bank financing, substituting for loans that banks have been
unable to issue because of the slow growth in their deposits.
2.11      Secondary bond market transactions in 1982 totaled W 6,247 billion,
which is almost three times the amount of corporate bonds issued in that   -
year. The secondary market consists almost entirely of sale and purchase of
bonds under repurchase agreements. The period between the initiaL and the
reverse transaction averaged approximately four months in 1982-83.
2.12      The stock market has grown, but not so rapidly as other securities
markets. The total market value of shares dropped from 76X of total
securities in 1975 to 40Z in 1982. The composite stock price index rose from
89.7 in 1975 to 127.3 in 1982. Small investors have been discouraged by
transaction costs, the thinness of the market, and the variability of share
prices.  The total number of shareholders declined from 1 million in 1978 to
680,000 in 1982, as bonds and other assets became more attractive than stocks.
Government Controls and Intervention
2.13      The rapid development of the Korean economy was accompanied by
highly interventionist government policies. Strict government control over
resource allocation by the financial system was a major tool in development
strategy. Controls included restrictions on the establishment of new
financial institutions, ownership stakes in the banking sector and of develop-
ment banks (excluding KLB), detailed regulation of bank management and
staffing decisions, determination of interest rates, and selective credit
controls. While industrial growth was reliant on the private sector,



-6-
investment priorities were determined by the Government. The Government
committed resources to fund priority investments, including financing on
preferential terms channelled through development banks and deposit money
banks.
2.14      Subsidization of lending rates in proportion to investment priority
was widespread, created substantial price distortions and, to the extent that
some lending rates were fixed below deposit rates, eroded the profitability of
financial intermediaries. Narrow average margins between deposit and lending
rates made intermediaries dependent on subsidies channelled primarily through
the centraL bank. The two main programs of selective and subsidized lending
in the 1970s were the Bank of Korea's rediscounting facility for short-term
export credit, and the National Investment Fund (NIF) for Long-term equipment
financing. Interest subsidies attached to most programs not funded by the BOK
were removed with the interest rate reform of June 1982. These programs,
which were concentrated in the industrial sector, then accounted for about 20%
of total private sector domestic credit outstanding. Controls have also
covered resources mobilized independently by financial institutions, which
have been directed to specific subsectors such as small industries and
machinery manufacturing on terms and conditions specified by Government. In
aggregate, the Government controlled approximateLy 50% to 60% of total banking
resources.
2.15      As the disadvantages of the dirigiste approach became apparent when
the economy came under stress largely from external economic developments
(paras. 1.04-1.05), the approach was modified. The policy of the Government
is now to decentralize economic decision making in the real sector and to
reduce government intervention in finance so that market forces are able to
play a greater role in resource mobilization and allocation. The Government
is phasing the reform, which began in 1981, so that changes in interest rates
and policies do not have a destabilizing effect on the corporate sector, which
is still heavily indebted, and on the commercial banks, which have had low
profits and weak portfolio performance emanating, in part, from past govern-
ment policies. Deregulation of interest rates and reduction in intervention
is occurring gradually, while constraints on the banking and corporate sectors
are being addressed directly.
Financial Sector Issues
2.16      The objective of financial reform is:  to improve resource
allocation by decentralizing investment decisions so that entrepreneurs,
financial institutions and portfolio investors can respond more rapidly to
perceptions of risk and reward; and to enhance efficiency in intermediation as
financial institutions are subjected to greater competition through less
legislated specialization and the establishment of new institutions.
Considerable progress has been achieved in implementing reform.
2.17      As part of the dialogue on financial sector issues, the Government
provided the Bank with a "Letter of Development Policy for the Financial
Sector" dated April 14, 1983, which outlined the major elements of its reforms
and the steps proposed to implement them. A second Policy Letter has been



provided under the proposed project and is attached as Annex 1, and a summary
of measures to be taken and their expected economic results is contained in
Annex 2.
2.18      The Letter identifits the five main issues currently at the core of
the financial reform program: (a) decontrol of interest rates, (b) reduction
of directed credit, (c) commercial bank liberalization and supervision,
(d) control of corporate indebtedness, and (e) equity market development.
Equity market development was not addressed in the policy letter accompanying
the first Industrial Finance Project. Its inclusion here represents a growing
awareness of the favorable prospects for equity market development in Korea.
It also reflects increased scope for Bank collaboration with IFC's long-
standing involvement with the Korean equity market. The Letter outlines each
issue, the Government's objectives in dealing with it, and specifies measures
expected to be implemented through 1987. The Letter is the primary vehicle of
the financial sector dialogue between the Government and Bank in connection
with this project, and presents a series of initiatives subject to monitoring
by the Bank.
Decontrol of Interest Rates
2.19      Objective:  Interest rate decontrol should gradually permit interest
determination by market forces operating within the framework of monetary and
fiscal management by the Government. Shortcomings of government controlled
rates have included: substantial differentials between legislated lending
rates and non-legislated rates which led to excessive demand for credit at
legislated rates and artificial growth of the second tier and curb markets
where rates are substantially higher; and interest margins insufficient to
promote the independence of regulated financial intermediaries. In additdion,
subsidized credit can bias investment toward capital-intensive technology,
lead to reduced efficiency and to welfare losses that retard growth, and
concentrate credit in large firms at the expense of savers and of smaller
firms. As Long as controlled interest rates remain beLow market-determined
levels, interest rate decontrol will constitute a major area requiring
government action.
2.20      Progress in Interest Rate Decontrol.  In 1982 commercial bank
lending rates were sharply reduced and unified at 10% as part of a series of
actions to deal with inflation and economic problems arising from the second
oil shock, world recession and death of President Park. These measures have
proved generally successful; Korea has stabilized its economy and is recover-
ing welL from these dislocations. The dramatic decrease in the rate of
inflation has turned the 10% nominal rate into a positive real rate exceeding
7% in 1984. From this base, a range of controlled interest rates has been
developed.  A lending rate band of 10-10.52 for com ercial banks was
introduced in January 1984 with interest rate incentives for lengthening the
term structure of deposits. However, the half-percent band did not permit
sufficient rate differentiation to reflect risks and costs to lenders, and the
ceiling was increased to 11.5% in November 1984, and to 13.5Z in April 1985.
Similar increases have been made on several types of time and savings deposits
as part of the Government's long range plan for liberalizing the financial
sector.



8-
2.21      Outside the commercial banking sector, interest rate ceilings have
been less binding and financial markets are increasingly able to respond to
market forces within government guidelines. Rates on 90-180 day commercial
paper have been liberalized since June 1981, and yields on primary issues of
corporate bonds and bank debentures have moved very close to second tier
market rates ranging upward from 13Z. The Government has also allowed
development banks, including KDB and KLB, to lend longer-term domestic
currency funds at efft.ctive rates which approximate second-tier market rates
of interest. Curb market rates, incorporating a significant risk premium, are
reported to have dropped to a low of 1.2% per month, partly in response to
partial deregulation of non-bank financial instruments and lower inflationary
expectations. One effect of this dualistic market structure has been to slow
the growth of the deposit base supporting the commercial banks' lending at
controlled rates (para. 2.02).
2.22      The differential between administered and market rates has narrowed,
but the gradualist strategy has not yet fully-met its interest rate reform
objective, which is the freeing of interest rates or at least the raising of
ceilings to the point where they exceed market rates and therefore no longer
constrain these rates. The strategy was predicated on the assumption that
rates in the second tier market would decline at least to the level of con-
trolled commercial bank lending rates with good economic management manifested
in dramaticaLly lower rates of inflation. While inflation control objectives
have been achieved, with an increase of only 2.8% in the consumer price index
in 1984, rates of interest in the second tier market have remained above the
controlled lending rate band. This is due at least in part to rates in
international financial markets, and also reflects competition for funds
domestically. While in real terms the current rates are very high by
historical standards, controls still distort the structure of the financial
market and its ability to allocate resources efficiently.
2.23      Steps to be taken to decontrol interest rates will consist of direct
and indirect measures (Annex 1, paras. 6-13; Annex 2, Section A). Direct
measures consist of raising ceiling rates, so that over time the maximum
permitted levels are applied to very few transactions and can be abandoned
without material economic repercussions. Indirect measures may be politically
easier to implement, as suggested by Government's creative use of new instru-
ments carrying higher rates than traditional instruments. The introduction of
negotiable certificates of deposit, with a rate of 11% and a requirement that
banks lend 90% of the funds raised from these instruments at 12%, while the
commercial bank lending rate band was 10-10.5%, is an example of this type of
measure. Liberalization will require that rates on both loans and deposits
are increasingly determined by competition and by negotiation between those
supplying funds and those obtaining funds. The Government plans to keep
interest rates positive in real terms, reduce the gap between controlled rates
and market rates for similar transactions, and raise interest rate ceilings
specitied for commercial banks and other financial institutions through
1987. New instruments will continue to be introduced.



-9-
Reduction of Directed Credit
2.24      Objective:  The Government intends, through financial reform, to
reduce its direct role in the allocation of credit, which should enable finan-
cial intermediation to be more efficient. Directed lending programs and
selective credit controls have been the main tools of government intervention
in credit allocation. Of these, lending programs utilizing government funds
earmarked to support investment in specific firms and industries are the most
direct form of intervention. These are being considerably reduced as reform
proceeds.
2.25      Progress in reducing distortions from directed lending has involved
the phasing out of some marginal funds and, in June 1982, the raising of
interest rates on most remaining funds to the same level as the minimum
commercial bank lending rate. The National Investment Fund (NIF) and the
rediscounting of short-term export credits by the BOK remain the two main
instruments of directed lending (para. 2.14). Since 1982, the Government has
made NIF allocations on a sectoral basis, rather than targeting specific firms
as loan recipients, which has provided banks handling NIF loans more autonomy
in credit decisions. The volume of loans arranged through the NIF system was
reduced from W 733 billion in 1983 to W 506 billion in 1984. This was
accompanied by a reduction in utilization of resources from W 823 billion to
W 586 billion. What is even more encouraging is the fact that the bulk of
annual mobilization is now from loan repayments: net contributions dropped
from W 444 billion in 1983 to W 73 billion in 1984.- These trends are expected
to be maintained in the future with a view to eliminating the NIF over time.
2.26      Under the short-term export credit facility, bills discounted by
conmercial banks at their standard lending rate base of 1OZ are rediscounted
at 5%, with the rediscountable portion fixed at 70Z. Gains from rediscounting
contribute significantly to commercial bank revenues. This subsidy appears
increasingly unnecessary with liberalization of interest rates, increases in
commercial bank fees on guarantees, and access of foreign commercial banks to
BOK rediscounting facilities (para. 2.35). Part of these gains may be passed
on to commercial bank clients generating export paper through the banks'
competition for this type of business. The impact on exporters from reduction
in the rediscount subsidy would probably not be large. Government is
reviewing its rediscounting policy.
2.27      Steps to be taken include a continued decline in the flow of funding
to NIF. Eventual reduction in its total assets could be achieved by using
proceeds from maturing loans to make refunds to contributing institutions in
proportion to their cumulative payments into the Fund. It is also expected
that the activities of the NIF will be increasingly concentrated in KDB (para.
4.56) with the phasing out of commercial banks as conduits for_NIF lending
(Annex 1, paras. 14-15; Annex 2, Section B).
2.28      Selective credit controls have been used to direct more financing
towards small and medium industry. Interest rates, constrained by rate
ceilings, have not been allowed fully to perform an allocative role, which is
attempted instead by these controls. National city banks are expected to have
35% of their loan portfolios in credit to firms in these categories, while



- 10 -
regional commercial banks have been given a 50% target. Insurance companies
and other types of financial institutions also have been assigned similar
portfolio targets. Use of these indirect measures to influence credit
allocation is to be preferred over direct intervention which is embodied
primarily in the Small and Medium Industry Promotion Fund which lends at 9%.
This Fund is not expected to grow significantly. To achieve a high degree of
financial liberalization, special funds would have to be deemphasized and
selective credit controls would also have to be diminished. Selective credit
controls will require review as financial reform progresses and will be
monitored under the project. Interest rate decontrol (para. 2.23) should
reduce the advantages to be gained from selective credit control.
Commercial Bank Liberalization and Supervision
2.29      Objectives for the commercial banking system include the creation of
a sustainable, competitive market in banking services offered by strong
financial institutions (Annex 1, paras. 16-22; Annex 2, Section C). This
requires that bank profitability be maintained at levels adequate to reward
shareholders, increase capitalization and provide adequate reserves for bad
debt losses. These levels of performance do not appear to have been achieved
by Korean banks since the oil shock and world recession of the early 1980s.
2.30      Progress towards creating strong, competitive banks.  The commercial
banking system accounts for about 30% of the total assets of the Korean finan-
cial sector (Chapter II, Table 1). The five large nationwide "city banks"
played an important roLe in administering the directed credit system. With
liberalization they have been privatized, which is expected to increase their
competitiveness and efficiency. In an effort to control concentration, the
voting power of any single investor is limited to 8% of total shares
outstanding. Financial sector reform has included a change in the approach to
financial supervision. To reduce the role of the Government in the management
and operation of the commercial banks, all regulations governing internal
management such as personnel, organization and budgeting have been abolished
and regulations of business operations have been simplified. In addition to
these major changes, supervision is moving from reliance on prior authoriza-
tion by supervisory agencies to ex-post monitoring of performance in relation
to a simplified set of guidelines.
2.31      Commercial banks have also been authorized to undertake new
activities in competition with the nonbanking sector and to improve their
earnings. The Government has also licensed new financial institutions and
deregulated some financial activities to reduce legislated specialization and
market segmentation. The MOF is considering proposals by KDB and KLB to
diversify their sources of funds and improve their competitiveness. Govern-
ment actions have increased competition in finance, but they have also raised
longer-term issues concerning the limits, if any, that should be placed on the
scope of banks' activities. This question leads directly to consideration of
the most desirable or appropriate functions of different classes of financial
institutions. A study including review of this issue and its implications for
the country's financial structure has been commissioned by the Minister of
Finance. The report should be available by June 1985, and the Bank expects
its subsequent full discussion with MOF officials.



- 11 -
2.32      Steps to be taken:  A critical element in the liberalization of
commercial banks will be the development of their ability to earn revenues
sufficient to cover costs of administration, funds and risk, without
subsidies. Ultimately, liberalization and greater competition in finance
would create an environment where the banks could freely determine spreads in
relation to market conditions. This objective was not fully achieved in 1984
in spite of improvements in spreads permitted by the central bank and
permission to increase guarantee fees, which contribute significantly to bank
revenues. Bank profits have been diminished in the past by adverse rate
changes, which affect loans immediately but are applied only to new or renewed
rate bearing deposits. ProfIL levels for the five large city banks declined
from 0.7% of total assets in 1980 to 0.1% in 1983, but measures taken in 1984
have facilitated their recovery, and further improvement is expected as a
result of government policy and better bank management.
2.33      A problematic element in reported bank profits is allowance for bad
debts. This factor is especially difficult to assess because of Government's
role in directed credit and tax regulations. Bad and doubtful debts, in part,
are related to Government instructions to banks during the era in which banks
were partially owned and closely controlled by the Government. These are not
treated as nonperforming assets by banks or by the Office of Bank Supervision
and Examination on the grounds of implicit Government responsibility. Regula-
tions limit to 1% of outstanding loans the amount of income that can be
charged off to bad debt losses for tax purposes. This level is also used for
corporate accounting purposes by the banks. In addition, loans are treated as
current when interest is paid and 10 or 20% of principal due (depending upon
the client) is repaid. Noncurrent loans that are fully secured are often not
treated as arrears and security is rarely called. Hence, provisions tend to
equal 1% of outstanding loans, and loans classified as doubtful are quite
small in relation to the level that might be expected as a result of high
levels of corporate indebtedness and export experience during the recession of
1980-82.
2.34      Regularization of the banks' portfolio position arising from the
effects of directed credit could facilitate improvements in the banks' capital
through retained earnings and the issue of new shares. A stronger effective
capital position would facilitate a decrease in the government's intervention
in banking activities. The appraisal mission recommended that the portfolio
issue be addressed through an exchange of government bonds for doubtful assets
arising from directed credit. The Government's reaction to this recommenda-
tion is that banks' profits will be adequate to cover bad debt losses and to
improve their capital positions.
2.35      An especially important development that will increase competition
in banking is making domestic and foreign banks subject to the same controls
and privileges. Putting all banks on an equal footing internationalizes the
Korean banking industry and will end arrangements that favored one type of
bank over another. In 1985, foreign banks are being allowed access to central
bank rediscount facilities, while foreign currency swap arrangements that
shielded them from foreign exchange risk are being phased out. Limi-ations on
foreign bank competition for Won deposits will be phased out beginni..g in
1986, and foreign banks will become subject to selective credit controls,



- 12 -
primarily portfolio requirements favoring small and medium industry (para.
2.28). Restriction on domestic branching by foreign banks in Korea is also
expected to be relaxed.
2.36      Korean financial institutions, with Government and World Bank
support, are strengthening their training programs to enhance the capability
of their staff to operate in a new, more competitive environment. The Bank
has long been involved in training for KDB and KLB staff, and under the first
Industrial Finance Project these facilities were expanded to include commer-
cial bankers, central bankers and MOF staff. The technical assistance
component of the proposed project is designed to expand this activity (paras.
4.57-4.63).
Control of Corporate Indebtedness
2.37      Objective:  The Government's objective in dealing with corporate
indebtedness is to have debt capacity increasingly determined by market forces
(Annex 1, paras. 23-26; Annex 2, Section D). Its achievement requires the
careful structuring of measures that permit market forces gradually to exert
more influence on corporate financial behavior, while retaining measures to
ensure that excessive indebtedness of individual corporations does not lead to
crises.
2.38      Corporate indebtedness in Korea is relativeLy high by international
standards (para. 1.02), reflecting extensive use of debt to finance Korea's
remarkable economic growth. Success in export-led development has involved
competition in industries with relatively small margins which have not facili-
tated the accumulation of equity internally in the form of retained
earnings. Corporate indebtedness has posed problems in Korea when changes in
the international economic climate have diminished the corporate cash flow
available for debt service, as during the recession of 1980-82. High levels
of corporate indebtedness are difficult to address directly with financial
Liberalization: direct controls ultimately work against liberalization. But,
so long as corporate debt levels constitute a serious problem, direct
government action is likely. At the same time, however, indirect measures can
ameliorate the problem.
2.39      Progress towards this objective has included measures to help
corporations service debt, direct limitations on corporate debt and incentives
that would improve corporate capital structure. Measures to help corporations
to service debt have diminished as the effects of recession have passed. The
major actici.; of this type was the reduction of the commercial bank lending
rate to 10% in JuntY ;82, and simultaneous reductions in rates charged by
other regulated lenders. Direct limitations on debt have taken the form of
debt-to-equity ratios specified for major industries. These are applied to
restrict the type of corporate investment activity permitted when firms
exceeding these limits seek to increase their borrowing from institutional
lenders. In 1984, special scrutiny was directed toward the debt levels of
Large corporations, and restrictions were imposed on their borrowing from
foreign banks in Korea. Additional provisions for scrutiny and restrictions
have been introduced in 1985. An instrument for enforcing discipline on
corporate borrowing through the domestic banks is the prime bank agreement of



- 13 -
January 1984, which resembles a commercial bank term loan agreement and
enables the BOK to use commercial banks to control the indebtedness of large
borrowers according to government guidelines.
2.40      Incentives for corporations to reduce their indebtedness included
the increases in lending rates in 1984 and 1985. Numerous other measures have
made shareholding more attractive to potential equity investors and provided
incentives for corporations to sell shares to the public. One effect of the
promotion of equities as an alternative to debt is that corporations gain
increased access to funds provided as permanent capital, with no debt
servicing obligation. Such funds can be used to reduce debt directly or to
invest in assets that will generate cash flow that will permit debt to be
serviced more easily.
2.41      Steps to be taken for dealing with corporate indebtedness in the
near term include a continuation of direct measures applied to large corpora-
tions, continuation of limits on debt-to-equity relationships to control the
types of expansion permitted to firms seeking increased debt, accounting
reforms that will require the consolidation of the accounts of large corporate
groups, introduction of credit rating and information services through
independent agencies, efforts to decontrol interest rates, and fiscal and
other incentives for the promotion of equity investment. These measures, over
time, should help lending institutions to develop their credit criteria, shift
the control of corporate indebtedness to market mechanisms and lessen the
extent of government involvement, as stated in the Policy Letter in Annex 1.
Equity Market Development
2.42      Objective:  The Government's objective in promoting equity market
development is to make equity investment increasingly attractive to individual
investors, to strengthen the institutional framework for issuing and trading
equities, and to provide incentives for corporations to issue equity (Annex 1,
paras. 27-35; Annex 2, Section E).  A more dynamic equity market will help to
make risk-reward relationships more transparent, increasing the scope for
efficient investment.  It will also enable more entrepreneurs to obtain
finance, widen participation in the capital gains that should accompany growth
of the Korean economy, facilitate the development of a modern corporate
structure characterized by private ownership, and help to ease the problem of
corporate indebtedness by creating financial claims that do not have to be
repaid.
2.43      Progress in equity market development has been significant and broad
ranging. The Government has created institutions to ensure orderly trading on
the Korea Stock Exchange. This effort has been successful, resulting in more
than 10 years of trading without any major irregularities. Listing
requirements, procedures for settling trades, and facilities for safekeeping
of securities have been managed satisfactorily. The most remarkable
government measure has been the required listing of large, closely-held
firms. This has been aimed at successful companies and has been implemented
to spread wealth and ownership more widely, obtain disclosure of corporate
finances and create a larger pool of marketable securities. Reflecting this
effort and incentives for issuers, the stock of more than 330 firms is listed
on the Korea Stock Exchange.



- 14 -
2.44      Stock market development has been constrained by regulations that
have limited new issues by permitting flotation only at par value and by
government effort to influence the leveL of dividends. The Government no
longer attempts, formally or informally, to control dividend rates, and has
eased restrictions on new issues by permitting firms whose outstanding shares
trade at prices significantly above par value to issue additional shares at
market prices.
2.45      Efforts to broaden the investor base have included special fiscal
incentives for small investors. The use of fiscal incentives has also includ-
ed corporate tax credits for firms issuing shares. Listing requirements have
been eased, by reducing to 20% the proportion of equity required to be placed
in an initial public offering, in order to create a wider range of securi-
ties. The pool of investment funds has also been augmented by international-
ization of the market through the launching of three closed-end funds in
foreign markets. The largest of these is the $60 million Korea Fund, launched
on the New York Stock Exchange in 1984 with IFC assistance. Internationaliza-
tion has also included permitting foreign brokerage firms to obtain interests
of up to 10% in the equity of Korean brokerage houses, and the first of these
deals is expected to occur in 1985.
2.46      Steps to be taken to promote the development of equity markets are
expected to include greater use of fiscal incentives for shareholders and
issuers with due regard for their implication for government finances.
Regulatory changes to permit increased investment in equities by insurance
companies, pension funds and other financial firms, and by foreign portfolio
investors are expected by 1986, as are measures to encourage the formation of
pension funds. Measures are also planned that should lower investors'
transaction costs through the provision of better financial information about
listed firms, including requiring consolidated accounts for large groups of
related firms. Intercompany equity and debt holdings beyond conventional
trade credit will be subjected to increased disclosure and ultimately
discouraged by changes in tax laws. Insider transactions will be subjected to
more rigorous reporting requirements. A rating agency is being established to
introduce independent credit and investment ratings to Korea. Full liberal-
ization of issuing regulations to permit all listed firms to issue new shares
at market is expected. Government initiatives are also expected to expand
market access and the range of securities through revitalization of the over-
the-counter market.
Monitoring Financial Reform
2.47      The Bank has monitored Korea's success in financial sector reform
since it began in 1981. Under this project the Bank and the Government would
exchange views on progress achieved in carrying out the program of financial
sector reform, based on annual summaries of progress to be prepared by MOF and
periodic reviews of plans for additional reform measures. Particular
attention will be given to determining whether the very significant improve-
ments already achieved are maintained, and the extent of further liberaliza-
tion. Details of specific measures to be taken are contained in Annex 1 and
Annex 2.



- 15 -
II. THE INDUSTRIAL LENDING STRATEGY
Past Operations
3.01      The Bank's industrial lending strategy in Korea has focussed on
strengthening finaj5ial intermediaries lending long-term resources to indus-
trial enterprises.-   This emphasis began in 1968 with support for establish-
ment of the Korea Development Finance Corporation (KDFC), a predecessor of KLB
(para. 4.02), and was extended to the Korea Development Bank (KDB) in 1975.
Small firms have been assisted through Bank loans to the Small and Medium
Industry Bank (SMIB) since 1975 and the Citi gns National Bank (CNB) since
1980. The Bank has lent about $1.4 billion - to the industrial sector
through these institutions.
3.02      The objectives of Bank loans to Korean deveLopment finance
institutions have been: (a) provision of foreign exchange to support indus-
trial investment; (b) improved efficiency of financial intermediaries; and
(c) support of the Government's industrial investment priorities for export
promotion, regional development, employment generation and skill develop-
ment. Project Completion Reports (PCRs) for Loans 735-KO, 905-KO and 1145-KO
to KLB, for Loan 1095-KO to KDB and for Loan 1175-KO to SMIB indicate, in
general, that project implementation has been excellent and the Bank's
objectives have been achieved. The PCRs noted that Bank resources had been
efficiently allocated to industrial projects yielding substantial financial
and economic benefits and that Bank loans supported the Government's priori-
ties in the industrial sector. Project Performance Audit Reports tPPARs) for
Loans 735-KO, 905-KO, 1145-KO and 1095-KO confirm these conclusions and note
the high standard of KLB and KDB's operations and their developmental record.
Lending Strategy i the 1980s
3.03      In the late 1970s, the Government and the Bank placed greater
emphasis on industrial and financial policy. The Bank's lending strategy in
the industrial sector has three main dimensions: (a) structural adjustment
loans (SAL) which focus on the industrial sector, paying particular attention
to trade and incentive policies; (b) industrial finance projects which are
increasingly associated with broader financial policies; and (c) subsector
projects for specific industries to develop the country's technological capa-
bilities. SAL components promoting industrial efficiency focused primarily on
trade and investment policies. Subsector projects include loans to the Korea
1/   Two exceptions are the Korea Machinery Loan (Loan 1466-KO) and the
Electronics Development Project (Loan 1676-KO).
2/   Nine loans for $528.3 million have been made to KLB, five loans for
$482.5 million have gone to KDB; SMIB has received four loans for
$205 million and two loans for $60 million have been made to CUB.
Loan 2215-KO (SMI machinery) allocated $59 million; through SHIB
($29 million), KLB ($20 million) and CNB ($40 million).



- 16 -
Institutes of Electronics Technology (KIET), the Korea Technolog; Development
Corporation (KTDC) and the Small and Mediun Industry Promotion Corporation
(SMIPC). These finance the transfer of technology and upgrade skills so that
Korean industry remains competitive as its advantage shifts toward technology-
intensive production.
3.04      Korean development finance companies (DFCs) have become more mature
and rely less on Bank assistance. This has permitted the Bank to use DFC
lending to address broad financial sector objectives in addition to institu-
tional issues.  The Bank raised the issue of financial 1iberalization with the
Government as early as the 1977 Basic Economic Report.3  The Bank's Financial
Sector Review initiated in 1979 pursued this theme, but the case for reform
remained weak while the Korean economy remained vibrant. As the effects of
overinvestment in subsidized subsectors and of the economic recession became
manifest in 1979-80, and with the advent of a new economic management team,
the Government decided to reduce centralized economic decision-making and to
place greater reliance on market mechanisms. The Fifth Five-Year Plan (1982-
86) calls for decentralization of investment decisions in the real sector and
liberalization of resource mobilization and all cation in the financial
sector.  The first Industrial Finance Project -  supported financial sector
reform in 1983 and 1984; considerable progress has been made as described in
Chapter II and Annex 1. The proposed project would build from this base and
support further reform measures in 1985-87 as set out in Chapter II, in the
Government's Policy Letter in Annex 1, and in Annex 2. The proposed loan and
additional financial sector work would support the Bank's continued dialogue
with the Government.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Objectives and Description
4.01      The project will implement Bank strategy in Korea through support
for financial reform, technical assistance and financing for industrial
projects. The project objectives are to: (a) support the Government's finan-
cial sector reforms, particularly liberalization measures, through 1987
(paras. 2.17-46); (b) support industrial investment by providing KLB and KDB
$120 million and $100 million, respectively, for lending for the foreign
exchange costs of investments in plant and machinery by their clients in the
industrial sector; (c) assist project institutions (KLB and KDB) to adapt to
the changing financial sector environment; and (d) support government efforts
to strengthen the financial system through a technical assistance component of
$2 million to provide training for key officials of financial institutions and
related Government agencies. The following sections B and C summarize the
3/   Report No. 1489-KO dated February 23, 1977.  Growth and Prospects of the
Korean Economy.
4/   Loan 2309-KO, approved June 9, 1983; Staff Appraisal Report No. 4435-KO,
dated May 20, 1983.



- 17 -
characteristics of the two financial institutions eligible for participation
in the credit component. Section D describes the technical assistance
component. Detailed information on project institutions and on sector issues
are available in the project file (Annex 7).
B. Korea Long-Term Credit Bank
Institutional Aspects
4.02      The Korea Long-Term Credit Bank is the only private development
finance institution in Korea which provides medium- and long-term foreign and
domestic currency financing. KLB was incorporated in 1967 as the Korea
Development Finance Corporation (KDFC), and became a long-term credit bank in
June 1980 under the Long-Term Credit Bank (LTCB) Act of 1979. KDFC operated
almost exclusively as a relender of long-term foreign currency funds. Under
the LTCB Act, KLB is authorized to issue long-term domestic currency
debentures and to accept deposits from its corporate borrowers - activities
prohibited to KDFC as a corporation under the General Commercial Code. With
its authority to mobilize domestic currency funds, KLB's activities expanded
rapidly. Total assets increased almost fourfold during 1980-82, from W 209
billion to W 804 billion. Since 1982, total assets have increased at an
average annual rate of 19%, to W 1.1 trillion, or $1.3 billion, as of December
31, 1984.
4.03      KLB has achieved an impressive record of growth, financial
performance and institutional development, but KLB remains relatively small:
its assets represent about 1% of Korea's financial system. Still, KLB is an
important source of long-term credit: at year-end 1983 KLB held 6.6Z of
equipment loans outstanding to the manufacturing sector.
4.04      Management, Organization and Staffing.  KLB's lending guidelines are
established in its Statement of Investment and Operational Policies (Annex 3,
Attachment 1). The direction and emphasis of its operations are stated in its
Development Strategy Statement (Annex 3, Attachment 2). Overall policies and
operational guidelines are provided by the Board of Directors while investment
decisions are delegated to the Executive Committee (Annex 3, Table 1),
consisting of its President assisted by three managing directors. With its
rapid growth, KLB's staff has increased from 163 (84 professionals) in 1979 to
323 (176 professionals) in 1984. KLB has three branches and four subbranches
plus an office in Hong Kong.
4.05      Project Appraisal and Supervision.  KLB's project appraisal is
conducted by twenty professional staff. Appraisal covers managerial, tech-
nical, financial, marketing and economic aspects. The FRR is calcuated for
new and expansion projects involving total financing in excess of US$1.0 mil-
lion equivalent, while the ERR is calculated for projects having foreign
exchange financing in excess of US$1.0 million equivalent. A technical sub-
office comprised of seven engineers reviews proposed projects and their imple-
mentation. KLB's appraisals conform to World Bank standards. Supervision
consists primarily of monitoring disbursements, confirming project completion
and reviewing financial reports periodically provided by subborrowers. More
intensive supervision is undertaken whenever financial reports or repayment
difficulties indicate problems.



- 18 -
4.06      Procurement and Disbursement Procedures.  KLB's procurement
procedures conform to government guidelines and Bank requirements, generally
following (a) limited competitive bidding, with at least three competitive
quotations provided by potential suppliers, or (b) the proprietary method,
where compatability with existing equipment dictates a specific supplier.
KLB's procurement procedures effectively encourage competition, and competi-
tion among prospective suppliers is keen in the well-developed Korean market.
KLB's disbursements are authorized in accordance with progress in project
implementation and against proper documentation.
Resource Allocation
4.07      Overall Operations.  KLB's term Lending and investment operations
for the period 1979-84 (detailed in Annex 3, Table 2) are summarized below:
Summary of KLB Approvals, 1979-84
(W billion)
1979     1980      1981     1982      1983     1984
Loans
Domestic Currency       3.2     68.9    128.9    112.8    130.1    124.5
Foreign Currency       60.5     89.6    105.9      49.1    113.7    131.5
Total Loans         63.7    158.5    234.8    161.9    243.8    256.0
Investments
Equity                  1.5      1.0       2.5      1.5       0.3     (0.4)
Debentures              0.8     11.1      21.9     11.6      38.4     84.8
Total Investments    2.3      12.1     24.4      13.1     38.7      84.4
Total Approvals          66.0    170.6    259.2    175.0    282.5    340.4
Loans constitute the bulk of KLB's operations. Total annual approvals have
grown at an average annual rate of 39% since 1980. With access to local
currency resources through the issue of debentures, domestic currency loan
approvals gradually exceeded foreign currency loan approvals. Since 1980,
domestic currency lending has accounted for 53.6% of KLB's total term lending
operations. This compares to 6.1% for the period 1968-79.
4.08      Characteristics of KLB Lending.  The major characteristics of KLB
loans are provided in Annex 3, Tables 3 and 4. Manufacturing continues to
account for the largest share, reaching 75.3Z in 1984. However, diversifica-
tion has been maintained, with any one subsector rarely accounting for more
than 20Z of annual loan approvals. During 1980-84, 40.8% of KLB's total
lending has been for working capital. Since 1980, almost 54.0% of all loans



- 19 -
approved exceeded W 1.0 billion, as KLB's clientele are concentrated in
medium-to-large size industries.  The maturity structure of KLB loans has
shortened in recent years, reflecting the growing importance of debentures in
KLB's resource mobilization efforts (paras. 4.13 and 4.22) against which
domestic currency loans are matched. Since 1980, 97.2% of local currency
loans approved (53.6Z of all loans approved) had maturities of 1 to 5 years,
while 57.4% of foreign currency loans approved (26.8% of all loans approved)
had maturities of 9 years or more.
4.09      Investment Operations.  Equity investments account for a small and
declining proportion of KLB's total operations. Purchases of bonds and
convertible debentures have increased to 13.7% of total approvals since 1980.
As of December 31, 1984, KLB's outstanding equity and debenture portfolios
amounted to W 8.5 billion and W 120.9 billion, respectively (0.9% and 13.3%,
respectively, of KLB's total portfolio).
Economic Impact and Promotional Activities
4.10      Economic Impact.  Partial economic indicators for 1,036 projects
financed by KLB with official and commercial foreign currency resources since
1968 are saumarized in Annex 3, Table 6.  An ex-ante evaluation of these
projects shows a total project investment of W 2.0 trillion, of which W 0.9
trillion (40%) was financed by KLB. Annual incremental project sales were
slightly more than W 4.2 trillion, 46% of wuch were exports.  These projects
created 68,800 jobs.  Average cost-per-job -  steadily increased, from $23,672
in 1975-76 to $78,850 in 1982, but fell to $48,678 and $61,370 in 1983 and
1984, respectively. KLB's growing SMI and electronics subsector financing are
major factors in the shift towards more labor-intensive projects. As shown in
Annex 3, Table 7, about one quarter of total KLB loans approved are to SMI
enterprises.
4.11      Promotional Activities.  To increase the range of service to Korean
industries, KLB (in close collaboration with IFC) helped establish the Korea
Investment and Finance Corporation tKIFC), the Korea Development Leasing
Corporation (KDLC) and the Korea Technology Advancement Corporation (KTAC).
KLB is the major shareholder in KIFC and KDLC. Since 1981 KLB has established
a Business Promotion Center, a Loan and Investment Consulting Office, and a
Consulting Center for International Investment to serve clients, and has
undertaken major research studies for the Government, including industrializa-
tion prospects for Cheju Island and the Daegu Region.
4.12      Utilization of Bank Loans 1932-KO and 2309-KO.  The Bank's eighth
loan to KLB (Loan 1932-KO) for $90.0 million is fully committed and as of
March 31, 1985, $88.0 million was disbursed. Ex-ante evaluation of the 70
projects financed under Loan 1932-KO shows a total investment cost of $442.3
million equivalent (Annex 3, Table 8). Almost 5,600 new jobs are expected to
be created (600 more than projected at the time of appraisal), at an invest-
ment cost per job of $79,500. Financial rates of return ranged from 12.9% to
5/   Expressed in "current year" terms at the average official exchange rate.



- 20 -
33.3% while economic rates of return ranged from 10.5Z to 48.6Z (similar to
expectations at appraisal).  The median FKR was 24Z and the median ERR was
26Z. As of Harch 31, 1985, commitments totaled $97.6 million under the $120.0
million KLB credit component of Loan 2309-KO, which is expected to be fully
committed by December 31, 1985. The 71 projects approved as of March 31,
1985, have an estimated total investment cost of $352.9 million equivalent and
are expected to create almost 4,050 jobs at an investment cost-per-job of
$87,500 (Annex 3, Table 9). The median FRR is 20Z, and the median ERR is
26%. Total incremental sales for the 141 projects financed under these two
Bank loans are expected to reach $1.5 billion with exports accounting for 46%.
KLB Financial Condition and Performance
4.13      Assets and Liabilities.  KLB's total assets grew at an average
annual rate of 402 during the period 1980-83. Since 1980, KLB's increased
reliance on domestic resources has significantly changed the composition of
its principal assets and liabilities. Its domestic currency portfolio 6/
increased from W 15.2 billion (7.3% of total assets) in 1979 to W 428.3 bil-
lion (40% of total assets) as of December 31, 1984. As the domestic debenture
market has a shorter time horizon (primarily 1 to 3 years) than KLB's foreign
creditors (from 7 to 15 years), KLB's lending increasingly reflects the local-
ization of its resource base. Prior to 1980, loans approved with maturities
exceeding five years accounted for 92% of all loans approved; those with
maturities exceeding nine years accounted for 61%. Since 1980, the respective
figures are 43% and 27%.
4.14      As of December 31, 1984, 83.9% of KLB's total assets were financed
with long-term liabilities, 8.8Z with current liabilities and 7.3% with
equity. Foreign currency borrowings, 99.0% of KLB's long-term liabilities in
1979, were 53.7Z as of December 31, 1984, reflecting KLB's increasing reliance
on the debenture market. As of December 31, 1984, outstanding debentures
totaled W 435.1 billion, or 46.1% of KLB's total long-term liabilities. KLB's
total net worth increased from W 64.4 billion in 1980 to W 82.7 as of December
31, 1984.
4.15      Debt-to-Equity Position.  As of December 31, 1984, KLB's long-term
debt-to-equity ratio was 10.8:1; in 1986 this ratio is expected to exceed the
12.0:i maximum covenanted under Loan 2309-KO. However, it is unlikely that
KLB will be able to increase its paid-in capital in the near future because of
Government regulations concerning new issues by companies whose shares trade
below (para. 2.44). KLB's shares currently trade at about 90% of par, even
though it has had an annual return on average equity of at least 11.0% in
recent years, and increased its reserves and retained earnings to 65% of paid-
in capital as of December 31, 1984 (compared to 28.7% in 1980). In view of
KLB's financial, managerial and operational performance, and the quality of
its loan portfolio and high collection rate (para. 4.18), KLB's long-term debt
6/   Term-loans, debentures purchased and equity investments.



- 21 -
to equity limit would be raised to 15.0:1. KLB's debt service and interest
coverage ratios are adequate, as is its current ratio (Annex 3, Tables 13 and
14).
4.16      Financial Performante.  After a severe decline in effective interest
spreads 71 from 3.3Z in 1980 to 0.27% in 1982, KLB showed significant improve-
ment in 1983 and 1984 with spreads of 0.64% and 1.06%, respectively. The
decline was largely attributable to KLB's loans made with debenture resources
resulting in negacive spreads. While lending rates on these loans fell by
10.2 percentage points, from 34.0% to 23.9%, between June 1980 and June 1982,
the weighted average cost of its debentures declined by only 6.3 percentage
points, from 30.5Z to 24.3%. At year-end 1982, three- and five-year deben-
tures issued by KLB in 1980 were outstanding at a cost of 27% to 30%, while
new debentures were being issued at a cost of 11.98Z to 14.62Z. In the
meantime, KLB's lending rate had been lowered for new loans and also for
existing balances outstanding. The lending rate decline was required to main-
tain KLB's competitiveness and to support the government objective of easing
the burden of debt on the corporate sector. As a consequence, KLB's weighted
average effective spread on loans funded with debentures declined from 3.52%
in June 1980 to 2.08Z in June 1981 and -0.37% in June 1982. As the earlier
and more expensive debenture issues were redeemed and interest rates stab-
ilized, the weighted average effective spread on loans funded with debentures
improved from 0.17% in June 1983 to 1.03Z in December 1984.
4.17      The improvement in interest spreads, along with management's success
in controlling administrative and general expenses, reversed KLB's two-year
decline in earnings: 1984 income before and after tax was W 12.2 billion and
W 9.5 billion, respectively (Annex 3, Table 11). Return on average equity in
1984 was 11.9%, reversing a four-year decline. The proposed increase in KuB's
debt-to-equity limit (para. 4.15) should contribute to further improvement in
KLB's return on equity.  Overall, KLB's performance has been satisfactory
during a period of considerable difficulty for much of the country's financial
sector.
4.18      Portfolio Quality.  KLB's loan portfolio performance and arrears
position are summarized in Annex 3, Tables 15, 16 and 17. As of December 31,
1984, KLB's total loan portfolio 7onsisted of 2,049 loans for W 903.0 bil-
lion: 45 loans were in arrears - , or 2.2% of the total. Total arrears of
principal  d interest amounted to W 4.0 billion, or 0.4% of the outstanding
portfolio.-   KLB collected 98.6Z of amounts due in 1984.  Provisions for
possible losses of W 10.1 billion were equal to 1.1% of the outstanding port-
foiio.
7/   Income from loans as Z of average loan portfolio less the cost of term-
debt as % of average term-debt.
8/   Of which 23 loans were less than three months in arrears.
9/   Of which W 0.6 billion were less than three months in arrears.



- 22 -
4.19      Audit.  KLB's accounts for 1983, audited according to international
standards by an independent auditor acceptable to the Bank, were certified
without qualification. The auditors stated that provisions were adequate.
Resource Mobilization
4.20      Overview.  KLB has been very successful in mobilizing domestic and
foreign currency resources, with its total resource base increasing at an
average annual rate of 38% over the past five years. Since KLB's conversion
into a long-term credit bank in 1980, foreign currency borrowings as a
percentage of total resources outstanding have steadily declined from 70.3% in
1980 to 48.0% as of December 31, 1984.
4.21      Foreign Currency Resource Mobilization.  Until its first syndicated
commercial borrowing in 1976 with IFC's assistance, KLB obtained foreign
currency funds only from official sources, primarily IBRD and ADB. Since
then, KLB has borrowed $414.8 million from commercial sources and $650.0 mil-
lion from official sources (Annex 3, Table 18). The percentage of KLB's com-
mercial borrowing to total annual foreign currency borrowing has fluctuated
widely, with a composite percentage for 1976-1984 of 39%. While commercial
borrowings are an increasingly important source of KLB's total foreign
currency resources, KLB relies heavily on foreign official borrowings to fund
its long maturity equipment loans.
4.22      Domestic Currency Resources.  KLB's domestic currency resource base
was initially very small (W 21.7 billion in 1979), comprised entirely of a
government loan and equity. Today, KLB relies primarily on debenture issues
to raise domestic funds. In 1984, debentures provided 79.3% of its total
domestic resources. Net proceeds from debenture issues increased almost
fivefold between 1980 and 1984 to W 193.5 billion (Annex 3, Table 19) and
account for more than 41% of KLB's total outstanding resources.
4.23      Operational and Financial Projections.  KLB projections indicate
that loan, debenture, and equity investment approvals will grow at an average
annual rate of about 14% during the period 1985-89; domestic currency
approvals would increase at a rate of 17% and foreign currency approvals by
about 9%. The average annual growth rate for 1980-83 was about 18% for total
approvals (28% for domestic currency and 8% for foreign currency), reflecting
the large and rapid expansion in operations which initially followed KLB's
conversion into a long-term credit bank in 1980. Of projected total approvals
amounting to $3.2 billion equivalent, 66% would be domestic currency opera-
tions and 34% in foreign currency loans.
4.24      As of December 31, 1984, KLB had $80.6 million available for foreign
currency approvals, compared to a projected foreign currency requirement of
$1.1 billion for 1985-89. Domestic currency resources available for approval
were W 78.6 billion while projected requirements total W 1.7 trillion (Annex
3, Table 21). KLB plans to mobilize W 2.8 trillion ($3.4 billion) over the
1985-89 period, of which 69% would be in domestic currency (debentures) and
31Z in foreign currency (Annex 3, Table 22). KLB plans to raise $500 million
in foreign currency from commercial sources and $540 million from foreign
official sources. The proposed Bank loan of $120 million would be used



- 23 -
primarily to finance longer maturity foreign currency loans. During the
period in which the Bank loan is expected to be committed, it would represent
about 29Z of KLB's projected foreign currency loan approvals.
4.25      KLB's net income, W 9.5 billion in 1984, is expected to increase to
W 10.8 billion in 1985 and to W 15.9 billion in 1989, with return on average
equity projected to range between 12Z and 14Z during 1985-89. Throughout the
projection period, KLB's debt-service coverage ratio would remain at about
1.1:1. The long-term debt to equity ratio of 15:1 proposed under this loan
(para. 4.15) would be adequate through 1989.
Future Role
4.26      KLB's greatest challenge is to compete in an increasingly libera-
lized financial system. KLB's difficulties in issuing debentures in late 1982
highlighted its dependence on a single type of instrument to raise domestic
funds. Moreover, the LTCB Act restricts KLB's credit operations, reducing its
flexibility compared to other financial institutions whose operations are
being gradually deregulated. In June 1984, KLB submitted a number of recom-
mendations to MOF which would permit KLB to diversify and expand its domestic
resource mobilization base and to provide additional services for its clients.
Most of these recommendations require amendment of the LTCB Act.  MOF has
suspended action on KLB's recommendations pending a review of liberalization
proposals currently under consideration. KLB's recommendations are generalLy
consistent with the Government's financial sector liberalization program.
C. The Korea Development Bank
Institutional Aspects
4.27      Legal Framework, Ownership and Lending Strategy.  KDB was
established in 1954 under the KDB Act. Its authorized share capital was
increased to W 1 trillion ($1.2 billion) in 1981. As of December 31, 1984,
KDB was the largest financial institution in Korea with total assets of W 8.1
trillion ($9.5 billion). KDB is also the largest source of term finance for
industry. As a Government-owned development bank, KDB operates primarily as
the financing arm of the Government's industrial investment policies. KDB's
lending to the private sector, however, increased from 12X of annual commit-
ments in 1978 to 72Z in 1983 and 1984. Much of this lending is to large firms
in industries encouraged by the Government.
4.28      Broad lending guidelines and objectives are stated in KDB's Policy
Statement (Annex 4, Attachment 1). As provided under "The Government-Invested
Enterprise Management Act and Employment Decree", a Board of Directors (Annex
4, Table 1) was established by KDB in May 1984. This Board provides overall
policy direction and guidance. Day-to-day operating policies are established
by KDB's Major Management Group, consisting of the Governor, Deputy Governor,
and seven Assistant Governors. Details of KDB's organizational structure are
provided in Annex 4, Chart 1. KDB's Development Strategy Statement (Annex 4,
Attachment 2) sets out the short-term strategy KDB would employ to achieve its
longer term objectives.



- 24 -
4.29      Organization, Management and Staffing.  KDB has twelve local
offices, seven representative offices and two subsidiaries overseas to assist
its foreign currency borrowing. As of December 31, 1984, KDB's staff numbered
1,915, of which 609 were professional staff. In mid-1984, KDB reorganized,
disbanding the Foreign Loan Department (the department previously responsible
for Bank loans) and strengthening the Planning Department. The objective of
the reorganization was to decentralize loan decision-making, place more
responsibility on Loan officers and integrate KDB's relationships with clients
in order to compete more effectively.
4.30      Project Appraisal and Supervision.  All project proposals are
appraised by KDB; Loans in excess of W 1 billion are given extensive financial
and economic analysis; financial and economic rates of return are calculated
for loans from official sources of $750,000 and above and for other projects
whose cost exceeds W 2 billion. KDB appraisal procedures for both Bank-
financed and other projects are thorough and include a cash flow analysis;
KDB's appraisals conform to World Bank standards. Project supervision chiefly
consists of reviewing the quarterly operational r egqrts and annual financial
statements that borrowers are required to submit.-    Site visits are used to
verify collateral, to confer with borrowers who might be experiencing market
downturns, and to check on problems noted in quarterly or annual reports.
4.31      Procurement and Disbursement.  KDB's procurement procedures are
sound and ensure a reasonable degree of competition. They conform to
Government guidelines and Bank requirements, and include limited competitive
bidding requiring at least three quotations, and proprietary contracts in
qualifying cases. KDB's limited competitive bidding procedures effectively
encourage competition, particularly as the Korean market is highly developed
and competition among potential suppliers is keen; in addition, offers
provided by suppliers are reviewed by KDB's Technical Service Department to
help ensure that prices are reasonable. KDB's disbursement procedures are
adequate and ensure that funds are made available in accordance with progress
in project implementation and supported with proper documentation.
Resource Allocation
4.32      Lending.  As of December 31, 1984, KDB's outstanding loan portfolio
amounted to W 5.9 trillion, or $6.9 billion (Annex 4, Table 2). Total loan
commitments increased at an average annual rate of 49% over the 1978-80
period. Growth fell to an average of slightly less than 14% through 1984,
althought a surge in loan commitments in the second half of 1984 contributed
significantly to this average. The slower growth of commitments through 1984
is in part attributable to the economic recession of the early 1980s. More
recently, the increasing competitiveness of other financial institutions, the
decline in directed credit programs, a scarcity of resources available for
lending at administered rates and government policy to limit lending to large,
heavily indebted firms have influenced KDB's performance. Foreign currency
10/ Borrowers listed on the Korea Stock Exchar3e are required to submit
audited annual financial statements.



- 25 -
loan commitments have accounted for about 13% of total 1980-84 loan
commitments.
4.33      In addition to supporting large-scale li/ manufacturing industries,
nearly 34Z of KDB's 1984 loan commitments were for major projects in the
transportation and power sectors. The sectoral distribution of loans has
remained relatively constant since 1980, the share of manufacturing industries
ranging from 47% in 1983 to 57% in 1980 and 1982 (Annex 4, Table 4). Working
capital loans have become increasingly important in KDB's portfolio, account-
ing for only 16% of loan commitments in 1978-79 compared to roughly 40Z over
the period 1980-84 (Annex 4, Table 3). This increase reflects the tight
liquidity situation and the corporate sector's efforts to utilize existing
production capacity idled by the recession.
4.34      Investments.  As of December 31, 1984, KDB's investment portfolio
amounted to W 816.5 billion ($961 million), of which 70% were equity invest-
ments and 30X were bonds and debentures (Annex 4, Table 5). Many of KDB's
equity holdings arise from Government transfers of shares in state sector
companies as contributions to KDB's equity; these holdings provide KDB with
relatively low returns. KDB's dividend income from its equity investments has
been steadily declining since 1980 and amounted to 0.8% of average equity
investments in 1983 and 1984. KDB has incorporated in its Development
Strategy Statement for 1985-90 principles governing the management of its
equity portfolio (para. 4.28). Since 1980, KDB's bond and debenture portfolio
has grown at an average annual rate of 54Z. It has-been substantially more
profitable than KDB's equity investments: interest income for 1984 was 11.4%
of average bond and debenture investments.
4.35      Guarantees.  KDB's outstanding guarantee portfolio declined over the
1980-84 period from W 4.8 trillion ($5.6 billion) in 1980 to W 3.6 trillion
($4.2 billion) in 1984 (Annex 4, Table 7). Almost 90% of KDB's outstanding
guarantees are in foreign currency, and 76Z are counterguaranteed by the
Government under a Guarantee Release Agreement (GRA) designed to promote
lending accorded priority by the Government.
4.36      Directed Lending.  Major government lending schemes for industry 12/
are at least in part administered by KDB. Government direction of KDB's
lending is significant, but the extent depends on the source of funding.  In
certain instances the Government uses KDB as a conduit to channel budget
appropriations to specific public sector entities. This type of lending
increased slightly over the 1980-84 period, from 12.2Z to 15.9% of KDB's
outstanding loan portfolio (Annex 4, Table 9). KDB is also administrator of
ll/ Enterprilses employing more than 300 persons and with total assets exceed-
ing W 500 million.
12/ These include the National Investment Fund (NIF), Tourist Development
Fund, Energy Rationalization Fund, Industrial Rationalization Fund,
Shipping Promotion Fund, Special Industry Supporting Funds and Electronic
Industry Promotion Fund.



- 26 -
some selective lending schemes designed to promote specific industries, and
determines the eligibility of individual firms under broad sectoral guide-
lines. During the period 1980-83, these programs represented 34% to 37% of
KDB's total loans outstanding; in 1984 the corresponding figure was only
23%. Government funding throuigh budget allocations and special funds provided
resources for slightly less than 50% of KDB's outstanding portfolio over the
1980-83 period, and 39% in 1984. KDB is responsible for financing the
remainder with other resources. KDB has discretion in the allocation of funds
mobilized through deposits, debentures and foreign borrowings, subject to the
KDB Act.
Developmental Impact
4.37      Economic Impact.  The 4,609 projects financed by KDB from 1978
through 1983 had a total investment cost of W 13.2 trillion, of which W 7.3
trillion (55%) was financed by KDB (Annex 4, Table 10). Incremental employ-
ment from these investments was expected to exceed 600,000 and annual incre-
mental sales were estimated at W 23.0 trillion, 42Z of which represents
exports.
4.38      Utilization of Bank Loans 1933-KO and 2309-KO.  As of year-end 1984,
KDB had committed $99.9 million out of $100 million available under Loan 1933-
KO; disbursements totaled $99.8 million. The 66 subprojects financed had an
investment cost of $446.2 million equivalent ex-ante, 38.7% of which was
financed by KDB (Annex 4, Table 11). Subloan size ranged from $50,000 to
$10.0 million. The subprojects are expected to generate $155.8 million in
incremental annual exports and to employ almost 11,300 at an investment cost
per job of $39,600. Financial rates of return range from 13% to 38% while
economic rates of return range from 16% to 51%, with the median FRR and ERR
being 22Z and 26%, respectively. Under Loan 2309-KO, commitments as of March
31, 1985, totaled $59.2 million under KDB's $130.0 million credit component.
The 23 projects approved have an estimated total investment cost of $983.0
million equivalent and ar  ixpected to create some 2,050 jobs at an investment
cost-per-job of $479,200.3   The median FRR is 22%; the median ERR is 30%.
Details of the subprojects financed by KDB under Loan 2309-KO are provided in
Annex 4, Table 12.
Financial Condition and Performance
4.39      Financial Condition.  Over the 1980-84 period, KDB's assets grew at
an average annual rate of about 20%. As of December 31, 1984, 85% of KDB's
total assets of W 8.1 trillion were financed with long-term liabilities, 4%
with current liabilities and 11% with equity. At year-end 1984, KDB's current
ratio was 1.8:1. KDB received a W 45 billion contribution to paid-in capital
in 1984, bringing total paid-in capital to W 583.9 billion; total net worth
has gradually increased from W 633.8 billion in 1980 to W 870.2 billion as of
13/ Excluding one subproject (a refinery) with an investment cost of
$634 million creating 500 incremental jobs, the investment cost-per-job
is substantially smaller - $225,160.



- 27 -
December 31, 1984. KDB's long-term debt-to-equity ratio of 7.7:1 at year-end
1984 was within the 10:1 limit agreed previously with the Bank, and the debt
service coverage ratio remained satisfactory at 1.4 times.
4.40      Financial Performance.  The major issue facing KDB is its continuing
decline in profitability. This issue is directly linked to the choices KDB
faces in determining its role in a liberalized environment (para. 4.56). Net
profit as a percent of average total assets has steadily declined from 1.2% in
1980, to 0.9% in 1981, to 0.7% in 1982 and to 0.3Z in 1983; as a percentage of
average net worth, net profit decLined from 7.4% in 1980 to 2.5X in 1983
(Annex 4, Table 16). In 1984, this percentage improved to 4.4Z. However,
almost half of KDB's 1984 net profit is attributed to a net gain realized on
the sale of its previous main office building. Excluding this gain, KDB's
1984 adjusted return on average net worth was 2.5%. These returns have
generally been lower than the rate of inflation. KDB's low profitability is
attributable to loai spreads on its lending, the overhang of high cost deben-
ture issues and meager dividend income on its equity investments (para. 4.34).
4.41      KDB's gross operating spread declined from 2.5Z of average total
assets in 1980 to 1.0% in 1983, improving to 1.4% in 1984 (for the reason
noted in para. 4.40). While KDB has maintained the minimum 22 weighted
average effective spread on foreign commercial borrowings required under Loan
2309-KO, it receives a spread of only 0.5 to 1.5% on loans made under the
Government's special financing schemes. For the very limited amount of
lending funded through deposit resources, KDB's spread is from 2.0Z to 2.5%.
Adoption of a lending rate based on the effective cost of KDB's industrial
finance debenture (IFDs) plus an adequate spread would help improve KDB's
spreads on domestic currency lending supported by IFDs (para. 4.56). Special
Government financing schemes on projects financed through budgetary alloca-
tions account for almost 40% of KDB's portfolio. The spread on this lending
is expected primarily to cover administrative costs.
4.42      Proceeds from KDB's new IFDs are used to redeem IFD obligations and
to purchase corporate debentures. In the recent past, KDB made loans from the
proceeds of IFDs issued at a cost as high as 24%. When the 1982 lending rate
reduction to 10% was applied to outstanding as well as new loans, KDB incurred
high negative spreads on IFD-funded loans.  High cost issues are now being
redeemed by new IFD issues having a weighted average cost of about 13%, and it
is expected that KDB's losses on this operation should decline substantially
in 1985.
4.43      KDB's management has taken steps to address the decline in
profitability. In 1983, it established an Assets and Liabilities Management
Committee (ALCO), comprising the Deputy Governor, one Assistant Governor and
six General Managers. ALCO is responsible for generating recownendations
concerning assets and liabilities management and interest rate policy; the
proposal for a long-term base rate (para. 4.56) was one of its first major
recommendations. Other measures to improve profits recently adopted by KDB
include entering the call loan market, and offering overdraft and bill
discounting facilities. KDB is also placing greater emphasis on issuing
guarantees, particularly for corporate bonds.



- 28 -
4.44      To address KDB's profitability, it was agreed under the proposed
project to maintain the 2% weighted average effective spread requirement on
lending funded by foreign commercial borrowings. In addition, KDB has
reaffirmed in its Development Strategy Statement the objective of earning a
positive real yield on its equity. The adequacy of KDB's spreads on lending
from Government resources was discussed at negotiations. To make KDB commer-
cially viable, this spread would need to be significantly increased. KDB has
proposed to Government the adoption of the LTBR for this purpose (para.
4.56). In addition, it was agreed at negotiations that KDB would maintain an
interest rate structure that will enable it to earn a reasonable yield on its
equity.
4.45      Portfolio Quality.  The quality of KDB's guarantees appears to be
good. Although its equity portfolio does not contribute substantially to
profits, most of the investments' estimated market values exceed their cost.
Where this is not the case, KDB has made appropriate allowances for possible
losses. KDB's loan collection rate for both 1983 and 1984 was 98.5% (Annex 4,
Table 18). However, arrears have increased and as of December 31, 1984,
amounted to W 35.6 billion (0.6% of the outstanding portfolio), compared to
W 18.7 billion at year-end 1983 (0.3% of the outstanding portfolio).
Principal affected by arrears increased from W 147.8 billion (2.81 of out-
standing portfolio) to W 200.0 billion (3.4Z of outstanding portfolio) over
the same period. Reschedulings as a percentage of the outstanding portfolio,
which ranged from 4.6% to 5.7Z over the 1980-83 period, increased slightly to
6.3% in 1984.
4.46      While the increase in arrears is significant, 45% are for less than
three months, 23% are for 3 to 6 months, and none are in excess of two
years. Arrears are concentrated in the transportation sector, particularly
the marine transport industry which is experiencing world-wide overcapacity.
KDB and the Government are encouraging shipping company mergers, and
refinancing and rescheduling projects which are expected to be viable over the
long-term.
4.47      Audit.  KDB's accounts for 1984, audited according to international
standards by an independent auditor acceptable to the Bank, were certified
without qualification. The auditors stated that provisions were adequate.
Resource Mobilization
4.48      As of December 31, 1984, KDB's total resources amounted to
W 7.6 trillion ($8.9 billion) of which 60Z had been mobilized in domestic
currency (Annex 4, Table 20). On the asset side, 88% of KDB's loan portfolio
outstanding was in domestic currency. To meet the demand for domestic
currency loans, KDB converts some foreign exchange resources to domestic
currency.
4.49      Domestic Currency.  During 1980-84, a net total of W 4.8 trillion
was mobilized by KDB, of which 54% was in domestic currency.141 KDB's
/14 Excluding funds raised in foreign currency and converted into Won.



- 29 -
principal sources of domestic currency are budget allocations and special
financing schemes which together represent about 60% of the net increase in
KDB's domestic currency resources outstanding. Relatively modest Government
contributions to equity and increases in reserves account for 14% of KDB's net
increase in domestic resources, while 26% was mobilized in the market in the
form of IFDs and deposits (Annex 4, Table 21).
4.50      KDB's direct mobilization of funds in the domestic market ranged
from 11% to 20X of incremental resources in 1980-83. In 1984, however,
W 235.0 billion, or 29.0% of the W 809.6 billion in total incremental
resources, was attributable to the sale of KDB's debentures. Fluctuations in
debenture issues reflect, in part, KDB's reliance on fixed rate debentures,
which were not attractive to investors in periods of inflation. KDB now also
offers floating rate coupon debentures with maturities of 3, 5 and 7 years.
4.51      Foreign Currency.  KDB issues foreign currency debentures through
private and public placements, undertakes syndicated commercial borrowings,
and taps foreign official loan sources, principally from ADB and IBRD. (Terms
and conditions of recent borrowings are given in Annex 4, Table 24.) After
Government funding, syndicated commercial borrowings are the largest source of
finance for KDB, funding almost 42% of KDB's loan portfolio. As of December
31, 1984, outstanding commercial borrowings amounted to W 2.4 trillion (US$2.8
billion). KDB's effective lending rate on Won funds obtained by converting
these foreign currency resources is in line with prevailing market rates. As
of December 31, 1984, this rate was 15.1%.
4.52      KDB's success in mobilizing foreign commercial borrowings at very
favorable terms has aLlowed a gradual reduction in its use of foreign official
funds, which accounted for only 8% of its total foreign borrowings in 1983 and
1984. However, KDB will continue to seek loans from foreign official sources,
as their long maturities facilitate financing of long-gestation projects.
4.53      Projections and Financing.  During the period 1985-89, loan
approvals are projected to increase at a modest rate of 6X per annum. This
slower growth in the volume of loan operations reflects both the likely
decline in loan demand by some of KDB's major clients as their ability to
borrow directly from the domestic and international capital market increases,
and a reduction in Government funding for special financial schemes
administered by KDB.
4.54      As of December 31, 1984, KDB's uncommitted long-term resources
amounted to W 143.4 billion ($168.7 million). To meet its projected
commitments, KDB plans to borrow approximately W 9.9 trillion ($12.1 billion)
during the period 1985-89 (Annex 4, Table 26). Domestic currency resources,
comprising government funds and debenture proceeds, would account for 63% of
total resources mobilized during the five-year period. Of these long-term
domestic currency resources, almost 59X would be derived from debenture
sales. Foreign currency borrowings during 1985-89 are projected at $4.5



- 30 -
billion, with about 9Z ($410 million) from official sources and the balance
from the international capital market. KDB's share of foreign currency
borrowings as a percentage of total borrowings would decline slightly, from
39% for 1982-84 to 37Z for 1985-89. During the period in which the Bank loan
is expected to be committed, it would represent less than 6% of total foreign
exchange resources borrowed.
4.55      After a continued slight decline in 1985, KDB's net profit is
expected to improve modestly, reaching 5% of average net worth by 1989. Over
the projection period, KDB's debt service ratio would remain between 1.1 and
1.3, which is satisfactory. The long-term debt-to-equity ratio is expected to
remain within the contractual limit of 10.1 through 1989.
4.56      Future Role.  KDB has reviewed its prospects based on reduced
government intervention in private economic activities and preferential credit
for which KDB is the principal agent. KDB management believes that as reforms
are implemented, directed lending by commercial and other banks would be
eliminated and KDB would increasingly specialize in making policy loans
designed to support Government investment priorities. Expected reductions in
government funding of directed credit would require KDB to tap market sources
to fund policy lending. To safeguard its profitability on policy lending, KDB
has proposed to MOF the establishment of a domestic currency LTBR based on the
cost of IFDs issued by KDB plus an adequate spread. The LTBR would be vari-
able and adjusted quarterly. The Bank supports KDB's proposal to base its
domestic currency lending rate on the cost of its funds. MOF has responded
sympathetically to the LTBR proposal and has expressed a willingness to
consider it at a later date. KDB has been requested to review its prospects
in a liberalized financial system and to amend its Development Strategy State-
ment to reflect any change in directiou that may be warranted (para. 4.28).
D. Technical Assistance
4.57      Financial reform implies changes in the skills required by MOF staff
responsible for financial sector policy. Liberalization and increased compe-
tition in commercial banking also would make new demands on commercial bankers
and bank supervisors which could be met irn part through training. The
technical assistance (TA) component of the project would support a training
program designed to meet these challenges and to expand upon the training
initiatives that began under the first Industrial Finance Project.
4.58      Specificaily, the technical assistance component of the project
would include three activities:
(a) assisting the training activities of the Korea Banking Institute
(KBI) through:
(i) development of training materials and training evaluation
through cooperation with the Bank's Economic Development
Institute (EDI). EDI would provide sample case study materials
to KBI and assign staff to work with KBI officials in
developing cases for use in Korea. Likewise, EDI staff would



- 31 -
assist KBI in its development of meins of monitoring training
course performance; and
(ii)  secondment of KBI officials to training institutions abroad for
short-term training and for longer-term on-the-job training;
(b) Lraining of Korean commercial bankers by:
(i)  bringing specialists to Korea under an expert invitation
program to conduct two-week senior seminars at KBI on credit
analysis and loan practice, foreign exchange management and
international banking, commercial bank management, and internal
audit and control.  Four hundred Korean commercial bankers are
expected to participate in these senior seminars; and
(ii) sending Korean bankers abroad for seminars at commercial bank
training centers and universities, and on-the-job training in
commercial banks. These activities would train about 100
Korean senior commercial bankers on topics of special interest
to those participating;
(c) overseas training of approximately 60 MOF officials at:
i?  institutions of higher learning, where staff from the MOF
bureaus responsible for financial sector policy would be
trained in economics and finance at the Masters degree level;
(ii) government institutions managing and regulating financial
systems in advanced countries, where Korean officials would
receive on-the-job training for periods of 3 to 6 months and
other shorter-term training. This component would be arranged
by HOF; and
(iii) specialized seminars on economics, financial mangement and
capital market development suitable for higher level staff.
4.59      Administration.  The training component elements involving
assistance to KBI and the training of commmnercial bankers would be coordinated
and supervised by KBI. KBI was established in 1976 by 11 banks to develop and
offer training programs for the staff of Korean financial institutions. The
ownership structure of KBI was changed in 1984, bringing it under the juris-
diction of the Korea Federation of Banks, when the BOK discontinued its mem-
bership as part of the Government's policy to limit its role in the affairs of
the commercial banks. These changes are not expected to diminish KBI's capa-
bility in coordinating the training program.
4.60      KBI is experienced in Bank procedures as it administers the training
program under the first Industrial Finance Project and has prepared a post-
implementation evaluation report, with the assistance of EDI, to evaluate the
seminars supported under the project. The post-implementation report was
provided to the Bank at the end of April 1985. The post-implementation report
contains useful recommendations relating to the selection and pre-departure



- 32 -
orientation of participants, course content and pedagogy, as well as to the
proper utilization of the skills acquired. After a full review of the report
within the Bank, the recommendations of the report would be discussed with the
Government and KBI and incorporated, as appropriate, in the training program
to be supported under the proposed project. The Coordinating Board set up in
connection with the first project, consisting of representatives of the
training managers of the commercial banks, would review the eligibility
criteria for participants under the proposed project, and modify them if
necessary in light of the findings of the post-implementation study.
4.61      KBI has provided the Bank a list of prospective training programs
and institutions abroad and annual training budgets and program plans based on
consultation with these institutions and on training requests of the partici-
pating commercial banks. KBI has agreed to provide the Bank for review by
December 31, 1985, the training program to be implemented during calendar year
1986, and not later than September 30 each year thereafter, the training
program to be implemented in subsequent years. The persons trained in Korea
and abroad and the foreign specialists brought to Korea under this element of
the training component would be selected according to criteria satisfactory to
the Bank. KBI would propose these criteria to the Bank by December 31, 1985.
4.62      The cost of the training program involving KBI and commercial
Nankers would be $1.0 million, which would be divided among the commercial
banks sending participants to these training activities. The costs of the
expert invitation program and the secondment of KBI personnel to institutions
abroad would be borne by the participating institutions on a pro rata basis.
The costs associated with sending Korean bankers abroad for training would be
borne by each bank on the basis of the actual expenses of -he staff member
sent abroad.
4.63      The administration of the training activities for Ministry of
Finance officials would be handled by MOF, following procedures established
under the first Industrial Finance Project. Officials to t-e trained would be
selected according to criteria satisfactory to the Bank. The overall cost of
$1.0 million for this element would be borne by the MOF on _he basis of the
actual expenses incurred for their respective officials trained abroad.
V. THE PROPOSED BANK LOAN
Features of the Proposed Loan
5.01      Relending Arrangements.  The proposed Bank loan of $222 million
would be made to the Government at the Bank's standard variable interest
rate. The Government would relend $120 million of the proceeds of the credit
component to KLB and $100 million to KDB on the same terms as the Bank's loan,
but with an administration fee of 0.05Z. The signing of subsidiary loan
agreements, satisfactory to the Bank, between the Government and KLB and KDB
would be a condition of effectiveness.
5.02      Under the $2 million technical assistance component, KBI's responsi-
bilities would be specified in an agency agreement to be entered into with the



- 33 -
Government. The signing of this agreement would be a condition of disburse-
ment for this component. The cost of the training of Ministry of Finance
officials, estimated at $1 million, would be borne by the Government. The
estimated $1 million cost of the expert invitation program, training of XBI
staff abroad and the training program for staff of commercial banks would be
borne by the participating banks (para. 4.62). The Government would make
loans available to these banks for this purpose. The loans would bear the
same interest rate as the Bank loan, with a maximum repayment period of
15 years including a maximum grace period of 3 years. The Government would
enter into a Standard Relending Agreement, acceptable to the Bank, with each
participating institution for the training of its staff under the project.
Bank approval of the Standard Relending Agreement would also be a condition of
disbursement for this component of the project.
5.03      Relending Terms.  KLB and KDB would relend the credit cemponent at a
variable interest rate at least 2% above the effective borrowing cost inclu-
sive of the Government 0.05% administrative fee, which is consistent with KLB
and KDB practice when onlending foreign official borrowings and is adequate to
cover the administrative costs involved. Based on the current Bank lending
rate of 9.29Z, the final rate to subborrowers would be about 11.5%, which is
highly positive in real terms (para. 2.22). Under the credit component, the
foreign exchange risk would be carried by the final subborrowers. For the
technical assistance component, the foreign exchange risk would be borne by
the Government for the training of its officials and by participating
institutions utilizing project funds for the training of their staffs.
5.04      Amortization Schedule.  The technical assistance component would
have a fixed amortization schedule and would be repaid by the Government in
accordance with the standard terms applicable to Korea, i.e., a 15 year
maturity including a 3 year grace period. The credit component would have two
separate adjustable composite amortization schedules, one for KLB and one for
KDB, reflecting the aggregate amortization schedules of the subloans made by
each institution. Individual subloans would have a maximum maturity of 13
years, including a normal grace period of up to three years. As in previous
loans and to minimize substitution of Bank funds for local sources, KLB and
KDB are encouraged to cofinance with commercial sources. The Bank would
permit the use of early principal repayments on cof:nanced subloans to
amortize the commercial portion, and permit a grace period of up to five
years, with no change in the maximum maturity of 13 years.
5.05      Procurement.  Procurement under the credit component would be on the
basis of the standard procurement procedures of KDB and KLB as described in
paras. 4.06 and 4.31. Both institutions usually require their borrowers to
obtain at least three price quotations and competition among prospective
suppliers, both for local and imported goods, is keen. These procedures have
been reviewed and found to ensure satisfactory competition while minimizing
delays in procurement. KBI will be responsible for obtaining foreign specia-
lists under the expert invitation program following criteria and procedures
acceptable to the Bank. It will also be responsible for selecting institu-
tions abroad at which its own officials may be trained under the TA component.
Commercial banks will be encouraged to select institutions abroad for the
training of their staffs, and KBI will be expected to offer guidance in this



- 34 -
selection if requested to do so by any participating banks. All training
contracts would be subject to ex-post review, and contracts in excess of
$75,000 would also be subject to prior approval of the Bank.
5.06      Disbursements.  Special Accounts in the amount for $15.8 million for
KLB and $13.2 million for KDB will be established from which reimbursement of
subloans would be obtained. Disbursements would be made against full
documentation for subloans in excess of $2.0 million. For subloans of
$2.0 million or less, Statements of Expenditure (SOE) would be used. All
related supporting documents for SOEs, including evidence of payment, would be
retained by KLB and KDB and made available for review by Bank supervision
missions. As with previous Bank loans to KLB and KDB, the proposed loan would
finance: (a) 100% of the foreign exchange cost of goods and services imported
directly by subborrowers; and (b) 60% of the cost in domestic currency
(representing the estimated foreign exchange component) of locally manu-
factured or locally procured imported goods and equipment.
5.07      A special account of $200,000 for the TA component would be estab-
lished from which reimbursement of expenditures would be made. Disbursements
would be made against 100% of the cost of (a) overseas training for Ministry
staff, (b) overseas seminars and on-the-job training abroad for commercial
bank and KBI officials and (c) the expert invitation program. Expenditures
would be reimbursed on the basis of SOEs in cases where the amount involved is
less than $25,000. Supporting documents, including copies of contracts and
evidence of payment, would be retained in a central location, and made avail-
able for review by Bank supervision missions, and SOEs would be audited
annually by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. For expenditures of
$25,000 or more, payments would be made directly to the institutions
concerned. The credit component of the loan would be comitted in two years
and disbursed in five years (Annex 6). This schedule conforms to the standard
Industrial Development Finance disbursement profile. The TA component would
also be disbursed in five years.
5.08      Eligibility Criteria.  Subloans appraised by KLB and KDB for medium-
and large-scale industrial projects (mainly in manufacturing, construction,
mining, transportation and utilities) would be eligible for financing under
the loan, subject to the firms' having sound financial structures. Under the
first Industrial Finance Project the maximum debt-to-equity ratio for eligible
subborrowers was reduced from 5:1 to 4.5:1 in an effort to improve their
financial structure by encouraging project sponsors to increase their equity
contributions. The 4.5:1 limit reflected the desire of KLB and KDB to have a
transitional period prior to introducing a more restrictive debt-to-equity
ceiling. The 4.5:1 limit has been retained under the project, as efforts
continue to manage corporate indebtedness in accordance with Government
policy.
5.09      Subloan Ceiling and Free Limit.  The free limit for subloans above
which KLB and KDB subproject appraisals are reviewed in detail by the Bank
prior to approval, would be increased from $5 million, as under the last two
lending operations, to $6 million. (This limit includes any outstanding
balances from previous loans used to finance the same investment.) Under the
two previous loans, as of March 31, 1985, the $5 million limit allowed review



- 35 -
of lOZ of KDB's subprojects representing 41% of the total amount approved,
while KLB has submitted four subprojects (14X of the total amount approved)
above the free limit. In addition, several of KLB and KDB's free-limit
subprojects have been spot-checked to ensure appraisal satisfactory to the
Bank.  The maximum subloan available to subborrowers under the loan would be
increa_.ed from $10 to $12 million, and KLB and KDB would not provide a total
of more than $15 million each to any single subborrower out of project funds.
5.10      Accounts and Audits.  KLB and KDB's accounts are audited annually by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. Future audits of these institu-
tions would include the Special Accounts and SOEs submitted under the project.
The project accounts (including SOEs) relating to the technical assistance
component would be audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank.
Audit reports would be submitted to the Bank within six months of the close of
the fiscal year.
Project Benefits and Risks
5.11      Benefits.  The project is designed to (a) promote financial sector
reform in Korea; (b) support financially and economically viable industrial
projects; (c) assist project institutions to adapt to a changing financial
sector ernvironment; and (d) improve institutional capabilities and supervisory
skills in the financial system through technical assistance and training.
5.12      The Bank has had an effective dialogue with the Government on finan-
cial sector issues since 1979, which has supported financial reform. The
Government has made considerable progress in gradually liberalizing the
financial system and the proposed loan would support the further steps to be
taken in the 1985-87 period. The new measures to be adopted through 1987,
which are spelled out in the Government's Policy Letter (Annex 1), would be
monitored closely during project supervision. These measures are expected to
contribute to improved resource mobilization and allocation, the development
of a stronger commercial banking system and revitalization of the equity
market. The policy dialogue would be supported by further financial sector
work by the Bank.
5.13      The $220 million credit component would support qualified investment
projects selected by KLB and KDB. Experience gained through previous lending
to these two institutions shows that the subprojects financed with Bank
resources have yielded substantial economic and financial benefits (paras.
4.10-4.12 and 4.37-4.38). It is expected that about 150 subprojects would be
financed under the credit component and that the financial and economic
benefits of these subprojects would be similar to those generated under
previous loans.
5.14      The institution-building impact of the proposed loan would support
the development of KLB and KDB through discussions of the future roles of
these institutions in a changing financial environment. These discussions
would continue to focus on their Policy Statements and Development Strategy
Statements as vehicles for definition of roles and strategies. Institution-
building efforts would also be directed toward the agencies participating in
the TA component through the training of key government and bank staff. KBI,



- 36 -
in particular, is expected to benefit from TA that would enable it to devote
more resources to developing training materials geared to the increasingly
competitive financial environment in Korea.
5.15      Risks.  Given KLB and KDB's record in administering previous Bank
loans, the institutionaL risks involved in the proposed project are minimal.
The institutional arrangements for the TA component will require careful
supervision because of their innovative nature and the number of institutions
that are expected to participate.
5.16      The risks facing Korean enterprises from their dependence on exports
are material and have been managed well in the past. Movement towards
liberalization, however, imposes transitional risks. These risks can be
contained by sensitivity on the part of subborrowers and prospective subbor-
rowers, KLB, KDB and the Government to changes in Korea's competitive
advantage, and to means by which technology transfer can be accelerated while
the risk of rising protectionism in markets abroad can be minimized. The risk
of diminished export competitiveness is minimized by the fact that sectors
affected are well-known to lenders. The danger of rising protectionism in
importing countries is mitigated by Korea's expanding range of trading part-
ners and product lines, and by arrangements for trade negotiations. The
recession of 1980-1982 had a negligible impact on KLB and KDB's reported
portfolio performance. This level of risk is not expected to be experienced
again for some time.
5.17      The main risk associated with the proposed loan relates to the
program of financial reform outlined in the Government's Policy Letter. WhiLe
commitment to the program is strong, changing domestic and international
economic and financial conditions might delay or weaken its implementation.
Since 1983, however, the Government has attached high priority to financial
sector reform and demonstrated that its cautious and consistent approach is
reasonable and likely to succeed.
VI. AGREEMENTS AND UNDERSTANDINGS REACHED AT NEGOTIATIONS
6.01      During loan negotiations the following agreements and understandings
were reached with the Korean Government:
(a) Condition of Board Presentation: The Government would provide to
the Bank its "Letter of Development Policy for the Financial Sector"
which would outline the major elements of reform and the steps
proposed for their implementation (para. 2.17).
(b) Condition of Loan Effectiveness: The signature of two subsidiary
loan agreements between the Government and KLB and KDB under terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank (para. 5.01).



- 37 -
(c) Condition of Disbursement: The signature of an agency agreement
between KBI and the Government which would specify KBI's responsi-
bilities would be a condition of disbursement for the training
component of the proposed loan. Approval by the Bank of a Standard
Relending Agreement' between the Government and institutions partici-
pating in the training component would also be a condition of dis-
bursement for this component (para. 5.02).
(d) Other Agreements
Ci)   The Bank and the Government would exchange views on progress
achieved in carrying out the program of financial sector reform
based on an annual summary of progress to be prepared by MOF
(para. 2.47).
(ii)   KDB would maintain an interest rate structure that will enable
it to earn a reasocable yield on its equity (para. 4.44).
(iii)   The Government would ensure that KBI would, by December 31,
1985, propose for Bank approval, the criteria to be used in
selecting participants and foreign specialists for the training
program (para. 4.61).
(iv)   The Government would ensure that MOF and KBI annually submit to
the Bank for approval the content, organization and cost of
their proposed training programs; in addition, any training
contract in excess of $75,000 would be subject to prior Bank
approval (paras. 4.61, 4.63 and 5.05).
Ce) Other Understandings
-i)   The study of Korea's financial structure commissioned by MOF
would be fully discussed with the Bank upon its completion
(para. 2.31).
6.02      During negotiations, the Bank reached the following agreements with
KLB and KDB:
(a) KLB's long-term debt-to-equity ratio limit would be increased to
15:1 (para. 4.15).
(b) KDB's long-term debt-to-equity ratio limit would be maintained at
10:1 (para. 4.39).
(c) KDB would maintain an average effective spread of at least 2Z when
onlending the proceeds of foreign currency resources mobilized from
commercial sources (para. 4.44).
(d) KLB and KDB would relend the proceeds of the credit component at a
variable interest rate of at least 2% above the effective borrowing
cost of Bank funds (pars. 5.03).



- 38 -
(e)  The marimum allowable debt-to-equity ratio for KLB and KDB sub-
borrowers under the proposed loan would be retained at 4.5:1
(para. 5.08).
(f)  The free limit on subloans, including outstanding balances financed
under previous Bank loans for the same investment, would be raised
to $6 million. The maximum subloan available under the loan to sub-
borrowers would be $12 million, and neither KLB nor KDB would
provide more than $15 million equivalent of Bank subloans under the
loan to a single subborrower (para. 5.09).
Recommendation
6.03      A Bank loan of $222 million with a maturity of 15 years, including 3
years of grace is recommended to be made to the Republic of Korea.



Annex 1
Page 1 of 8
-39-
REPUBLIC OF KOREA
SECOND INDUSTRIAL-.FINANCE PROJECT
The Minister's Financial Sector Policy Letter
Mr. A.W. Clausen, President                                         May 10, 1985
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
USA
Dear Mr. Clausen:
1.        I am  writing to inform you of changes in financial policy that have
occurred since my predecessor wrote to you in 1983 concerning financial sector
reform in Korea. That letter was provided in connection with the Industrial
Finance Project, and I am pleased to address this letter to the International
Bank for Reconstruction and Development for its appraisal of the Second
Industrial Finance Project.
2.        The Government has initiated a long range program of financial
liberalization that is expected to promote the development of the nationaL
economy by providing incentives for equity market development, resource mobi-
lization, and efficient allocation of credit. To achieve these long range
objectives, my Government seeks gradually (a) to enhance the role of market
forces in the determination of interest rates; (b) to increase competition
within the financial sector, and (c) to reduce the role of Government in cred-
it allocation.
3.        Our financial reforms are expected to (a) improve resource alloca-
tion by decentralizing decision-making so that financial institutions and
entrepreneurs can respond more flexibly to market forces; and (b) raise effi-
ciency in financial intermediation by subjecting intermediaries to greater
competition through freer entry and fewer legislative and administrative con-
straints on their activities. The benefits of these developments are expected
to include an increase in the supply of long term capital and a more effective
equity market that would enable more firms to raise capital from a broader
spectrum of savers.
4.        The long term objective of financial reform is clear, but the high
indebtedness of the corporate sector and the priority attached to strengthen-
ing the commercial banks constrain the pace of liberalization. Therefore,
reform is being implemented in a phased manner to minimize any potentially
destabilizing effects on the financial system and the corporate sector, while
efforts are being made to deal vith these constraints.



Annex 1
-40-                             Page 2 of 8
5.        This letter describes in detail the Government's objectives and its
planned course of action in major areas of policy reform. These reforms, pre-
sented below under five headings, will be directed toward both debt claims and
ownership claims. Policy formulation will seek to achieve an appropriate bal-
ance between these two broad forms of finance, which will require a more pro-
minent role for equity capital and a longer term structure of debt. Measures
that directly influence the price, composition and quantity of debt claims
include (a) interest rates and (b) directed credit. Measures that determine
the manner in which debt claims are generated include (c) liberalization and
supervision of commercial banks and (d) control of corporate indebtedness.
Ownership claims are treated as a separate issue (e) under the heading of
equity market development.
Decontrol of Interest Rates
6.        The Government's long-term objective as stated in the Fifth Five
Year Plan (1982-86) is to allow interest rates to be determined by market
forces. This objective should be achieved gradually in view of the volatility
of international interest rates, the heavy indebtedness of the corporate
sector and the persistence of the gap between official and market rates for
essentially similar instruments. The Government will use selective, incre-
mental adjustments to permit official rates to move more closely in line with
market rates for similar instruments as economic conditions and opportunities
permit. This should also help the development of an integrated array of rates
reflecting transaction costs, risks and the time value of money.
7.        In January 1984 the Government adjusted official interest rates to
lengthen the term structure of deposits, increase the effective spreads of
credit institutions, and provide scope for small differentiations in lending
rates to reflect risk and maturity. This reform included the following
changes in commercial bank interest rates: the time deposit rate for maturi-
ties exceeding one year was increased from 8% to 9%, short-term time and
savings deposit rates were lowered from 8% to 6%, and the lending rate was
changed from a uniform 10% to a 10% to 10.5% band. Commensurate changes were
made in other official rates specified for commercial banks and for non-bank
financial institutions. Subsequent changes in November 1984 increased major
lending rates and deposit rates by 1%, broadening the discretion of banks'
management by widening the commercial lending rate band from 10% to 11.5%. In
April 1985 the upper limit of the lending rate band was further increased to
13.5% for loans having a maturity in excess of one year. At the same time,
the rate structure on household savings deposits was altered to encourage
longer term deposits. The interest rate on these deposits having a maturity
in excess of six months was raised for 6% to 12%, and the rate on deposits
maturing in three to six months was raised from 6% to 9%.
8.        Rates are now generally positive: inflation was reduced in 1984 to
less than 3Z as measured by the consumer price index. The Government is comr
mitted to maintaining positive real rates of interest by keeping the rate on
time and saving deposits and on comnercial bank loans above the rate of inf-
lation as measured by the consummer price index. In the longer run, vith
liberalization, the present emphasis on Levels of nominal rates will naturally
be supplemented by greater concern for and attention to real rates in monetary



Annex I
- 41 -                           Page 3 of 8
policy and in private financial decision-making. The Government will seek to
ensure that those official rates that remain will be set in accordance with
trends in the domestic economy, the balance of payments and interest rates in
international financial markets. The Government is also comitted to keeping
a spread between the weighted cost of funds and official lending rates suffi-
cient to ensure the profitability of efficient commercial banks.
9.        The Government has adjusted the commercial bank deposit and lending
rates so as to reduce the differential between official rates and rates in the
second tier financial market (as evidenced, for example, by the reduction in
the differential between the one-year time deposit rate and the annual yield
on three-year corporate bonds from 6.2% at the end of 1983 to 4.7% at the end
of February 1985). The Government will continue to attempt to narrow the
differential by making strong efforts to keep the rate of inflation low and to
minimize inflationary expectations. These efforts will facilitate interest
rate decontrol, which would be achieved initially by gradually raising rate
ceilings and ultimately by removing controls entirely in order to permit the
market freely to determine deposit and lending rates of interest and related
terms and conditions. The Government expects that further adjustments in the
structure of commercial bank interest rates would be made in light of these
longer run objectives and current domestic and international circumstances.
Official rates and spreads for other types of financial institutions would be
changed accordingly in order not to discriminate sharply against any
particular type of institution.
10.       The Government has taken several steps to .increase the range of
services offered by financial institutions, to improve tie attractiveness of
financial assets, and to shift regulatory focus toward functions and away from
institutional type. Innovative financial instruments bearing higher rates of
interest have served as vehicles for these changes; one effect of their intro-
duction has been to bring afficial interest rates closer to market rates.
11.       The first of these was permitting all nationwide city banks to
undertake trust business, which was previously the preserve of a specialized
trust bank, and, since May 1983, also of local commercial banks. Trust busi-
ness involves term deposits placed by households and others. These funds are
accepted at rates ranging from 9% to 12.2% and loaned at 15.5% to 16.5Z,
producing positive spreads.
12.       Negotiable certificates of deposit were introduced on June 1, 1984.
These certificates may be issued by nationwide city banks, local banks and the
Korea Exchange Bank, and have maturities of from 91 to 180 days. Their unit
price is W100 million. They bear interest at no more than 11%, discounted in
advance. Ninety percent of funds raised by banks from this source must be
loaned by the issuing banks at 12%. In February 1985 the deposit and lending
rates were increased to 12% and 13%, respectively. These certificates have
received an overwhelming response in the market.
13.       For smaller savers, cash management accounts (CMA) were introduced
in April 1984. These accounts are offered by short term finance corporations,
have maturities of up to 180 days and are issued in units of at least W2 mil-
lion. The funds deposited in these accounts earn a floating rate and are used



- 42 -                           Annex 1
Page 4 of 8
to purchase instruments in the second tier market. More than half of these
portfolios must consist of debt issued by small and medium industries.
Government will continue to consider new instruments and measures (a) to
encourage greater long-term borrowing and lending and (b) to increase the
volume of financial savings.
Reduction of Directed Credit
14.       To increase the efficiency of resource allocation through financial
markete the Government wilL reduce the proportion of directed credit in total
domestic credit and reduce the use of private financial institutions as
conduits of concessional funds to preferred sectors. The share of commercial
banks in NIF disbursements will be progressively reduced, and efforts will be
made to transfer new NIF lending to speciali-ed banks.
15.       Net contributions to the National Investment Fund were reduced from
W 444 billion in 1983 to W 73 billion in 1984, and the volume of loans
extended was reduced from W 732 billion in 1983 to W 506 billion in 1984. The
size of the NIF will be further diminished by progressively reducing the vol-
ume of lending and phasing out obligatory contributions through deposits and
bond purchases. Otber special investment and guarantee funds established by
the Government to direct credit will also be limited to a declining portion of
total domestic credit. It is also the Government's intention that directed
credit will be provided at interest rates comparable to those charged
elsewhere in financial markets.
Comercial Bank Liberalization and Supervision
16.       The long-term objective of the Government is to enhance Korea's
economic growth by improving efficiency and competitiveness in the financial
sector. In the commercial banking subsector this will be achieved by
licensing new banks, expanding the powers of the regional banks, permitting
greater autonomy of bank management, and broadening the activities in which
banks are permitted to engage as a means of reducing enforced specializa-
tion. These changes have major implications for the manner in which banks are
supervised, and efforts are being made to enhance the supervisory function.
17.       Privatization of commercial banks has been completed, and a number
of new financial institutions have been chartered. The commercial banks have
improved their performance substantially in 1984 due in part to changes in
interest rate and fee structures, and from the expansion of their business
into new functions and through new instruments. The nationwide commercial
banks are active participants on both sides of international financial
markets. These banks are making efforts to develop their long range planning
mechanisms, internal controls and computerization of accounts.
18.       The Government is considering measures that would allow regional
commercial banks to expand their activities. Government will gradually
provide scope to specialized banks, including the Korea Development Bank and
the Korea Long Term Credit Bank, to engage in a wider range of services. With
respect to KDB, the Government expects eventually to segregate its funding and
accounts as a commercial entity from those as a government agent, and ensure



- 43                              Annex l
Page 5 of 8
that KDB in its commercial role does not compete with private financial
institutions by relying on preferential treatment from Government. The
Government has provided foreign bank branches in Korea greater access to the
domestic market, and has given them access to rediscount facilities with the
Bank of Korea.
19.       The Government expects that concessional rediscounting arrangements
for paper from preferred sectors will be gradually altered to coincide with
the terms prevailing for other eligible paper. This may require adjustments
in the rate and the level of refinancing currently available. These changes
will be made to encourage banks to operate more efficiently, and are expected
to facilitate the growth of an interbank funds market.
20.       Capital adequacy is being addressed through the supervisory mech-
anism applied to banks by the Bank of Korea. Capital adequ.cy is affected by
profitability and by the bad and doubtful loans carried by banks. With libe-
ralization, the Government seeks to demonstrate continued support for domestic
banks while easing their burden of bad and doubtful debts. Adjustments in
official interest rates and fees have augmented internally generated capital,
and the Government is taking further steps to improve the banks' capital ade-
quacy by increasing their profitability, and is considering additional mea-
sures that may be required to address portfolio quality problems.
21.       Any measures to regularize bad and doubtful loans would be intended
to permit the banks to increase their capital internally and through the issue
of new shares, and to facilitate their acceptance in international capital
markets on the basis of their own financial performance. Following this
reform, and with a significant decrease in direct Government involvement in
credit allocation, the Government would not expect to intervene to maintain
bank profits or confidence except in extreme cases affecting the nation's fin-
ancial structure.
22.       The Covernment has addressed the issue of the ownership of the
nationwide commercial banks by major corporations by limiting the voting
interest of any single shareholder to 8% of total shares outstanding. The
incentive for abuse of the special relationship between banks and their share-
holders is being dimini'hed by the move toward market rates of interest on
bank loans. Inspection procedures applied by the Office of Bank Supervision
and Examination seek to ensure that major shareholders are not given a.a undue
advantage over comparable bank clients through credit allocation and
charges. The relations between banks and their major corporate shareholders
will be kept under close review by supervisory authorities.
Control of Corporate Indebtedness
23.       The recession of 1980-82 highlighted the problem of corporate
indebtedness. In an effort to reduce the financial burden on Korean business
the Government lowered lending rates and certain corporate tax rates in June
1982.  It also took steps to revive the economy and reduce inflation.
Assisted by positive developments internationally, these measures have
returned the Korean economy to a high growth path and improved the profit-
ability of the corporate and financial sectors.



- 44 -                           Annex 1
Page 6 of 8
24.       The problem of corporate indebtedness is perhaps the most difficult
to resolve through liberalization. In a fully liberalized environment, the
issue of corporate indebtedness would be handled through market solutions to
problems and responses to opportunities. To deal with corporate indebtedness
while introducing liberalization, the Government does not expect to move
directly to recapitalize or-reorganize firms in financial difficulties except
where national security is concerned or where the nation's export performance
could be severely damaged. The Government's general policy is to deal with
these situations on a case-by-case basis.
25.       The problem of corporate indebtedness is being managed through the
prime bank system. The prime or lead bank for each large corporation centra-
lizes information about the corporation's borrowing and banking relation-
ships. It controls the manner in which commercial banks manage their large
clients' debt limits in conformity with Government guidelines under the close
scrutiny of the Office of Bank Supervision and Examination. The prime bank
system is working satisfactorily and helps to improve the financial structure
of corporations. However, in the longer run, those elements of the prime bank
system that restrict competition among the banks for attracting and serving
financially healthy clients would require modification. Liberalization
requires lending institutions to develop their own credit criteria, including
appropriate debt to equity and debt service guidelines. Credit quality mea-
sures could be further refined by independent, specialized credit rating and
information agencies.
26.       The control of corporate indebtendness by market forces will be
improved by disclosure measures discussed in this letter in connection with
equity market development. Consolidation of group financial statements,
emphasis on training of accountants, enhancing disclosure standards and
requiring issuers of commercial paper to file prospectuses annually will all
contribute to better management of corporate indebtedness in the public
interest.
Equity Market Development
27.       The development of the manufacturing and modern non-financial
services sectors in Korea has in most cases been much more dynamic than the
development of its financial instruments, the term to maturity of credit
markets and type of access to financial services available to many firms are
now perceived as a constraint to economic development. The part of the finan-
cial sector through which all of these problems are connected is the equity
market. An enhanced role for this market would help to make risk-reward rela-
tionships more transparent. It would also permit firms to adjust their finan-
cial structures to avoid some of the burden of debt, it could assist entrepre-
neurs seeking to raise funds and would permit greater private participation in
the capital gains produced by Korea's continued economic progress.
28.       The development of the stock market is fundamental to broadening the
financial base of Korean industry and to facilitating resource mobilization
for industrial investment through increased participation of individual savers
in the investment process. Accordingly, the Covernmint will continue its
efforts to make investment in securities (especially equities) more attractive



- 45 -                            Annex I
Page 7 of 8
by measures that will contribute to the quality and quantity of information
available to shareholders and facilitate equity capital issues by corpora-
tions. These efforts will include measures to enhance disclosure of corporate
finances and insider transactions.  To this end, the Government is considering
proposing revisions in the Security and Exchange Law. The Government will
continue to discourage intercompany equity and debt holdings. Also, the
Government will encourage large business groups to prepare consolidated fin-
ancial statements on a voluntary basis, and then consider gradually requiring
large groups to prepare consolidated financial statements. Covernment has
concentrated on maintaining confidence in the market and offering investors a
large pool of securities by requiring large enterprises to go public. These
efforts have included attention to listing and reporting requirements and have
resulted in the listing of more than 330 firms of the Korea Stock Exchange and
more than ten years of trading without any major irregularities.
29.       Diversification of investors' protfolios will be assisted by
continuing to permit the formation of unit trusts, mutual funds, and similar
vehicles in response to investor demand. Insurance companies will be encour-
aged to invest more heavily in securities through changes in investment guide-
lines. Foundations and pension funds will also be encouraged to buy securi-
ties. Special consideration will also be given to the importance of pension
funds for both social and investment purposes. Fiscal incentives to promote
contributions to pension funds will also be explored.
30.       The Government is comnitted to the use of fiscal incentives to
uromote shareholding more widely within Korea, in recognition of the great
social benefits that result from increased shareholding by the public. Steps
already taken in this direction include a reduction of corporate income tax
liability by 12Z of the value of new shares issued, in effect through 1986.
During 1985-86, the Committee on the Development of the Tax System will con-
sider, among other matters, fiscal incentives to encourage the development of
the equity market.
31.       Encouragement will be provided to the owners of family businesses to
go public. In late 1983 this was accomplished by reducing from 40X to 20% the
proportion of equity that had to be sold in an initial public offering. In
addition, the Government will promote plans to encourage small investors to
accumulate securities. For example, increases in limits governing participa-
tion in the Employees Security Savings Plan will be reviewed to encourage
greater shareholding by wage and salary earners.
32.       Efforts will increasingly be devoted to making the securities market
more dynamic by permitting market forces to play a larger role. A step was
taken in this direction in 1983 by permitting companies to make rights issues
at market value when market value exceeds par value. The Government will
CoWitinue its efforts to encourage private corporations to issue at market
price, and measures to ease current requirements will be considered.
33.       A more important change is that the Government no longer officially
or semiofficially influences the level of dividends to be paid by individual
firms or industrial segments. Firms are now free to declare dividends to
accommodate their internal financial situation and the expectation of their



46-                            Annex 1
Page 8 of 8
creditors and of their shareholders. This measure should help differentiate
investors' perceptions of the shares of listed companies and should create a
more dynamic stock market.
34.       The Government intends to permit revitalization of Korea's inactive
over-the-counter market under regulations enacted in 1984. OTC transactions
could benefit small firms and small investors, and could complement the
Government's efforts to direct resources towards small and medium industry.
OTC trading would be facilitated by the introduction of a "B list" of equities
traded on the Korea Stock Exchange, subject to less rigorous listing require-
ments than presently applied. Current listings would constitute the "A list"
under the revised listing categories. Introduction of OTC trading on the
Exchange will minimize any fragmentation that may arise from different listing
requirements.
35.       The Korea Stock Exchange will also be used increasingly to attract
foreign portfolio investment for Korean enterprises. Internationalization of
the market began with the formation of several investment trusts permitted to
offer shares to offshore investors. A major step towards further internatio-
nalization was taken in September 1984 with the formation of the Korea Fund
and the listing of its shares on the New York Stock Exchange. Further steps
to attract portfoLio investment will include the development of new instru-
ments designed especially for this purpose. Steps have been taken to permit
qualified foreign securities firms to open representative offices, and Korean
securities firms have been approached by foreign securities firms seeking
minority shareholdings.
36.       I would be pleased to inform the World Bank of our progress in the
implementation of financial reforms.
Yours sincerely,
Minister of Finance



KOREA
SECOND INDUSTRIAL FINANCE PROJECT
Financial Policies and Reforms
During Implementation of the Second Industrial Finance Project
I. Decontrol of Interest Rates
Specific Actions
Policies                   Measures Proposed in 1985-87                 Taken Between 1/84-4/85
1.  maintain positive real rates        o  raise upper limit of commercial   o  Increased lending rate ceiling
bank lending rate band                  from 10% to 13.5%.
2.  ensure adequate spreads for
efficient banks                     o  continue good economic manage-    o  Increased interest rate on time
ment to keep inflation rates            deposits over 1 year from 10%
3.  narrow differential between             low                                      to 12%.
official rates and second tier
market rates                        o  introduce financial instruments   o  Increased interest rate on time
bearing higher interst rates as         deposits over 6 months from 6%
a vehicle of implementing               to 12%.
reform.
o  Introduced negotiable
certificates of deposit and
cash managment accounts.
II. Reduction of Directed Credit
Specific Actions
Policies                   Measures Proposed in 1985-87                 Taken Between 1/84-4/85
1. reduce flow of directed credit    o  reduce the scope of NIF:                 o  Reduced net contributions to
(i) diminish use of commercial          NIF from W 444 billion to W 73
2. reduce financial burden of NIF               banks as conduits for NIF           billion.
on connercial banks                          loans                                                                    OQ
(ii) phase out compulsory con-        o  Reduced NIP loans from W 732         41
tributions from financial           billion to W 506 billion.
institutions by end of 1985
o limit other special investment
funds and guarantee funds to a
declining portion of total
domestic credit



III. Commercial Bank Liberalization and Supervision
Specific Actions
Policies                   Measures Proposed in 1985-87                Taken Between 1/84-4/85
1. increase competition in banking   o  expand scope of specialized              o  Introduced new financial
through free entry and less             banks including KDB and KLB              instruments (see I).
forced market segmentation
o  permit regional banks to open        o  Increased competition in the
2. expand scope of regional banks           branches throughout Korea               commercial banking sector by:
3. increase autonomy of bank            o  improve access of foreign banks          (i) providing foreign bank
management                              to the Korean market:                        brancnes in Korea greater
access to domestic market;
4. broaden activities of  banks         o  gradually increase rediscount
rate for paper of preferred            (ii) providing foreign bank
5. improve capital positions of             sectors                                     branches with greater
commercial banks                                                                     access to rediscount
facilities at the Central
Bank (BOK).                       X
IV. Control of Corporate Indebtedness
Specific Actions
Policies                   Measures Proposed in 1985-87                Taken Between 1/84-4/85
1. encourage market determination    o  continued reliance on the Prime   o  Strengthened the prime bank
of corporate debt capacity,             Bank System to manage the prob-          system to improve the manage-
while maintaining direct                lem of corporate indebtedness,           ment of the level of indebted-
controls, as required, to dis-          accompanied by consideration of          ness in the capital structure
courage excessive indebtedness.         long-run alternatives that               of large corporations.
permit greater competition
among lenders
o  measures to make equity                                                         _
financing more attractive
o  introduction of more rigorous
accounting disclosure standards
and other measures to improve
financial information



V. Equity Market Development
Specific Actions
Policies                   Measures Proposed in 1985-87                Taken Between 1/84-4/85
1. increase the relative attrac-        o  encourage private firms to go        O  Reduced tax liability by 12% of
tiveness of equity financing            public                                  value of new shares to
for corporations                                                                encourage the use of equity.
o  revitalize OTC trading by
2. increase the relative attrac-            introducing a "B list" subject    o  Enacted regulacions to
tiveness of equities among              to less stringent listing                revitalize the over-the-counter
investors                               requirements on the Korea Stock         market.
Exchange
3. increase funds available for                                                  o  Further internationalized the
equity finance from domestic         o  allow issue of equity at market          capital market with the
and international sources               value rather than at par                 formation of the Korea Fund and
its listing in the New York
o  encourage investment through            Stock Exchange.
Employees Security Savings                                                     0
Plans
o  reduce restrictions on foreign
investment in Korean companies
o  instruct the Committee on the
Development of the Tax System
to consider fiscal incentives
for equity market development
p3 



ANNEX 3
-50-                          Table 1
KOREA
SECOND INDUSTRIAL FINANCE PROJECT
Korea Long-Term Credit Bank
List of Directors of KLB
(As of March 31, 1985)
Directors
Bong Eun Kim          Chairman /a
Tae Yong Hahm         President /b
Kyu hong Um           Deputy President /a
Chong Hyun Bong       Managing Director 7a
Yun Soo Kim           Managing Director 7aT
Je Suk Sim            Managing Director 7a
Chin Hyung Kim        Counsellor, Korea Long-Term Credit Bank
Byung Hi Chang        Chairman,. Young Poong Trading Co., Ltd.
Woo Dong Cho          Counsellor, Sam Sung Co., Ltd.
Tae Sup Choi          Chairman, Hankuk Glass Industry Co., Ltd.
Ju Yung Chung         Chairman, Federation of Korean Industries
Cha Kyung Koo         Chairman, Lucky Group
Pil Sun Lee           Chairman and President, Korea First Bank
Shin Ho Kang          Chairman, Dong-a Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd.
Che Gyum kim          Chairman, Ssang Yong Cement Co., Ltd.
El Kyu Kang           Executive Vice President, Korea Development Leasing
Co., Ltd.
H.D. Kerrott          Vice President, Gold Star Tele-Electric Co., Ltd.
KLR. Bushell          General Manager, Bank of Montreal, Seal Brunch.
Naokado Nishihara     Special Representative in the Far East, International
Finance Corporation
Keisaku Mitsumatsu    Director, The Industrial Bank of Japan, Ltd.
Auditors
Kkang Hyun Kim        Auditor-Inspector
Soo Chang Chung       Chairman, Korea Chamber of Commerce and Industry
/a  Member of the Executive Committee.
/b   Chairman of the Executive Committee.



-51-                                                          ANOZZ 3
-SON looAuL  FZAC PwC
MOVea log-TUr. 4Cndit look
mm    of Operations. 1933 - 1984
1968-79          190              1981 1932                         1983             1934           1968-1984
No,    _e.0     HO.   juut    NO.    tu3          E**.  _C        II,ol.    _it                      llo.    Aun
hDestic O.rr.ny Loan  lr                                                                                                  461)
Approals                            151   14.99    273   68.940    249   128.869    245   112.766   273   130.104   422   1244   2.613    530.142
CGmmlnmL                            167   14,799   218   68.293   255  124.529    244   112.365   267   124.963   427   125.734  1.608   571.183
Disburements                          -   14,250      -    66.857      -   119.137      -   116.310      _   1145.40     -   125.423      -    556.537
3sapamentu                            -    7.43       -    3,196       -   22,731       -    61.70       -    64.511     -   98.037       -    2537622
outstanding at year-end              63    6,312   322   70.473   433   166,879    574  221.480   704  271.529   93    29.915   938    29B,915
X%LEtrvmnt UV6                               7.*07     3       972      4    2 52Z       2     1500       1       300      1     (405)   79      IZ 296
Commitments                          69    7,407      3       972      4    2,522       2     1.5I0      1       300      1     (405)   79    12,296
Di.bureeete                           -    7.214      -      1.115     -     2.572      -     1.00       -       3W      -        9f      -     12.296
CGumrtad frtm dbeotur                 3      899      -         -      -         -      -         -      -         -     -         -      a        899
Sale. of equity                       _       465     -      1.179     -         -      -       719      -       140     -      (691)    -       1812
Tranmfere 1                           -         -     -     2.833      -         -      -         -      -         -      -        -      -      2Ot83
O tatand1n  at year-end              73    7.657      38    4.701     43    7.273      41    7.554    39       7.714    43    8.500    43        3.500
Dmbenture CV Mn)
Approvals                            27    3.290      32    11.067    42   21.890    23    11.627       61    38.440    73   S4.812   263    171,126
COi_ntc                              26    3.240      32   10,852     19   22.155      17    7.077      63   39.370      75   83.922   254    166.616
Dhsbursmete                           -    2.940      -    11.152      -    20.629      -     S.455      -    37.239      -   34.637      -    165.052
Repyments                             -     1.276     -        155     -     1.741      -    11.777      -     7.881      -   20.412      -    43.242
Conerced Into equitr                  3       399     -         -      -         -      -         -      -         -      -        -      *        IIS
O tetandit   at year-_nd              8       765    39   11.762    72   30.650        67    27.32f   116   56.686    177   120.911    177   120.911
buolulum Fund. (US$'000)
hpprowvl-                             7    1,767      13    4.281     27    9.424       5    5.400      13    3.728      13    9,282    83    38.882
wtments                               7    1,767      15    3,981     27    9.458       6    5.411    15    3.983        13    9,282    83      38,882
Oieburnieuts                          -    1.767      -     3.981      -    7.084       -     7.7815     -     8.232     -    7.707       -     36.556
Repayments                            -        -      -         -      -    4.838       -     4.448      -     5.210      -    2.310      -     16.806
Ad: Fluctuations fre
forein ezebesng  rat.               -       267     -       (148)    -      (119)    -       (200)    -       (226)    -   (2.002)    -       C2.42B)
Osttading at year-end                 I    2.034      22    5,867     32    7.994      20    11.131     24    13.927     36   17.322    36    17.322
Foreign Carrey Loan  CUSS '000) /
Approval                            466  497.356    117  130.939      76  141.322    142   60,046   169   134.205    134   149.230  1.096  1.113.14U
cowmit_nkto                         441  479,461    99   96,469    107   131.263    127   102.393    159   113.463    133   150.533  1.076  1.073.602
Disbeuremts                           -  416,563      -   103,159      -   125.0S5      -   131,897      -   8a1695      -   139,029      -   997,423
paeyra                                -   83,414      -    33.071      -   47.620       -    61,124      -    74.734     -    78.754           37n.717
Ads  Fluctuation. frre
foreiyn  *zbn   rate.               -   31.175      -   (12.9U)    -   C20.964)    -   (14.920)    -    (9.259)    -   (26.616)    -    (53.523)
Catatandg  at year-end              365  364.324   428  421.468    510  477.968    635  533.822    742  531.524    848  565.183   548   565.183
Total (W ale equivalent)
Approal. IC                         719  256.376   443  170,56d    398  259.210    417   175.023   517   282.547    698  340.357  3.192  1.486.081
Commitment                          687  250.436   417   146,645   436  243,091    396  202.370   505   262.055   704  362.529  1.147  1,452.126
Disbur.eents                          -  219,843      -   150.083      -   235,213      -   230,624      -   233.636     -   331,373      -  1,401.272
Repymoste And tranfer                 -   4u.52a      -   29.316       -   61.34        -   123.430      -   136.127     -   115.000      -   583.634
Addt eluctuat.oee fre-
forein azebne rate.                 -   21.543      -    56,275      -    2.450       -    11.975      -     6.868     -    (53194)    -    93.926
Ostatauiug at yr-end                521  192.918   839  369.960  1.140  546.289  1.337   665.458  1.623  769.S35  2.032  911,514 2.092   911,514
DowstIc Garreecy Omaranrzec  Ul ln) A
Apprawals                             3       454      1       270     2    3.141       4    3.001       6    3.533      2    15,676    44      26.075
OGtatandiag at yer-end                1       200      2      470      2     I.U6       5    3,179       6    4.775      32   17.626    32      17.626
hrel an Carrncy Guarantee. (US01000) /d
Apprale                               -         -      2    7,083      -    597/-       1    4,083       -       571Je   -        307/    3     12,641
Ostatending at yer-end                -        -       I      731      1       395      1    3,369       1    2.494       1    1.662      1      1.662
Ibtl Garantee (V san equivalnt) /d
ApFel-as                              3       454      3    4.961      2    3.561       5    6,066       6     3.967    23   15.931    47       34.960
OGtuanlg at year-end                  1       200     3       987      3     1,724      6     5,708      7    6.759      33   19.005    33    19,005
Is  Tanfered to the marketable security seccot of curent  nmta in bala-A  beht.
Ib  Nocluding revolvin  fund.
IC  rerign uachang rate applied: 1USI.00 - V 281.9 for 1968, W 309.2 for 1969; V 317.4 for 1970; v 374.1 for 1971; V 399.7 for 1972; V 392.5 for 1973;
1i 485.0 for 1974-79; v 662.3 for 1980; V 702.7 for 1961; V 750.7 for 1932; W 795.5 for 1983; and W 829.5 for 1984.
id ong- nonly.
/u  eprueta paynt guara_nt  on the lutereet payable acced durlg the year. not a am approval



AM= 3
mic  hEoUlulL n.sAm  mIAau
fmre Lamat-Thre tfuit hask
1968-79                                                    1960                95                                    3952
Wee .1 beam ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t.                                                     -T.
Netemc cerrmeq            131  14.999        -   14.969    6.3  271 6,940          -   44940   41.1  249  323.549        -  328.O69   14.9  2451132.766         -  112,766   69,1
wemliv   =CfTy            473       - 499,133  212,660  93.9  131         -  335.270   99.1W    56. 1  30        - 150.746  301,129   45.1  1467       -   61.446  49,1310   30.3
mcml                424  34.999  49.121  247.679  30.0  40N  48.940  135-270  153-52  100.0  112  128.869 130.7464       4 79a  20-0.0  3-92 132.766  65.446  31.6196  100.0
ha prejert.        ~~~210  1,010  142,784  69.667  28.3   30   1.610  42.000   11.667  20.0   26   5.314   3,111    9. 119    1.9   91  11.279   31.751   38.636   21.9
Empowmem                  343  6.531  126.461  138.178   64.0  117  10,198   60.316   61.894   41.3  139  28.245 339,237  326,037   13.7   92  6.172   10.076  33.963   5.1
lelamele. .medreeeloc
me.rpLseeme            16    210  26.336  133,427   1.1   35  4,664   5.194    9.891    1.2          5      240   (740)   (260)  (0.11   19  1,2b0   7,007   7.323    4.6
trk1   cplteal             43  4,272    1,316   4,911   2.0  224  49.63    4,900   51.075   31,5  201  91.650  11.074  99,432   42.4  IS4 61.535  135.9   101.64  642.9
ftber                      10    616         -      374   0.4     -       -        -        -     -      3      200      -       M0    0.1     2      66      19       313   0.2
T-"m                624  14.999  499.121  1467.479  360.0  406  66.940  135.270  132.329 10-0.0  312  126.669 350.766  234.796  100.0  392 3112.746  65.446  363,M .69 O30.
Sleet Lam (U mIllem)
B.IZ--10-r  ~      104   1.3431   10,932    4.477   2.6   91   6.B23      614   7,210    4.6   11   2,664        228   2,824    1.2   6    1,025    3.425   4,096    2.5
100-  30                  334  4,130   14.130   19,74.0   8.0   99  34.111   4,036   11,205   30.8   13    4,266   2,014   1,466    2.4   is  1,653    6.506   30,761    4.1
200    400                149  4,471   17,421   10,274   32.3  104  18,036   19,290   10.605   19.4   79  14.446   7,091   19.429    3.3   92  12,436  31,344  24,513   35.2
400    600                 10   3,410  40,924L  20,16     0.3   47  37.300    9.705   22,726   33.0   49   17,770   5,100   21,410    9.3   14  14,159   12.737  25,901  14.0
600    600m                37    010  48,233   22,390   9.0   11  2,300   12. 141   10,354    6.1   20   9,222   3,419   11,764    5.0   34  7,441   4,327   30,543    4.1
600  1000                  30    310  51,249   25,48  130.2   20   7,910   11.943   16,105   13.7        2   2.100  (1.132)   1,705    0.7   39  6,520   10,694   14.666   30.4
Aere 1,000                120  2.130  212,201  1322049   49.7   26   2,000   71,511   10.699   32.0   94   73,0201133,764  172,002   73.3   10  3,1595   34,333   69,366   42.7
Tatel         6j4 1jJfl 53,If3  34,7   00.0  4083 6,4                 270.V  1J m2  100.0  352 J2Bd8!fl2AL.7   23479  300.0  392 11,6    3446 1J1j%  300.0
bttuIc  ci t-  Cym-rm)
o. Ire             1~~~54  11,650   12,740   20,130   8.1  292  46,940   5,170   72,164   43.6  260  120,149  134,13  133,462   11,1  269 13.31.    16.272  125,761   77,7
1 -  1                     46     353  26,025   I2.221   5.0   14         -  32.170   21.439  131.1   51   5,320 57,093  48,640   20,7   12   (300)  (13,16) (3,768)  (3.3)
7 - 9                     342    145  141,307  64,457  24.0   26          -31,421   22,247   14,.0       2       -   2,445    1,615    0..    4        -      798      S"9    04
9 - 12                    248      113  24.511 1336,707   51.2   14       -   4109   41.241    24.9   47         -73,411   10,324   11.4   57          -49.332  37.394   23.1
her 12                     12      10  33.527   14.040    5.7     -       - -          -       -     -       -        5,000   3.5134    1.1        -         (320)    (90)  (0. 1)
Tta~l               424  14.999  499.323 247.679  300.0  406 61.940  335.270  313.1229  100.0  312  328.669 350.144  23l,7j  300.0  392 112,144   65.444  1631699  300.0
126  4,250  79.172  40,926   34.5   75163.207   12,187   24.277   13,3   84  32,630 21527V  10,778   23.4  201  37,639   16,561   53145"   21.3
theme swam         ~~~~49   1,010  29,940   19,910    5.0   31  1.240   30,70    14,914   10.7   27   1,240  (6.913)  2.102    3.0   44   3,852   32,669   36,125   13.4
162  4,923   87,394  45,21  1 3.3   11  36,457  41,636  44,211   27.9   a5  213137  11,999   31,762   11.1   61  21.,141    5,194   29,79    33.4
%m"mue9esk-t               946  1,141  14,192   27,000   10.9   74  32.338  30,031   22,405   16,1   11  10,613  30,910   35,144    7.1   41 - 9,779   1,334   33,251    7.4
tyweaeoem-Omt              44     513  30.795   24,533   30.0   12  4.915   4,120    7,770    4.9   II  32,141   4,041   36,993    7.3   313  3,423    5.350   12,444    7.7
tCvam=buogbk.0e             4     326   7,531    3,934    1.4   34  2.65a    1,400    4,34    4.0        4     900    3In    2,027    0.5      a   2,300    1.543    3,13    2.3
anmacbae-De-f              15a   470   9.407   4,732    1.9   36  2,321    7,162   4,566    4.1          a   2,169   3,730   4.019    1.7   14  4,612z   7,131    9,771    6.0
Chtmk*-f                   113   452   9,472   5,005    2,0       4       -    5,.20    1.443    3.4     4    1,410    646   4,904    0.5      4     310       17     262   0.2
anamemADm-D                23   1,027  49.310   24,614  10.0    3 2  4.410    (507    1.911    2.5   131  11,250  9,219   19.742   5.4         1  4.310    1,044    5,335   1.2
ramrm.Oe                    a    200   2.491    1.430    0.6      6  3.400    2,600    1,122    3.2      5   7,000   1.114    7,79     3.3     7   1,635    3.344    4,362    2.8
OYfte-D                     2      10      404     343   0.3      1       -      200      132   0,3      I   4,000   (200)   3,819    3.1      3   1,310       -    1,330    0.7
hermes fiaberla            30       -  279614  122,017    4.9     9    700   2,433    2,311    3.5   37   7.947   3,746   10,579    4.5   1I  1,670   5,064   1,472    4.7
Iktem  tr vmprftettm       St    400   30,239  31.511   11.2   37  2,100   10,57T   9,311    5.9   30   4,920  94,452  45,910   28.0   21   4.100    1,747    3.512    3,4
Toaml               424  14.999  499.323 247,479  100.0  405  68.940  1flJZ90  355.519  100.0  112  125.869 350,746 214,793  100.0  292 332.766  65.444  31.6t,9   300.0



Tata~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
-3-                                                                          es 2 @8 2
540003                                        l_                                              540001
me.    II         M 133     uquid.   I         No..    U         05     II ool,.   I         me.    U         1134    U .q81.   I
yp. Cf 1_ 3..
000set.4  currency                       273  120.06          -   330,306   53.4       422   324,4           -  124.4      45.  I.613  s5.142               -   540,142  64.S
7r015n cfrrency                          152        -   1229351   IU 703   44.4        197         -   253.S12   331,4     5I.4   1.237          -  1.152.03n  722.s17   55.5
Totol                                s   13a0106  1J2 Lf     243,407   100.0      419  124.401   25.512   2s.35o0  100.0    2  n        0 112  1-1524310 1.1-0259  00.0
p.r.... of lpo,.
ft. projects                            134   136035    724312   73n775 n     o.3       5*     1*,450    2,no3  42 43    34.6         55    e33t1M    520,712  2a5392   20.4
cpmolon                                  121   IS.93l 3    5,2      5,901   27.n        29    27.034   117,91S   12634    48,    1,090    97,961   733,071   553,24'  42,5
50440319, .odroi,otion(2,0)3
mod replacemmnt                          3    3.324       (34)    ,1It      0.5        (75   (4.274)  (1t.IU8)             (5.0)     n      3.2       33.261    183,01    1.1
6r4kl3  capitul                         177   34.402    10,162   92,841    37.9        272   32,530      1.361    53,474   32.7   1.103  404,4         42,227   435.540  3S.
oth.r.                                    13    9.,30      1,'43    10,44      .23        2      (24)  21.026   17.173    4.7          25   10.225      22739    29,030    2.2
T  .                                35 10_0_12_3   2_____   ______   ____               124_4__   153____   23.3010.             50  5300.142  1.152.0110 1-302.459  300.0
1.3.1                              415  110.106  142 913  ______   ____ o          _ *1   ___   ___i_ Itl.,,. .5  1   n    n ..            o    e ..zU   se1s2*s 
3It" of Lbot (iU 4lil l
ii"lo, 3n                                 82    3.13      1,4631    4.31      1.3      143    4.7S7      1.37     7.,30    5.1      587    24.,4o     15.233    52,48l   2.5
100 -   200                               78    7.213      2,.      9,55      3.9       117   12.435      6.174    36,003    4.3      554   48,413    528.30   79,06 5       .1
200 -   40                                78   10,723    11,331   39,500      8.e       122    3N945    10.221    25,423   11.1       624     0.2*3    12n.23   13,3M4  2I1.
600 -  40                                 55   39.97       5,315    24.077    9.9        79   22, 11     18.,03    37.,00   14.5      336   95.400      91.713   153,000  31.3
6a0 -   3MM                               4      3.310    25, 69    31,153    12.J        3     5,640    20.,83    23.,27    10.3     174   36.7*4    117,644   112,111    3.4
3o - 3,000                                 3    4,515 (*,5773    t4)  (0.2)              24    11,5      12,1Z3    22,756    8.5       se   35,015      36.,55    833804   A.
Ab. tono                                 lit   76.170    ",.14  t1.5575    43.3          76   41,950    9.713   11.054   44.1         479  2553        443.113   43.,567   S2.4
T1.tl                              453  110,106   142.f33  2613507   300,0        413  12u.45    158n512  2SS-910   100.0   2.50   S5N0142  1.15312 o301  2.659  30n0,
-kc.rtt, of Issue (ysem)
Up to 5                                  276  121.277    12,927   151.53     54.0       442   32,3196    17.231   139,437   54.5   1.702   562.97      73.,71    19,.734  47.4
s -  7                                    25    3.,27      1.791    10.252    4.2        23   (3,53)  30,590        7.246    2.J      137    IS.,92    126.,55    9.316    7.5
7 -                                      n39        -    22 ,49    3m213    7,5          a        40    32,2140    42.937   13.5      101       S45   232.544   130.531   11.1
9 ,                                    I 335      -    32:,65    71,37    '30.3         5       433   92,7500   77,381    30,2      633       929    655,4912  415,133   32.1
1lor 32                                   I0s            12 ,4      *,915     4.0       (12)      (30)  (I3,375)  (11.107)  (.3)        3 it      -     3752    1622        1.3
T,.1                               415'  130,10      129    243,807   300.0       133   32464   358.513    235S.5   100.0   2,310   10.142  1,1320n13 1.302,15' 30o.0
-.oal M.........  t                      154   54,217    51.207    94,952    39.0       252   54,95      5,1714  122,737   ".o        735   100,03    z24.3    333.215  29,4
la *r_                                    a9    4.4"    21,49      23,630    *,7         5      5,187     I,3      4,346     2.7      259    32.758     5,.359   5,312    6.4
KY.o4-ot                                 105  23.743    35,537    55,029    22,J        145   2n,491    113000   37,434    14.7       701   125.917    192.371   243,501   18.7
K-;-oamuh-k                               40    17.205   134,      29,974    12,3        54     4,341     9,22     12,314    4*.      36     SS5,0    213,776  125,2c,   9.
Kyos.l-3o-Do                              30    6.533      (270)   4,315    2.4          41   13,119   26.077 -33,093    12.9         254   4.253       0.307   1l."9   7.5
=-escI-osbk-be                             1        70     1,50      1.340    0,5         *     1.373    ,53        4,157    2         39    7.,57      22,353    22,130    17
-          _.6oo15..-o                     a    4,3*          (3)   4,132      1.7        A    2,054        VW      2,577    3.1       72   140308      26,439    32,451   2.5
Ono-.uk-O                                  a    2,100      1.397    4,302     2.0         1     1.750    (.7139)  (1,335)  (0.5)       34    6.062    33.479    14."G   1.3
Cho,on_0.-o                               10    4,413    2.223      4,11      2.5         7    3,291      4,.q      7,400    2,9       75   130751    44,03       44."S    3.1
Zon-3_0                                    1    2,180       (427)   2,4O      1.0         1    2,6e0      5.,94     5,131    2.2       27   17,475    133334    26,752    2,0
Oam v-o                                             - -  -     -        -      -                    -        1e')    (265)  (0.1)       5    3,3O0         285    5,179   0.4
Deep-... t1.bher.s                         7       300    D3621    1,331      1.4         2         1      (142)   13117    0,.        75   14.44       42.590    37,300   2,9
=Arl- treeporttles                        22    4,90       3, 25    31,493   4*7         21    4,33   19.,42   213,27    3.4          157   2I.3oS   207.775   151,486  311,
btsi1                              45S   310.106  1J23 03  261.807   300,3        439  1224.4    13#515o   22 300.0   2.33                  2  1- 352.0 11302,9  300.



*3W 3
- -ip=ast 2
EECam 16303131I1  MAJIOR P3011C
lbooo 1.-htb  crdit Muk
EctIfl Ustrtibt3        l t     IfMS           - 394
9619                                     390                                    1931                                   1962
S_t _ir                     _tLAno    r                                                                                    Ta       -
14(1                                   34(01                                  341.1T
Mo.  *      t 34 1  oqui. t            lb. *           go3 *  .q..   I        us.  *          33   U ..Pd..   2      No.   U         on   U  %%I..   2
JsrcltWr                      22    713  6*0,7    3.60    103         1    350  (2.132    (t )  (0.9)   2           100      (8)      "     0.e     4   1.320      178    I.&"      1.0
n.bLIS                        30       -   27.z   12.037    4.1       9     700    2.470    2.313    1.5     7    7.947   3.74S6  10.59    4.3   13  3.370   3S.0         7.673    4.7
MLnIua md qugrr71r            13    320    3.967    2.167    0.9      7   1,140    2.410    2.62    1.3      L      0   (2.70)  (1,417)  (0.6)    3        n0       (2)      M     0.1
Food  d bw _r                 64    233  23.99   10.701    4.3   31   3.022    7.429   10.342    6.6   21   14.16   7.ff3   19.405    3.3    38  11.731    2.322   13.62          3.0
Thm   1. a l, rlg .pjr l
cmi lucItr                 113   2.460   70.032   3.551   L3.9   79  u1.O    31.537   32.727   10.u   63   17,322  14.W4   27V.163   1.    635 3l.             10,561  25.423   13.7
1hd .d us   pre.t-             8     230    3.M0    1.159    0.5      4     200    (1Os)      131    0.1   11   3.930 l.1l1    4,73"    2.6         A   3.900      33  I.2W        0.3
Fut s.d Pepsr prWots          13    7w   17.945    9.1"       3.7     *      W30    2.774    2."7    1.7   13   3.440    (162)   3.306    1.4   16  1.301   2.44    3.134    3.2
bshml., ptrslem. cool,
robber & plstic p, duct.   72   2.331    9.331    3.78   10.4    M   11.010   213201   23.031   15.    44   19.171  6.73   2.92    11.0   44  14.416  (3.334)  31.913    7.4
_IostoIIe uuIsral prdueto  34   1.334  39.M05   179.S3    *.0   33   7.5ss   4.063   10.248    6S    20   II.=             .6*,20   15.267    *.3    20   I.w    9.711    9.*       3.o
Esue  M.1015                  46    930   33.755   16.756    6.1   30   3.376   12.736   11,324    7.4   1U   3.M2   1.163    6.006    2.6   24   S .30    4.276    3.M0    5.4
v.1.1 p#uds6I2-t. ooessry
ad uqvp_uAt                114   3.013  54.380   43.350   17.5    6   U.231   10.13    21.97    13.    61   20.,31  14.U09   30,07   13.2   78 30."4    9.623   37.912   23.4
Ibri. truscpofttts
rc*                         38    40    0.29   17,581   1I.1   17   2.100   10.I7   9.311    5.9   30   4.*20   6.632  60,810  n2.0   31  4.*00    1.747    5.,U1    3.8
af..r see  s                  51   2.143  39.414   30.S7   12.6   44   6.743   31.734   29.749   18.8    4        6.80  11,1"5  26.679   11.4   32 22.071   14.294  321.01   20.3
TSd1        S         24  1499   49".9121 267.679  100.0  40   6.40  135,270  13.519  300.0  352  12B. I9 150.746  2,7"   100.0  392 112.744   65.44   163.e9   200.0
L   3chs3  ruts .*"Hd: 039.00 - * 231.9 trr 1; U 309.2 fur 1969 U 311.4 for 191701 V 374.1 tr 19711    39".7 srr 1972; V 316. Uw 1973; U 4*5.0 tsr 1974-791 V  42.3 for
1930; M 702.7 tsr 1981: V 74.3 Nor  92  U 793.5 fsr 19M3; u  U 8". fr 19.



.~ ~
*-:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-3
Total                                        7.5.1 1                                              a1
go.    V        gas  ,   qus..   2           so.    M       ln    u .401c. S               wo,      V        an      U eqe. S
irnleIt_.                                          7    2.130      ass   2.512      1.0          *   1,234    3.310    2,7s      1.1           42   6*287        6.110     0,760   0.7
n imsn                                             7      s00    3,221    3.358     1.4          2   3,431     (162)   1,317     0.3           7n    4,44"     42.59      37,300    2.9
"Latta _ul q.rrlea                                 4    1.213      425   l*349      0.6          2     390    4.336    3,917    1.4            12    4.4 1       .433      9.94     n0.
e rd a" .wgeu                                     60  23.305   16.172   3*17    24.9            73  3.36   2.1.151  21,019    12.1            267   03,70      79,030    122,063    9.4
7Tei1rtlle   utn apparel
NW l_ta1 r                                      67   11.172   23,036   13,477    13.7        Ho   9,014    4,112   12.023      1.1          49    61.914    164,244    16G144   12.
W  _d msd prdeto                                  11  2,010        to0    2,191     0.9         17   1.324    1.719    4.730     1.9                10.,24      S.116    i4.239    1.2
Paper d  PEW  predete                            12    1.370    7,045    7.176      2.9         35   4,553   13,229   13.026     6.1          305   14,434     43.27s    4303R    1.1
a.eadcelt. ptftl-_ *e_l, rubber
NW pleatc predecte                              33  20.030   13,330   32,064    13.2           0  23443   17.51   3Y022    24.5             Mn   9093    104,02    15S.762   12.2
womatlle  leeres 1  riele                        26    6,27r   5,500   13,09      3.4         26   * 137    *3117   12.400     4.5          179   11,704     75.*30     7   7    6.1
Smote eatel.                                      IS    3.100    4,342    7.194     2.3         23   4,975  12,09    17,47       6.4         131   21.2"       73,065     U,r77    3.3
paes pgede. e., _d,33ev
.ad .0 _peen                                    79   14.422   40,671   ,6.0      14.2       2I0  16.479   52,942  40,612    23.7            322  300,673    213,079     4*1.679   35.3
Ibri_ treap_ertlee e..KWIee                      13   3,96      a642    12,0311    3.3         10   3,930 1  n9.00   20.196     7.9          157   213.ns 1  20774    15.470    3 1.6
Rseer e.r.cae                                     74   38,274    7,017   4*,393   13.2         121  16,625   (2n173) 34,025    13.6           391  324,n41    122.l27    1099214   1 3.
Tobal                                    433  3106  142.933 7241A7   100.0    *11  124.4"  259.52  233.95    200                    2S5'.M  1U2       1 1  1   102.639 mn".0



ir-S wnrm  VI               MU   T   rootI W                T  705? WMl   T  18W  IBM   V  -reoT S;    I   nOoOT WT-I  -aS
tO    04        I                                                                                                              -      1.0   0%                                                 q
r .n6        z           -                                                                                        -         -            sot      z                           eqalas p. p1.0
K&96  CIw.      it          (100)    (t)    -    -           -      tOo   cat            ni   SOK              -    -         -    S       Usz    S                          .oo.m-   p- 
ro    U6         a          -                                                                                                  -     s0     0         I                           utp.ORae VW
-   -  -  -                                                                                     -         -                               -i-a-n~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A-P  3M30:1
-7    -z        -     -                                                                                                                    -.9       -                        trAmn  ca. t
VW. sn   ii                 17        T rot T               T                          TUU U            TIT-luU                T fIK1S    , TH'Tr  -oro
1:     a,-                                                                                     ---  -  -                              . -Z                         mnAUt3a aedi              a
919      U                                      VI)  (01)                                       (U)   tit    "   I   K     91    591                            WirddKStip- .2ldd.,
-    -  -                                     -                                                                             (SiJiStO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~lael -s   ammjAagie.
It    itt  I                                                                                     Ci    lit~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1  S  ompd  ar
WIN   (iL       Z           0%        K-                                                                                            9      gov       I                               13-.
VIl  900        LI*~ I                                                                                        rca!0  t    ai   C    tIL    si        it                     p.mw-   p. a-P   .t.aa
-    -  -  --~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~V                                                      ea     "'l      V                    t35l-   pm. -ticata
Ci   LU  I                         -                                                      K~~~~~~~~~~~~~KK   13  1 ~ ~    ~    13
-      -           -          ---                                                                                                                 -p-  gftl~a-i
Ci    sCm    it                                                                            -         OI   00         I     CO    OiK        !t                            mO4.0.flLi-ft t
to    at  I  -- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~**   *                                           t~~~~~~~~~~-  la"t.I
OL  UZ       0            9               Ot01            Ito                               ii51  I                               InD   09t        IL                                .04aaa La.
!o ur        o                                                                                                                     t cu                                                    m
V 1bo           s            09                                     l!CC                 8.0    01 I            U    U?         IK.9 (0               II01
Cat  "aOI    99             (19             @.       s       t      otCC           g    VI      at       Z                      -    9%9ri   09Cc    Il                                        ..lKM
i'S?O EFIT  Ur.             Tg- TlAW    1       - 1W a       T  IM55 WMT   T   `wET TIM-                       75-W 'M    7   or-MT 'M-  W                                              Wor
rcI    KICKll    Ito        (O)                                        OE                    -O OKI    CM '   S.tt  151  t    COt,  IOt       at                                   OK  - ca
rio   KtsLl     It          ci)       -     ro    orotit                           g      o     ott      t      otis            I    irca   osl    at                         "mMd  -    35E1
G.091  Gov't    it           01        1     -                           -         -     tt       )                             -    o;s   I"l I      LC-K*SneV-                           -Itl
or-rMIU9           TMS   T  1'SF5C    T79ST  Tfrr        VWwrurr                                       O  'M TTf             7106rrW    UWW
1.11   goo,     it          CoalSr)    (t    4root OK        I    cscI OIns          t          sea41    g'  a    dro  -G       I    0,1K   lat!      SC                      lift-ad"-m    Ut
S:,u    oC                   01        K        -            -      OoG t          K Cr1)  580           -      -    -          -    trPK ci' ttt     tK.  t0tt9t"  -                           Utg
cou  (1    lrui      at   -      e    0  out paav  tm.                c                                            I.tttpSSi
MM ot  &W,    I  11,                                                                                                                                          W.-Iai   ~wot -
U ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~TE
9-v



a-.  peeemt    z  ir~~~L*-r    i~~~io. iAMMON"       so. Auet                                   NoS.   ZSea
nun estmhiiuleeut             3      ~~~~~~~~~~330   10.9   7    2,343    23.2    3  700    3.2   3    3,1112   33.4,  7    2,440    6.3    1    2,4369  2.4   35   33,734    41.9
tepsnmtem                     ~~~ ~~~~~~~~24    2,910   59.2  23    5.722    75.5        3.323    4.2   3  394    3.3   5    i.16 ml I  (13)     335    0.2   14   32,322   16.2
IbrkIe5 sapite                             -        -     -   -                 -    34  139*53   90. 137    7,1333   1.3  46   32,417   02.?    34262,43    47.4  343  162 4263  63.43
ute!.                               27.   3.2W0  300.0  32   11.-6?   300.0  4L2   21-11   300.0  32,  ILSI7  EE.  a3  35.4443 I3n.0  76   14.512   300.0  213  373 324  3tm,4
.Itit 3e  .ppruvel                      I3    3 ,433   30.3   4     717      6.7   33    7.397   34.7   3    4.430   33.3  24   12,9M    33.31  34   33.413    36.3   13   4,3.04   21.2
ilIthut teesmeppre.l                    32    1,523   49.7  25   30,330    93.3  39   14,293   43.2  36    7,3177   417  37   33,401   64.2  44   69,1327    333.3  363  326,022   74.15
lute!                               27    343!G  360.0  12   11.6?   300.0   4_2  j3._90  30n.0  73  31.527  300.0  43   35.440  300.6  75   5432   300.4   ML3  3731.21  300.0
a. -IGO 30                                 0      370   33.3   2      190      3.7    4      247    13.    3     244    2.3   4       324    0.5           (402   (0.3)   29    3,332    0.5
IOU3999                                          .020   13.0   3      442     6.0    6       703    3.2   3      350    3.0   1       937    2.4    7      143     0.9   31   4136    2.0
2410 -299                                      13200   39.3   U    3,733    33.3    3       60o    2.5   1      261l   2.4   4       670    2.3    a    1,743      2.3    in    G.-III    3.6
metf 3011                                  2      500   35.2  37    5,300    74.3  27   20.320   92. 6 34 10,730   92.3  44   34. 23    94.1  3         3212,314    97.1  g6?  33,6,51   192.51
lute!                               27    1 210  300.0  32   11.007   300.0  42   2-1.59   300.0  23)  31.617  30043  43l  35.430  t00.0  76   "-.512   100.6  263  373.124  3600.4
Lutud                                      7    3,2i0  36.3  33    3,022    43.4  20  30.534   49.1   6    6,200   13.13  23   364,170   33.3   27  533,39    42.7            41 93233   33.1
VlIltetud                                 20    2,1 90   43.3  39    4,043    34.4  32   33,090   30.7  37    3,427   69.0  443  2-1,370   62.1  33   33,433    37.3  379   79,071   44.7
luMte                               27.   L29   200.0  32   13. 067   300.0  42   23.690  t00.0 33   11467311.       0  a 63   15.44 00 ,E    1fl  114.3    200.0   2171lL126  Il!n
tree!                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~7 130   23.7  34    6,272    33.5  32    7.303   34.3   4    3,9434  34.9  39   33.330   25.9   17   3.3272    63.2   93   2,1032   46.4
times                                      1      330   36.7   -                                          2       63    0.3                                330- -  S  0.2   5      763    0,4
ry.e.3s-0e                                30    3,070   32.3  33    2,963    24.5  33    4,007   36.1   6    2,233   39.4  23   33.330   36.4  29   23,103    36.2   RI   37,176   22.5
tram.oShek-f e-                                                2      333      3.2    3    2.940   33.4   3     3,33    33.4   3    3,000    7.3    3    4,722      3.4   35   32,362    7.2
tyumamvuem-DO                              I      200    6.3            .             3   4,0434   131.2                       2    3,100   91.     4      130      0.4   30   5,053    4.7
42euholnebu-buh-f                                                       .             2    3,200    3.3                        3       20    0.3    3    4.300      4.3     4    1,.320    3.3
!h-sesl-11eg-'O                            3       60    3.31  2      S00      4.3    3      300    3.4                        3    3,000    2.6                            1       3,34  3.3
i2,eemee-1le                               3      210    7.6   -        -                                 2    3,700   34. 1 3       .060    2.4    3    2,0010    2.4      5   4,950    2.9
Cheme--Oe                                 4       330   33.4   3      238      1.6    3      SOO    2.3                                                         4    3,o04       0.6
K. suee- I                                                                                     a   3,000   23.8   4    4,310    20.4    3         243      43.3    4    7,240    4.2
a-up-eec flshius                                                        .                                                             3 -     2,731    3.2       1    2,733    3..
af,-rietrmuperrtetlee:                                         2      300     5-.3    3    1.""    6.4   3    3,270   3.0   2    3,30 "D      ,M       1.3430       3.7   33    4,3*0    3.5
?.tel                               a7    3.1n   300.4  12   11.007   100,0  42   21.390  300.0 33   1 3.427 ,3L!  a3  36.440 .IEd,  7a  M4,332   100.0  241  272,324  300,0
NsetufeItrtere    uutrte
raed, levregu cud tubstre                3      300    3.0   4    2,263    20.1    3    2,723   22.3   2    3,200   30.3   3        5i0    2.2   37   33,330    21.4   34   23,303   34.9
llmttIIu,   uriua spperl sad lather    3        370   13.3   3    2,30     33.4  32   3244"  34.9   3          231          la 10    ,32    13.6    9    3,.033  3.9   42   14,55    6.7
Printlem end pebligh.iug                -         -     -    -        .                                                            -  - 2    3.000     3.2     3    3,000    0.4
Sebtetel                            4.     410   14.3  32    ! 3730   '34.2  27    3.fl,  27.4   3     3411   12.1  13    3.370   14.0  23  235451   23.7   76  431.403   24.2
Wlmdmmepmdcu2                                    s0    3.3   2      220      1.9    2      336    0.3   I      330    0.9   3        20    0.2    -        -      -       3       4     0.3
FPep. sa  paps. prudtete                 3      230    7.6   -        -      -      I      300    2.3   I    13,00    6.6   2    2,40011    3.2    3    2,000    2.4      4    3,710    3 4
dhlcel, rubbur, plmtic,
etrelme  -d tee                        3      4360   20.    4    2,300    22.4    7    7,300   32.6   3   2,620   32.3  32    3,390   13.3    9   33,340    331.3   46   32,630   39.4
P.-Mtiller Smurs prudent                4        30   22:.6   3      90     0.3    2    1,000    4.6   1    3,900   31.3   4    3,300   34.3    6    3,330       4.3   23  133,070    6.3
Sebtoutl                            32   ,33    '32.0   E    '-,2.   213.3  13   6.729   3          0. 73 ,23   43.1  23   321G3   33.2  36  23.170    253.   79    3978    2.3
54mt ' uL.-                                                  2      222      2.0    6    4,33    29.3                       -                         2200       2.4   33   6,772    3.9
a-tel pI-dMt                             3      210    6.4  (3)     (303   (0.4)                                             2       366    0.    1      192     0.2     4       P40    0.3
IftthfuW" (eat. eletrIc)                 2      360    4.9   Z      SW0     4.3                                              3      me0   3.3    3    2,600       .13    1    3,360    2.3
applismpe  aed eeppli e                2      360    3.4   2      400      3.4        -       -       2      100    2.6   3    3,noo    7,3t    3    *,970    33.6   2'3  33,330    5,3
Tr-"ert eqelpset                             -       -    -       -       --                          --         -     - 2    3,004n   13.0    3    7,300       5.4      7   32,300    7.2
sebtuts!                             7      130   16,7   a    3.072     9_7  41   4_330   29.3   3          "D00    Li  ,3    Ea1172.6   33  22.242    26,1   19   17-322   23.
Risec. eee(`tevMr   ledetrlem              -        -     -    I      300      4.3    2      233    3.3   -         -    -    a       300    3.3  (I)    (373)   (0,3)    1    3,340    0.7
Tlets                               23    2.710   33._0  23    1_-332    73.7  16 9._90   *.j  L?_.  W1E.2  42   27.415  73.3  36  SL_ESt   r0.0                         121413.  iLl0
Itceeeectrlutedeetrleu
Asrlceter  en  Iaremtr7  flehuTy           3      260    7.9   I1.3000         9.0                        -        -      -    3     ,73     46     3     ,100      3,3   12   4,333    2.3
ItImI    ed qurrytul                                                                                   1       0     4           ,S      26      3    3200      3.4     4    2,700    1.6
t!ectricicy .5 acer eerie                                       3         330    3,0   4    3,700    9.6    2      (467)   (0.3)    7    3,331    2.0.  6  (8.)   7    3.33    2.
Cuemtrecciee                  3     ~~~~~~~~~                                   ~~~300    9.1  2  .0  .6   -                                 2,000     2.4     4    3,300    3,9
Harim treeportetlot, Stefemu
sadn 1mmutega                                              3    3,433    34.    3    2.400      4          3,344    9,9   3      1,10    49     3    3,4        31    31    7,0       4.4
IIaug  =a   ..eee-1                                                                                              10     24 -            -     -     2    3023       3.2     3    3323    0.3
Other                                      -                          300      2.7    3      too    0.3   -        -     -     3    2,443    7.0    6   30,630    12.4     i 13 33739     3.
TetA!                                a      3S0  .L!&L        3491.   24,3       2.50    33.3      2,,2  34, 29        9   231-22   20.7   22   14!!72    20.0    IL  3&6.4    22.2
itIm,WAL                            27.   3.290  300.0  32   33.067   300.0  42   23.69   100.0  V3   32427  300.0  f31  33440  .3354,  7l  354jt230 .03   M5  371.326  300.0



- Se                                                             *JIN  3
neoU  IUUtlL  nIll   JC
Korma -ma-Twn r edit lank
_conomic I_cat of E.-Pinad rajaecto /a
Ptrtial Uceonoc Indicatars
1961-79     1910        1981      1912        1983        1984      1968-1934
lo. of projects /b                                             313          79         60         89         126        169         1,036
Totel project cost. (a Von mma) /c                         62,044    212,143    231,56    207,471    323,170    335,169    1,992,43
Aunt of MC  flouncing (Z Won -msi) le                      247.710      67,901    122.110    72.447      138,946    135.437       804,553
Etar of MMW finang (2)                                        36.3        41.4       52.7       34.9       42.9        40.4         40.4
Macremntal .anual m&le. (lObr m)                         1.271,159    544B8    471,371    46,114    691.702    763,885    4,213.719
Incremntal annual   Ie a         In)d                      441,634    182,"6      124,609    115,674     197,320    309,356    1,371,509
Increas  in find asent. (won sln)                          555,325     180,496    192,848   .165,107    275.903    296.501    1,446,260
Additoeal employmsnt (numer) d                             . 4.581       3.942      3,713      2.812       7.125      6,58         ". 777
Idditlons almed pyroll (Vln In) La                          72.010      14.373      12.661    12.332      25.002     28.336       164,714
Addtioo  anl groom eorts (80DL)d                           U4.631      235.975    331.792    230,190     367,621    308.061    2,320.270
Net *aual balance of paymnte dffect (i t foreign
ezcbang. earting  and savinge) (J-000,jo                  686,263    264.300    438.615   309,849      396,757    458.822    2.554,606
Cet par job (Van  000)                                      15,299      53.544     62.372    73,851       45,455     50.907        20.970
N.narand   It_n
Sael. per addittat l _mplayen (Won 000)                     28,513    137,427    126,952   165,759        97.081    116.781        61.266
_a1U added per additionl emloyee (Wm '000)                  56.148      46,188      33.560    41,136      27,694     46.9G8        19.943
Plid a*set- per additlonal  mlay.e (lbm '000)               12.457      45,557     51,939     58.744      38,723     45,034        24,227
nlzd assets per additioeal employee (US 000) A              25.45       73,479     76.380    78,850       *8.678     54,291        29,207
-mmml payroll per additional employe (Ibe '00#               1.615       3.628      3.410      4.385       3,509      4.304         2.393
RAtio of *alee to fliXd  _asete                               2.29        3.02       2.44       2.U2        2.51       2.59          2.39
Ratio of value added to fled a*rtr                            0.80        1.01       0.65       0.70        0.72       1.04          0.82
RAtio of value added to "eel                                  0.35        0.34       0.26       0.25        0.29       0.40          0.33
R!ort *bare of salem CZ) Ae                                   32.3        26.9       47.9       36.6        42.3      .33.2          45.7
Payroll share of value added (Z)                              14.3         7.9       10.2       10.7        12.7        9.2          12.0
L   Bamed on projections mde In project appraisal reprt.; loans to EC  mploysee Fraternity in 1973, 1974, 1976 end 1978, end equity Invest-
neat and debunture fliancing are escluded. This table covers *12 KC  ta  ICR projecte; 2DIZ to treated *r one project for each of 1976 *an
1978, respectively.
3Nt of prjects sub equetly ithdrm.
lon equivalent at varying ezhange rat".
7de magnitude of all tbrme itr, is baed on estimate_ of full capacity opsratioa.
Applying average eachange ratem for 196U-79; US$I.00 - V 485.0; U$1.00 - W 620.0 In 1980; US$1.00 - V 680.0 In 1981; US1.00 V- 750.7 in
1982; US1.00 - W 795.5 for 1963; US$I.00 - 1 829.5 for 1984; and  S1.00 -  829.5 for 1941 - 1984.



ARNE 3
59 -                              Tabla 7
KORFA
SECOND INDUSTRIAL FINANCE PROJECT
Korea Long-Term Credit Bank
KLB's Financial Assistance to Small and Medium Enterprises.
1980 - 1984 /a
(W oMilionu
Total         Small & medium
approvals (A)      enterprises (B)       I as 2 of A
number    Amount   Number  Amount  By number  By amount
1980
Loans                  408     158,529    159    54,681       39.0        34.5
Debentures              32      11,067      11     2,935      34.4       26.5
Investments              3         972       -         -        -          -
Total               443     170.568    170    57.616       38.4       33.8
1981
Loans                  352     234,798    150    59,912       42.6        25.5
Debentures              42      21,890      16     3,650      38.1       16.7
Investments              4       2,522       -       200        -         7.9
Total               398     259 210    166    63 762      41.7        24.6
1982
Loans                  392     161,896    190    37,748       48.5       23.3
Debentures              23      11,627       8     1,406-    34.8        12.1
Investments              2       1,500       1       500      50.0       33.3
Totsl               417     175 023    199    39.654      47.7        22.7
1983
Loans                  455     243,807    196    62,012       43.1        25.4
Debentures              61      38,440      18     6,280      29.5       16.3
Investments              1          300      1       300    100.0       100.0
Total               517     282,547    215    68.592      41.6        24.3
1984
Loans                  619     255,950    384    83,693       62.0       32.7
Debentures              78      84,812       9     1,241      11.5         1.5
Investments              1         (405)     1      (405)   100.0       100.0
Total              698      340.357    394    84 529      56.4        24.8
1980 - 1984
Loans                2,226   1,054,980  1,079   298,046       48.5        28.2
Debentures             236     167,836      62    15,512      26.3        9.2
Investments             11       4,889       3       595      27.3       12.2
Total             2 473   1 227 705  1 144   314 153      46.3        25.6
/a  Until August 1983, Included firm, employing not more than 300 full-time
employees, or not more than 500 employees in the case of firms engaged In
activities described In Attachment I to Presidential Decree No. 9370 (such
labor-intensive industries as automobile parts, electronics and other
machinery parts, etc.) issued with respect to the Small and Medium
Industries Promotion Act of Korea. Tlnder Presidential Decree No. 11220,
medium defined are from 6 to 700 employees, depending upon the Industry,
with total assets not to exceed won 4 to 6 billion, dependlag upon the
Industry.



Ale I
haunt...  t.MtntfrVaaan    .it34   393.0
lb.   mne af e.opmay                          Tp. of Iouetryr           topa       m    'rtw rx  UriMIut   j.i arT-F--sTea.1:                                  o   Kapert. pe   J      *P       111
(W)      ($3      (65    (US       ($)      (993     to      (muinkr)       ($       ($3     C()    (51      11
4-01  1.1. Sapplag Gbe-.V. Utd.               Tuaapart atSoa .7                          A. You    u,iad      -     j   .700        4,300G Io      9        3,433    3.455   41.40.    635.139.1
8-03   t. MaINs ObPt3  Cmpamr, Ltd.           fl.,eapartatl.n          I        3.346    33,3S    32,702     -    0.043   10.510   1,033           34       4,274    4.294   31L24   24.0  24.1
"I0  a.. w.m Lbemay. Ltd.                     1bati.                  as$       4.014    1,700   1.33,3            1700w   1,162)  1,50 N2                  3,324    4,440   129.10  32.7     -
4-03  h   la4s PUa=. Detapa.t C... * Ld.  *nlag                        I           i5      450      541      -       43  450          430          4        4,933        -    ". I     -      -
2.03   ""Mei'  hmjaA   CaIpasy                DAnloultmr               4          312      223      la]              240      240     240          33         940             11.2     -      -
rN-G4  hub. Shipping binp.sy. Lad.            Tr.r,patalt.t            5          331     5N0       204              mm       500     so0          II         317        -     4.0     -      -
14105   a. ham Caa.trM.3  Part. Ca.. * Ad.   S.trmae. pat              it       3.20?    2.000    1.0 -o             2000    2,000n  5.330        317       9,.39    10,049    23.31  13.1  43.)
4-04  I- has Comingw C30.45. Ltd.             UaetraoU Part.o                     245      450    3,0411     -       40       630     630          23       3,440    1.3,9    49.9     -      -
0-051 1.a-Sa0  WI.., WiIha kippr              lbull.                              7         0 2 0  253      -        9       Ion3    20           2          309      342   393.3 
It-09  LI. 4aatmtl.:.Cap.amY. Utd.            Caqatetrirt              1            5%     SW0      423      -       S3W      SWC     go           m;      3S,sio        -    u2.i        
"I-31   ta. ia  W-.3  titla  h. ca.. Ltd. Tbatli.                      5          410    3.030    2.203    300    1.030    1.436      12                        -        -      -         
4-32  11..m  it5. Il.etraoie  Ind. Ca.. *Ltd.    i.rtraA5c Pna,tt.               101      40a     5I"       -       410      410     431                   391          -                
4-3  fta   1ta  PaaId,ara  Ca., Uad,  hate tutu                        a          114       00      6441             440      450     400          -        3,03 3.55           -      -
1-14. hoke lair 03.. ld. campeap.y Ld.  Glaa. praoauta                 I           h1      143      443      -       13       34       433                  1o9          -    21       -     -
4-3   h   has fl.etrahlra baganY, Ld.    LIct-roaic Pad-t.                    171    5.000    113 -v     3,000    u.001D  2,051               21       33.052    ,1372   151.4   24.1  31.03
4-  _ hu  wha Isatitial coagm. Ltd.        n abar                   K          4919    3,5333   4.2 -"    3,300    3,30SW   3.5SW              3*        3,410    3,474   163,4   17.2  42.2
4-3.7  son Oa..  Tutati. Gee.). Ltd.          bitt:.                             340      540    3.443    300       "so    3,09?      "O0        27        3.503    2.232    u6.n   u.s  39.I
4-35  team-A ltSp,3*j Caupsp, Ltd.            Trinap.rtetla            1        3.473   34.000   34,433       - 14,000   14.000   4.90 "O         51        7.14$    7,449   341.1   22.9  24.9
4-3   hat haw Cs=aa. Ltd.                     ba.ttle                  I          222     1300      532      -       SW0    1S30      30           3a       3.747    3.747    92.2 a29.9    -
4-20  ha ha Craa (A-P-. Ltd.                  Pao.dtwtte               M       u1.412    4,9010   24.1IN  2,000    2,930    5,474   2.9IS0       241       30.2417           1331.0  25.4  22.4
40-23  N. ha Wheat 30314 0ep't. Ud.           oadatatta                          327      310      ?33      -       30       ISO2    530          -            -        -      -      -     -
4k-22  JUaaa*.a  JtaI.t.GA.t Caupany. Ltd.    Caaatraeta               a           42      390      233      -       39       3990   0"           34        2.343        -     3.9     -     -
4-23  tea-A  Gnutia   a.ap.. Ltd.             tabbar                              341      730      970      -       710      110     130          -        4.933    4.234      -         
4-34  V 16-4tsn  td.&.tria  Caupany. Ltd.     baittl                              241      100o      431     -        110     500     10                        -        -      -         
4-23  le,arnSn Opia.Iap C.mpo.a  Ltd.        bunilt.                   I          *b*    31.04    2,4 -"             3,700    3.700   1.053--                            -                
4-24  F-. VII. Cuapayr. Ltd.                  tatthi.                               2 7     2        4                2        2       0          2          ,3       ,0       50 3. 
4-27  Iar4y~ Ltd.      Ouittal peuderti        34       4.272    4,430   I 3311       -    4.230    4.250 2,400             -       32.33o    0.322343.4   33.4  30.
4-24  bat.m  City GA. Coapir,, Ltd.          City asa                  B       11.410    5.332   33,2512  3 .024    3,332    1.0430   3.000       347      33.1234           144.11  32.9  30.1
4-29  ha ba-  Caopau.  Ltd.bah.?"LI1                                   M        9G43       324t2,3                 0oo m   0to00   I.5          203       33s3    30,993   330.2 t14.3  14.0
4-0   a  4.i C-rPir.t-                   0.aatractt.              I        3779o   3,'W'`3   O"  00 3,04 -    233      2143   1: M.100   41           24.33         -     4.3           -
A-33  Le  a Idvmtrlal 0qpaay, Ltd.            It.rtraatc pradart.    241          491    1.300    4,130      -      .300t   1. 30323.45           231        ."I   4.272    24.1   34.9  u4.s
1412  Ut. Casatr,ctia  Coapaay. Ltd.          Coa.trmatiaa             a          334      amt      993              Ro  mm  4        so0 85      II        51,31        -    31.2     -     -
4~-11  myiatdt blad tidaitri.. Ca... Ltd.     tad praducti             K         .1.04     9O40    ,410    300      940    .3.94      410        410       30,991   30.93    33.1   31.5   7.
41-14  hulk SitppIug Caapa,, Ltd.            Tirm.pertAtioa            K           14      20      253      -       32       320     120          1        2.319        -    41.0     -     -
313_1   hag bag bTh"1. 91g.  ."Pa.. Ltd.   ba tik.                     i          334.     315      303I             330      330     330         l0        3.442    3.294   'A.3 I
4-14  Iakuk 03.al 1341 Cewapap, Ltd.         hta. ta.le. Panti         a          319      940    3,74.0     -      t90       940    1ADD         3:        3204         -    14.a        
4-32  Paaa  Li.   dtalCuetratia,                                       33         332      430      537      -        50      410     430         lo       ,194          - e3-,
4-U1  hag Ottig 14.111. CeApoay, Ltd.        TWattI.                   a          224      450      144      -      430       410     430          31       3,a   2.  364*0   1.          
9-1   hg    ms  li-. bapay,- Ltd.         .S.I                            209        730    3,723    300       m00    3,334      No          43      10.444        -    3.          
4-4   hiswu  CAaaaat ladutrIa  6..  td  teat.) 1                               s53'.11     0 3. o  0,931     -    3,3I0    3,3ion   3,0 Wm       I44      44.023         -    24.0     - 
41-42  Kara  "yth,tic hmbbr lad. Ca.:: Lt d.  Otaeu                    U        4.4121   4,963   33.33       -    4,443    4,453   2.300          24        9.30     3,144.  454.4   16.:7  1 7.4
3.42  Paita. ee f  ou. ipi"  tia  6C., Ltd.  halt -utat               54*       9.313    d.O '.400    9,40         4,400    4,40      mm0         43       55,930   15,443   440.4     -      -
"-3  hao ha  -tea . Cawan. Ltd.               bTEDl..                  M       33.393   la14.9   40.1343  a.000    4100    7,497   2.300         7464      13,912   29,047    14.0     -      -
8-44  11.a tOu Cawia. Ltd.                    hafa.-a, iL.t1           9          214      70     3,030      -        33      413s    G11         23       33.303    3,19     40.1        
41-43  hAIL   asaut fla-ir-t-.tg C... Ltd.   tamat.iL                 0433        172    3,400    3,3104     -     1,400    3.4532    am           -       39,934    3,33       -      - 
4-I, tw. Catga. Y..&a Campaip. LId.            iadatrf.        a                  43       230      303              230      230     250                     --         -      -      -
4-42  Ut. G.tr qtaaCapa2  Ltd.                caaatrttta.              a          271    1,330    31377      -      .130    3.130     450         23       34,934   39,433    la.7 -I
241  t.a . Qa.-. tdwary Caeaay, Ltd.    Cla..V prdita                  5        3,293    2,330D   4,943    330    2,390    2,967   310011         33 A      ,3300        -   449.4   23.4  27.4
0-49  hasooyaa  Qamat 24. Caqaal, Ltd.    hastalK                               1,4              133,26   3,000    2,17     4,6700   3.300       794       3333          -    44 9 Z2~3.  31.1
a-'a  h`i.a C.*Y., Ltd.                       14taI 1a                         3.200`        .     :0  480 3,4  -    40         o9    4400                  413110    4"30    U.S -1
40-11  I9ndasl Itar CAmpaay                   hi.aagr car             $41      30,034    0.247   50,449      -     2,000    2,000   3,00-                                -      - 
0-33  ohaIl  .a.r Caaopio.p  Ltd.             Feed. 4 ba..ragaa        a          195    2,400    3,429            2,450    2,453   2.400          4          100        - 97.D 
41-31  aIttugI Peedi Caa,Ld.                  tad, 4 ba.L.a.aa         1          300      420      437      -       420      420    4213         20       4,4153             40.1 I      
4-34  .2, bAug Boolean Gme.y. Ltd.            butdesa                  K          44         -    3,003    2SO       Soo      433     SW0         o0        1.331        -    13.3        
14-1  K;ara, Die GOaay, tad,                  "Joe Iua                             ,G344   5011   3,018              ISO3      50     a"0          -        I,2m                -      -     -
4~-1   hd.k. Pa3par  aaruatC... *t.    huaprlat                       tat       2.4fl    3,145;   3,933            2.3,10    2,946   3,400                  3.204      433      -      -     -
1-32  hIA Xl Gaesay, Ltd.                     TautI 1                             55 a    520      430      -       SI2      S20     320          In         132      400    14.3 2
4-It  peaa., bat Ins Caesar. Ltd.             Mait Ir.                 2          313      210      444      10               J 210 35S1                     3,493    2,021    92.4       
4-31  hug barn Seapsa farr Ca.,. Ltd.        MbrS..                    1          312    2.130    3,012      -    2,250    2,130   2,730           30       2,600        -   307.3 2
4-60  ha Jit Traa.pirtstla C... *Led.         I.R.Sd trsmpart          K          130    2.434    2.042      -     3424    3,143   3. 134          I        3,300        -   490.1        
41-43  T.-:,a 1Elta,sa.ir  C-ao-sY, Ltd.      Ca-tenate pedita         K        4,91 3    3,200   34,034      -    3300    S.,"D00   3,30         14      143.995  304,414    94.4   23.3  35.3
9-4   M.haaCaarLi.                            satal pradu.t                       II33     230      244              230      230     330          -          300        -      -      -     -
4-44   bIas keel haaia.turl.,aC... Ltd.    kel                 K          190      Sa0    3,016             440       540     400          -        3,43       99 I
M-G4   =.Ma  Craning Coap.ay, Ltd.            Utlatr.3  Part.          1        1,040   9,204   33,129"            3.000    3,000   2,000        113      23 .194    7,431    43.4   32.2  34.1
4-41  ha  ar  C.Apa.7. Ltd.                  ba.ttle                   1:      30,593   30,400   34,032      -     4,0 4.3  .00)  1.30            12       32.724    4,530   33614. 
11-411 Call3 asar Caapawy Ltd.                P.S. 4 banaragi          rn         444    3,00     2,007      -    3000    3,000   2,1w0             3         ioo        -   955.1O
5-49  ha. adaatrlal Calpan. Ltd.              Zatiratad afralt         K       3,442,  34,200  31,601            34,200   34,200   3,900        943       33,037   33,037    19,9   34.3  25,
Total                                                              349.34   339.407  442.241  ft994  190.120  2031.094  90.44       3.144     534.323  A3lms1    19,1



imm ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~a 
bbereai  loor.aw  S.c                              sol.te  Ie   295   - f eNleah 31. 1963
roon sed V elilm)
go.        at-   aaor                                  1te.tp             e  l.e.Taf    "ry o   tailalie67iel  eee             ea        e     k   matte    fete.   Sepert  per Jab   NM3   KU
(9)  C)  Cs$) (3           W ()   CS)       OF)      CS)     0ear)         (.,      (63      (S)    (Z)   (2)
"I0 tIe., ludlitrtae le.                         tattl                       a      1.506    4.00    9.024         - 4,290    4,23   4.a30           41       5s1no    3.623   1m.9  20.0320.0
A-0S  tacky 0Cuter 2.f. Cuwyazette               Sreite6                      a    zs*ooa   fs.u0   ss,n4             I S,m    ts.ooo  rn.oao       a36       2a,2a    24,030   8s&7   25.2   21.0
"I0  Tos M- tarnf Cuepar. Ltd.                   Cttv 8ee                    U      4.730      995    7,077   2.6006     93    2.60       965        22        2.756         -   321.7     -      -
a-02As ie. tebLriat Cuep.W. Ltd.                 Mtetgestd circelt           a        453    2,740    2329"        -   2,740    2.790   1.330        so        3,289    3,3589    44.4   16.22  22.54
3-03  Va-le. 3atrte Iac.                         tatle                       a      1.247    1.050    5,226            1.3,30    1,450   1.950       29        2,0153    3.673   324.1   19.60  21.90
3.0"  Foam  Pleeti  ledeetq Curpertlee            P reel.                    I   a           1.430    1,625        - 340 1.430   1.4  10             44            -         -    41.1     -      -
*3-6   NW6. beye.u Uty Cue Thepea. Ltd.          CLty we                     S      1.201a     293    1.910     GM0    S20    3.20        320        34        3.465        -    3.9       -
3-05  -a fla  Ce.. Seder Cuep.y. Ltd.             meet BI-.                  U      1.023    t,400    2,453            1.220    1.320     720         3        7.040        - 527.7   14.3  24.56
3-07  taree lActe.y Clepee. ltd.                 b-erte                               193      550    2.02         -     as       35     930          -            -         -      -      -      -
3-00  11a. *ple.s Ce.P.. Ltd.                    Tattle                             L .944    3,306    4,249   2.600    1.050    3,099   1.36        4         11.623    9,440    7L2   15.90  39.10
3-09  Wpodsl EteCtr1c1 tla-Irle   Ce, * Ltd. ~Tre.t-r                        3      1,235      No0   2,332         -     900      90      960       254       31,397   20.277      9.9     - 
a-to  tie. aeel teeteccertea ceepee. Ltd. Ct-rte  etee                       3        171      960    3,115       -      90       g0o     900         -        14.137    2.945      -      -
a-iab M e PageINr te.Iectefteg Cuepsay, Lcd. PrLetteu  pager                 3        729    1MD3   2,779              2,520    1,62      650         7        5,246         -   397.6 
a-is  epeo.is ISet  Cuapony                      bee ers we3                        0.024     23,27   20,630           8.3297    5,297   2,0600       --                    -         
a-is  be ba" cupratlocee                         Allrec-ea.3cl                        492       39      654        -      2  321  32 21               --                     -      -      -      -
a1-to  Ottag  Feed. Caw-Y. Ltd.                  lead.4 Aeeee                          11fwoJ   33       68        -       3                          -                     -       - 
a-ti Jle be  ~we. bagemw. Ltd.                   bande.                      3      4.632    2.403    6,333   1.24    2,966    4,73    2,760         90       24,163             1159         
a-4   g Se.gSaq    pw. Led.                      Setle                           30,393   30.400   24,552         -   4,560    4.366   3,63         72        12.724    4,0C   124.23        
a-17  be teeS ledsetrie. Cuepeey. Ltd.           Coldtecr.ge                 v      1,963      400    2,410     906      a0    1.323    400          9         2,137        -     40.6       
a-ti  bra. tare  Cuepee  Ltd.                    Colt ececq                  a      1.475      29     2.047   2,043      200    1.430     230        31          892              3 7.6       
a~-Iq  0.iml ftea  Cupep   t.                    Ib0ad   beatae              3        220    1,500    2.775            1.500    15_0   1,260          5          400        -    92.7      -      -
a-solv   Aoe ftt brpdl1. Ceep.y, Ltd.            Tredieg                     Z        115      410     3Vi         -     4        410     420         -         1.923    3.340      -      - 
'-22  ftte.goobds tepepoo. ltd.                  bade a heerag               a         37      270      21-0             270      270    210          --                     -      -      -      -
a-:22  rake  Zedeeulea meg.                      Sattle                      3      1,41B    3.500    5,S32        - 3.M9    2,00   5.360            as        5.190    3,730    95.0   30.00  20.20
3-23   e. t a  l bttle. Cuepee. Ltd.        U-1 teettl                  Z         746     756      342              ? 7      730    750         34         3,356    7.100    90.2     -      -
3-24  be 0. OLty Gme bepea. ULtd                 Caty se                     3      2.274      990    5.093   12,20      "90    2.44      910        53        2,348        -   344.5        
3-23   reta5u. Crpertte.                         vepcttue weeds              a        117      420      574        -     J30      420     430         2         1,723       -    14.6        
3-24  Ema.e  0e.cat ledeattit Cepesy, Led.  Paine                            3      1,423      265    2,14   73  700            1,373     700        27        3,0          -     57.9     -      -
3-27   abl  eetilbpa.Ld                           ae   lC                    1         74      410      502        -      10      430     410         7        1.494        -     71.7     -      -
323  be vad Elacareelce Cepeesace Cu., Ltd.  Mlctralytie cep-ctta           Z      1,201    2,350    2.901l           2,350    2.350   2,210         -        3.180    2.632       -    19.63  27.61
3-29  be Ta" 99.1  attl  Cuepee. Ltd.            tat teethe                  a        393      n50    1.092              no45     an0    650          9        4,00    7.200   335.0       -      -
3-20  .Lle bave bemieG.Cupee. Ltd.               b2ce                                .e          -    2,"53      3oo  1,360    2.500   1,360        104            -        -     2.         
4-22  Otue.gt baodeC Cupeap, Ltd.                bft." 4 teern               3         23      100       124       -     10       16      100         --                            -      -      -
3-22  he  ladecral   way  Ltd.                   Iatesrted circut            a      1,06     32,20    4,319       -    2,6      2,0 1700   30                  3,0.M10  3.01 .09    90,4   17.63  24.73
D323  ONl Star Cuepey. Ltd.                      TV eat, WrI                 Z      4,15     3,000   30,195       -    .m0    Sim   3.060           633       44.7          -    32. 323.24  39.233
-324  belaD ScadSg Caageay, Ltd.                 Trailg                      3         75      400      491        -     aO       400      a 0                     -        -              -      -
a-si O.t"  tat Seattle Ceepea  Ltd.              taItsc,atlt                3         91      750  90"a                 750      750     750         -        9,136    4.320       -             -
&3-2   OMr baog Cerperetta                       SayS. praceetem             a        103      270      493        -     370      270    210          -        2,910        -              -      -
53-7  be lb. S. Cupe_. Ltd.                      t.il.g 4 seal               a      1,024        -    1.294     343      "a       995     250                  5,463    4.22        -      - 
-238  11UM. Spleteg 0.9-y, Ltd.                  TWae.ti                     3      3,612    2,620    53507        -   2,950    2,920   3,430        50        9,410    3,374   337.1      - 
&3-9  bra Uses. ELngere Cmrperet-., Ltd.         XIeear                      5        B24      No    1,534      443      SW0    1J        SW0        30        9,132        -    31.4      - 
3-40  MULL tat` lntils ceepee. Lem.              tel lentIl.                 3t       371      650    1,042       -      650      639     610         -       10,060    4.230       --            -
5I-41  be O be  &* fISLe  WS. Cupapw. Ltd.       1*4 aPeal"                  3         90      22       324        -     230      220     230                               -      -       -      -
3-42  bce. nc bempe, Ltd.                        flat tegac                 3a                 490      412       -      490      "Do   490                    1.864        -              -      -
3-43  be Sa Tntaing teopeep, Ltd.                Scedleg                     Z         44     1I"       242        -     190       90     190                   I 12=    1,029               
5.44  Klrta te1al Ceepay Lii,                    Pp. Pt. ile                 5        924        -      770       -       00      100     I0O        50        1.214        -    257       - 
3-41  smoneg  1,actreate Ceaeyw, Ltd.            TV eat, Wm3                          177      n60    1,199              960      no0   "60D                  10,774    4.7644        
5-49  fbla. Sploslng Clopof. Ltd.                Ittle                      51        24      230      262       -      220      22      220         -            -        -       -             -
3,47  Atee ZdaerLIal Cuageap lad.                Ieterecd drealt             3    32,942   29,200   33,307        -  39,760   34100   4.00          393       51,037   31.017    59.9  16.32  21.29
3-46  SrJ1e. leak-bedlam  Curperttl               bab-Istaib
b.-A  bern flee Cerperetee                       laybees precee.eg           3      4,750    5,040  13,213        -   3,040    4.040   2.040        100       .2,299        -   1325.7  21.30  32.10
5-30  smseattle Cuepeep, Lcd.                    tattle.                               G0lo             207       -      140      I&80    160         -           73      405                
5-I Vaus ta ledeetriat b-peap, Ltd.              ScsI predete               F3        22     1,00     1,7  1,          1,50     2.30  00  0m          -        0120         -              -      -
3_32  Mta tin  rC1a1C   4  e_trWa  09., L%d&  Iprw bee                       5        173      970      36s -             70      970    410         20       10,447         -    44.4  30.39  32.90
3-S bass S. Sep-.. 0~., ltd.                     T..Partet3                  a        433        -      3423             3200     320    220          -            -                -      -      -
3-54  ft-eWee  be-t 09., Ltd.                    Cee.t a taslc.              a        759      430    1,292            1,000    1,000   1,006         -        1,925    .1,39       -             -
3-3  Cold Scar 413p. MaccreSt. 0., Ltd.          fLecieele lana.             3      3.,39    2.500    4,437        - 2,000    2.000   2,060          25       21,947    2.417   324.4  24.2  34.9
5-34  be teas Curpetlee                          Aurlcaltuare  prfca                 270               444              220      22      220         -                     -      -       -      -
"T5  1Ams  Ietete lad. Ca. * Ltd.                baWe 
-3-5   bell Cory led. Ca.. *Ltd.                 latey                       3         40      a25      664        -      35      62      M3          -           M9                         
-359  Ismre  Wise C". led.                       te.e.a  Sein.               a         79      360      456              3 20     20      260         --                                   -      -
3-40  smsm  Imacelice 09., Ltd.                  TV S.C. *CI                 3        209      960    1,224        -     "9D      "D0   9M            -        200    1,395                  
3-I  Isso-  ZIL-ecrete  09., Ltd.               'IV bt,. 90I                         233      993    1,293              "I9    993    993I                     3.419    3,240      -             -
D-42  OMd Star Ces. *Ltd.                        seoctreele Cued.            a   3   2         113      219       -      115      173     175                      -        -              -      -
3,-6   Coat1 awr a 09., Ltd.                     foods.  bimrege             a        NG4   1,950    2,394         -   1,95     1,95    1.910         --                     -             -      -
5-44  be Swee Cl., Ltd.                          Seattle                     a      3,954    4.000    5,447       -   2,000    2,000   2.000         25        2,410    3.167   235.7  39.2  22.0
5-05  be be J. co"-W.p Ltd.                      bra  pee.cte                a      1,924      263    2,2B6   1.200      aw    1,371       a         so       10,69     9,900    45.7      - 
3s-46  be ELI Cecewe C-., Led.                   lb."d                       1        127      300       152       -     SW0      300     SW         31        2,023        -    21.1        
3-97  tese Paean Jehetele  Cuep-er, Ld.          tree  weetea elec          3    3P,ODS   23.323   43,34    1.000   4.200    5,723   3,500         222       24,525   14,372   339.6 B
3-43  bheak UIrefg C,0.,. Ltd.                   Urea                        3    13,260    2,640   39,633  132,29    2,440   19,635  1,540         116       532,70   23,982   310.2  31.5  44.9
,-49  be baod Z"d. cu., Ltd.                     dARteeltatel e.chle.y       3        921        -      767        -     450      430    450          --                    -       -      - 
3-10  W-Sto tern Cu., Ltd.                      0au re2le.y                  a      7,405             9,035            5,400    SAW3  3,000           -                     -       -      -      -
3-71  OtcaLfl  eda C9., Ltd.                      boode & Sewrage            KI        4       140      194        -     140      140     140         2        2,557        -   94.7       -      -
T4c4i                                                                  144.492  172.210  232.125  29.0401 132.130  '42.392 97.86    4.034         907.902  239.217   67.5



ANNEX 3
- 62 -                                          Table 10
Page 1 of 2
-KOREA
SECOND INDUSTRIAL FINANCE PRnJECT
Korea Long-Term Credit Bank
Audited Balance Sheet. 1980 - 1984
(in v million)
1980       1981        1982         1983          1984
Assets
Current Assets
Cash In banks and demand deposits                    7,656       6,311      12,836      48,771        47,150
Time deposlts maturing withln one year                  20           -           -            -             -
Restricted cash /a                                   6,440         639       2,130        4,230       19,535
Marketable securitels at cost                       31,893      42,528      84,137       70,244       76,064
Short-term domestic currency loans                     509       6,247       9,814        7,489       14,391
Loans due within one year                           55,809    112,760    130,339       227,598       311,338
Less:  Allowances for losses                          (660)    (1,300)    (1,580)        (2,430)       (3,310)
Accrued interest                                     9,896      10,791      17,458       25,418       27,379
Other current assets                                     19         30       6,240/b    13,575/c        5_888/d
Customers' acceptance liability                      1,175       2,340       6,779       15,079       29,n50
Total Current Assets                           112.757    180.346    268.153       409.974       527.485
Long-Term Assets
Domestic currency loans                               70,473    166,880    221,480        271,529       298,915
Foreign currency loans
IBRD loans                                         155,015    158.584    165,137       160,777       183,081
ADE loans                                           43,562      59,495      62,688       71,311       84.622
AID loans                                              101           -           -            -             -
IZC loans                                            6,938       5,211       3,339        1,180             -
DEC loans                                            1,379       1,046         823          546           299
APOO loans                                          11,303       7,870       4,003        2,127             -
DEUTI loans                                         19,359      18,384      17,034       14,969       12,809
ILT loans                                           33,115      34.939      31,Q23      28.437        23,964
KAF loans                                            8,365      50,340      68,270       62,751       53,645
ADB cofinancing loans                                    -           -      40,014       55.302       70,415
Tusuda loans                                                         -           -       13,769       15,00R
IBRD cofinancing loans                                   -           -           -        1,583       13,216
General ter, loans                                       -           -       1,360       4,no8         5,008
Special ter, loans                                       -           -       6,14R       6,065         6,672
Revolving funds                                      3,886       5,617       8.357       11,079       14,369
Subtotal                                      283.023    341,486    409.096       433 qn4       483 188
Debentures                                            11,762      30,650      27,328       56,686      120,911
Equity  ivesntments                                    4,701       7,273       7,554        7,714        8,500
Total Long-Term Portfolio                     369.959    546.289    665.458       769,833       911.514
Less:  Allowances for losses                          (3,100)    (4,270)    (5,280)        (5,350)       (6,781)
Current portion                               (55,809)  (112,760)  (130,339)   (227.598)    (311,338)
Net Total Long-Term Portfolio                 311.050    429,259    '29.839       536.885       593.395
Property and equipment                                 2,177       2,373       3,409        3,568         3,698
Less: Accumulated depreciation                           (618)      (775)       (958)      (1,135)       (1,338)
Other fixed assets                                       307         727       2,680        4,279         4,582
Total Long-Tevu  Assets                       312,916    431.584    534,970       543.597       600.337
Deferred Assets
Deferred charges                                          31'        447         694        1,293           521
Total Assets                                  425.988    612.377    803.817       954,864    1,12R,343
/a  Restricted cash represents foreign currencies KLR haa borrowed and received and in temporarily holding
In banks on behalf of several borrowers.
lb Includes call loan amount of V 4,028 million.
W   Includes call loan amount of W 12.839 million.
Td Includes call loan amount of V 4,967 million.



ANNEX 3
- 63 -                                    Table 10
Page 2 of 2
1980       1981        1982        1983          1984
Liabilities and Equity
Current Liabillties
Deposits                                            8,999      14,124      17,007      22,395        29,117
Accrued Interest and comitment fees                 6,722      12,824     11,410       10,279        13,215
Deferred income                                     3,470       8,523      10,026       9,780         7,208
Income tax payable                                  3,123       4,069        726          391         1,627
Borrowers' funds held on deposit /a                 5.716         159         178           2             -
Current maturity of long-term debt                 36,258      67,977    157,681      182,407       226,187
Otber current liabilities                             867       8,540     12,656       19,579/b      20,343
Acceptances outstanding                             1,175       2,340      6,779       15,079       29,050
Total Current Liabilities                      66,330    118,556    216,463       259,912      326,747
Employees' severance liabilities                      695       1,088       1,252       1,615         1,965
Long-Tern Liabilities
Domestic currency borrovings (Government loan)    1,789         1,721       1,654       1,586         1,519
Foreign currency borrowings
IBRD loans                                      155,087    158,728    165,099       160,495      195.7%8
ADB loans                                        46,193      63,911     69,704       81,615       98,715
AIDI loans                                          760         622         456         249             -
IFC loans                                         6,938       5,211      3,339        1,180
DRG loans                                         1,379       1,046         823         547           2'9
APCO loans                                       11,774       7,808       5,005       1,772             -
DEUTB loans                                      16,860      19,676     18,017       15,950        13,272
IBJ loans                                        33,115      35,135     32,530       29,242       24,885
KAF loans                                         8,909      49,035     72,576       70,371        62,026
ADB cofinancing loans                                 -           -     37,144       54,294       70,289
Yusuda loans                                          -           -           -      17,182        16,529
IBRD cofinancing loans                                -           -          -       23,865       24,646
Subtotal                                      284,024    341.172    404,693       456,762      506,459
Long-term bank debentures                            64,600    178,904    282,561       334,544       428,630
Less: Unamortized discount on long-term bank
debentures                                 (19,872)   (39,042)   (39,171)    (22,884)       (25,010)
Accrued Interest due after one year                     307       7,215     21,303       28,779        31,477
Total Long-Term Liabilities                   330,848    489.970    671,040       798.787      943,075
Less: current maturity on long-term debt            (36,258)   (67,977)  (157,681)   (182,407)    (226.187)
Net Total Long-Term Liabilities               294,590    421.993    513,359       616,380      716,888
Stockbolders' Equity
Share capital                                      50,000      50,000     50,000       50,000        50,000
Legal reserve                                         300       1,870      3,840        5,140         6,640
Voluntary reserve                                   1,200           -           -       2,400         5,400
Business rationalization reserve                      900       5,050      8,620       10,720        10,720
Unappropriated                                     11,973      13,820      10,283       8,697         9,983
Total Stockholders' Equity                     64,373     70,740      72,743       76,957       82,743
Total Liabilities and Equlty                  425,988    612,377    803,817       954.864    1.128.343
ContinRent Liabilities
Payable guarantees                                     1,175      2,340       6,779      15,079        29,050
L/C Issued and outstanding                           13,461      13,466      12,075      24,834        28,921
Subtotal                                       14.636      15,806     18.R54       39,J13       57.971
Current ratio                                              1.7        1.5         1.2          1.6          1.6
Long-tern debt/equity ratio                               5.16       6.96        8.98        10.07        10.74
Reserves and provisions as Z of portfolio                  4.9        4.8         4.5         4.4           4.5
/a  Borrowers' funds held on deposit represent foreign currencies KLB has borrowed and is temporarily hold-
Ing In banks on bebalf of several borrowers.
/b Includes bank notes received on call loan transactions, amount of w 12,839 million.



ANNEX 3
- 64 -                                    Table 11
KOREA
SECOND INDUSTRIAL FINANCE PROJECT
Korea Long-Term Credit Bank
Audited Income Statements, 1980 - 1984
(in V million)
1980    1981      1982     1983       1984
Income
Interest Income from
Domestic currency loans                    8,580  27,466   42,622   44,123    45,769
Foreign currency loans                    31,992  38,802   47,181   45,983    49,213
Subtotal                             40,572  65,268   89.803   90.106    94,982
Commitment income                              754     561    1,728    1,661       1,354
Debenture income                             1,052  -4,460    6,762    6,504    13,102
Dividend income                              1,361   1,460    1,885    1,117       1,364
Interest on securities, principally
public bonds                               4,886   7,427   10,478   12,946    12,344
Interest on deposits and other income          699   5,345    2,719    4,586       5,241
Disposal of investments                      1,163        -        -         -         -
Total Income                         50_487  84 521  113 375  116,920   128.387
Expenses
Interest and Charges on Borrowings
Domestic currency borrowings                 100      105      123       112       130
Foreign currency borrowings               22,485  33,613   41,043   38,685    46,015
Commitment cbarges                           460     544    1,207    1,532       1,711
Long-term bank debentures                  3,746  23,331   48,644   54,807    54,568
Deposits and others                          245     618    1,461    1,689       3,134
Subtotal                             30.736  58.211   92 478   96.825   105.558
Salaries and other personnel expenses        1,653   2,376    2,669    3,032       3,344
Administrative and general expenses            977   1,653    1,642    2,039       2,289
Depreciation                                   154      178      207      205        207
Provision for losses                           985   1,810    1,298       920      1,340
Write-offs s                                              -        -         -          -
Other expenses                                 349     613    2,950    2,990       3,438
Total Expenses                        34,854  64,841  101,243  106,011   116,176
Net earnings before tax                       15,633  19,680   12,142   10,909    12,211
Provisions for income tax                      3,780   6,870    2,070    2,700       2,700
Net income                                    11,853  13,810   10,062    8,209       9,511
Retained earnings brought forward                119       11      221       488       472
Total                                 11,972  13.821   10,283    8.697       9.983
Appropriation
Cash dividend                                7,449   8,250    4,000    4,000       5,000
Stock dividend                                   -       -         -        -          -
Legal reserve                                1,570   1,970    1,300    1,500       1,500
Business ratiounalization reserve            4,150   3,570    2,100         -          -
Voluntary reserve                           (1,200)       -    2,400    3,000      3,300
Unappropriated                                   3       31      483      197        183
Total                                 11.972  13,821        10,283    8697    9.9!3



ANNEX 3
- 65 -                                          Table 12
KOREA
SECOND INDUSTRIAL FINANCE PROJECT
Korea Long-Term Credit Bank
Summarized Cash Flow Statements. 1980 - 1984
(in W milllon)
1980      1981       19R2      1983        1984
Sources
Operations
Internal cash generation                                15,122    25,564    25,497    42,801       38,633
Increase In paid-in share capital                      35,000          -          -         -           -
Drawdown on foreign currency borrowings                 63,247    88,362   102,067   103,363    119,049
Issuance of KLB debentures                             64,600   120,000   100,944   151,810    219,133
Subtotal                                          177,969   233,926   228,508   297,974    376,795
Collections
Domestic currency loans                                  4,161    41,611   217,755   559,201    478,488
Debentures                                                 155     3,002    10,672      7,214     20,411
Disposition of equity investments                       4,071          -        754       140           -
Foreign currency loans                                 24,747    37,446    49,423    68,107       70,603
Subtotal                                           33 134    82.059   278,604   634,662    569,502
others
Increase in collections due to foreign exchange
rate fluctuations                                    65,378      3,556     9,650      5,387      8,743
Disposition of property and equipment                        -        63         36        38           7
Decrease in other fixed assets                               -        15        275       530         413
Increase in current liabilities                        20,880    55,225    19,564    19,854        6,195
Subtotal                                           86 258    58,859    29,525    25.809       15.358
Total Sources                                     297.361   374.844   536.637   95R,45    961,655
Uses
Disbursements
Domestic currency loans                                67,823   138,018   275,921   598,569    512,776
Debentures                                             11,152    21,890       7,350    36,572     84,555
Equity investments                                       1,115     2,572      1,035       300          95
Foreign currency loans                                 64,714    90,751   107,336    95,946    128,628
Subtotal                                          144.804   253.231   391.642   731,387    726.n54
Repayment
Domestic currency borrowings                                68        68         68        68          68
Foreign currency borrowings                            22,417    34,769    48,196    56,682       60,671
KLB debentures                                               -         -    27,141   109,270    147,421
Subtotal                                           22.485    34,837    75,405   166.020    208,160
Others
Increase in disbursement due to foreign exchange       65,371      3,426      9,698     5,327       8,715
rate fluctuations
Acquisition of property and equipment                      233       258      1,072       195         136
Increase In other fixed assets                            265        435      2,228     2,128         716
Increase in current assets                             39,414    74,754    47,296    47,731        13,778
Increase in deferred assets                            22,438        378       738      1,552           -
Decrease in depreciation                                     -        21         24        29           4
Employees' severance pay                                    51        55        284        76          92
Payment of dividend                                     2,3no      7,449      8,250     4,000       4,000
Subtotal                                          130,072    86,776    69,590    61.038       27.441
Total Uses                                        297,361   374.844   536.637   958,445    961.655



ANN8X 3
Table 13
:                                            - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~66-
KOREA
SECOND INDUSTRIAL FINANCE PROJECT
Korea Long-Term Credit Bank
Key Indicators, 1980 - 1984
(in W million)
1980       1981        1982       1983         1984
Total Assets                                          425,988    612,377    803,817    954,865        1,128,343
Of which:
Loan portfolio /a                                 365,258    539,016    657,904    762,121          903,014
Equity investments                                  4,701       7,273      7.554       7,714          8,500
Long-term liabilities /b                            330.848    489,970    671,040    798,787          943,075
Of which
In forelgn currency                             284,024    341,172    404,693    456,761         506,459
In domestic currency                              1,789       1,721      1,654       1,586          1,519
Debentures /c                                    45,035    147,077    264,693    34i,.440         435,097
Contingent liabilities                               14,636      15,807     18,854      39,914         57,971
Equity                                               64,373      70,740     72,743      76,957         82,743
Financial Performance
Percentage of Average Total Assets
l.  Gross income                                     15.4        15.9       16.0        13.3           12.3
2.  Financial expenses                                9.4        11.0        13.1       11.1           10.2
3.  Gross spread (1-2)                                6.0         4.9        2.9         2.2            2.1
4. Administrative expenses                            1.0         0.9         1.0        0.9            0.8
5.  Provision for doubtful loans                      0.3         0.3        0.2         0.1            0.1
6. Income tax                                         1.2         1.1        0.3         0.3            0.3
7.  Profit before provision for taxes                 3.8         3.7        1.7         1.2            1.2
8.  Net profit                                        3.5         2.6         1.4        0.9            0.9
Net Profit as Z of Average Net Worth                   28.2        20.4        14.0       11.0           11.9
Other Ratios
Provisions as Z of total portfolio                       1.0        1.0         1.0        1.0            1.0
Provisions and reserves as Z of total portfolio         4.9         4.8        4.5         4.4            4.5
Book value as X of par value                          128.7       141.5       145.5      153.9          165.5
Debt service cover (times)                              1.5         2.0        3.0         1.2            1.2
Interest cover ratio (times)                            1.5         1.3         1.1        1.1            1.1
Eirnings per shares (%)                                39.5        27.6       20.1        16.4           19.0
Dividends (1)                                          20.0        16.5        8.0         8.0           10.0
Stock dividends per share (X)                          50.0           -          -           -              -
Payout ratio                                           62.8        59.7        39.8       48.7           52.6
Spread on average domestic loan portfolio (%)          16.4         8.1        4.1         2.2            3.5
Spread on average foreign loan portfoilo (Z)            2.7         1.7        1.4         1.7            0.9
Spread on average total loan portfolio (Z)              3.8         1.1        0.3         0.6            1.1
Spread on average total portfolio (Z) /d                5.6         3.7        2.2         1.8            2.2
Long-term debt/equity ratio                             5.5         7.0        9.0        10.1           10.7
Current ratio                                           1.7         1.5         1.2        1.6            1.6
/a Including short-term maturities and before provision for doubtful accounts.
/b Including short-term maturities.
/c  KIB debenture (face value) plus accrued interest on KLB debentures.
/d Income from total average portfolio minus financial expenses of total term debt and equity.



-67-                                           ANNEX 3
Table 14
KOREA
SECOND INDUSTRIAL FINANCE PROJECT
Korea Long-Term Credit Bank
Ratio Analysio
1980     1981      1982     1983        1984
1.   Income from loans as % of average loan portfolio         15.34    15.39    15.93    13.58         12.81
2.   Cost of term debt/average term debt                      12.00    14.30    15.66    11.69         11.75
3.   Earning spread (1-2)                                      3.34     1.09      0.27     1.49         1.06
4.   Income from total portfolio/average total portfolio   15.50    15.77    16.17    13.49            12.92
5.   Financial expenses/average term debt and equity          10.30    12.09    13.95    11.74         10.76
6.   Earning spread (4-5)                                      5.20     3.68      2.22     1.75         2.16
7.   Income from foreign currency loans/average foreign
currency loan portfolio                               14.20    12.61    12.73    11.21          10.83
8.   Cost of foreign currency term debt/average foreign
currency term debt                                    11.50    10.93    11.33       9.91         9.91
9.   Earning spread on foreign currency loans (7-8)            2.70     1.68      1.40     1.69         0.92
10.   Income from total domestic currency portfolio/
average total domestic currency portfolio             21.40    21.46    21.55    16.27          15.39
11.   Domestic financial expenses/average domestic term
debt and equity                                        5.90    14.29    17.44    11.91          11.92
12.   Earning spread on domestic currency loans (10-11)        15.50     7.17      4.11     2.15         3.47
13.   GSA expenses/average term debt and equity                 0.90     0.85      0.69     0.65         0.61
14.   G&A expenses/average total assets                         0.88     0.78      0.64     0.60         0.56
15.   Provision for doubtful loans/loans and investment         1.00     1.00      1.00     1.00         1.00
16.   Return on total assets (before income tax)                3.67     3.21      1.51     1.14         1.08
17.   Return on total assets (after income tax)                 2.78     2.26      1.25     0.86         0.84
18.   Earnings as Z of per share (average outstanding)         39.50    27.60    20.10    16.42         19.02
19.   Cash dividend as % of per share                          20.00    16.50     8.00      8.00        10.00
19a.  Stock dividend as Z of per share                         50.00      -         -        -            -
20.   Payout ratio (cash dividend/net income)                  62.80    59.74    39.75    48.73         52.57
21.   Interest coverage ratio                                   1.51     1.34      1.13     1.12         1.12
22.   Debt service coverage ratio                               1.49     2.01      2.98     1.22         1.18



ANNEX 3
-68-                               Table 15
KOREA
SECOND INDUSTRIAL FINANCE PROJECT
Korea Long-Term Credit Bank
Status of Loan Portfolio as of December 31, 1984
(in W million)
Principal
No. of    outstanding             Arrears
loans   Amount      %    Interest  Principal  Total
Loans in Grace Period
Not in arrears               894   427,605   47.7         -
In arrears for less
than 3 months               16     8,992    1.0      314           -      314
In arrears for more
than 3 months                7     1,664    0.2      138           -      138
Loan in Repayment Stage
Repaying regularly         1,110   453,293   50.1         -          -         -
In arrears for less
than 3 months                7     1,711    0.2       32         216      248
In arrears for more
than 3 months               14     8,860    1.0      642       1,604    2,246
Loans Being Foreclosed           1        889    0.1      198        889    1,087
Total Portfolio       2.049   903.014  100.0   1.324        2,709    4,033
Age Structure of Loans in Arrears as of December 31  1984
outstanding
No. of    balance              Arrears
loans     affected   Interest  Principal  Total
Less than 3 months                23       10,703        346         216       562
3 to 6 months                     10        2,694         199        120       319
6 to 12 months                     4        6,764        420         591    1,011
Over 12 months                      6         879          93        727       820
Over 2 years                       2        1,076        266       1,055    1,321
Total                      45       22,116      1,324       2,709    4.033



-69-                                               AM=NN   3
SECOND INDUSTRIAL FINANCE PROJECT
Korea Long-Term Credit Bank
Analysis of Loans in Arrears, 1980 - 1984
kin W MliZon)
1980      1981       1982      1983         1984
Loans in Arrears
Total nuaber of loans in portfolio                           801     1.097      1,296     1,584        2,049
Number of loans in arrears under 3 months                     12        17         12        31           23
As Z of total loan portfolio                               1.5       1.5        1.0       2.0          1.1
Number of loans in arrears over 3 months |a                    3         9          3        12           22
As % of total loan portfolio                              0.4        0.8        0.2       0.7          1.1
Number of loans in arrears                                    15        26         15        43           45
As 2 of total loan portfolio                               1.9       2.4        1.2       2.7          2.2
Principal Affected by Arrears
Total principal outstandang                             365,258   539,0'6   657,904   762,121        903.014
Principal affected by arreare under 3 months               6,272     4.915      3.452    14,333       10,705
As x of principal outstanding                              1.7       0.9        0.5       1.9          1.2
Principal affected by arrears for 3-12 months la             409     2.081        387     7,690        9.455
As 2 of principal outstanding                              0.1       0.4        0.1       1.0          1.0
Principal affected by arrears over 12 nonths /a                -       380      4,728     1,076        1,956
As 2 of principal outstanding                                -       0.1        0.1       0.1          0.2
Total principal affected by arrears                       6.681      7,376      4,728    23.277       22,116
As Z of principal outstandlng                              1.8       1.4        0.7       3.0          2.4
Actual amount in Arrears /b
Arrears under .3 montHsi                                      27        96        556       636          216
As X of principal outstanding                            0.01       0.02      0.08       0.08         0.02
Arrears between 3-12 months /a                               131       250        333       474          711
As 2 of principal outstandTi g                           0.03       0.04      0.05       0.06         0.08
Arrears over 12 months /a                                      -         -        111       972        1,782
As X of principal outslFanding                              -          -      0.02       0.13         0.20
Total arrears                                                158       346      1,000     2,082        2.709
As 2 of total outstanding                                0.04       0.06      0.15       0.27         0.30
/a Including accounts being foreclosed.
7T Arrears of principal only.



-70-                                                ANNEX 3
Iable 11
SECOND DMUSTIAL FDIANCE PROJECT
Korea Long-Tarn Credit Bank
Collectlon Performance. 1980 - 1984
(In V million)
Arrears at  Amount fall-      Total               Collections           Collection ratios (7)  Arrears
beginning   Ing due dur-      mount    Against  Agai1st                T4) as  C5  as   bJ *es  at end
of year    Ing the year  falling due  arrears  nc  dues   Total    2 af    2 of    Z of   of the
(1)           (2)           (3)         (4)       (5)        (6)      (1)     (2)      (3)    year
1980
Wincipal          37         28,218         28,255         37    28,060    28,097  100.0    99.4    99.4         158
Interest          29        43,253         43,282         29    42,982    43,011  100.0    99.4    99.4          271
Total          66        71,471         71.537         66    71,042    71.108  100.0    99.4    99.4         429
1981
-Wincipal          158         82,247         82,405        158    81,901    82,059  100.0    99.6    99.6         346
Interest         271        76,627         76,898        254    76,147    76,147   93.7    99.4    99.4         497
Total        429        158,874        159,303        412   158.048   158,460   96.0    99.5    99.5         843
1982
-lincipa1         346       111,574        111,920        235   110,685   110,920   67.9    99.2    99.1    1,000
Interest         497        99,573        100.070        442    99,234    99,676   88.9    99.7    99.6         394
Total        843        211,147        211.990        677   209.919   210.596   80.3    99.4    99.4    1.394
1983
WFincipal      1,000        133,017        134,017       430   131,505   131,935   43.0    98.9    98.4    2,082
Interest         394        92,554         92,948        205    91,518    91,723   52.0    98.9    98.7    1,225
Total      1,394        225,571        226,965        635   223.023   223.658   46.3    98.9    98.5    3.307
1984
'..ncipal      2,082        178,497        180,579       664   177,206   177,870   31.9    99.3    98.5    2,709
Interest      1,225        105,542        106,767        926   104,517   105,443   75.6    99.0    98.8    1,324
Total      3,307        284,039        287,346      1.590   281.723   283.313   48.1    99.2    98.6    4.033



-nL-
a
m nn  asr
mm- u_  beitlom. .  I,e~i  IurmeI  mee Ibse n                 I - 196
itt_  tMIm fer    SJt                                                                                                 Ytue    Prm`1-
aristrAl    Aatwa  CMCtod  .   .            at       S ,  "I ftllo.  l8 i p"ms  bm.,t  Ten  ut t re  l f   In  rat.   suubarr.uer     -       lImIt    mt tied
-   Cm  '0002 -       -momt  5111lm        themmuml   crest .cSIle                    (I)               (42            Cyars)    umble    (Wos3)    r Met
Par-ts   OBn' me
ED*10                    5.00      2.2        2.32         -            -    (1131161     19-114            4.0                 iO              is           ma.      i30       tied
let 1_n               5,00      4,9             0        -           -    ouia1Ma        twa-as        e.g-l.a               ms                            .                   ". St
a  lea               2n0,0      19 176     19,726        -           -    0_12615       1171431           0.5        m        i               15s .c.               390        net
3rd lem              30,00     29,325      29.125        -          542    05117171     1316              7.25               0n               Is          in..      so         "Mt
*tF tan              40,00n       "a 9,60                -        3.372    0611503      lo7s-4?           7.23                to              is    7     s.        1"         at
Sth leoovn                      55,00    55,46  53,4"    -       34.13    07?125,       I177-41          5.5             10.715-1.2          i5            .      2,00         met
6th le1n             70,00      13.0ne  70.000           -       3.4    Daimm  n o-%                      5.2             10.6-10.2           3s                  2,5         raot
7th leon            300,0O    100,w05    100,000         -          6      120171       3o-I5             7.35              9.35              is          s..    4,0ooe
nth imen             90.000    19,79f    57.s            -        0.941    011141       1956-94           9.25              11.25            13        l30no   S30on           at
9th lean            120,000    *. 157      73,727        -       4,4    0n419           195-Ua          *rIable   htentrs    rate* 2.0        3 5       30,00     5.00         a
gmn lea              20,010      0,44 I      .737        -       2,448    12120Ma2    296s-I            Wutmblie    kreMie  ratu* 2.0         32         2$n'   2,00           nat
lot lain             30,000    29n,W       29,592        -       4,317    9102074       1977-           T.-.7                30 II                        m aI..   710         nat
ed le"n              40.0DO    3180        37,59 6       -       13654    nalh112176    ,1-941            9.2             11.1-10.2           35     *     .-.    3.510       rat
3rd le               50.00    49m.b        49.D00        -      41,9s6   121131         19-               7.6                 .6              35s        4,       2.000        at
4Cl T " ean          6 no   35.414         55,444        -       *95315    1116153      1915-40          30.1               12.1             35          4.01     2,500 a1t
5th lon              70,000    5,4559      2"99          -       7,419    121021I3 1956-99               10.5               12.37             30         5.000    3,000        nt
CmICIal ttM-
pillar  ean           5.00          79         79        --    MUlMh                   1973-79           7.0                 10               5          s.c.        -       tie
Ictoen                 177.50n    17.11      17.0n                      -  -5s/2370       197044    As  30.75            Ferrtlc Tt.           Ito          ma.         -        nat
be 1IUD  * 2.0          3.235
DMS lea                 2.OD      2.000      2.000        -          577    05126176     3971-56          30.25      P.rretm   rate 4 3.25      7          m._-        -        Mt
Acs lXe.               20.000    20,000      2O00          -            -    0o913l77     196044    LIBa  ' 1.75   berm-lag rt. 3 1.23    3n                s.           -        TM
DUn lees               30,000    30,00       50.000        -       35,042    0e5"9        39811-m     LIM    ' 0.573  berting rat' 3.235    10              m.a.        -        at
IOU lea                30.n0    49.43        49.,93        -      2F.59n    11511/59      1952-3      L13   0 D.75   Ibrremlm   at .  1.25 ..a.                         -        at
w
Iat kmw              60,000    40,000      400,00        -      24.683    07121/SO      24112-31   1250  4 0.9573        LIM0 4 2.0            7          a.m.        -       awt
2d lean              30o no    3n,000      30,0100       -       22,063    0715)53      19113-109   LIM l    0.675      LIU   * 2.0            7
3rd ln               30.000    30.000      10.00         -       18.04    121251        19116-9    Lns. a.n2s            LIM    t.s            a
AM lt bIfieota         50.000    50.055      s0.0e         -       40.326    129)51       395-91    tWp  + 0.3             LWM   1.4            10          n.m.        -
2n"d  efla ets    25.000    25.000       23.,29        -       22.,44    07122/52     1915-9n    lYe + 0.3             Lc I   3.4           10          ma.         -        mt
Temmdls Ten lan         20.5D0   20,000      17.,37        -       18,16D    12M0/2       1.36-92    As 111 * 0.2         L.TP  ' 1.322         10          s^.         -        Mt
So LTP 4 0.3
ISI let cefleammcng   30,OD     2.136      22,645        -      3,.onn   07/29/93       150-91          .A Lnnn   0.75    L13   1.67           n          *.-.        -        at
CAPCO)                                                                                         at  7n32* 0.23
IAS 3rd  e-fnim   S    40.00      33.630    30.20         -       22.420    05120114    1297-44    LI e  0.25             LTP   I .31          In          %.e.        -        at
Alm 4th  ofIancg    30.000             -          -                          12-12/1      19617-42    A,          o.n 0.75    I  ' I.9           a            a.        -        at
Cwr2                                                                                           am 1t3 + 0.n75
o_assete orr Cv mull.")
2.02      20n2s      2.021    1.539            -    0119)67      1977-2006         4.0



hu  3
gnu~ ~~~~~~~wn
-co  nmrmA -uw                                                                 r_ I.r
55090D IfhSS    *IICS PEU CT
WKne  Ieee-bra   St huh
leer"nc  of ELI V tvces  1910 - 1964
3950                                            1952                                             1952
at             bib atO  nEt                                    kilt otat sel*-t                  Net            1ile oe set
lpe .1 debentere         Fr                          Z  p procees X roeeds (Z)  hr  I  proc          I  prem e  (2        Per r         procuds       2  proeeds IZ)
Dieewet Deb.enture
1-peer seturit        3,697.9   5.5   4,397.9  10.4       77.2        3,100.2   4.9   6,5331.0    .6       30.4       14,124.4  10.5  12,328.3  12.4       97.3
2-year _turity       36,I133.   24.9   9,657.2  23.2      39.9        3.331.9  30.3  23,eS.3  27.2         44.4       15.923.9  11.2  11,457.1  11.1       71.9
3-year meturty       27n310.7  42.4  12,443.0  29.9       43.3        39,526.9  32.9  20,745.7  24.0       57.S       59402.1  45.4  33,141.4  35.4        5.2
ShtDtstl         49.15.4  76.1  21.4."-!  63.7        53.9       53959.0  70.0  0.742.3  35.5        60.4       *9.452.4  44.4  5s.9313  s5.3         5.9
2e-r_tu                 34.4   2.     135S        3.7     95.2         2,125.1   2.2   2,55U.    3.0       95.0       30.351.0   5.0   9.,3.6  10.0        94.7
3-er s_turity         2.350.3   3.7   2,340.0   3.4       99.3         2.011.6   1.7   1,905.9   2.3       95.7          451.1   0.5      G43.4   0.4      9.7
S5-yar aturty         3,59.3   2.5   1,572.4   3.7        95.9             -      -         -      -         -             9.0    -         5.9    -       99.4
sebtetal         3.540.0   5.6   3,423.9  33.0       97.6         4.63.7   3.9   4.574.4   3.3        95.7        111.75.?   n.1  Iem11.9  10.1      93.0
Coma  Debenture
l-R.-r _-turtt7            -     -          -     -         -              -      -         -      -         -         5.173.6   4.0   3,175.6   3.2    100.0
2-year oturity         3,933.3   2.B   1.790.4   4.3      95.3        11.150.e   9.7  113.5160.   13.4     9a.5         .023.4   3.1   3.3,76.4   4.0      95.5
3-year octurltr       6.04.1  22.3   7,9.6  39.0          95.2        19.723.9  16.4  19.470.l  22.1    s9.7          20.971.4  16.0  20.739.8  20.5       95.9
3-year ocUrity             -     -          .      -        -              -
subtotal         .1353.6  33.3   9.40.0  23.3         93.2       31.402.I  2b.1  31.a00.7   3.9       46.7       20.170.4  23.1  2",S.i  30.0         99.3
TbrAl       44.600,0  300.0  43.404.0  :00.0     64.4       120.000.0  300.0  36,327.6  300.0     71.9      330.798.3  300.0  99,431.5  300.0     74.0



3963                 1964                                   7.3.1 3960-3964~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Tbl  1
oai                                      d t u1t               tte of  -                    Not            uat.l of rut
Type of d.b_twu       fur       I     preweds   I    prfubd.CZ)   Par           I    pIucuh    S   prue  wu(n)    ftr         x    proumim    2    wr _ou  CS)
Dt ucu_t Ilubuntu
1-uazr mturlt    22,90I.0  14.2  20,378.0  13.3        30.9       32,412   23.9   46351    1426.3      .n       103,D20   14.3  90,294   13.9       17.6
2-year _turity    10,235.0   4.4   1,066.0   5.3         16.3        6,623    3.1   3,31    2.8        79.0       83,432   12.3  S6.037    In.2      47.3
3Ir maturity    12.119.0   7.5        ,96.0    3.6       19.3      41,516   22.2  33,441    17.3       49.0      330,33   26.9  310.203    19.1      59.0
Subtotal     A3.265.0  21.1  34.62.0  1.!9                    107.753  49.2  63.39      44.       79.6       317   36.0  25.5S37    45.4        6-33
COo.. Debntour.
2T-6r _mtrity      1,416.0   1.0   1,S33.6   1.0         93.3        1.357    0.6   1,336     0.7      29.3       17,762    2.5  16."4       3.0     95.9
3-"er maturity    17.147.0  10.7   14,109.n  I0.9        92.9       61,036   37.0  70.617   40.4       *7.1      101,432   14.   "T,7oo    17.5      94.3
5-yr  turtyr            -      -          -      -         -            -    -          -      -         -         1.394    0.2   1,S3n    0.3       ".9
Subtotal     16.963,0  11.7  17G45.0  13            9.0       2393   7.4   60.035    41.1   97.1            122J7   jL.  11_242  20.3            4n.4
3-yar Mturety      4.946.0   3.0   4.937.0   3.3         99.4       11,353    5.2   11.219    3.0      *6.        21, n4   3.1  71,342      3.0       9.3
2-yatr mturity     3,041.0   S.3   7,603.0   3.4         93.0        3.124    1.4   3.042     1.4      61.0       24*.62   4.1  23.239       S.0     63.3
.7wer maturity   63.65.0  32.0  60.110.0  S4.4          96.0       12,491    5.7  11,973     6.2      9.6       145.19    20.9  140,56    24.7      94.9
5-y"T maturity       131.0   0.1       113.0   0.1       91.3        1,90    0.9   1.73       0.9      %1.%        2,057    0.5   ,n77       0.3     93.2
Subtotal     97.023.0  60.2  93466.n  43.2          96.        28.374   31.2  27.93    14.35    f974        117,r    24.6 1.2-L2   13.3         97.1
oetal       161.253.0  30n.0  347 .95.0  300.0      92.4      2139n2G 100.0  19-.544   300.0      33.4      45.673  300.0  5.366   30no. 0         .



ANNEX 3
4 -                             Table 20
KOREA
SECOND INDUSTRIAL INANCC PROJECT
Korea LonR-Term Credit lank
Statement of Resources
As of           As of
Dec. 31, 1983   Dec. 31, 1984
Local Currency Resource. (W million)
Share capital                                         50,000           50,000
Reuervem and retained earnings                        26,957           32,743
Net stockholders' equity                              76.957           82,743
Government subordinated loan                            1,586           1,519
Iusuance of XLB debentures                           340,440          435,096
Deposits received                                     22,050           29,117
Add-back:    Noncagh charges (depreciation,
provlsions, etc.)                        10,530           13,395
Total Local Currency Resources          451.563          561 R70
Less:    Local currency loans outstanding            271,529          298,915
Bond. and debentures outstanding             56,686          120,911
Equity lnvestents                             7,714            8,500
Fixed assets (at cost)                        7.847            8,280
Deferred assets                               1,293              521
Reserves at DMC                                 474            2,037
Short-term loan financing                     7,489           14,392
Subtotal                                353.032         453.56
Equals:  Available for disbursement                   98,531          108,314
Less:    Undisbursed comitments                        17,115          16,210
Equals:  Available for commitment                     81,416           92,104
Less:    Uncomitted approvals                          13,849          13.469
Local Currency Resources Available for Approval       67.567           78,635
Foreign Currency Resources (S 000)
IJRD loans                                           548,289          548.289
ADD loan                                             247.589          247,570
IFC loan                                             1i,800            17,800
DEC loan                                                2.000           2,000
AID and Caterpillar loans                               2,971           2,971
APCO loan                                             20,000           20,000
DEUTB loan                                            30,000           30,000
IlJ loan                                              50,000           50,000
Dank loans                                           225,000          295,000
Refinance and others                                  11,990           19.032
Total Foreltn Currency Resources    1.155.639         1 232 662
Less:    Total loans disbursed                       858,399        1,033,984
Equals:  Rewources available for disbursement        297,240          198,678
Less:    Uhdisbursed comiDtmente                      64.670           78,500
Equals:  Resources available for cimltment           232,570          120.178
Less:    Uncomitted approvals                         40.849           39.546
Foreign Currency Resources Available for Approval  191.721             80 632
Total Resources /a (EV million)
Total resources                                    1,370,874        1,584,363
Available for disbursement                           334,985          273,117
Available for comitmnt                               266.425          191,792
Available for approval                               220,081          145519
/a  Exchnge rates applied: US$1 - U 795.5 for 1983; USS1 - V 829.5 for 1984.



ANNEX 3
-  75 _                            Table 21
KOREA
SECOND INDUSTRIAL FINANCE PROJECT
Korea Long-Term Credit Bank
Projected Operations, 1985-89
Actual                                      Total
1984      1985  1986  1987  1988  1989  1985-89
Approvals
Domestic currency
(W billion)
Loans and debentures        209.3      240   293   346   399   453   1,731
Equity investments           (0.4)       2     2     3      3     3      13
Subtotal                  208.9     242   295   349   402   456   1,744
Foreign currency
loans ($ million)           158.5      180   200   220   240   240   1,080
Total (US$ million
equiv.)                 410.3     468   551   635   718   783   3,155
Disbursements
Domestic currency
(W billion)
Loans and debentures        210.1      240   293   346   399   453   1,731
Equity investments             -         2     2     3      3     3      13
Subtotal                  210.1     242   295   349   402   456   1,744
Foreign currency
loans ($ million)           146.7      160   180   200   220   240   1,000
Total (US$ million
equiv.)                 400.0     448   531   615   698   783   3,075



ANNEX 3
-76 -                                 Table 22
KOREA
SECOND INDUSTRIAL FINANCE PROJECT
Korea Long-Term Credit Bank
Resource Mkbilization Program, 1985-89 /a
Actual                                           Total
1984        1985   1986   1987   1988   1989  1985-89
Local Currency
(in won billion)
KLB debenture issue
(at face value)              219.0        270    330    390    450    510   1,950
Foreign Currency
(in US$ million)
IBRD loan                         -         120      -       -      -      -      120
ADB loan                                      -       -      -      -      -        -
Bank loan                       40.0         60    100    100    120    120       500
Unidentified official
loan                            -           -    100    100    100    120       420
Subtotal                   40.0         180    200    200    220    240   1,040
Total
(in W billion)          252.2         421    498    558    635    712   2,824
(in US$ million)        304.0         501    593    664    756    847   3,361
/a Excluding deposit-taking resources.



77                                                   ARM 3
Table 23
UliKA
SECOID INDUSTRIAL FINANCE PRxJaCr
Korea Ionx-Tar. Credit Bank
Prol1cted                 19nce Sheets  1985-89
(in V tiflion)
Actul
1964         1985        1986        1987        1988        1989
Assets
Current Assets
Cash and bank deposIte                          66,685        47,973       51,330      54,780      58,230      61,680
Marketable securities                           76,064       103,551      131,759     173,375     242,848     278,451
Short-term loans                                14,391        24,500       31,500      38,500      45,500      52,500
Accrued interest reeelvable, and others         33,267        31,416       15,199      15,658      19,889      24,983
Less: Allowance for losses                       3,310          3,140       4,580       5,460       5,940       6,660
Current portlon of loans and debentures        311,338       284,056      343,279    407,918      440,183     491.061
Customers' acceptance liability                 29,050        45,000       60,000      75,000      90,000     105,000
Subtotal                              527.485       533,356     628.487     759,771      890,710   1,007,015
Long-Ters Asset.
Domestc currency loans and debentures          419,826        489,154     569,371     657,510     740,889     842,784
Foreigs  currency loas                         483,188       554,071      635,791     720,811     816,342     930,750
Equity lveutments                                A,500         10,500      12,500      15,500      18,500      21,500
Less:  AUlowsnce for losses                      6,781         8,561       11,311      12,621      14,381      16,381
Less:  Current portion of long-term assets     311,338        284,056     343,279     407,918     440,183     491,061
Net Long-Tern Assets                  593,395       761,108     863.072     973.282   1,121.167   1,287.592
Fixed assets (net)                                 7,463        32,569       58,172      73,785      79,415      85,067
Deferred assets and others 
Total Assets                        1,128,343     1,327,033   1.549.731   1,806,838   2,091.292   2.379,674
LiabIities and Equity
Liamilities
Current liabilities
Deposit liabIlities                           29,117        35,000      45,000       55S000      65,000      75,000
Short-term  borrowinp                          5,888         6,137       6,637       7,137        7,637       8,137
Incoue taxs payable                            1,627         3,150       3,550       5,100        5,000       5,500
Current portion of loun-term debt            226,187       283,030     326,672     388,469     449,210      507,347
Acceptances outstanding                       29,050        45,000      60,000      75,000       90,000     105,000
Accrued Interest payable and
other current liabilities                   34,878        41,097      44.173      47,401       51,254      55,995
Subtotal                              326,747       413,414    486,032      578,107     668.092      756.979
Lorg-term liabilities
Domestic currency borrowings                   1,519         1,451        1,383       1,315       1,247       1,179
Foreign currency borrowings                  506,459       563,191     643,513     727,403     821,353      933,948
XLB debenturcs
Outstanding of XLB debenture Issue           428,630       538,753     676,610     815,056      958,905   1,101,000
Less: Discount on XLB debentures              25,010        31,914      39,949      46,392       54,102      61 811
Accrued interest on compound debentures       31,477        34,165       9,175       10,514      12,654      13,388
Net XLB Debentures Outstandlng        435.097       541,004     645.836    779.17A       917.457   1.052.577
Employees' severance liability                    1,965        2,450        3,180       3,970       4,870       5,R60
Less:  Current portion of long-term debt       226,187       283,030     326,672      388,469     449,201     507,347
Net Long-Term Liabilities             718.853       825,066     967.240   1.123.397   1.295.726   1,486.217
Share capital                                   50,000        50,000      50,000       50,000      75,000      75,000
Reserves and unapproprilated surplus            32,743        38,553      46,459      55,334       52,474      61,478
Subtotal                               82.743        88 553      96.459     105.33       127.474     136.478
Total Liabilities and Equity        1.128,343     1,327.033   1,549.731   1.806,838   2.091,292   2.379.674
Current ratio                                         1.66           1.32        1.32        1.35        1.37        1.37
Lnag-term debtlequity ratio                          10.33         11.62       12.69        13.59       12.96       13.85



-78                                                       AIFZ 3
Table 24
KORE
SECOND INDUSTRIAL FINANCY PROJECT
Korea LonR-Ters Credlt Rank
Proiected ncome Statements. 1985-89
(ln V million)
Actual
1984           1985      1986       1987       1988      1989
Income
Interest and Comitment Fees on Long-term Loans
Domestlc currency loans and debentures                       57,705         66,904    79,613    94,010   106,803  120,812
Foreign currency                                            49,213          51,673    64,506    76,442    89,115  103,120
Comitment fees                                                1,354          1,083       859        911        956     "96
Subtotal                                          108.272        119,660   144,978   171.363   196.874  224.928
Dlvdends avd gains from dispositlon of
equity investments                                            1,364          1,575     2,114      2,875      3,370    3,865
Interest on short-term loans                                    1,166          2,139      3,080     ;,850      4,620    5,390
Interest on securities                                         12,344         18,496    22,197    24,529    31,204   38,067
Income from forelgn exchange transactions
and others                                                    5,241          1,981     2,154      2,683      2,863    2,951
Total Income                                      128.387        143.851   174.523   205.300   238,931  275.201
Exenses
Interest on BorrouinRs
Domestic currency borrowings                                    698            567        583       605        628       650
Foreign currency borrowings                                  46,015         49,744    57,419    66,884    77,333   89,203
Interest on XLB debentures                                   54,568         59,723    74,766    91,814   109,310  127,182
Interest on deposits                                          1,219          1,924     2,400      3,000      3,600    4,200
Comnitment charges                                            1,711          1,910     2,158      2,284      2,337    2,439
Debenture issue expences and others                           4,785          5,398      5,951     7,028      8,043    9,178
Subtotal                                          108.996        119.266   143.277   171,615   201,251  232.852
General and Administrative Expenses                             5,840          7,065     7,750      9,020    11,200   13,150
Provision for losses                                            1,340          2,210     4,790      2,790      2,840    3,320
Total  xpebnse.                                   116.176        128.541   155,817   183,425   215,291  249,322
Net Income Before Tax                              12.211         15.310    18.706    21,R75    23,640   25,879
Provlsion for income tax                                          2,700          4,500      5,800     8,000      9,000   10,OO
Net Income After Tax                                9.511         10.810    12,906    13.A75    14,640   15,879



ANNE 3
- 79 -                                                   Table 25
KOM
SECOND INDUSTRIAL FINANCE PROJECT
Korea Long'fTerm Credit Bank
Prolected Cash_ Fow Statements, 1985-89
(iD W allion)
Actual
1984         1985         1986        1987         1988      1989
Sources
Interest Cash Generation
Net income and prior period adjustments             9,786      10,810       12,906      13,875       141640      15,879
Depreciation and other amortization                   979         824          497         687          870       1,048
Provision for losses                                Y,340       1,610        4,190       2,190        2,240       2,720
Provision for employees' severance pay                442         585          850         930        1,070       1,190
Amortization of discount on XLB
debentures                                       20,356      20,455       25,361      33,015       37,807      43,868
Accrued interest on compound debentures             2,698       2,688      (24,990)      1,339       2,140          734
Evaluation adjustments                                342           -            -           -            -           -
Subtotal                                 35,943       36.972      18 814       52,036      58.767       65,438
Issuance of XLB debentures                          21q,024     270,000      330,000     390,000      450,000     510,000
Drawdown of foreign currency borrowings             119,050     114,920      144,500     161,500      178,500     195,500
Pald-in share capital                                     -           -            -           -       12,500           -
collection
Domestic currency loans, debentures
and investments                                 118,367     170,767     212,776      258,499     316,649      350,791
Foreign currency loans                             70,602      65,117       71,280      84,780      91,269       89,392
Subtotal                                188,969      235,884     284,056      343,279     407,918     440,183
Writinr-off in loans                                      -         600          600         600          600         600
Increase in current portion of loans
and debentures                                     82,860     (27,112)      57,783      63,759       31,785      50.158
Total Sources                           645,846      631,264     835,753   1.011.174   1.140,070   1.261,879
Uses
Diabursements
Domestic currency loans and debentures            209,978     240.695      293,593     347,238     400,628      453,286
Equity lnvestments                                     95       2,000        2,000       3,000        3,000       3,000
Foreign currency loans                            128,628     136,000      153,000     169,800     186,800      203,800
Subtotal                                338.701      378.695     448.593      520,038     590,428     660.086
Repayuent
Domestic currency borrowings                           68          6            fi6n        68           68          68
Foreign currency borrowings                        60,671      58,188       64,178      77,610      R4,550       82,905
XLB debentures                                    124,939     159,877      192,143     251,554      306,151     367,905
Subtotal                                185.678     218 133      256,389     329,232      39O.769     450.878
Inerease in fixed assets (net)                          437      25,930       26:100      16,300        6,500       6,700
Payment of dividend                                   4,000       5,000        5,00n       5,000        5.000       6,875
Employees' severance pay                                 92         100          120         140          170         200
Incredse in discount on KLB debentures               22,482      27,359       33,396      39,458      45,517       51,576
Increase In current portion of term debt             43,780      56,843       43,642      61,797      60,732       58.146
Increase (decrease) in working capital               50,676     (80,796)      22,513      39,209      40,954       27,418
Total Uses                              645,846      631.264     835,753   1.0114174   1.140.070   1,261,879



-80-                                              ANNEX 3
Table 26
KOREA
SEODND INDUSTRIAL FINANCE PROJECT
Rorea Lonn-Term Credit Rank
Projected Ratio Analvsis. 1985-89
CX)
Actual
1984      1985      1986      1987     1988      1989
1.  Income from term loans/average term
loan portfolio                                       13.0       12.3     12.9      13.3      13.4     13.5
2.  Cost of term debt/average term debt                  11.8       10.9     11.2      11.5      11.6     11.7
3.  Earning spread (1-2)                                  1.3        1.4       1.7      1.8       1.8      1.8
4.  Income from total portfolio/average
total portfolio                                      12.9       12.2     12.8      13.2      13.3     13.4
5.  Financial expenses/average term
debt and equity                                      10.8       10.0     10.4      10.7      10.9     11.0
6.  Earning spread (4-5)                                  2.2        2.2       2.4      2.5       2.5      2.4
7.  Income from foreign currency loanslaverage
foreign currency loan portfolio                      10.8       10.1     11.0      11.4     11.7      11.9
8.  Cost of forelgn currency term debt/average
foreign currency term debt                            9.9        9.7      9.9      10.1     10.3      10.4
9.  Earning spread on foreign currency loans (7-8)        0.9        0.4       1.1      1.3       1.4      1.5
10.  Income from total domestic currency portfolio/
average total domestic currency portfolio            15.4       14.5     14.8      15.1      15.0     15.0
11t Domestic flancial expenses/average domestic
term debt and equity                                 11.6       10.4     10.9      11.3     11.3      11.4
12.  Earning spread on domestic currency
loans (10-11)                                         3.7        4.1      3.9       3.8      3.7       3.6
13. CGA expenses/average term debt and equity              0.6        0.6      0.6       0.6       0.6      0.7
14.  G&A expenses/average total assets                     0.6        0.6      0.5       0.5       0.6      0.6
15.  Provision for doubtful loans/loans and
investments                                           1.0        1.0      1.2       1.2       1.2      1.2
16.  Return on total assets (before income tax)            1.1        1.2       1.2      1.2       1.1      1.1
17;  Return on total assets (after income tax)             0.8        0.8      0.8       0.8       0.7      0.7
18.  Earnings per share                                   19.0       21.6     25.8      27.8      21.3     21.2
19.  Cash dividend ratio                                   8.0       10.0     10.0      10.0      10.0     10.0
20.  Payout ratio (cash dividend/net income)              52.6       46.2     38.7      36.0      47.0     47.2
21.  Interest coverage ratio                               1.4        1.4       1.2.     1.4       1.4      1.3
22.  Debt service coverage ratio                            1.1       1.2       1.1      1.1       1.1      1.1
23.  Indebtedness and undisbursed commitments/equity   11.1          13.0      12.9     13.5      12.8     13.3
24.  Current ratio                                          1.7       1.3       1.3      1.4       1.4      1.4
25.  Long-term debt/equity                                10.3       11.6      12.7     13.6      13.0     13.8



-81 -                        ANN3
Attachment 1
Page 1 of 4
KOREA
SECOND INDUSTRIAL FINANCE PROJECT
Korea Long-Term Credit Bank
Statement of Investment and Operational Policies
Approved at the Board of Directors' Meeting; April 25, 1967
Amended at the Board of Directors' Meeting; February 29, 1968
Amended at the Board of Directors' Meeting; February 26, 1973
Amended at the Board of Directors' Meeting; February 26, 1974
Amended at the Board of Directors' Meeting; December 17, 1974
Amended at the Board of Directors' Meeting; June 19, 1975
Amended at the Board of Directors' Meeting; July 23, 1976
Amended at the Board of Directors' Meeting; June 11, 1977
Amended at the Board of Directors' Meeting; January 31, 1979
Amended at the Board of Directors' Meeting; December 15, 1981
Amended at the Board of Directors' Meeting; October 25, 1983
Korea Long Term Credit Bank (KLB), whose object is to promote the
expansion of private enterprise in the Republic of Korea, will be guided by
the policies set forth below:
I.   The Scope of Investment Activities
(1)  KLB will invest in productive enterprises.  While its primary
investment activity will be in manufacturing and processing indus-
tries, it may invest also in other types of enterprises, including
transport, tourism, and -ommercially-oriented agriculture.
(2)  KLB will finance private enterprises which are properly organized
and managed. KLB will not, in principle, invest in undertakings
which are Government-owned and operated, but a Government holding of
not more than 50% of the voting stock of a private enterprise shall
not make such enterprise ineligible for financial assistance from
KLB. KLB will finance both new enterprises and existing ones for
expansion or improvement.
(3)  In its operations, KLB will give due regard to the Government's
general economic plans and policies. The following categories of
industries will receive high priority, in accordance with the
Government's economic policies and objectives:
(a) Export and import-substitute industries;
(b) Industries contributing to the deepening of industrial
structure;



-82 -                        ANNEX 3
Attachment 1
Page 2 of 4
(c) Industries which contribute to balanced regional development,
and have greater potential for employment creation;
(d) Natural resource development industries, domestic as well as
foreign; and
(e) Industries promoting international economic cooperation.
(4)  KLB will assist private enterprises in the following ways:
(a) Medium and long-term loans;
(b) Equity participation (through underwriting, conversion rights,
direct participation in share capital or otherwise);
(c) Guarantee of payment for machinery and equipment imported or
otherwise;
Cd) Guarantee and underwriting of corporate securities;
(e)  Technical, managerial and other financial advice and services;
(f)  Foreign exchange operations; and
(g) Any other appropriate manner.
(5)  KLB will seek through its operation to broaden the ownership of
private securities in Korea;
(6)  KLB's financial assistance will be primarily for expenditures for
fixed assets. KLB will also extend working capital loans to
enterprises;
(7)  KLB will study periodically the trend of overall industrial
development and investment opportunities in the private sector in
cooperation with research institutes for promotion of new enter-
prises or expansion of the existing ones.
II. Basis for Investment Decisions
(8)  KLB will make investment decisions only on the basis of sound
investment criteria and standards, and will provide financial
assistance only to those projects which are financially and econ-
omically sound and technically feasible. Special attention will be
given to the ability of management and the profitability of the
enterprise.
(9) KLB will ensure that the funds provided to the enterprises are
properly used in accordance with the purpose of such financing. KLB
will require its borrower, if it is deemed necessary, to purchase
the equipments through international competitive bidding or other
appropriate method when such equipment is procured with the proceeds
of an official loan.



-83 -                           ANEX 3
Attachment 1
Page 3 of 4
III. Diversification of Portfolio
(10) KLB will diversify its portfolio in order to maintain a reasonable
level of risk;
(11) KLB wiLl not provide financial assistance of less than the equiva-
lent of $50,000 for the purpose of capital expenditure. The maxiunm
financial commitment in whatever form, including loan, share capital
or guarantee or any combination thereof, that KLB may make to any
single enterprise will not normally exceed 25% of the total of KLB's
paid-in capital and free reserves.
(12)  KLB wiLl not commit to any single enterprise in any form of share
capital more than 1OZ of KLB's paid-in capital and free reserves.
The aggregate equity investment of [LB at any time will not exceed
the total of its paid-in share capital and free reserves.
(13) In undertaking large-size projects, KLa will seek cooperation with
other financial institutions, both domestic and foreign.
IV. Turn-Over of Portfolio
(14) In order to recover its resources for new commitments and to encour-
age widespread ownership of private securities, KLB will revolve its
portfolio whenver it can do so on satisfactory terms. In selling an
investment it will pay due regard not only to its own interest but
also to the interest of other participants in such investments, as
also to the interest of the concern whose shares are involved.
V.  Relationship with Enterprises Financed
(15) Normally, KLB will not take a controlling interest in any enterprise
in which it has invested, or other interest which would give it
primary responsibility for management and it also will not acquire
more than 252 of the share capital of an enterprise.
(6)  In accordance with normal banking practice, [LB will require its
borrowers to provide and to maintain adequate security, to keep
records and accounts in accordance with sound accounting practices,
and to furnish whatever information on their operations and accounts
KLB deems desirable.  KLB will take the right to inspect the enter-
prises it finances as well as their operations and accounts.
(17) Business secrets and other information furnished by applicants or
clients will be treated as confidential.
VI. Financial Guidelines
(18) KLB will lend and invest its resources in such a way as to maintain
the value of its capital. [RLB will pass to its clients any foreigr.
exchange risk it assumes or find other suitable means to cover it.



ANNEX 3
- 84 -                        Attachment 1
Page 4 of 4
(19)  KLB will not incur any debt (maturing more than one year after date
of original incurrence) in excess of 12 times the aggregate of its
paid-in capital and free reserves.
(20)  KLB will maintain accounting records adequate to reflect its
business operations in accordance with sound and generally accepted
international accounting practices and standards. KLB will employ
qualified and independent public accountants to audit its books and
certify the accounts annually.
VII. Profits and Their Distribution
(21)  KLB will seek to develop earnings sufficient to cover expenses and
taxes, to provide reserves adequate to the size and risks of its
portfolio and to protect its equity against erosion and to pay
satisfactory dividends. It will seek profits on its equity invest-
ments and will impose interest rates, fees and other charges for its
loans and services which wilL permit it to achieve that level of
profitability. It will build and maintain reserves consistent with
sound financial management. It will set aside each year from net
income before tax the amount required by law as the legal reserve.
In addition, it will accumulate other reserves, including reserve
for losses, as considered prudent by the Board of Directors.
VIII. Staff
(22) KLB will build up a technically qualified staff capable of carrying
the responsibilities which KLB's objectives create, and able to
provide the services to clients which those objectives call for.
IX. Revision of Policies
(23)  Any proposal to revise this Statement of Investment and Operational
Policies shall be considered by the Board of Directors only after
each member has been given an adequate opportunity to study and
comment on the proposal, and it shall be approved at a meeting of
the Board of Directors by two-thirds of all directors.



ANNEX 3
_ 85 -                       Attachment 2
Page 1 of 3
KOREA
SECOND INDUSTRIAL FINANCE PROJECT
Korea Long-Term Credit Bank
Development Strategy 1985-1986
Amidst the transition toward a reform aimed at liberalization,
Korea's financial sector is expected to face further competition in the years
ahead. Such competition, as triggered by the Government's privatization of
coamercial banks, is being enhanced by the recent move taken by the Government
t'jward greater autonomy in bank management, adjustment of the scope of busi-
ness among financial institutions, and gradual opening of domestic financial
market to international financing institutions. Under the circumstances.
KLB's Development Strategy for 1985-86 is focused on the expansion and diver-
sification of financial services so as to make its way under the increasingly
competitive environment.
Expansion and Diversification of Financial Services
(a) Expansion of Business Scope. The Bank will continue its efforts to
expand its scope of business so that it can provide diversified
financi.1 services to its clients. Also, the Bank will endeavor to
sophisticate its services through enhanced operational efficiency as
well as through expanded public relations activities.
(b) Expansion of the Bales for Resource Mobilization. The Bank will
continue to develop new financial instruments and enhance debenture
sales promotion activities, so as to expand its bases for resource
mobilization. In this connection, the Bank plans to develop new
debentures including those with longer maturities and to introduce
debenture sales promotion agent, who will be selected from those of
high moral influence and will specialize in promotion of debenturc.
sales through close liaison between KLB and prospective debenture
sales through close liaison between KLB and prospective debenture
clients. The Bank will also endeavor to strengthen its branch net-
work, for which it plans to add a subbranch in 1985.
(c) Reinforcement of Davelopmental Role. As the first and soLe private
development bank, 'B will continue to reinforce its developmental
role by expanding strategic investments in private industries which
are conducive to depending of small and medium industries (SIs),
enhancing of international competitiveness, and technology develop-
ment. KLB will also endeavor to help develop industries of regional
areas through augment of regional clientele. Besides, KLB will con-
tinue to extend management consulting services including
computerization and internal control system to its clients,
especially to SHIs. Further, KLB will pursue to extend such
activities that are peripheral or related to financial services so
as to supplement its function.



ANNEX 3
- 86 -                       Attachment 2
Page 2 of 3
(d)  Expansion of Comprehensive Financial Services.  KLB will continue
its effort to provide integrated financial services both to its
debenture clients and to loan clients. Through expansion of the
integrated financial services, not only will KLB pursue more
efficient services to its clients but will better meet the diversi-
fying financial demands from its clients.
Organizational Development
(a)  Rearrangement of Organization.  In order to cope with the rapidly
changing financial environment, the Bank plans to rearrange its
organization to attain functional efficiency, through careful study
on each departmental role and function of its organization.
(b)  Computerization and Office Automation.  Along with its efforts for
computerization of operations, KLB will continue to promote estab-
lishment of the computerized MIS and Office Automation. In
addition, KLB will continue to establish a data base through
accumulation of financial information.   In this connection, KLB
will induce relevant advices and related techniques from external
sources, both domestic and international.
(c)  Enhancement of Productivity and Job Efficiency.  KLB will continue
to increase its productivity and job efficiency through various
efforts and movements such as job standardization, cost reduction,
study-group operations, TQC activities, aggressive-self-job-manage-
ment scheme, and performance-reflected pay system. Besides, KLB
will continue to strengthen its internal control system so that it
can provide efficient and flawless services to its clients.
(d)  Strengthening of Capital Base.  In order to expand its operational
capacity through strengthening of capital base, KLB will pay due
consideration to raising of its paid-in share capital. Basically,
[LB will pursue its strategy to build up its reserve   .a level
close to its paid-in share capital before issuing new shares, so as
to command a better price for the KLB shares.
(e)  Infusion of Bank-entrepreneurship.  Through systematic ttaining, KLB
will continue to develop its employees as specialized professional
bankers. During the course, KLB will infuse the spirit of bank-
entrepreneurship into each of its employees so that they can develop
owner-minded innovative attitude toward their jobs. [LB will also
emphasize on the training of its employees in strengthening their
personal role in selling the Bank's debentures loans and other
services, and in having their jobs done through negotiations,
cooperation and public relations.
Public Relations
(a) Seminars. KLB will continue to hold seminars with broad range of
subjects such as project financing, project feasibility analyses,



ANNEX 3
- 87 -                      Attachment 2
Page 3 of 3
MIS, internal :ontrol and so forth to assist the management of
business firms including its cLient companies. Also, it will
continue to have monthly discussion sessions with the executives of
its client companies for betterment of mutual understanding as well
as for exchange of business and financial information. Especially,
as for the SHIs, KLB will endeavor to identify and support the
sound and promising SMIs, and continue to hold sessions for intro-
duction of their companies as well as their products to other
interested client companies.
(b) Operation of Center for Economic and Business Education. KLB will
continue to strengthen operation of its Center for Economic and
Business Education, through which it will provide education on a
wide range of economic subjects and personal computers to general
public. RLB plans to expand such education to regional areas
through extension of classes to relevant regions.
Cc)  Research Activities.  In 1984, KLB successfully completed two public
research projects, one on the Prospect for a Socio-economic
Development of the Cheju Island Region and the other on the
Direction for Development of Industrial Structure in Daegu Region,
which provided references for the Government's setting up of long-
range plans for the regions. KLB, in cooperation with relevant
academic bodies, will continue to initiate such public research
projects in the future.
(d)  Promotion of Industrial Technology Development.  KLB plans to
establish a, namely, Industrial Technology Prize, which will be
conferred to some five nominees selected from its client companies
every year. The prize is aimed to honoring of technical staffs of
KLB's client companies who contributed substantially to technology
development in their companies, but relatively unnoticed elsewhere
for the performence. Such prize will conmmend those who constantly
pursue their duties in shady spots, so as to encourage their further
efforts.



ANNMt 3
-0o -CHART 1
KOREA
SECOND INDUSTRIAL RNANCE PROJECT
Korea Long-Term Credit Bank
Organzotion Chat
(As of Marcih 31.1985)
9 "KHEDERS          - - 
UIME  I  PPESAENV
COMlrEE                TV IY___    ____   
DEJ -IMN                                          AUfOR 
R H Um"                                          KH EIUII
PRowDno                                       BUINS
CENIE                                    PPOMOnO CENTE17
DREC70R    OPECTOR        ~         EC~
Y1S. lam             C.H Doms J Sim
i~~~~~~~~~~~~M iti                            Cs i   i
MNMCONWM         CENrRA~L C w.
. 0OEPARV6N      _      DEPARWMEN               wx< q                SEARIATT
.     YH- LI_             MIS g1%r                Si oh
I  SECUIMES     II       PEIWS  NNC 
1K K n                    CH BM           1          1"                  PN O
GLISNEh S                                        J Sl4 Ir W
PROJECT~~~~~~~~~~ SUB-'JNCH                      I
PL40U                                             Iw La*-
ousm~~~ ~ ~ ~ swc  IAG  RNH          E  4C
| ILJ^   HI        | PC*CI is    H Ko            SL Rim 
Y1 9k-27205



ANNEX 4
-89 -                             Table 1
KOREA
SECOND INDUSTRIAL FINANCE PROJECT
The Korea Development Bank
Board of Directors /a
(As of February 13, 1985)
Name                    Position
Chee Kun Chung               Chairman of the Board of Directors, formerly the
Minister of Justice.
Choon Taik Chung             Governor of the KDB
Directors
Chung Hyun Oh                Auditor of the KDB
Hyon Wook Kang               Director General, Finance Bureau, Ministry of
Finance
Chang Bo Lee                 Director, Office of Fair Trade, Economic Planning
Board
Jae Yoon Park                Member, Council of Financial Industry Development
Kswang Suk Kim                Professor, College of Politics and Economics,
Kyung Hee University
Kee Chun Han                 Professor, Hankuk University of Foreign Studies
Sang Yoon                    Executive Director, Korea Society for Further
Advancement of Machinery Industry
/a Under "The Government-Invested Enterprise Management Act and Enforcement
Decree," the KDB established a Board of Directors on May 30, 1984. The
Board of Directors consists of the Chairman, the Governor and seven Board
Directors.



AM= 4
90                                                    Table 2
SECOUD IUUS23IAL mUlcH 133C7
e  ores Devalo_ment Bank
Smary of Loan OPrationa. 1980-84
(Von dillion)
1960              1981               1982             1983              198
o./-               0./a    Aoun    Nola    Amut  NJa    Amount  _o./    A
Apprawal.
Domestic currency capital loan        375    616,804    397    672,373    452    840,437    390   897.846    437    916,469
Domestic currency working capital
loas                                536    458,841    512    411,798    589   489,704    604    576,773    576  1,048,742
otatl boe--tic Currenacy Loan    g9l  1.075.645    909  1,084,171  1,041  1,330,141    994  1.474,619  1,013  1,965,211
Foreign currency loans                164    221,043    133    186.404    23,    241,717    208    181.611    225    235,743
Total Am,roval-                   1.075  1.296.68   1.042  1,270,575  1.276  1,571,858  1,202  1.656.230  1.238  2,200,954
Commitments
Donestic currency capital loans       375    516,804    397    672,373    452    840,437    390    897,846   437    916.469
Domestic currency working capital
loans                               536   458,851    512   411,798    589   489,704    604    576.773    576  1.048,742
Total Domestic Currency Loans       911  1,075,645    909  1,084,171  1.041  1,330,141    994  1,474,619  1.013  1,965,211
Forelgn currency loan                 164    221,043    133    186,404    235    241.717    208    181,611    225    235.743
Total Commi tent.                        1,.296,688  1,042  1.270,575 -1.276  1,571,858  1.202  1,656,230  1.238  2,200.954
DIsbureements
Dmestic currency capital loans        375    616,804    397    672.373    452    840.437    390    897,846    437    916.469
Dome otlc currency working capital
loan                                536   458,841    512   411,798    589    489.704    604    576.773    576  1,048,742
Tbtal Dometile Carrency Loas lb   911  1,075.645    909  1,084,171  1,041  1,330,141    994  1.474,619  1,013  1,965.211
Foreign currency loan. Ic             158    219,693    130    183,687    232    227.836    200    178,449    218    232,836
Total Dibers1nt.                  1069  129S338  1,039  1,267,858  1,273  1,557,977  1.194  1,653,068  1,231  2,198.047
Repaym-nt.
DomestIc currency capital loan.        53    142,114     60    192,033    109    253,480    152    369,222    137    429,018
Domestic currency working capital
loas                                145    135,490    210    287,850    325    348,338    372    436,136    368    987,235
Total Domestic Currency Loan        198    277,604    270    479,883    434    601.818    524    805,358    505  1.416,253
Foreign currency loan. /c              87     50,522     95     67,914    120    111.388    189    190,775    164    225,878
Total Repayment&                    285    328,126    365    547,797    554    713.206    713    96.133    669  1.642.131
Outstanding
Domestlc currency capital loans       952  2,051,511  1,289  2,531,851  1,632  3.188,808  1,870  3,647,432  2,170  4.134.883
Domestic currency work5ng capital
loan.                               673    561,110    975    685,058  1,239    826.424  1.471    967,061  1,679  1,028,568
Total Doeeotlc Currency Loans     1,625  2,612,621  2.264  3,216,909  2.871  3,945,232  3.341  4,614,493  3,849  5.163.451
Foreign currency loans                388    492,628    423    608,401    535    724.849    546   712,523    607    719.481
Total Loan. Outstanding           2.013  3,105,249  2.,67  3,825,310  3.406  4,670,081  3.887  5,327,016  4.456  5.882.932
/a limber of loan.
Jb According to the standard banking practice in oresa. XD crerdts Its sub'borrovers' domestlc currency loan accounts imedi-
ately after mking a commitmsnt.  Consequently. dome,tlc currency coeitment. are equal to diabursemento In all the
years. The *ounta not drawn dome by the subborroers from their respective loan accounts are obwon under wCredit Control
Accounet - a current liabIlity Iten.
/c Icleden adjustments in loan *mounts on account of ezchange rate fluctuations.



T*Ul 3
-IO n - JW- 
ft -
-  Vean 3r 
T    O-reer_ 3.1iat Nfr l 
ChOaraol t.oe   _f to.i  Stt        16-4
Cit. Ca)~~~~~I"                                                                          t.
0.t.etip  -   f O.o.l.t 31. 153
1661            361                  1632                  161                 196               tWe-                     3  E                   Total
/ &z7    ~zj-irr                                                                        _    s s1_        i _.  s    i           _/-' _r-  3a.fj _Au>_*xi.t
Ossele ceramep       ~~~911  1.076   33.0    W09  1I06    83.1  1,043  1,330   84.4    994  1.473   39.1  1.013  1.61    894   4GM  4.223   87.9   233  1,029   87.3   442  5346G  167.8
ftwel  nvr.fcy              1t      221   17.0    123    337   14.7   23"    242   13.'   208    I8"   10.9   223    234   10.7   I33           3"    32.1    31    ISO   Z2.7   2n        119   12.2
STsZl                 1.07s  1.27    mo.oO  2-0ea  l.273  100.0  1.74  1.172  l3o.o  3.202  1.45 4 aGn  1.71  2Jm 100.0             ME n  .70  O__    ___ ____ o00._ o              3.___   10.0
Private .ao                   74   399   G6.3    134    832   61.3  1.23, 2.0112  43.3  31436  2.192   72.0  I.20   1.fl   72.1    738  2.969   63.1    303  1.170   99.2    7413  6.139   70.3
PIle   ct-r                  201    398   30.7   106    439   3.2        T.    490   31.2      41   644 -28.0    36    413   2.9    20  1.73S   34.9             1      9    0.0   20A  3,7"    29.7
T_-IS                     l n n 300             j J,3      0      12m7  15 72   n0 00  n.202  13 4m 100.0  139  23101  t10.0   73   jnn 1o000    32    17l9  In10  n 32    33I  Ina .
tr_  or Pret
woe                          223    294   22.3    253    403   32.1    263    43   231.2    392   6"1   27.3   234    N0o   274A   436  t.313   23.7             -      -     -     436  32311i  19.0
K.ooi.o                      3WS    533   41.1    176    3442.3    272    "I3  29.3    1633    49  29.8    247    M0   33.9    272 3.40t    72.4                -       -     -     223.418   57.9
NM Le                         a1t           0.3     92     31    2.6    33       32    2.0     87     3     2       323     32    2        0 So         3.9      -      -     -      s      183    31
%loOto  -aPt taX             533    459   35.4    314    460   34.2         63 1   40.5    770    66   4.2   4N0    43    38.1             -      -     -      302  1.179  la 0        302  1.179   20.0
Total                 1.07   1 497  100.0  1342  1271 100. ol7D 1 278           300.0  31202  1 4&3   10041  1233  2.201  ZOo0  7M8 73&   300.0   302  1.179  300.0             9  1.M  1o00.0
It.. of  .u Cu tIllto
Up toi                        III      7    0.3     47      4    0.3    79        4    0.3     TY      4    0.2    8a        I    0.6    77        2     -      23      1    0.3    72        3    0.3
,0_100                       173     20    1.4    366      1s    3.2   l3t       21    1.     3 3     24    3.      197    s5    2.4    33             0        24      2    0.2    103      4    0.3
00-00                        238            4 .    2769    4 4    213                                 72    4.3     9             3.7   133      29    0.4      17     it   0.      2       4     0.7
.00-3,000                    295    233   13.1    142    210  31.3   424    20   17.8    2           233   17.2   417   44    23.0    II    t13        2.5      "      36    6.7   291    172    2.9
1.00O-200t0                  313    212   14.    I13    39    15.2    13        228   36.5    336    233   34.1    302    426   1.4       el    133    2.9      37     26    2.2      no   144    2.J
ee 2 00                       70    738   34.9      93    7"    41.3   33       9  64   .4   123  1.036   82.8    13s  1,348   334    39   4.413   4.9    62  1,083   91.9   100  1.6"1   93.4
Toel.!                101       92  30 .1  0 e     1 20   1.273  100  I o276    72 zn100.0  3  1.6100.0  1.3T0  2.         200.0   756  L7     n          302 R1179  300o.  o92  3.3 a     1 n0
topIcal Lo-e
Upto 4 Y..r                 33      33    2.1     37      32   3.4    25       10    1.1     23     20    2.0    32       32    2.6     14     33    1.0                           16    33    1.4
4-3 yero                   234    497   564    242    511   43.0   393    464   4.64    263    621   42.3   143    107   33.7   436  2.517   133               -                  439  3,317   42.3
3-10  er.                  1`7    200   22.3    112    212   2.13    132    209   22.3       as    203   20.7      9     537   21.3   132  1 124   23.9        _                  132  112    19.1
10-33  e,a.                 20     49    5.9      16     43     .3    34    109   1           3 1.   21    1 3 14.  2    1       4      "     442    9.4       -      -     -              2    7.
ver 1l yvar                21      74    3.3      2     32    4.0       8    16  13.4        3    20   20D4        7     42   104      32    33n   114        -      -     -      32    3 
=wItotal                  9    3E  300.0    l9    l3100.0    3             M     00.0    4      9     00.0   4m62 t 67  100.0         Ln       300.0       -      -      -     7    4 70C   79.9
lr_ CaPita l-1__
VP t- o  f Ktl             143      64   14.0    81      22    L.      127     47   30.3   15s      73   33.0    1X       47    6 o         _         -      .      124    9.7      6    11      1.9
1/2-1 ye,                   97     71   15.3      4      41    8.9    87    114   17.9   10s        91   14.7   121        O   11.6      -      -    -        2     172   1.6    22    172    2.
1-2    r.                  119     97   21.2    2e    229   49*n    "        24    334    343    26    39.6    369    261-   .3          -      -     -      29    31   2.        129   231    4.
2-3 yer137    141   30.6    92    141  30.4    116    164   28.1    124    376   26.    125    22  21 .                                  -      -     -      112   322   27.      132   23  52
tr, 3 Y-r                   *0      3b   18.7     20     27    3.9      16     45    7.1     20     33    8.3      23     32     .       -      -     -       43    214   13.1     43    214    3.7
asUkot                  136    49  300.0  5]         66                    '7  100.0    ae   644  100.0   774 n33  100.0              -      -     -     302 1J 9  17.n 0           1 179   2a11
Tol                   1.075  1.297      -   I2  1.271            1 .276  1.372         1 3202  1-6aa         1.239  2.201    =                           mu  1.179       -     392 13    300nn.0
1  1_be of 1.
tlb  rb- of   _ tla  (Cot  llatbt for  _           teor_a-).
Ie  3ae1, s.oamniatlo             mpa rpt_t.



Will  rws  IWt   .v    W I sri-  tot    ret0- soT ,               WLIll TLLVE  la-,  =OOt  girt-  SeCt  000   TZL-, fl?T    Wilot act I  te    Wil01T  fl 'F  D--i
CO0    I      El       -     -      t.      CO0    I      S       1CO    S      5       CO    I        1     VO            I        -     -      -       CU    I        1                   9-Tn1 S--a
CE    "El    it       Clt    It     It      VE9    tit    OS    VIa    El       Le      $If   lb      St      r.'   so      st      Ulf   it    &s        Cs:t  151    &u                11weU.S_Jkx'j 
Vs      LI     V E li        CT     I's    LIE    Mt       CI1   itL   NoE    rs:   Sz    Lot    CIt   YES   tIE    irs    sot    91Z               rvtS  ItE    lot    'IaQM  tj-.ffimiL  qrnl
Va ti  c      ri'    Et      e1     co    IC       IC     rt    ELI       b      CEZ   St      go     51i    VI    Si        CUlzE (1      *9      Wu    I i     91          WJtAW.....f.q)J90
Clt    at     of      ri9   ig      Li      III   SE       It     CSf   tel    Et       C1   51       19      Cli   SC      of      rg9   Si    WE        CL      IT     91        .wue e-ar tune
Vt    IS      sz      Cu    9       L       ci    TV      jR      Ci    WE       a5     CZ    ti       It     CII   IS   t II        tZ    L       ML9 .9        eVl it   SE         d    lS*JU90-v %3
Var    ItIP    s9     COl    51      I       DI                   Vt    9      Vt    VS E   I  t '    eV     Ell   CZ    it        II S           9a     . I a   Ii    CZ    -ql-boc-          -91.
11     19    owl    191   CUK    Om        et    ONE    009 001 Cul SiE    s9c    Vti   991    tNt   ZCL    Ell    IIS    Clzi  zSt                 t    Ci    SM ' 9   turIvn!I
r t    19    itt    Elu    Ms    ME         VL    19      95      CtY   set    901    VEtI  vat    Itt    Ely    S6    I-El    CL'    Si           1      v       It     St                      351 tUrn
LC t    "B'C  MI   Vet,  UIS    IV          E,t IL   Wt  wi    o't,  Ism          C     VSC   ACt.   LIE   VriS   LwV    195    C'It   589   bUS          I'W    ZOO    1(9)
rut   nCt  lIE    urtI   91    it    ICit   1C,i  got   9VCZ   SOt    gm               rig   I"       015    CbS6  99   IllS    Cit   MEC    15    C'o  IttIE          " 9-f        *lJfG-6-AL
VItI   *tuf   El       -                    CUz  Putt  zI         MOt   CCZ   it        1t,    Log    Ct    V95    YEt   5          CEI  MWL    Vt    Vtb    Ii    SM              -9i3             a 
Vi 61 SIlt  LOS    L SS   OLE   In          r-LI   on    1I    CEZi   iSO        LI    rll   LiE    691   9-91   C?           stb    Z-ES   SUE    WI   GVIal   It!    WI                   A-3.
LCIt    W 451 :S         L Cit Et   EC 55   Ct       a S    Et       s- l*a     51    Ell   iLl    Got    Vs6   912    9911    CIt1  "Oa    OZ    SLl  (Er    WI                               1-
WjZ   fl1   Its    PW    in  -  VIZ     Sal    VIE    56~~~~~~I    El9    I's    9  tt    u-a.  flB    Tz         vsZ  ost   C.%        WIT   ELt   Li                     ete tflIO
VS    f.tt    t       urt    aE     V       ,-     Ott    L       VtE    iTCVi                 1        t     5       5      S        S      t     L        S    i        I       ~       Sjf9
E-   oat    a6       Cl    tg      Si      VS    atI   Cu        CV     [El    LII    VI    mCi   Nat    Z-L   Ell    991           tl   LS       EEl    LIT    I9      lit               hI14I  I
:4)109 10
CEs   91    NI0    Vio    59    u5         5      EAt -C         695    9a    iN9 0 CE   EL          S _    t Ile          EI       C~  59l       CI    CEf   IC    'RE            '0Wpa
PW    afltn       I-L Uii        WE    CIt6   mCI  559    tA6t   50 I  sos           ~LaE    SI.   '#'A    Et    Cgs    Vi    IVY    cCL    V'If   LV               tt     .llPt iJra
Oft9                 t                                          " 1Il      t      f1951                 Xwlst1                                      0951
tutU  IL J* ~ ~  ~       ~     ~      ~V3teI an -    tv-m                     lft 3   ;:4J
905   i  Jp0P-       Il~9    U1-0
is j1g.-ia.o rnaoamIlqlaNo
ZEK%V ~ ~ ~ ~   ~      ~     ~      ~     ~     ~     ~    ~    t      -q..afiq
a           ut 



ANNEX 4
93                                   Table 5
KOREA
SECOND INWUSTRIAL FINANCE PROJECT
The Korea Development Bank
Summary of Investment Operations. 1980-84
(won million)
1980     1981     1982      1983      1984
Equity Investment
Total investments at the beginning
of the year                                 300,391  473,199  516,828  484,775  511,764
New investment during the year
Direct purchases                            144,255   37,463    1,846   27,732   13,793
Loan conversion                              31.400    5,000         -         -   55,000
Transfer from Government                          -   17,086         -         -        -
Subtotal                                 175.655   59,549    1,846   27,732   68,793
Investments sold during the year                2,847   15,920   33,899        743   12,714
Net investments at the end of the year
Direct purchases                            375,855  394,800  406,787  433,776  434,855
Loan conversion                              43,576   44,524   42,217   42,217   97,217
Transfer from Government                     53,768   77,504   35,771   35,771   35,771
Total Investments at
the End of the Year                      473.199  516.828   484,775   511,764  567,843
Bonds and Debentures
Total investment at the beginning
of the year                                  31,791   42,021  107,034  156,014  209,716
New investment during the year                 12,168   75,239   92,511  113,716  129,716
Investments sold during the year                1,938   10,226   43,531   60,014   90,772
Net Investments in Bonds and
Debentures at the End of the Year         42 021  107 034  156,014  209,716  248,660
Total Investments
Total investment at the beginning
of the year                                 332,182  515,220  623,862  640,789  721,480
New investment during the year                187,823  134,788   94,357  141,448  198,509
Investments sold during the year                4,785   26,146   77,430   60,757  103,486
Net Investments at the End of
tne Year                                 515 220  623 862  640,789  721,480  816,50
Income from Investment Portfolio
Dividend                                        8,238   10,055    5,995    3,731    4,542
(as Z of the average equity investments        (2.1)    (2.0)    (1.2)    (0.8)    (0.8)
Capital gains realized                          ',109    6,168    5,421        201    3,290
(as Z of cost of investment sold)             (38.9)   (38.7)   (16.0)   (27.1)   (25.9)
Dividend income plus capital gains              9,347   16,221   11,416  -3,932    7,832
(asi of average equity investments)            (2.4)    (3.3)    (2.3)    (0.8)    (1.4)
Interest income from bonds & debentures         4,930   13,165   21,054   20,049   26,261
(as Z of average bond & debentures
investments)                                (13.4)- (17.7)   (16.0)   (11.0)   (11.4)
Total income from total investment
portfolio                                    14,277   29,386   32,470   23,981   34,093
(as Z of total average investment
portfolio)                                   (3.4)    (5.2)    (5.1)    (3.5)    (4.5)



: ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~    ~    ~     ~    ~    ~    ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~M : 
-A k-  z 
9t.M Iof.aT B nsKg BanKV
Oearactsrintice oef Eguty Inv._ tt t:jet
190044 and 8stt i *. of  cn                Ilr a1 14
(Wo  billon
Cotments                                            flutmtandS  A* Of
1910               1961               1962               1963            194          leember 31. 194
No.  mount         No.  Mount   1   No. Aent   1   Mo. Moont   I   No. Amou               X Z   loJ.  Mount t
Ti. of T-w-ment
_.tlc eourency              16   175    ".6  15    59    90.3  2          2   100.0   1    23   300.0  2    65    94.2  31    553    98.0
o?ign ulTsney                -      1     0.4 1        1      1.7 -       -       -   -      -       -    2     4      5.8    2     10      2.0
Total                  16   176   100.0  16    60   100.0   2        2   100.0   2    28   200.0  4    69   100.0  33    568   100.0
Omnership
Private *actot              13    31    17.5  14       8    12.7   1      2   100.0  -       -       -   4    69   100.0  24    443    78.0
Pblic sector                 3   145    82.5  2    52    67.3   1    /b           -   I    2s   100.0  -        -       -    S    125    22.0
Total                   16   176   100.0  16    60   100.0  2        2   100.0   1    28   100.0  4    69   100.0  33    56    100.0
Batton of projoct
New                          2   155    83.2  3    21    25.5  -          -       -   I      1      3.6  1    10    14.5    I       10      1.6
mdctlag                     14    21    11.8 13    39    74.5  2          2   100.0  -    27    96.4  3    59    85.5  32    558    93.2
Total                  16   176   100.0  16    60   100.0   2        2   100.0   1    28         100.0  A    69   100.0  33    568   100.0
Stz of Tnaveatut ( mnllion)
Up to se                     -      -       -   -      -       -   -      -       -   -      -       -   -      -       -    I      rb      It
50-100                       1    Ib       0.1   I     I      1.7  -      -       -   -      -       -   -      -       -    I      79     _
100-300                      -      -      -   -       -      -    I    lb        -   -      -       -   -      -       -    2    O.8       i.1
300-1,000                    6      4      2.3  5      2      3.4-    -           -   -      1      3.6  2    13    18.3    7    4.1        0.7
1.000-2.000                  2      4      2.0  2      1      1.7  1      2   100.0-         1      3.6  -      -       -    4    6.3       1.1
Ossr 2,000                   7   168    95.6  8    56    93.2  -          -       -   1    26    92.3   2    56    81.2  18  556.8    98.1
Total                   16   176   100.0  16    60   100.0   2       2   100.0  2    20   3N0.0  A    69   100.0  33    568   300.0
Sectoral Ialttibutio
HNufacturleg Industris       6   163    92.5  10    54    90.0  -         -       -   -    27    96.4  -        -       -   10    458    60 6
C.aasr goods               -      -      -   -       -      -   -       -       -   -      -       -   -      -       -    4      76    13.4
intrdiat goods             -      -      -   -       -      -   -       _       _   _      _       _   _      _             3     10      1.6
capital good.              6   163    92.5  10    54    90.0  -         -       -   -    27    96.4   1    55    79.7   3    372    65.4
Other                      -      -       -   -      -       -   -      -       -   -      -       -   -      -       -    -       -       -
Nomfa etorlnsg Industriss  10    13        7.5   6     6    10.0  2       2   100.0   I      1      3.6  3    14    20.3  23    110    19.4
Total                   16   176   100.0  16    60   100.0   2       2   10.0   1    28   300.0  4    69   100.0  33    568   300.
Ooauhicel Dlstrfibtion
Soal City                    7    12       7.1  6      5      8.3  2      2   100.01        2e   100.0  I    10    14.5  20         67    11.3
Downs City                   -      -      -   -       -      -   -       -       -   -      -       -    1    55    79.7   1    100    17.6
,gg1?tOYinca              -      -      -   -       -      -   -       - -                            -      -       -    2       A      1.1
South :euax-bmasg Provinc    -      -      -   -       -      -   -       -      -   -       -      -   -       - -          1      14      2.5
North   u-o   Pruce   -             -      -   -       -      -   -       -       -   -      -       -   -      -       -    1      7      13.0
Kgso-na Prowince             -      -      -   -                    _ 1.7              _     _       _   _      _       _    _       _       _
South Jeom-ra Provine        -      -      -   -       -      _   _       _       _   _      _       _   _      _       _    _       _
Worth Jeon-ra Provnce        -      -      -   -       -
South Kylnna-Seg Provie     9   163    92.5  10    53    8.3  -          -       -   -      -       -   -      -       -    5    203    35.7
North Kyr-S       ve         -      -      -   -       -      -   -       -       -   -      -       -   -      -       -    1      94    16.5
Cjn rsed                     -      -      -   -       -      -    _      _       _   _      _       _   _      _       _    _       _ 
Otbsr                        -      I     0.4  -       1      1.7-        -       -   -      -      -   2       4      5.8   2      10      1.3
Total                   16   176   100.0  16    60   100.0  2        2   10.0   1    26   100.0      69   100.0  3            568   100.0
/a llber of compadiss
lb Lt_a tha W I billion.
A   Loe. than 0.12.



-95-                                                         AMX 4
Table 7
S1fCOII 7JDISTRIff FIIUNQ PIIOJCU
The Morea Dsvlol_net l-nk
Snar? of C                trane  Doureons. 1980-64
Won billion)
Cnitsntu during the yer                                Outstanding as of nDcember 31
1980       19M1      1982       IM3        1q84         1980       3981       1962       19R3       1964
Foreign Currency  Cuarantee. /a    2.131.374  2.029,716    976.001  1,181,222             4,592,344  4,644,636  3,803,139  3.392,876  3,201,706
Of which:
Covered under CRA lb          1.359,294  1,309,167    546,635    706,733              3,406,330  3,491,207  2,942,572  2,651.550  2,721,737
Cowered by CrC                   2,060          -          -          -                   1,592        418        762          -          -
Of which:
Also covered under CRA          1.852         -          -          -                   1,119        418        762          -          -
Domestic Currency CGurantees       103,366     24,352    262,836     96,120                 200,971    152,475   292.459    305,765    368,847
Total Cuarantees          2L234760  2,054,068  1,240,837  1,277 342                 4.793.314  4597,113  *4j.5q8  3,698,641  3  S70,553
Cuarantees Redeemed               1,163,657  2,250,269  1,742,352  1,674,299                      -          -          -          -          -
Cuarantee Comisulon rErned               -          -          -          -                  21,161     21,774     19,936     18,408     16.719
(s 2 of average outstanding
gurantees)                           -          -          -          -                    0.44       0.47       0.4q       0.47       0.46
/a  New foreign currency guarantees fasued during the years 1980 through 1984 can be reconciled after che following adjuatuents:
1980        1961         1962         1983         1984
New foreign currency guarantees                        369,948      769.739      381.707      466,637      31,110
Increaae from variations In foreign exchange rates    1,055,951     421,084      283,314      352,489      111,53B
Other Increases                                        413,894      5538775       96,496      164,404
ruarantees on letter of credit                         291,561      230,118      216,464      197.642      549,606
Total                                           2.131,374    2.029,716      97A.l01    1,lR1,222    1.144.456
IncreAses from variations in foreign exchange rates arise becuase of KDB's policy to adjust the recorded value of foreign currency
guaranteea at the ties a transaction occurs in respect of epecific guarantees.
/b  Guarantee Release Arrangenent dated march 31, 1975 between the  overnment of Korea and 2DR.



-                                                          _ * _~~~~~~~~~~~~~ J 184
SECOID IbUDlAL 7DUt  PRWIMT
'2b sare. Devlopment Ruk
Obarecteri-tice of herentme  Cmtted 1980-84
and Ohte1aud        a T of beenher 31. 1984
bi1Ulloal
it.nts during the yar /a                                      ODtutatuing as of
1980             19                192              1983              1984          DIcember 31. 1984/b
Amount    S      Sout    S                          Ao i  t           I et    S         N.- _I            x
Type of nvm *teet
Domestic currency                  103     21.8      24       3.0    263       40.0     96      17.1    172       30.0      55     369     10.3
Fbreign currency                   370     78.2    770       97.0    382       59.2    467      82.9    402       70.0     80   3,201      89.7
Total                         473    100.0    794    100.0    645        100.0    563    100.0    574    100.0    135   3.570    100.0
Onkerabip
Private sector                     390     82.5    754       95.0    450       69.8    401      71.2    574    100.0    130   3.168    88.7
Public *ector                       83     17.5      40       5.0    195       30.2    162      28.8       -        -        5     402     11.3
Total                         473    100.0    794      100.0    645    300.0    563    100.0    574    100.0    135   3.570    100.0
Natur, of Project
met                                104     22.1    370       46.6    161       25.0     98      17.4    186       32.5      44   1.024     28.7
Expansion                          263     55.5    199       25.1      85      13.2     97      17.2    138       24.1     31    1.678    47.0
Bl /d                                -       -       20       2.5       6       0.9     13       2.3      10       1.8      7       68      1.9
lbrking epital                     99     21.0    178       22.4    348       53.9    325      57.8    213       37.1     42      657     18.4
Otbae                                7      1.4      27       3.4      45       7.0     30       5.3      27       4.5      11     143      4.0
Total                         473    100.0    794    100.0    645    100.0    563    100.0    574    100.0    135   3.570    100.0
Sit. of Assistance (W million)
Up to 50                             -       -        1       0.1       1       0.2      2       0.4       2       0.3       3       1       -
50-100                              -        -        I       0.1       1       0.2      3       0.5       3       0.5     10        1       -
100-300                              3      0.8       5       0.6      4       0.6      13       2.3       8       1.4     22        9      0.3
3WO-1000                            15      3.2      21       2.6      15       2.3     10       1.8      16       2.3     27       35      1.0
1.000-2.000                        51      10.7      74       9.3      29      4.5      22       3.9      40       7.0     10       43      1.2
Oer 2.000                          404     85.3    692       87.2    595      92.2    513       91.9    505       88.0      63   3.481     97.5
Total                         473    100.0    794      100.0    645      100.0    563    100.0    574    100.0    135   3.570    100.0
-eration
Up to I year                        94     19.9      58       7.3      31       4.8     75      13.3      60      10.5     21       46      1.3
1-4 years                          75      15.8      88      11.1    163      25.3    154       27.4    126       22.0     26      464     13.0
4-8 y:1ea                           50     10.7      62       7.8    133      20.6      88      15.6      98      17.1     46      708     19.8
8-10 yeurs                         42       8.9    107       13.5    169      262      147      26.1    108       18.9     28      921     25.8
10-15 yar                          197     41.7    459       57.8    149      23.1      99      17.6    169       29.4     12   1.418    39.7
Over 15 years                       14      3.0      20       2.5      -        -        -        -       13       2.1      2        U3     0.4
Total                         473    100.0    794      100.0    645      100.0    563    100.0    574    100.0    135   3.570   100.0
Sectoral fitrib.tion
Nanufacturizns LIadetrie           337     71.3    281       35.4    511       79.2    428      76.0    431       75.1    120   3.381    94.7
Coena  r goode                    57     12.0      27       3.4      30       4.6     39       6.9      72      12.5      18     350      9.8
Intermdiate goods                 68      14.6    116      14.6    142      22.0    139       24.7    137       23.8      47   1.003    28.1
Capital gooda                    202     15.9    126       15.9    292      45.3    250       44.4    207       36.2      25     635     17.8
Other                              9      1.5      12       1.5      47       7.3      -        -       15       2.6      30   1.393     39.0
Umumanufacturing Industries        136     64.6    513       64.6    134      20.8    135       24.0    143       24.9     15      189      5.3
Total                         473    100.0    794      100.0    645    100.0    563    100.0    574    100.0    135   3.570    100.0
Ceoraphical Diettibutioa
Seoul City                         279     538.9    101      12.7   11       28.1    195       34.7    193       33.6     45   2.0;2    57.2
_en City                            20      4.2      85      10.7      60       9.3     71      12.6      48       8.4     15       85      2.4
XyunggiPraviw                       28      5.8      12       1.5       7       1.1     10       1.8      25       4.4     16      128      3.6
Sontbh om4-Cbo   Prowince            2      0.4       1       0.1      11       1.7      9       1.6       6       1.0      5       96      2.7
NIrth Chung-Oweon  Provinc           1      0.3       -        -       13       2.0      3       0.5      10       1.7      4       18      0.5
KAng-n  Provice                     22      4.6      22       2.8      34       5.3    - 30      5.3       4       0.7       1       7      0.2
South Jeo_-r7 Province              25      5.4    114       14.4      25       3.9     26       5.0      50       8.7      7      282      7.9
North Je_n-r  Province               3      0.7       -        -        -        -       -        -        -        -        5      46      1.3
South KyuCg-S4g Provinec            58     12.3    183       23.0    295      45.7    152       27.0    123       21.5     27      768     21.5
Iorth Kyuug-Soug Provioc            35      7.4    276       34.8      19       2.9     65      11.5    115       20.0      10      98      2.7
C*-in Inland                         -       -        -        -        -       -        -        -        -        -       -        -       -
Tbtal                         473    100.0    794      100.0    645    100.0    563    100.0    574    100.0    135   3.570    100.0
Foreir echange flmctuations an! UC Smarmateas ar, not reflected.
Includee forei  exch_an  flactution. ./C guarantes and  ar_aretg  tranferred to the Ieadjuatmt Corporation.
Uibar of coqpanis.
B alacing  odertio  and replacamet.



07~~~~~~                       MU~~~~NNEX 4'.
-  - 97 -ITable 9
KOREA
SECOND INDUSTRIAL FINANCE PROJECT
The Korea Development Bank
KDB's Outstanding Loan Portfolio by Source, 1980-84
(Won billion)
December 31            1980            1981            1982             1983            1984
Amount     Z   Amount      z    Amount     Z    hmount           A Amount   %
Government
Funding
Special funds   1,127.7   36.3  1,425.2  37.3  1,669.2  35.8  1,855.0  34.8  1,370.7   23.3
Budgetary
resources       378.5   12.2    490.5   12.8    622.5  13.3    772.6   14.5    935.4  15.9
Subtotal     1,506.2  48.5  1,915.7  50.1  2,291.7  49.1  2,627.6  49.3  2,306.1   39.2
KDB-Raised
Resources
Domestic
currency        429.1   13.8    490.0   12.8    623.5  13.3    695.5   13.1    894.2   15.2
Foreign
commercial
borrowings      933.7   30.1  1,169.9  30.6  1,484.2  31.8  1,747.4   32.8  2,441.4   41.5
Foreign
official
borrowings      236.3    7.6   249.7    6.5   270.7    5.8    256.5    4.8    241.3   4.1
Subtotal     1,599.1   51.5  1,909.6  49.9  2,378.4  50.9  2,699.4  50.7  3,576.9  60.8
Total        3,105.3  100.0  3,825.3  100.0  4,670.1  100.0  5,327.0  100.0  5,883.0  100.0



ANNEX 4
-98-                                          Table 10
KJDREA
SECOND INDUSTRIAL FINANCE PROJECT
- he Korea Development Bank
Economic IRpact of KDB_-inanced Projects  1978-83 Ia
Partial Economic Indicators
(won billion)
1978      1979       1980      1981       1982      1983
No. of projects /b                                       789        698        787       763        780       792
Total project costs /c                                 1,140      1,431     2,009      2.887      2,807     2,905
Amount of KDB financing /c                               579        940      1.310     1,268      1,558     1,638
Share of KDB financing (IT                              50.8       65.7      65.2       43.9      55.0       56.4
Incremental annual sales Id                            2,165      2,532     3.519      4,874     4,409      5,503
Incremental annual value added Id                        387        461       723        873       975      1,007
Increase In fized assets                                 977      1,246     1.551      1.833     2.127      1,789
Additional employment {O000)                              94        103        103       106        111        98
Additional annual payroll /d                            45.0       50.1      48.7       98.5      115.5     138.9
Incremental annual exportsad                           1,169      1,266     1,548      2,740     2,254        672
Net annual balance of payments
effect (net foreign exchange
earnings and savings) ($ million) /d                 6,584    .9.894    10,271       9,221    12,204    11,824
Memorandum IteTs
Sales per additional employee (WOOO)                23.032    24.582    33.837    42,017    39,721    56,153
Value added per additional employee (WU000)          4,117      4,476     6,952      7,526     8,784    10,275
Fixed assets per additional employee (WR000)        10,394    12,093    14,913    15,802    19,162    18,255
Annual payroll per additional employee (W 000)         479        486       468        929     1,041      1,417
Ratio of sales to fixed assets                        2.20        2.0       2.3        2.7       2.1        3.1
Ratio of value added to fixed assets                  0.40       0.37      0.47       0.48      0.46       0.56
Ratio of value added to sales                         0.18       0.18      0.21       0.18      0.22       0.18
Ratio of exports to sales (Z)                           54         50        44         56        51         12
Payroll share of value added (%)                        12         11         7         11         12        14
/a  Based on projections made in project appraisal reports; equity investment and debenture financing are
excluded.
lb Net of projects subsequently withdrawn.
/c  Tin equivalent at varying exchange rates.
/d Estimates at full capacity operations.



TM. Korea Dewelamegt tank
tate of Return   Incremerp    barer~
No.  Subbor                 Industry         TY~~Pe Of    Total urolect coat      o  finencim    Fluanr-  teo-    tal anneal  tal employ    Went
No.  Sebborruar             Induetry        ~~~~~~~~project  Local    Foreign   Tot         l       cal tunastoic    weports         eent        per
(umber)      job
A-0l Toaunjin nipping Co.. Ltd.             Sthipping           K           566    13,345       311340    6,055    27.9    23.1        3.393            31      442
A-Ct Deepang Shipping Co.. 'Ltd.            shipping                        912    11,124       10,024    6,124    25.0    24.7            -            32      376
A-CS  Karen steel Comical Ca. *          Coal choece
Ltd.                                 praducte          N           ,8a      5,084        7.860    5,064    22.2    23.0        3,455            a5     317
A-GA4  Nookofk Steel & Wire Co., Ltd.   Metal prodecte          a        11,393      3,053       5,053    3,053    14.3    21.3        8,027           174       95
A-OS  Hlyundai Pipe Co., Ltd               steel pipe           K        30.116B    9,798       16,352    5,753    21.9    50.3          112            79      505
3-01  Hi flung Cestrction Co.. Ltd    Canetruction              K         7,459        195         3595      193      -        -           -             a     937
3-02  Nyundai Hitpo Dockyard Co.. Ltd      SipV-repair          K        10,217          -       3,422    1,340    32.3    33.3           87           345       70
3-03  lorea Chmeette Co.. Ltd.         Synthetic enaliSte                 4,531      1,237       4,239       767    14.7    25.7       5,975            60      57
3-04  Pacific Developeent Co., Ltd.       Clasebottlem          K         2,926      1,54          704L      704    18.4    23.1           -            24      205
3-0   Wao Hi Nylo n ld. Co.., Ltd.           TextIle            K           175        119         319       115      -        -       1,501             6       49
31-06  SIC ISiemicale, in..              Cellophane and
film            K         4,154      4,136       4,336    4,1t34    29.3    37.2       3,943t           31      267
3-07  taung-A Shipping Co., Ltd.            Shipping            K           503     6,394        3,929    3.944    22.7    21.1        1,283            32      222
3-08  NanJIn Traneportatios Co.. Ltd.  Trensportatton           K           333        Dal         333       883    25.8    32.6           -            33       32
3-09  30o Kiang Tradtng Co.. Ltd.            Textile            K         1,481      1,721       1,721    1,721    26.1    29.5        7,773            71       4 5
31-10  lyunMi Chmical Ind. Co..*            Cemical
Ltd.                                fertilizer         N         3,574      2,044        2,772    2,044    35.7    18.7        1,369            38     200
311 Itanog Shin Pharmaceutical CO.,
Ltd.                             Pharnaceuticel        K            965       110          130       110      -       -            -            46      23
3-12  Dreg 11 Textile CD., Ltd.              Textile            K           293      1,253       1,253    1,233    29.1    33.2          356            20       77
31-13  Dan Do Daisa Sparte Co.. Ltd.      FiehiLng reel         K           765        108         306       306      -        -       2,330            19       36
31-15  Pti Tang Ind. Co., Ltd.               Textile            K         1,336      1,227       1,227    1,227    24.3    27.4        5,104            63      43
13-16  Cheil Synthetic Textiles Co., Ltd.  Textile             VW           130        724         726       726      -        -          173            -        -
3-17  Uyemdai Wool Textile Co.. Ltd.         Textile            K         3,432      1,554       1,534    1,554    29.3    31.7        6,14n            63      44
3-18  Dang Moo Squipeent Co..* Ltd.       Conecruetton          K           822        915         915       915      -        -                        so5      35
3-19  Chung Dons Printing Co..* Ltd.        Printing            a           239       453          433       455      -        -           -13                   533
3-20  Jung Moo Development ro, Ltd.       Construct~ion        il         4,911     4,543        4,543    4,543    38.4    37.4            -           194      49
3-21  Dan Do Synthetic Textile ca. Ltd.   Textile               K           327        191         391       391      -        -       3,904            41        S
3-22  Gee toong pharnaceutical
co.,* Ltd.                       Phamaceutical         K            203       573          573      573       -       -            -           143       5
3-23  Ran Tms Forwarding. Ltd.        Marine Traneportatiom    K            IIl       A    24424            244      -        -           -             3     118
.-24  Korea marine Transport C... * Ltd.    Silppieg           K        23.644      3,263       211.620    3,263    20.3    39.9           -            38     708
0-25  lores Line Co..* Ltd.                 shipping            K           351      5,034       4,336    3,036    24.6    24.2            -            32      168
3-26  Uyundal Cement Co., Ltd.               Ceamet             K         4,340     1,774        3,230    1,774    26.6    32.2            -            30     631
3--27  Gang-A Printing co., Ltd.            Printing            K           735     1,374        1,874    1,874    24.7    26.2            -            10     263
I3-28  Korea iron & sceel voria * Ltd.   Metal producte         K           451        276         276       276      -        -       4,925             7      132
3-29  lathes leopleet Co., Ltd.*           Inauletion
products          N         2,045      1,675        3,350    1,675    15.4    3221            -           34      130
3-30  Nyondat Nipo Dockyard Col, Ltd    Ship-repeir             K       152,539         -        3,441    3,441    22.7    27.5          325         6,260      24
3-31  Lan Yang Tire Co.. Ltd.           lobber producte        Kp         1,311     3,070        3,070    3,070    17.2    21.5        3.308           133      43
3-32  STC ISiemiele, Inc.             Cellophane and film       K         2,752       38338             83     8 3  16.7    21.5-                       16     224
3-33  DaShes Co., Ltd.                    SpeciAl paper         K           135         97          97        97      -        -           -            31       23
3-34  Cheuns twuen  Ceramic Co. * Ltd.    Ceramic tile          K         1,395       698        3,282       695      -                2,694            65       32
3-35  Sam No Dewelopoent Co..* Ltd.       Comntuc tin           K           8537       377         377       377                 -                       A      309
3-36  la Dan Co.. Ltd.                    Faring block          N           902       614          397       614      -        -           -            23      61
3-37  gm Tung Camicaml Co.. Ltd.        Ploetci  producce       K         1,053     2,997        2,997    2,997    19.6    31.2          355            20      203
3-38  Noon Poong Ind. Co.                                                                             CANCRLLKID
3-35  Cho Teng fipping                       hlpping           K        20,8353    2,972       19.039    2,972    17.1    19.3        8,011            33      722
*-40  Sau-A Alminlin  Co., Ltd.             Ahtmins             K           113        91           et        91      -        -           -             6       34
3-41  DOM too F4ulipeet Co..* Ltd.        Cenetruction          K           339       529          529       525      -        -           -             3      86
3-42  Shin Raen  ntnerprise Co.,*             Land
Ltd.                            Tranepertation         K            335       358          358      358       -       -            -            11      63
3-43  Taunt flee Conatrecrtio  Co., Ltd.  Conetruction         II            65        156         134       136      -        -           -             3      44
*-44  Tea Tong Gong Printing Co..* Ltd.    Printing             K           350        362         362       362      -        -           -            12       59
3-45  Taihan Telecianiestiout           Teleceticatlan
Industrial Co., Ltd.                producte           16        1,304        936          986      986    13.5    14.0        8,100            33      40
3-43  San Tang oil & Pat Co., Ltd.    lice, tren Oil,           K         1,501       603        1,949       603      -        -           -           151       17
B-47  S- Tang Textile Co.. Ltd.             Textiles            K         1,592     3,328        1,474       936    12.7    20.1       1,517            27      303
3-48  Sam Tang Treding C*.., Ltd.        raper products         K         1,174       290          712        30      -        -           -            24      21
3-49  Inchon Engineering 6 Ship-         uhiphuild ing 6
building Co., Ltd.                ehip repair          K         7,655      1,953        6,603    1,955    20.6    25.6       37,614        2,379        4
31-50  Ta Tm Ind. Co.. Ltd.              Phermneceticl          K            33        116         116       136      -        -           -             3       50
3-51  SIC Chomical. Inc.                   Cellophane           1           154       334          A34       334    17.3    18.6       1,540            15       69
3-52  ftong-Men  alepe  Msf. Co. , Ltd.   Paper prDodcce        K         3,689       971          973       971    39.4    20.7           -           146       32
3-53  I4Ieah Wool Insztl,o Ind.
Co., Ltd.                        wool textile         mm1           50        387          387      337       -       -        9,542            10       -
3-54  Gong to Squipent Ce., Ltd.          Canetructiom          K            78       346          386       346      -        -           -             4      116
3-35  Samub. Trading Co., Ltd.           Paper product.         K           179        373         573       573      -        -           -            63       12
3-56  Daihan Knpoky  nduetrial
Co., Ltd.                        AI,mionm  foil        K           504      1,260        1,260    1,260    24.9    46,3            -            23      77
3-57  Cheng Gong Paper Mfg3. Co.,        Paper product.         K           103       642          642       642      -        -           -            15       50
Ltd.
3-58  Panlfit Metal Co., Ltd             Ferrite Magnet         7.          401        330         730       330      -        -           -            20       37
3-59  WPalk tong Chmamicl Co.. *             lenial
Ltd.                                products           MR1           86       320          320      320       -       -            -             -       -
3-60  Cyeong-gi City Cee Go., Ltd.                                                                    CAMCJUCIL
31-61  itm  fl Cement  Eg. Co., Ltd.         Ceamet             K           107       434          43&1---3F          -        -           -             -        -
3-62  Pacific Metals Co., Ltd.           Ferrit, mouser         K           292        196         196       196      -        -           -            24       20
3-63  ChemrwalngTitle Co., Ltd.               Tile              U           233        257         492       257      -        -           -            67        8
Total                                                       332.084   114.137       172.673   99.333       -             fl!155l770     11.J2      19.



-100                                                                    AUNND A
table 12
Kam
Wlb Korm  Develoent t_x
Uebeoletu  sureed  ierisa  2309-EN. as of March 33, - 365
llnbroSeto ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Rt Of_ Rgt1sV    zue                         w    In
Rate of raterc  letrs.- r_    lrnar_-
Tfle o     Otd pypj coat    fljmflx nd              Finer  o         tel ennual  tel  -ploy-   Coat
llo.         Imhhorrowar                 Iduatry          prject    laed        or4n         tal     DJtl    cml        aic    exports        net        per
(a,mber)    job
A-Cl  Snaymg Tire Inc.                  Tire products        K        21,234     9,725       9,725    9,725    15.1    18.6    22,021            191     162
A-02  Upnudat C_at Ce., Ltd.               CeM_t             1        51.017    16.800      1,630    9,100   24.0    31.0         5,973          100     673
A-03  tie  indatrial C., Ltd.        Trp. equipaenta                 158.949     7,920      17,550    7,620    19.9    23.8    58,431            900     1815
*-CA  "Nauji  TransporteCioe Co. Ltd. Trensportetion         K        15.765     8,078      23,841    7,017    13.9   21.1            -           23   1,037
3-01  Tueug Wool  Textile re., Ltd.        Taxtile           U           ag0       769         512       512      -       -       1,147           13    128
3-Cl  Pacific Metal  Co. Ltd.          Metel product.          lis cnjuactien with                      1o8
3-2  ndr l?a  1933Sffl
-03   an U  oment MNf. ft., Ltd.           Coment            K           651       U0        1,091       40      -        -           -           37      64
3-CA  Ba No Dow. Co., Ltd.         Civil eetgiaerlg weft    K            432       114         54        114     -       -            -           13      92
3-C   Korn El ec. Co..  Ltd.          lecternice products 1            4,091     4.555       7,742    4,555    39.0    33.4.   22,000            107      A1
3-06 tiEve Wool Textlea Inc.               Tatil             K           438       5;n10       510      510      -        -           -     _         _-
Co.. Ltd.
3-07  Pactfic Ittls Co., Ltd.          Ibtel produts         K            54       250         250      250       -       -           -           15      20
3-C   K.kdong Oil Co., Ltd.          Petrolel  refinery      N       440,421   193,519     110,000    3,550    15.9   30.0       72,326          50O   1,268
3-09  Sg   Re Chbdcal Co., Ltd.          Refractory          R         1.254       720       1,135      720       -       -           -            -       -
good, atft.
3-10  Sm Sun  Sdcouducter &            Coenications          U           6D0     1,200       1,200    1,200       -       -          78
tSlacce. Co., Ltd.           equipment  apperatw
31-11  tyb Suma  Cellophen  C .. Ltd.    Fiter plg    r       .           38       134         134       134      -       -
3-12  Cbuonsng Cotailgr                Traporcattlio         K           483       172         172      172      -       -            -            9      29
Terminal CD.. Ltd.                 equipment
3-13  Seoul Food led. Co., Ltd.             lry              V        10,584     4.216       8,223    4,216                 -         -                    -
3-14  Ky.o Uek-sa Pbiteblee Co.. Ltd.    Frtintlg,    Z                  272       910         960      980      -       -            - _                  -
pubIlshiag
3-15  Doe Man  Pulp Ind. Co.. Ltd.      Paper  paper        1           143       685         9ns      985       -       --
producte
3-16  Uyuck San Co.. Ltd.                Nosetalic           K        I30818     1,850       4,341    1R5I0    34.2    39.2           -          122     104
eIneral producta
3-17  Pacific Dw. CD.. Ltd.             Clee  bottles        1           254       330         330      330       -      _      -                  -       -
3-13  Cold Star CD., Ltd.                Klactrooie          K         6.095     4,594       4,926    4,594    28.5   43.2            -            -       -
3-19  Dee weeg Textile 1nd. co., Ltd.    Taxtlle             K           241       360         360      390       -       -           -           32      30
Total                                                   724.724   257.621      211.00   58.814                     181 .976        2  n0 *   2



-101 -                                         ANUN  4
Table 13
Page 1 of 2
IORZA
SECOND INDUSTRIAL FINANCE PROJECT
The Korea Developm.nt Bank
Summilzed Balance Sheets. 1980-84 /a
(Won million)
1980         1981          1982          1983         1984
ASSETS
Current Assets
Cash and bank deposits                      181,824       119,727      119,064       151,983       301,140
Securities                                    5,241       282,535      112,122       488,963       515,638
Short-term loans /b                         314,134      341,066       550,021       639,713       829,098
Current portion of loans /c                 253,266      333,779       421,313       503,229       565,397
Accrued interest & other receivables         63,022        82,585       55,360        31,232        70,746
Other current assets /d                      80,153       101,899      134,182       166,984       232,829
Total Current Asseets                    897.640    1,261.591    1.443.526    1.982.104    2,514.848
Long-Term Loans
Domestic currency loans:
Working capital loans Ic                    246,976       360,731      338,370       413,206       280,029
Capital loans                             2.051,511    2,531,851    3,119,329    3,647,432    4,133,172
Total Domestic Currency Loans          2 298,487    2 892 582    3 457 699    4 060,638    4.413 201
(Current portion thereof)            (154,373)    (254,653)   1328,135)    (399,601)    (4591 917)
Foreign currency loans /f                     492,628       591,662      662,361       626,665       640,633
(Current portion thereof)                   (98,893)     (79,126)      (93,178)    (103,628)    (105,480)
Total Loans                            2.791.115    3 484.244    4.120.060    4.687,303    5,053.834
(Less:  Current portion)              (253,266)    (333.779)    (421,313)    (503,229)    (565.397)
Net Long-Term Loans                    2,537.849    3.150.465    3.698.747    4,184.074    4.488.437
lnvestments
Equity shares                                 473,199       516,828      484,775       511,764       567,843
Debentures                                     42,021       107,034      156.014       209,717       248,663
Total Investments                        515 220      623 862       640 789       721 481      816 506
(Current portion thereof)               (1021)      (32,068)      (58 030)      (72,927)     (588386)
NET INVESTMENTS                          514.199      591.793       582.759       648.554      728.120
Property and equipment                         11,800        14,316       27.609        72,116        74.085
Receivables from loan, Investment
and property disposal /8                     33,518        36,843       94,902       110,609       160,026
(Current portion thereof)                    (3,549)      (5,768)       (4,613)       (7,470)      (26,906)
Other assets /h                                17,352        35,406       84,224       122,880       146,007
Total Other Assets                        59.121       80.797       202.122       298.135      353.212
TOTAL ASSETS                          4,008,809    5.084.646    5.955.690    7.112.867    8.084.617
/a Audited by external auditor.
7   Current portion In working capital loans including foreign currency working capital loans.
7F Current portion In capital loans.
7i_ Including current portlon in Investments.
7e5 Noncurrent portion In worklg capital loans except foreign currency worklng capltal loans.
7T Including AID, KFW, ADB, IBRD subloans.
Including receivable from the Readjustment Corporatlon.
/h Shareholding Administration Fund (SAF) loans, etc.



ANNEX 4
- 102 -                                  Table 13
Page 2 of 2
1980         1981          1982         1983          1984
LIAMILITIES AND EOlI!TY
Current Liabilitles
Short-term depoclte                        146,377       110,601        94,055      146,369       133,271
Current portion of long-ter, dabt          300,572       528,050      699,786       773,574    1,012.511
Credit control account                      20,404        17,936        38,117       55,213        71,177
Other current liabilitiem /a               214,532       106,255      101,370       133,702       169,025
Total Current Liabilities               681,885       762,842      933.328    1,1l8R878    1,385,984
Lona-Term Liabilities
SPecial Finance Debenturee                      326            -             -            -
Deduct: Equivalent cash depousts            (326)           -            -             -
Net liability for SFD                         -             -             -            -
Time Deposits
Domestic currency                            106          108             -            -
Foreign currency                              -             -
Total Time Depomits                          106          10R             -            -
Foreign Currency yorrovings
Official  lourcec /b                       239,992       254,395       275,4RO      :61,216       21R,891
Commercial sources /c                      862,465    1,464,252    1,703,699    2,223,956    2,R49,481
Total Foreign Currency Narrowing.    1,102 457    1 718 647    1 974 179    2 485 172    1 068 372
Lees:  Current portion)                     63)       23,62n    M1286)    N221,571)    -276.569)
Net Forelgn Currency Borrowings       1002804    1,495,027    1,796j310    2 2h3 601    2,791,803
oomeatic Currency forrowSngs
Government of Kore Id                      430,988       577,019       732.046    1,056,227    1,169,934
industrial Rationalization Fund             44,718        41,049       37,141        33,212       29,282
Tourim Development Fund                     31,543        46,402        S1,262       53,895        59,124
National Inveetment Fund                 1,049,247    1,313,345    1,552,232    1,587,342    1,522,223
IFDm in domestic currency                  246,O7       351,258       509,158      589,014       U40,762
Total DomestIc Currency Borrovinge          1 803 103    2 329 073    2 881 839    3 319 690    3 621 325
(Less:  Current portion)                  t200,%99)   N3O4430)   1507,339)    t552.03)   1735942
Net Domestic Currency borrovinms      1.602,184    2 024.643    2.374 5no    2.767.687    2.R85.383
Provisions for Doubtful Accounts le            42 85        57,R87        67573        72.593        78,4hh
Other Long-Term Liabilities lf                45,136        53.0n0        65,830       67,515        72.779
Total Long-Term Liabilities           2,693.0R8    3,630.665    4.294,634    5,171,396    5.828.431
Total Liabillties                     3.374.973    4 393 507    5.227.962    6 2Rn,274    7 214,415
Equity
Paid-in Capital                            505,300       523,879       523,879      53R,879       583,879
Reserves and retained earnints             128,536       167,260      203,R49       293,714      286,323
Total Equity                            633.836       691.139      727 72R       832,591      R70 2n2
TOTAL LIABILTMES * EOUITIES           4,008809    S084646    5 955 690    7 112,R67   RAnR4,617
Outatanding Guarantees
Domeatlc currency                          200,870       152,474       292,459      305,765       368,847
Foreign currency                         4,592,444    4,446,639    3,803,139    3,392,876    3,201,706
Total ruarantees                      4.793 314    4,597 113    4,095,598    3,698,641    3,570,553
/a Accrued expenses and unearned lacome, short-term borrowings, etc.
7-b Including Credits of AID, XFU and IBID to the Coveriment.
Tc  Syndicated loans  nd IFDo In forelgn currency.
7T  Includes budgetary allocatiton  for other special funds (Xnergy Rationalization Fund, Shipping Promotion
Fund, Special Industry Supporting Fund. Electronic Induatry Promotion rund) of V 4.7 billion In I980,
V 25.1 billion ln 1981 and V 35.6 million In 1982.
/e Provlsiomn for accrued Income receivables. loans and investment, receivables from purchasers and the
Readjusasent Corporatlon.
If  Provisions for retiring allowance. SAF. etc.



ANNMU 4
-103                                         MBTble 14
KOREA
SECOND INDUSTRIAL FINANCE PROJECT
The Korea Developwent Bank
Suam.rlzed Income Statements. 1980-84 |a
(Won million)
1980         1981         1982         1983         1984
Interest Income
Interest on loans                         432,296      552,771      569,474      513J813       599,118
Interest on bonds & debentures              4,930       13.165       21,054       20,049        26,216
Tnterest on deposits                       11,453        6,473        5,487        3,181         3,272
Interest on securities & others                 -       32,169       40,895       22.073        50,704
Total Interest Income                  448,679      604.578      636,910      559.116       679.310
Other Income
Dividend income                             8,238       10,053        5.995        3,731         4,542
Guarantee commissions                      21,161       21,774       19.731       18.408        16,642
Capital gains on sale of
investment                                1,109        6,168        5,421           201       23,511/b
Other income                               20,269        5,672        8.443       21.446        31,810
Total Other Income                      50.777       43,667       39,590       43,786        76,505
TOTAL GROSS INCOME                     499.456      648,245      676,500      602,902       755,815
EXPENSES
Financial Expenses
Interest on:
Borrwlngs from Government               219,059      259,702      240,551      218,364       249,063
Foreign loans                           115,015      192,584      239,741      207.033      270.103
Debentures                               65,927       87,842       98.888       96.015       117.293
Deposits                                  7,529        9.969        4,756        2,667        6.872
Coumission and others                       5,017       14,852        9,004        8,746        10,564
Total Financial Expenses               412,547      564,949      592,940      532.825       653,895
Administrative and Other Expenses
Personnel expenses                         12,354       14,989       17.709       20,051        19,752
Provslion for doubtful accounts            18,040       15,040        9,687        5,020        16,583
- Provision for foreign exchange
loss (net)                                4,004          363       (2.422)       1,584             -
Other expenses                              6,739        9,163       19,467       23.065        27,294
Total Admin & Other Expenses            41,137       39,555       44,441       49.720        63,629
TOTAL EXPENSES                         453,684      604,504      637,381      582.545       717,524
Net Income before Defense Tax                45,771       43,741       39,119       20,357        38,291
Defense Tax                                   4,227        3,524        2.530        1,084           681
NEIT INCOME /c                          41,554       40.217       36,589       19,273        37,610
/a Audited by external auditor.
/b Includes net gain of W 16,331 on disposal of bank pre-ises (V 23,957 less applicable taxes of V 7,625).
/c According to the XDB Act, KDB's entire net income is transferred to "legal Reserves." The Government of
Korea, IDB's sole shareholder, does not receive any dividend.



Table 15
Tn- Xore Develonmnt Benk
C,ab floewtarmac. 1930-4
19S0        1981         1982         1983        1984
Somre of Fna
nat Inca.e                                  41.54       40,Z17       36.589       19273       37.610
Noeceeb charge                              z6,601      15,728       19,137       138239      68,735
Increace In paid-ta capital                100.000      17,086            -       15,000           -
apitca  traner frm Coe ut                       -            -            -           -
Dra. on foreign cnrfmty toneifig.:
Official      a                           33,993      38.S47       50.587       13.973       3.562
Crcial sources (Cat'. tC
In foreign currency                    331.178     661.312      297.720     591.879      799.094
Subtotal                           415.171      700.159      348,307      610,852     802.656
Borrowing trm:
Cox                                      I7.105      156.451      178,355      350.337     391.273
1n5                                      297,140     358.752      379.406      222.604     161.71
Tor                                        9.663      18.158       13.018       12.567      15.705
Subtotal                            433.90S     533361       570.779      M5.508      368,849
Imnce  of 7ll.
In domeetic currency                    163.757      195,210      303,851     370,319      483,274
In feign curqrec                         73.46        20,345       36,274       71,216      30,791
Subtotal                            237.203     2160.5       340,125      "1.533      56J065
lucre.. In deposit.                        35,262      (35,776)    (16,545)    (52.333)    (13,118)
3s.1  of inestt la                           .3         26,147       n,430       60,757      100,694
COllctin of loan.
DCmstic curreny                          277,604     479,883      601.818      805.358    1.416.237
Foeign currey                            50.522       67.914      111.388     190.775      225.894
subtotal                            328.126     547.797      713.206     996.133    1.642.131
Inamse in othor liabiliLtiem  b           322.679      142.094      42.055      229,632      758,544
Total Source.                     1.946.307   2171.868    2.131.133   2.924.596    3.856.402.
ge. of Fund.
Intre.Ae in property & equipeent            2.679        3,002       13.293      44.57        29.611
ToAn diabureante:
Domestic currency                      1.075.645    1,084.171    1.330,141    1,474.619    1.965.211
Foreign carreny                         219,693      183.687      227,836     173.449      232.36
Subtotal                          1.295.338    1.267.358    1.557.977    1.653.068   2.195.047
Adjustment of foreitg ezbWaug
aains (losses)                             4.004         363       (2.4Z2)       1.584       8.632
New invem.wC                              187.862      134,788      94.357      141.448      195.719
te-paymnt. aain-t doetic
currency rborrwing:
COx                                     12.785      12.679       22,192      25,839       77.568
NIp                                     57,018      94,654      140,520      187,493     226.991
DIF                                     2.U9         3,668        3,909       3,929        3,930
IDr                                      2.189       3,299        8.158        9.934      10.476
Subtotal                             74J8J1 113.300          1777        227fj9S      318.964
Repayment. asisat foreig
currCY borroIag.
Of fic                                  22,262      22,188       30,636      33,554       45,88S
Commrtlal                               31,702      50,160       73,482     138,906      193,244
Subtotal                             53.964      72!3        104.118      172.460     239.132
Redmtinn of ifD
In dm.tic currency                       60,338       90,560      145,951     290.463      270.400
In foreign currency                       3.392       30.209       21,066       3,931       64,353
Subtotal                            633,730     120,769      167.017     293394       394.753
Increase In ac_ttie                       (96.615)    277.294      (170,413)    376.641       26.676
Incr_*e- In other a-te                    331,522      243,243      113,090      60,180      488.468
Increame in tash                           28,942      (62,097)     79,337      (47,081)    (43,600)
Totl lbee                         1,946.307    2.171.868    2.131.133    2.924.59   1.215.303
/J  flcluiig capital ain.
Includig intet end f*  payble. other current maceta. other long-tem  aeta, an  receivable fra



ANNEX 4
-105-                                          Tle 16
0-A
SDCOND INDUSTRIAL FINANCE PROJECT
The Korea Developemut hunk
Indicators of Financial and Operational Performance, 1980-84
(Won million)
1980         1981          1982         1983          1984
Total Assets                                 4,008,809    5,084,646    5,955,690    7,112,867    8,084,617
Of which:
Loan portfolio                           3,105,249    3.825,310    4,670,081    5.327,016    5,882,932
Investment portfolio                       515,220      623,862       640,789       721,481      816.506
Long-term liabilities & guarartees         7,486,402    8,227,778    8,390,232    8.870,037    9,398.984
Of vhich:
In foreign currency                      1.102,457    1,718,647    1,979,179    2,485,172    3,068.372
Borrouings from Government                 430,988      577,019       696,417      868,461    1,169,934
Debentures in domestic currency            246,607       351,258      509,158       589,014      840,762
Spoecal loans and funds                  1.125,508    1,400,796    1,676,263    1,862,215    1,610,629
Deposits                                       106           108            -             -            -
Outstanding guarantees                     4,793,314    4,597,113    4,095,598    3,698,641    3,570,553
Of which:  Covered under GRA Ia            3,406,330    3,491,207    3,010,650    2,651,550    2,721.737
Equity                                       633,836      691.139       727,728      832,593       870,202
Financial Performance
percentage of Average Total Assets
1.  Gross income                                14.5          14.3         12.3          9.2          10.0
2.  Financial expenses                          12.0          12.4         10.7          8.2           8.6
3.  Gross spread (1-2)                           2.5           1.9          1.5           1.0          1.4
4.  Administrative exPenses                      0.6           0.5          0.7           0.7          0.8
5.  Provisions for doubtful loans
and foreign exchange losses                0.6           0.3          0.1           0.1          0.2
6.  Income tax lb                                  -           0.1          0.1             -          0.1
7.  Profit before provision                      1.9           1.2          0.8           0.4          0.6
8.  Net profit                                   1.2           0.9          0.7           0.3          0.5
Net Profit as S of Average Net Worth /b          7.4           6.1          5.2           2.5          4.4/h
other Ratios
1. Provisions & reserves /c as Z of
total  portfolio                            4.6          5.9           5.1          6.1           4.5
2. Book value as Z of par value                 125           132          139           155          149
3. Debt service cover ratio (ties)             1.3           1.0          1.3           1.3          1.4
4. Interest cover ratio (times)                 1.1           1.1          1.1           1.1          1.1
5. Cost of total long-term resources as 2
of average total long-tern resources      13.1          13.6         11.4          8.7          10.3
6. Income from loan portfolio as 2 of
average loan portfolio /d                 16.5          16.0         13.4          10.3         11.6
7. Interest on long-tern debt as S of
average long-term debt                    16.2          15.8         13.1           9.8         11.7
8. Spread (6-7)                                 0.3           0.2          0.3           0.5         (0.1)
9. Long-term debt/equity ratio /e               6.4           6.9          7.2           7.3          7.7
10. Total debt/equity ratio /e                   7.5           8.0          8.5          8.6           9.3
I1. Total debt/equity ratio 7T                  12.9          13.0         12.6         11.8          12.4
12. Debt equity/ratio according to  DB7
Act, Article 25                            7.3           6.6          6.1       -  5.4           4.1
13. Current ratio                                1.3           1.7          1.6           1.8          1.8
/a  Guarantee Release Agreement under which the Governmnt covers the risk of KDB.
7b- Net income after National Defense Tax and from 1982, after the corporate income tax (5).
7F  Including unappropriated profits.
7d BRased on a dally average.
7ei Fxcluding guarantees covered under GRA.
7T  Including guarantees covered under GRA.
7j Debt principally comprises nongovermeent-guaranteed IFDs and guarantees outstanding.
71  2.5Z after adjusting for net gain of W 16.3 billion on sale of main office building.



-106S-                                                     1UAl1 4
-    -7nm 
TM Korea DIwlow_t -k
Tuadna Cet and Lanin Uat. - of D.e.mber 31. 1911-6t
(1)
Pti  coat (ao.inal rate)
196e            1981             196Z            3963             196
_Rearm
Din.stle Oirrenc"
Cozmr t f_d                             17.0             17.0             9.5              9.5             9.5
NIF                                   18.0-19.0       1M.-17.0          1.5-9.5          8.5 9.0         9.09.5
Ii?                                      5.0             5.0              5.0              5.0             5.0
2D?                                     16.0             .0 0             9.5            3.0-9.5           8.5
SISP                                      0               0                0               0                0
Sm                                       -               14.5             9.5              9.5             9.5
3l3                                       -              13.5             3.5              S.5             6.5
71P7                                     -                -               S.O              5.0             S.0
Ummtc I
flicous-ted2  1 Yar                     -              17.9             10.7            10.6             10.6
2 year.                   19.7             16.7             10.5            10.4             10.6
3 years                   17.6             15.3             10.2            10.1             10.4
Copon:     2  r.                       -                -               11.7            10.7             10.7
3 years                     -               -               12.1            11.0             11.0
5 year                    24.0             23.9              -              11.0             11.0
7oreign cnrr acv
Fro Offiecil source:
tlau                                7.5             9.25             9.25             9.25            9.B9
ADD                                 7.65            7.65             7.65             7.65            7.65
aV                                  7.0              7.0              -                -               -
Fr..Co serel Source
Syndc-ted bank loen              LnPO.9           L.6t41.09       LX0wm.71         1.304.78      U59.L162340.625
7LTY3O.S
poeIgn currency lID                 8.17             6.81            8.17             3.43             R.0
LandIng rate <no1inal rate)                                 Lending rated(effective rt)
1930        1961       1962         1683        199         1980        1661        162         193         1986
_Shing of Resources NobIligad
Doaaiie Cerrene,
Cowerunt fmud           18.5       17.5        10.0        10.0      10.5-11.5     20.85       19.60       10.6"       10.36    10.33-12.01
NI?                  183.519.5  16.5-17.5      ll.0        10.0      10.5-11.5  20.a5-22.13  16.35-19.60    10.66     10.38    10.92-12.01
IllF                 18.5-19.5  16.5-17.5      10.0        10.0     10.5-11.5  10.85-22.13  18.35-19.60    10.66      10.36    10.92-12.01
20?                     16.5       16.5        10.0        10.0        10.0        18.35      18.35        10.66      10.31       10.38
1SFw                    1.0        1.0         1.0         1.0         1.0         1.01        1.01        1.01        1.01        1.01
SPY                      -         15.0        10.0        10.0        10.0         -         16.52       10.66       10.33       1.38
36                                 15.0        10.0        10.0        10.0         -         16.52       10.66       10.38       10.38
_          -          6.0         6.0         6.0          _           -          6.23        6.14        6.14
lqndpnet A worlkiO
capital loan       18.5-20.5  16.5-18.5      10.0        10.0      10.0-11.5. 20.85-23.42  18.35-20.RS    10.66     10.38    10.38-12.01
Subscritpon of
corporate bomds        -         22.0        12.5       12.25        12.5         -         25.39        13.95      13.51        13.1
Foreign Currency
FrOffioiel Source
ID                   9.5       11.25        11.25       11.25       12.1S       10.16       11.57       11.57      11.57       12.35
A2B                   9.65       9.65        9.65        9.65        9.65        9.68         9.3        9.88        9.88        9.68
mpg                   9.0        9.0          -           -           -          9.20    -  9.20          -           -           -
Lo,mE.  re-
volvin  fuad      11.2-12.7  16.5-17.0     15.00       12.30       14.3    12.03-13.78  18.35-13.97    16.52       12.88       15.09
rrn t_rcia1 Scource
Foreign Lcur-R                  LMWI        LimOl0       .30R         Liam        -           -           -           -           -
rey loan          41.9-2.4   +1.7-1.9     +1.25       +1.25       +1.25
Converted loaw     11.2-12.7  16.5-17.0      15.0        12.3        16.3    12.03-13.73  18.35-13.97    16.52      12.33       15.09



ANNEX 4
- 107 -Table 18
KOREA
SECOND INDUSTRIAL FINANCE PROJECT
The Korea Developrent Bank
Portfolio Status (Arrears. Itescbeduling. Write-Offs), 1980-84
(Won million)
As of December 31                                1980          1981          1982         1983          19R4
Total Loans Outstanding                       3.105,249    3.825,310    4,670,081    5,327.016    5.882,933
Arrears
Principal in arrears                          5,826         5,195         4,900       10,719        22,956
Interest in arrears                          11,706        13,943        6,552         7,937        12,S4
Total Arrears                           17 ,532       19.138       11,452        18.656        35,600
(As Z of total loans outstanding)        (0.6)        (0.5)         (0.2)         (0.3)         (0.6)
Principal Affected bv Arrears                 165,086       164,314        57,348      147,775       200,020
(As Z of total principal outstanding)         (5.3)         (4.3)        (1.2)         (2.8)         (3.4)
Loan Rescheduling
Principal amount rescheduled                143,553       219,579      251,878       295,273       384,647
(Of which due at the time of
rescheduling)                             (46,546)      (88,003)    (144,651)      (97,45R)    (141,190)
Rescheduling as Z of outstanding
portfolio                                     4.6           5.7           5.4          5.5           6.5
Loans Transferred to RAC                        6,634           838        16,769       17,503        59,173
Principal affected (Z)                          0.2             -           0.4            -             -
Amounts Uritten-Off                                 -            11           419            -         3,249
Loan Portfolio Affected (%)
By arrears, reschedulings, transfer
to RAC and write-offs                        10.1          11.0          7.1           8.6           8.0
Collection Performance
Collection rate tZ)                            97.4          97.7          q9.3         98.5          98.5
Guarantee Portfolio in Arrears
Total guarantees outstanding                4,793,314    4,597,113    4,095,598    3,69R,641    3,570,553
Arrears
Principal in arrears                         20,768        28,720        7,983         4,972        38,641
Interest in arrears                             444           991            10           50             -
Total Arrears                           21,212       29.771         7,993         5.022        38,641
(As Z of guarantees outstanding)         (0.4)        (0.6)         (0.2)         (0.1)        (1.1)
Outstanding Guarantees
Affected by Arrears                        93,705        90,497       30,187        24,034        49,988
(As Z of guarantees portfolio)              (1.9)         (2.0)        (0.7)         (0.6)         (1.4)



KOWA ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~     ~     ~     
Keeee 11-1 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~41t 
-Pem  -Ila,    t lTh
A.al-. of t_ss, 11 Ba91ers. 3_34
As of 0iiae 32                                  2950                           11111              _______________                            2933                            nsa
AssA_st                                            t                                         A_e fa
tefeeit twi   * s-               fete Si-ef s                 arfected   P.is      Is-            ...   * s            *          r- _ . r  Pits-   s1-
No.,     Ae  tt tIs   teint                    effpl  tear s    IO      o_e A- t    ten1et   .7-   A t    elt enet  i-t    _et   d_l   _eet
34    132,621  3,945   5.904   24    51,492  2,734  10.241   39    42,554  3,07`3  2,4112  42    74,2015  4.352   2.919  30    45,423   9,773   4,181
3-6 sstl-                          21     2fi99?  1I005   2,45    17    40,001  1,357   2,501   5       5,013   4i    248   22    23,15   4,.2n9   Z,9   21    45,2n   4,"5    3'2i'
4-12 mths                           2     15,473    576   1,q02  124     24,2  1.074   1,201    a       4.015    755     n2   10      37,210   .11,5   3  41f   21    37,152    1055   3,544
1-2  ers                            -          -      -   1.43     a       .32       -       -    2     3 ,9      35   1.2,2    IN    10,500     152     562    9     112 .2    2,242   1.212
1Pr thea 2 Veere                                 -            - -  -    -     -      -       -    2    329              2.73   -           -       -       -    -           -       -      -
To--                          IJS  2Ifi%M*  5.526 11.52            164.314  3S313  1L943          37141 *Ann 6          552         j          l 1 45775  17         9n 727 7    142 57 ?2   12.4
Coir   .o                           -          -      -       _    _          _       _       _   -          _      _       _    _          _      -        _    _          _       _       _
PrItsat                            5S3    Iff.a3   5,326  22.704   59    144,314  3.95  12.343   Sl   57.34   4,.90   6,5.52   Al    147.775  2n.729   7.,37   57    3467,5? 27,q5   22.444
Total                         55    165 134  S3524  111704    9    3f44314  5215  11.441   5    57 3411 A j90  4S552  11    147 775  fI 714   7 937  n7    2l9 57  22 .1   12244
o_ s  Tad-try
Testln. u.1_ eperl
4 leater                        I    2170    223   3,752   14  *1,i39    42n  1.102           5        72n   127      4     4      3,362    420       152    1        725    V3       327
O,     e, ash Ar 4 plastic        I      IWn    225    124    3        S5,47    143     5    2        415   147       4     f     12,279     1       117  11       9.127   3.533   1.936
Mtr ls. teal 4 sDstuIl
steeral e    ta                 I        42'      6      21    5      5.121    266   1.167    -         -      -       -    2      4.453    551      423    1         70      i0      325
Paste estate                      4     422, 9   .342924   2.129    5  22.195    235   1.061    -         -      -       -    3      1.212    440      574    3      4,"42     157     A32
Pehriaatsd spira  ptSset
seahlaery                      7      8935    9`4   1,402   12    17,5m0  2.534   2.596    9       7,26    244       269    2     3,"62I      7       -    S  17-5s   4,6"          455
I.tricsl equpat                   3      3 ,09    399    261    3      3o0q,0    467     9I    1      3,414   206    12S                                                         -
Treasport sqspt                   I    14,3U3   125       SR    2      4,197   231       OA    I       320      -       11   -          -       -       -    *        44 ,14    559   1,04
Other                             2      1,019     t0    225    1       3,250   244      4n2    4    11.341 2 .,532   1.24:   9      5,4    1.501   I.2A2    6    21,547   4,72   2.0799
ebteel. _ etwTltz                  127.544  3_7_    J       44    234 6   1 II*26    3 5n7  0.443   24    23n59   2.74 2 2 4    '24 f      -637   2       a    I _ 2    __l1N    a- 5   S 7
X-msnefactsla  Iad_trl_
Arieolte-re. feret  4 Fa."    -           .7      229    444    1       1.006    324     529    2     7.247  1.397   1.32    3     19.359   1.143   2.540    2         "3T    42      pi
plec'lrtet.. Se &t,arrsrrs        -          -      -                              -       -    -         -                              -       -       -    -               
tretl                             -          -           -  -    -          -      -       I   -          -         -    -    2        221       4       12   4       I .075   523     22z
aporuteo.                        15    35.291  2.54A   2.405    a      24.10  3,035    310  79    25.7n        730     90   4n  N5,625   5.655    3.,47   34    27.192   3.425   3.102
!eist &                           a sl_  2.407    119    134   4        2,915    231     241    1       144    25        -   In      6 423    24R      35    5       2.543     549   1.20
thers                             I        M2      14      10    -          -      -       -    2        u2s     -      13    -          -      I        -    3      1.432    59A      735
-aita"l Uomn.fe.t-rito       24      42.U42  I   2    59 n  m 2s    1                                                               6nn 014  13  4  7.32 2 n4 n.GLf  n5  II .LU.i   7S  e4 *  34  4.32    h1!
Creed mbeal                         1534   IARI  1.704   f         26.114  5.1445  23.92   a55    57.34t 3,        JS2    L   147.775  1057110 717  L7     7 57  36357  22.91   11.444
Ia  N-bs   f ce _ps1.



ANhIX 4
-109 -Table 20
Page T of 2
KOREA
SECOND INDUSTRIAL FINANCE PROJECT
The Korea Development Bank
Resource Position as of December 31. 1984
Won million
A. DOMESTIC CURRENCY RES0U!2CES
1. LongTerm Resources
(a) Raised in Domestic Currency
Equity: Paid in capital                                 583,879
Reserves and retained ernings                  286,323
Subtotal                                            870,202
Borrowings:  Government                                 978,128
Industrial Rationalization Fund            29,282
National Investment Fund                 1,522,223
Tourism Development Fund                    59,124
Special Industry Supporting Fund           26,476
Shipping Promotion Fund                        191
Enery Rationalization Fund                   3,941
Electronic Industry Promotion fund          20,045
Oil Price Stabilization Fund              159,151
Subtotal                                          2,780,561
Debentures                                              840 761/a
Revolving funds                                          21,650
Time deposits (more than 1 year)
(b) Raised in Foreign Currency /a
Debentures                                              188,026
Syndicated bank loans                                 1,782,414
Subtotal                                          1,970,430
Total Long-Term Resources in Domestic Currency   6.483,604
Less: Term loans outstanding in domestic currency           5,053,834
Investments outstanding                                 816,507
Receivables from property disposed                      160,026
Fixed assets                                            146,007
Other assets                                            932,829
Subtotal                                          6.409,203
Resources available for disbursement               -       74,401
Less undisbursed comitments
Resources Available for Commitment                   74.401



ANNEX 4
- 110 -                       Table 20
Page 2 of 2
Won million
2. Short-Term Resources
Short-term deposits                                        133,271
Others                                                     240,202
Subtotal                                             373 473
Less operating loans (less than 12 months)                 565,397
Short-Term Resources Available for
Disbsursement and Commitments                 (191,924)
B. FOREIGN CURRENCY RESOURCES
1. Borrowings from Official Sources
IBID                                                       157,988
AID                                                            503
ADB                                                         52,328
KFW                                                          8,072
Less revolving funds                                        21,650
Subtotal                                             197.241
2. Borrowing from Commercial Sources
Debentures                                                  85,722
Syndicated bank loans                                      793,329
Subtotal                                             879.051
3.  Time Deposits                                                        -
Total Foreign Currency Resources                   1.076,292
Less: Foreign currency loans outstanding                       640,633
Requirements against foreign deposits received             1,279
Foreign currency resources available for disbursement          102,693
Less: Undisbursed commitments                                   20,877
Foreign currency resources available for commitment             81,816
Less: Uncommitted approvals                                     12,840
Foreign Currency Resources Available
for Approval                                    68,976
/a Net of issue cost.



AMU 4
-L  -                                                  %-S1  tI
S DUIThAL r1~PISC
The Kore B1velegit me  uk
Wat TAcr-mme im Total Teomecoo OototadII    (1t90-84) by Source of PumdiL
(War billie s)
1980       *      1981     2    192         *                         1988 S           1980-68     S
Douse tic Curreney
ovearnment fundA     363.8      38.5     421.3  36.2  394.9    50.0    358.0    32.5    (49.9)Ia  (6.2)/U.488.1    30.7
Sbare caplta1 &A
rmrwoe             141.5      15.0      57.3   4.9  36.6       4.4    104.9       9.5     37.6      4.6    377.9      7.3
Domeatic deposits
& debenturec       139.5      14.8      61.1   5.3  165.8    19.9    124.1    11.3    235.0    29.0    725.5    :S.O
Foreiln Currncy
Foedign coinercial
borrowings         237.6      25.2     601.8  51.7  239.4    28.7    520.3    47.3    625.5    77.3  2,224.6    45.6
Foreign official
borrowings          61.7       6.5      14.4   1.2  21.1       2.5    (14.4)/c  (1.3)La (42.3)1- (5.2)t-  40.5        0.3
lereign deposltt      (0.7)/"   (-)/o      7.8   0.7  (24.6)fa  (2.9)/a   8.1      0.7       3.7      0.5     t5.7)/- tO.l)/-
Increase in Total
Remource
Outstandina          943.4    100.0   1,163.7  100.0  833.2   100.0  1,101.0   100.0    809.6   100.0  4.850.9   106.0
/a  Parentheses indicate a reduction In the outetanding value.



-112 -                           ANNEX 4
Table 22
KOREA
SECOND INDUSTRIAL FINANCE PROJECT
The Korea Development Bank
IFD Operations. 1980-84
(W million)
1980      1981      1982       1983      1984
Outstanding at the begin-
ning of the year             187,089   326,752   437,544   597,428   643,370
New Issues
Facae value /a               200,000   200,000   306,500   336,719   510,290
Net proceeds 7a              109,959   124,915   215,255   295,705   449,551
Redemption                      60,337    89,208   246,615   290,776   271,823
Outstanding at the
end of the year              326,752   437,544   597,428   643,370   881,837
/a  The differential between face value and net proceeds is booked as deferred
assets to be amortized until maturity of each type of IFD.



ANNEX 4
- 113 -                          Table 23
KOREA
SECOND INDUSTRIAL FINANCE PROJECT
The Korea Development Bank
Foreign Currency IFD Operations, 1980-84
(US$ thousands)
1980      1981       1982      1983       1984
Outstanding at the begin-
ning of the year             213,828   255,871   243,215   257,058   322,047
New Issues
Face value /a                 47,411    30,000    41,293    83,775   117,544
Net proceeds /a               46,937    30,000    41,272    83,358   117,229
Redemption                       5,368    42,656    27,450    18,786   107,922
outstanding at the
end of the year              255,871   243,215   257,058   322,047   331,669



AmnEP 4
Table 24
11                                                 ftPgeRI of 2
KOREA
SECOND INDUSTRIAL flANWCE PROJECT
The Korea Develop_ent xank
Lonr-Ter. Foreign Currency lorrovinua as of Tleeuber 31. 1984
(Each currency in thousand)
A. Offictal Sources
Interest rate (2)    Masiemo term /d
Contract  Appro-  Commit-  Diabur-  Repay-   Outatan-   Nor-             Re        For       For      Date of
amount   vala/a  ment/a   sements  mente/b  ding /c   roving    lending    IDB    borrower  Siging
IBRD (US$)
lot Loan          60,000   60,000  60.000   60,000    36,352   23.648    8.5             10.5       18 (3)   18 (3)   03/31/75
2nd Loan          82,500   82,458  82,458   82.458    39,502   42,956    8.7             10.7       17 (3)   35 (5)   12/23/76
RZCO              11,713   11,713  11,713   11,713         1,194   10,519    5.83         7.5       25 (7)   17 (3)   11/20176
3rd Loan         110,000  110,000 110,000  110,000    42,914   67,086    7.5              9.5       17 (3)   15 (3)   06/21/78
4tb Loan         100,000   99,890  99,890   99,839    35,035   64,804    9.25            11.25      15 (3)   13 (3)   01/14/81
5th Loan         130,000   56,846  56,846    6,588             0    6,58U    9.R9        12.18      15 (3)   13 (3)   06/29/83
Total         494.213  420,907 420.907  370.S98   154 997  215.601
ADS (US$)
lRt Loan          10.000   10.000  10,000   10,000         9,842       158    7.5        10.0       15 (3)   15 (3)   11/23/70
2nd Loan          20,000   20,000  20,000   20,000    19,204           796    7.5         9.5       15 (3)   15 (3)   12115172
3rd Loan          30,000   30,000  30,000   30,000    27.632    2,368 7.5-8.75  9.5-10.75   15 (3)   15 (3)   03/20/74
NIl Loan          17,416   17,416  17,416   17,416         7,476    9,940    8.75        10.5       15 (4)   15 (4)   05/30n75
4th Loan          40,000   40,000  40,000   40,000    14,972   25,028    8.75            10.75      15 (3)   15 (3)   12/12/75
5th Loan          50.000   49.995  49,995   49,969    11,761   38,208    7.65             9.65      15 (3)   15 (3)   04/13178
Total         167,416  167.411 167.411  167,385    90.887   76 498
AID (US$)
lit Loan           5,000    4,988   4,988    4,998         4,988         0    5.0         8.0       10 (2.5) 10 (2.5) 04/12/60
2nd Loan          11,374   11,374  11,374   11,374    10,128    1,246    5.0              8.0       15 (3)   15 (3)   11/19/66
3rd Loan          11,000   11.000  11,000   11,000    10,387           613    6.0        10.0       15 (3)   15 (3)   06/26/68
Total          27 f374   27.362  27,362   27.362    25.503    1859
KM (DM)
lst Loan          20,000   20,000  20,000   20,n0o        18,915    1,085    5.0          8.0       20 (5)   10 (2)   01/24/66
2nd Loan          10,000    9,998   9,998    9,998         9,998         0    R.0        10.0       10 (2)   10 (2)   10/14/70
3rd Loan          10,000   io,ono  10,000   10,n0O            50    9,500    7.0          9.0       30 (10)  15 (3)   11/12n73
4th Loan          20,000   20,000  20,000   20,000             0   20,000    7.0          9.0      30 (10)  15 (3)  O/04176
Total          60,000   59,998  59,998   59,998    29g413   30,585
/a  Wet of cancellations.
7rb To lending inetitutlon".
7; Wlth lending Inetitutions.
75 Grace period in parenthesis.



AM=U 4
Table 24
Page 2 of 2
S. Commercial Sources
Contract    Disburse-   Repar-          Out-                                   MaxAuM  term   Date of
*mount      Mnnte        nente /a  standlng /b   Borrowing rate CX)             for KD3 /c    Signing
Sank Loans
let Loan (US$)      25,000        25,000      25,000            0  6 soe Libor + 1.75              5    (3)     06109/70
2nd Loan (USs)      80,000        80,000      64,000       16,000  6 son Llbor + I                10    (3)     nI124/74
3rd Loan CUSS)      80.000        80,000      80,000            0  6 soe Libor + 1.875             5    (2)      06125/76
4th Loan (T)     5,000,000    5,000,000   3.850.000   1,150.000            9.9                     7    (3)     07121176
5th Loan CUS$)     250,000       250.000      66,667      183.333  6 Amn Libor + 0.875            10    (3)     05/31/78
6th Loan CY)    28.000,000   28,000,000   9,800,000  18,200,000            7.8                    10             05/31179
7th Loan (US$)     600,000       60f,000           0      600,000  First 5 years:                 10    (3)     07105/79
6(3) moa Libor + 0.625
Remaining 5 yers:
6(3) wo Llbor + 0.75
XI= Loan (USS)     200,000       200,000     200,000            0  6 now Libor + 1-1/16          0.5             07/21/80
8th Loan CUSS)     600,000       600,000           0      600.000  6 mom LLbor + 7/b               a    (3)      12/05/80
9th Loan (USS)     500,000       300.000           0      3no,000  First 4 years:                  8    C4)      12107/81
6 mom Libor + 1/2
Reanilnng 4 years:
6 mom Libor + 5/18
10th Loan (Y)    10,000.000   10,000,000            0  10,000,000  LTPR /d (Japan) + 0.25           8    (4)     01/28/82
11th Loan CY)    10,000,000   10,000,000            0  10,000,000  LTPR 7t (japan) + 0.3           10    (5)     08/12182
12th Loan (USS)     300,000             0           0            0  3 or 6 Wo. Lbor + 1/2           B    (4)     12/15/82
(Us$200,000)
Prife + 0.2 (US$100.000)
13th Loan (Y)    10,000,000             0           0            0  LTPR /d (Japdn) + 0.1          10    (5)     12/21/82
T 5,0oo0,000)
LTPR /d (Japan) + 0.2
(T 5.000,000)
14th Loan (USS)     500,000       500,000           0     500,000  3 or 6 mo  Libor + 3/4 (6 yr.) 8    (4)       11/15/83
Libor + 718 (2 yrs)
(US$300,000)
Prime + 0.2
(US$200,000)
15th Loan (Y)    10.000,000   10,000,000            0  10,000,000  LTPR /e (Japan) + 0.2           1n    (5)      11/21/83
CY 5.000.000)
LTPR /e (Japan) + 0.3
16th Loan (Y)    10,000,000             0           0  10,00l,000  LTPR /e TJapan)                10    (5)     06/04/84
(Y 5,000,000)
LTPR1 /e (Japan) + 0.1
CT 5,000,000)
17th Loan (uss)     600,000       550,000           0      550.000  LIBOR: (USS400.000)             8    (4)     10/26/84
Libor + 5/8 (3 yr.)
'Libor + 3/4 (5 yr.)
Prime: US$200,000
18th Loan CT)  300,000,000  150,000,000             0 150,000,000  LTPR + 0.1 (T 150,000,000)       R    (4)     11/30/84
LTPR     (Y 150,000,000)    10    C5)      11/30/84
rurobonds
let Tssue CUR)      75,000        75.000      15,000       60,000          8.5                    13    (5)     10/10/74
2nd issue (DR)      60,000        60,000      60,000            0          9.5                     5            04/20/76
3rd issue (USS)     10,000        10,000      10,000            0          9.25                    3            07/15/76
4th Issue (KD)       7,000         7,000       7,000            0          8.75                    3            1n/16/76
5th Issue (USS)     25,000        25,000      25,000            0          9.5                     5            12/08/76
6th lasue (USS)     25,000        25,000      25,000            0          9.5                     5            02115/77
7thi-asue CU)      100,000       lon,000           0      100,000          7.25                    7             11;25/77
8th lsue CT)   10,000.000   10,000,000            0  10,000,000           6.7                    10    (5)     01/20/78
9th Issue (XD)      12.000        12,000         960       11,040          7.875                  10            03/10/79
10th issue (T)   10.000.000   10,000,000            0  10,000.000           9.0                    10    (5)     10/15/80
11th issue (USS)     30,000        30,000       3,000       27.000  Libor + 0.25 (min. 7.5)         8            05122/81
12th Issue CT)   10,000.000   10,000.000            0  10,000,000           8.5                     7    (3)     03/12/82
13th issue (DM)     100.000       100,000           0      100.000          8.25                    7            03/11/83
14th Issue (T)   10,000,000   10,000,000            0  10,000,000           8.6                     7    (3)     05/19/83
15th losue (SFr)     75,000        75,000           0       75,000          7.C                     5            02/28/84
16th Issue (T)   10,000,000   10,000,000            0  10,000,000           8.0                     7    (3)    05/30/84
17th lssue (SIr)    100,000       100,000           0      100,000          6.75                    5             10/02/84
/a To lending lnstitutions.
With lendlg Inatitutions.
Jc Crace period In parenthesis.
2  loRr-t r  prime rate.



16-                           AMEU  4
- .ll6-                            lb-   2
Table 25
KORE
SECOND INDUSTRIAL FINANCE PROJECT
Ihe Korea Dmvelop int Bank
Prolected Approvals. Colmitmentm and Disbursements. 1985-89
(won mtfIllion)
Years endlng December 31            1985        1986         1987        1988         1989
Approvals
Domsetlc Carrency
CapLtal loans                  572,300      677,900     791,500      925,100   1,050,200
Working capital loans          308,200      365,000     426,200      520,400      590,800
Subtotal                    880,500   1,042.900   1,217,700   1,445.500   1,641,000
Foreign Currency /a          1,084.800   1.104.700   1,143.500   1.171,300   1,241.000
Total Approvals           1.965,300   2.147,600   2.361.200   2,616,800   2,882.000
Equity Investments                  10,000       10,000       10.000      10,000       10,000
Subscrlption of private bonds      176.200      236,000     275,400      286,600      298,000
Commitments
Domestic Currency
Capital loans                  572,300      677,900     791,500      925,100   1,050,200
Working capital loans          308,200      365,000     426,200      520,400      590,800
Subtotal                    880,500   1,042,900   1.217,700   1,445,500   1,641,000
Foreign CUrrency Loans /a   1,084.800   1,104,700   1-143-500   1,171.300   1,241.000
Tbtal Commitments         1,965,300   2,147,600   2,361,200   2,616,800   2,882,000
Disburseusnts
Domestlc Corrency
CapitaL loans                  572,300      677,900     791,500      925,100   1,050,200
Working capital loans          308,200      365,000     426,200      520,400      590,800
Subtotal                    880.500   1,024,900   1.217.700   1,445,500   1,641.000
Foreign Currency Loans /a   1,084.800   1,104,700   1.143,500   1,171,300   1,241,000
Total Disbursements       1,965.300   2.147,600   2.361.200   2.616.800   2,882.000
RepaymentC
Domestic currency loans          591.300      666,200     777,800      951,300   1,084,900
Foreign currency loans /a        651,400      748,500     862,200      957,700   1,026.900
TOtal Repayments          1.242,700   1.414.700   1.640.000   1.909,000   2.111.800
0Utstanding loan Portfolio
Domestic currency loans        3,800,100   4,76,800   4,616.700   5,110,900   5.667,000
Foreign currency loans /a      3,038,800   3,395,000   3,676,300   3,889,900   4,104,000
Total Loans Outstaoding  6.838.900   7.571,800   8,293.000   9,000.800   9,771.000
/a Foreign currency loans Include domestic currency loans funded with foreign exChange
resources which have been converted (mwapped) lnto Won.



ANNM 4
- 117 -                        Table 26
KOREA
SECOND INDUSTRIAL FINANCE PROJECT
The Korea Develowpent Bank
Borrowing Progra to Neet Commitments 1985-89
(Won  illion)
1984       1985        1986       1987        1988      1989
(Actual)
Domestic Currency
Borrowings
Borrowings from Government    177,942    210,800    217,000    240,000    265,000   287,200
NIF                            177,576    231,800    231,800   -231,800    231,800   231,800
IFDs                           449,551    576,000    656,700    780,700    862,700   985,700
Subtotal                  755.069  1.018.600  1.105.500  1,252.500  1.359,500 1,504.700
Foreign Currency
Borrowings (US$) /a lb
Commercial Sources
IFDs                             149         210        240         225        270        270
Bank loans                       580        490         560         525        830       830
Subtotal                      729        700         800        750         900       900
Official Sources
ADB                                -          60        100           -          -          -
IBIRD                             11         100          -         150          -          -
Subtotal                       11         160        100         150          -         -
Total (in U$ million)         740        860         900        900         900       900
(in Won million)   613,800    705.200    73800        738000    7300   738,000
Total Borrowings        1.368.869  1,723,800  1,843,500  1,990,500  2.097.500 2,242.700
(in Won million)
/a On a contract basis.
/b  Exchange rate applied:  Won 829.5 per ITS dollar for 1984 and U 820.0 from 19R5.



;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. i-
AMNE 4
-118-                                           Table 27
Page I of 2
SECORD INDUSTRZAL FINANCE PRJGCT
The Vora& Develop ent bank
Prolected JlaCe Sbeet. 1985-89
(Ubn million)
Years ending December 31                1984         1985         1986         1987         1988         1989
(Actual)
ASSETS
Current Assets
Cash and bank deposits                      301.140      253,296      188,380      215,067      247,876      182,260
Securities                                  515,638      238,008      260,278      283,739      299,615      320,386
Short-term loana                            829,098      408,000      497,100      609,000      695,700      782,200
Current portion of longr-tern loas          565,397    1,006,700    1,142,900    1,300,000    1,416,100    1,531,400
Accrued Intereset  guarantee fees
receivable                                 70.746       56,129       61,381       66,914       70,658       75,556
Otber current assets                        232.829      245,563      268,541      292,747      309,127      330,558
Total. Current Asets                 2.514.848    2.207.696   2.418.740    2,767.467    3,039.076    3.322.360
Long-Term Loans
DomestIc Currency Loan.
Operating loans                             280,029    1,026,009    1,204,600    1,399,300    1,630,400    1,866,700
(Current portion tbereof)                               (192,100)    (235,0O0)    (303,500)   (357,400)    (419,500)
Capital loans                             4,133,172    2,774,100    2,972,200    3.217,400   3,480,500    3.800,300
(Current portion tbereof)                 (459,917)   (474,000)    (542,000)   (647.800)   (727.500)    (821.200)
Total Domestic Currenc" Loans        4 413 201    3 800 100   4 176 800    4 616 700    5 110.900    5.667.000
(Less:  Current portion)             i59:917) t666.200)  t77,800)    t95.300)  (l.084,900)  (1.240.000)
Foreign Currency ' mas
Operating loans                              68.955      820,500      979,100    1.114,300    1,240,900    1,351,900
(Current portion thereof)                              (215.900)    (261,300)   (305,500)   (338,300)   (362.700)
Capital loans                               571,678    2,218,300    2,415,900    2,562,000    2,649,000    2,752.100
(Current portion thereof)                  (105,480)   (532.600)   (600,900)   (652.200)   (688,600)   (710,200)
Total Forelan Ourrency toamn           640 633    3 038 800    3 395 000    3 676 300   3 889 900    4 104 000
a:  Current portion)                (105;48)     748:50)      8;62:800)    Z957:700)  (1,026;900)  (1,072,900)
Total Loan                           5 053 834    6 838 900   7 517 800    8 293 000    9 000 800    9 771 000
(Less:  Current portion)            (565.397)  (1:414.700   (1640000)  (tl909 000)  (2,111 800)  (2.313,600)
Met Long-Ter Loans             4. 488437    5,424.200    5,931.800    6,384.000  6.889.000    7.457.400
Investment.
Equity shares                               567.843      503,600      510,400      511,900      513,300      513,200
Debentures                                  248.663      240,100      387,900      559,400      724,200      895,700
Total Investments                      816 506      743 700      898 300    1 071 300   1 237 500    1 408 900
(Less:  Current portlor)             (88,386)    (91,400)    (ff2l400)   &130:400)   6136,600)    Z141:400)
Net Investoents                        728,120      652.300      7-.5900      940.900   1,100.90    1,26,500
Other Asset.
Property and equipment                       74.085       79,400       80,200       80,300       80,100       80,400
Recelvables froa property disposal (less                                                          I
current protion)                          160,026       70,497       78,081       85,530       92,829      100,751
Otber assets                                146,007      360,803     404,719      447.370      487,971       530,149
Total Other Assets                     353.212      510,70       563.000      613,200      660,900      711,300
Total Assets                        8,084 617    8,794,89     9,699,440   10.705.567   11,689.876   12.758.560



-ARNC 4
119                              ~~~~~~~~~Table 27
Page 2 of 2
Years ending Decenber 31                 1984          1985          1986         1987          1988         1989
CActual)
LIABILITnS AND EQUm
Current Liabilities
Short-term deposits                          133,271       210,419       228,993      241,758       254,153      268,102
Current portion of Lonr-term debt          1,012,511    1,029,600    1,158,300    1,302,600    1,377,200    1,419,000
Credit control account                        71,177        90,992        99.024      104,544       109,904      115,936
Other current liabilities                    169,025       267,289       290,883      307,098       322,843      340,562
Total Current Liabilities             1.385.984    1,598.300    1.777.200    1.956.000    2.064.100    2.143.600
Lont-term Liabilities
Tine Deposits
Domestic currency                                 -            -             -            - _           _
Foreign currency
Total TYne Deposits                           -             -             _            _             _            _
Foreign Currency Borrowing
Cousercial Sources
Bank loans                               2,575,743    2,367,428    2,629,795    2,844.850    3,013,759    3,176,690
Bonds                                      273,738       526,095      584,399       632,189       669,724      705,931
Subtotal                              2,849 481    2,893,523    3.214.194    3.477.039    3.683,483    3,882,621
Offical Sources                              218,891       353,977      393,206       425,361      450,617       474,979
Total Foreign Currency Brwings    3 068,372    3 247 500    3 607 400    3 902 400    4 134 100    4 357 600
(less:  Current portion)            t276,569)    t378,100       V3:00        806.300)    (514,500)       506,200
Net ForeIagn Currency Borrowings      2.791.803    2.869.400    3,164.400    3.396.100    3.619.600    3.851.400
Domestic Currency porrowings
Covernment of Korea                        1,169,934    1,132,863    1,315.902    1,512,812    1,728,928    1,961,437
Industrial Rationalization Pund               29,282        25,351       21,418        19,381        17,344       15,307
Tourim Development Fund                       59,124        31,218        30,218       29,524        28,887       28,562
'National Investment Fund                  1,522,223    1,703,131    1,648,564    1,610,695    1,575,969    1,558,231
lnDs in domestic currency                    840,762    1,045,100    1,369,900    1,744,700    2,122,500    2,544.900
Other Speclal funds                                -        35,037       40,698        46,788        53,472       60,663
Total Domestic Currency Borrowings   3 621 325    3 972 700    4 426 700    4 963 900    5 527 100    6 169 100
(Less: Current portion)             T735;9421       651,500)     715:300)    t706300)    1862:700)    t912,800)
Net Doneetic CUrrency Borrowings      2.885.383    3,321,200    3.711.400    4.167,600    4,664 400    5.256.300
Provisions for doubtful loans,
investments                                 78,466        90,991       100,"93      112,371       122,859      134,158
Other Long-term Liabilities                   72,779        25,000       26,000        27,000        28,000       29,000
Total Long-Tern Liabilities           5.5828,431    6.306.591    7,002,793    7,703.071    8.434,859    9.270.858
Total Liabilities                     7,214,415    7,904,891    8,779,993    9,659,071   10.498,959   11,414,458
Paid-in capital                              583,879       583,879       699,400      789,400       879,400      969,400
Reserves and retained earnings               286,323       306,126      220,047       257,096       311,517      374,702
Total Eouity                            870.202       890,005      919.447    1.046.496    1.190.917    1.344.102
Cutstanding GOarantees
Domestic currency                             368,847      353,362       343,042      336,686       328,168      319,588
Foreign currency                           3,201,706    3,077,338    2,987,458    2,932,114    2,857,932    2,783,212
Total Guarantees                      3.S70.553    3,430,700    3,330,500    3.268,800    3,186.100    3,102,800
Deduct:  Custoners  liabilities
for guarantees                    3,570,553    3,430,700    3,330.500    3,268,800    3,186,100    3,102,800
Net liebjilties for guarantees                        -            -             -            -             -            -
Total Liabilities & Nauitr            8.084.617    8,794,896    9,69.44    10.705.567   11.689,876   12.758.S60



AMNN 4
- 120 -                                            Table 28
KOREA
SECOND DNDUSTRIAL FINANCE PROJECT
The Korea Developoment ank
Projected Income Stateoents, 1985-89
(Von million)
Year. ending December 31                 1984          1985         1986          1987         1988          1989
(Actual)
3N0MNE
Interest Income
Interest on loans                            599,118       673,900      761,400       857,500      958,100    1.064,700
Interest on bonds & debentures                26,216        25,800       49,800        70,400       91,600       112.600
Interest on deposits                           3,272         7,434        7,644         8.288        8.722         9,170
Interest on secaritles & others               50,704        45,666       46,956        50,912       53.578       56.330
Total Interest Income                     679.310       752,800      865.800       987.100    1,112.000    1,242,800
Other Income
Dividend Income                                 4,542        3,10n         5,900        6,900        8,000         9.200
Cuarantee commission.                         16,642        21.000       15.000        14,700       14,300        14,000
Capital galns on sale of investment            7,179         5,376-       3,680         3,840        4,160         4,544
Other Income                                  55,768        11.424        7,820         8,160        8.940         9,656
Total Other Income                          4,131        40900        32.400        33,600       35,400        37,400
Total Cross Income                        763,44       793,700       898.200    1.020,700    1.147.400    1.280.200
-EPENSES
Finaelal Expenses
Interest on:
Borrowfnus from Coverment                   249,063       252.381      268,189       291,207      319,816      357,043
Foreign loans                               270,103      381.700       360,000      393,393       413,184      43n,857
Debentures                                  117,293       125,500      157,400      203,400       247,400      296,400
Deposits                                      6,872         6,000        8,200        10,500       13,200        16,000
Coimmssdons and others                        10,564        15,219       18,811        18,500       19,200        23,200
Total Flnancial Ezpense.                  653,895       717,800      812 600      917 000    1.012.800    1.123.500
Adm'nistrative and Other Expenses
Personnel expenses                            19,752        17,200       18,100        21.000       24,000        28,000
Provision for loan losses                     16,583        12.525       10,002        11,378       10,488        11,299
Provision for foreign exchange losses              -         1,584         1,584        6,394        7,590         9,246
Other expenses la                             27,294        21,329       21,329        21,406       28,593       33,930
Total Adidn. & Other Expense               63,629        52,638       51.015        60.178       70.671        82.475
Total EZxenses                            717.524      770,438       863.615      977.178    1,083,471    1.205.975
Net Income before Tax                            45,917       23,262       34,585        43,522       63,929        74,225
Taxes                                            8,307         3,459        5,143         6,473        9.508        11,040
* NET INCOME                                 37,610        19.803       29.442         37,049      54.421        63.185
/a Including Education Tax.



-1l 21 -                                          NAN  4
T M ezD
xomm
SECOND DMUSTRI  FINAC  PROJECT
The rorea Develo_a t Rank
Prolected Ch flow se entS. 1985-89
CWon ullioni
Years ending December 31               1984         1985         1986         1987        0Q88         1989
(Actual)
Sources of Funds
Net income -                                  37,610       19,803       29,442       37,049      54,421       63,185
Uoncash charges                               68,735       31,800       33,800       35,600      37,300       39,100
Incresse in paid-in capital                        -            -       90.000       90,000      90,000       90,000
Foreign currency borrowing Eros:
Offical sources                              3,562      133,988      140,220      140,220     140,220      140,220
Comercial sources                          799,094      557,108      583,020      583,020     583,020      583,020
Subtotal                              802.656      691,096      723.240      723,240     723,240      723 240
Borrowing from:
Coverment of Korea                         191,273      210,800      217,000      240,000     265,000      287,200
National Investment Fund                   1612871      220.210      220.210      220,210     220,210      220,210
Tourlm Development Fund                    15,705        6,954        6,954        6,954       6,954        6,954
other special funds                              -        4,636        4,636        4,636       4,636        4,636
Subtotal                              368 849      "2.600       "8.800       471,800     496.800      519.000
Tncresse in deposits                          13,118       500oo0       60,000      114,400      93,300      113,300
Issuance of IFD.:
In domestic currency                       483,274      576,000      656,70n      780,700     862,700      985,700
In foreign currency                         80,791       14,104       14,760       14,760      14,760       14,760
Subtotal                              564.065      590.104      671,460      785,460     877,460    1,000,460
Sales of Lnvest ents                         100,694       96,800      86,600      117,400      138,000      143,300
Loan collections                           1,642,129    1,242,700    1,414,700    1,640,000   1,909,000    2,111,800
Sale of property and equipment                26,829         228          333          284          229          253
Sale of marketable securities                      -       88,614      129,615      110,320      88g964       98,456
Increase in other liabilities                 35,615      109,116      159.603     135,844      109,547      121,235
Decrease in other assets                     209,220       29,842       43,649       37,152      29,960       33,156
Total Sources                       3.856,402    3,392,703    3,801,242    4,308.s49    4.64R.221    5.056.485
Uses of Funds
ncnrease in property G equipment              29,611       32,400         800          100            -          300
Loan disburseents:
In domestlc currency                     1,798,297      880,500    1,042.900    1 217,700    1,445,500    1,641,000
In foreign currency                        399,749    1,084,800    1,104,700    1,143,500    1,171,300    1,241,000
Subtotal                            2.198.046    1.965.300   2,147.600    2.361.200    2.616.800    2.882.000
Nev Investments                              195,719      186,200      246,000     285.400      296.600      308,000
ReVc ts Against
Do etlc currenc borrowings                 318,964      349,600      319,600      309,400     311,400      299,400
Foreign currency borrowings                239.132      277,685     -372,050     453,131      503,119      526,440
offical sources                          (45,888)    (35,275)    (47,262)    (57,562)    (63,912)    (66,875)
Cercial sources                         (193,244)   (242,410)    (324,788)    (395.569)   (439,207)   (459,565)
Subtotal                              558.096      627.285      691.650     762.531      814,519      825.840
Redemption of IFD.
In                                         270,400      461,600      U8.600       495,600     592,400      700,200
In foreign currency                         64,353       4,515        6,050        7,369        8,181        8,560
Subtotal                              394.753      466.115      454.650      503,069     600.581      708.760
.Increase In marketable securities             26.676      19,951       66,769       85,949       58,487      60,996
Increase in other liabilitles                      -       18,875      63.169       71,854       55,333       57,707
Increase In other asmetes                    497.101       58,974     197,362      224,497      172,880      180,297
Total Uses                 3.soo.002   3.375,100    3,868.000    4.284.600   4,615.200    5.023.900
Cash Increase (decrease) during the year       (43,600)      17,603      23,242       23,949       33,021       32,585



- in -                               ~~~~~~~AhNU 4
-able 30
KOREA.
SECON,D INDUSTRIAL FINANCE PROJECr
mhe Korea Dvelopient Bauk
Indicatora of Fnmcial ad Operational Performnce. 1985-89
(Won million)
Years endilng December 31                1984          1985         1986          1987         1988          1989
(Actual)
Total Assets                                   8.084,617    8,794,896    9 699 440   10.705,567   11 689 876   12 758 560
Of which: Loan portfolio                     5,882,932    7,246,900    8.014.900    8,902,000    9.696.500   10.53200
Investment portfolio                816,506      743.700       898,300    1.071,300    1.237,500    1,408,900
Long-term liabilitles & guarantees           9.398,984    9,737,291   10,333.293   10,971,871   11,620.959   li.373.658
Of which: In foreign currency                3.068,372    3.247,500    3,607,400    3,902,400    4,134.100    4,357,600
BorromInga  from Goverment        1,169,934    1,132,863    1.315,902    1,512,812    1,728,928    1,961,437
Debentures In domestic currency    840.762    1.045,100    1,369.900    1,744,700    2,122,500    2.544,900
Special loans and funds           1,610,629    1,794,737    1,740,898    1,706,388    1,675,672    1,662,763
Deposits                                  _            _             _            _             _            _
Outstanding guarntees                        3,570,553    3.430,700    3,330,500    3,268,800    3,186,100    3,102,800
Of which: Covered under GRA /a               2,721.737    2.654,326    2.537,272    2,501,483    2,486,326    2.399.827
Equity                                         870,202       890.005      919,447    1.046,496    1,190,917    1,344,102
Financial Performance
Percentage of Average Total Assets
1. Gross i1nome                                 10.0          9.4           9.7          10.0         10.2          10.5
2. Financial expenses                            8.6           8.5          8.8           9.0          9.0          9.2
3. Gross spread (1-2)                            1.4           0.9          0.9           1.0          1.2           1.3
4. Aduinlatrative expenses                       0.8           0.6          0.6           0.6          0.6           0.7
5. Provisiona for doubtful loans &
foreign exchange losses                     0.2          0.2           0.1          0.2           0.2          0.2
6. income tax lb                                 0.1           0.0          0.0           0.0          0.0           0.0
7. Profit before provision                       0.6           0.3          0.4           0.4          0.6           0.6
8. Net profit                                    0.5           0.2          0.3           0.4          0.5           0.5
Net Profit as X of Average Net Iorth /b           4.4/h         2.3          3.3           3.8          4.9           5.0
Other Ratios
1. Provisions & reserves /c as Z of total
portfolio                                   4.5          4.5           3.3          3.5           3.7          4.0
2. Book value as S of par value                149.0         152.0        131.0         133.0        135.0         139.0
3. Debt service cover ratio (tices)              1.4           1.1          1.2           1.2          1.2           1.3
4. Interest cover ratio (times)                  1.1         -1.0           1.0           1.0          1.1           1.1
5. Cost of total long-term resources as Z
of average total long-term resources       10.3          10.3         10.7          10.7         10.9         11.0
6. Income from loan portfolio as Z
of average loan portfolio /d               11.6          10.7         10.6          11.0         11.3         11.6
7. Interest on long-term debt as Z
of average long-tern debt                  11.7          11.6         11.9          12.2         12.3          12.4
8. Spread (6-7)                                 (0.1)         (0.9)        (1.3)         (1.2)        (1.0)         (0.8)
9. Long-term debt/equity ratio /e                7.7           8.0          8.5           8.1          7.7           6.7
10. Total debt/equity ratio le                    9.3          9.8          10.4          10.0          9.4         11.1
11. Total debt/equity ratio 7                    12.4         12.7          13.2         12.4          11.5         10.8
12. Debt/equity ratio according to
KDB Act. Article 25j/                       4.1          3.9           3.6          3.1           2.7          2.3
13. Oarrent ratio                                 1.8           1.4          1.4           1.4          1.5          1.5
Ia  Guarantee Release Agreement under which the Government covers the risk of KDB.
7i; Net income after National Defense Tax and from 1982, after the corporate lncome tax (5X).
T   Includlig unappropriated profits.
Td  Based on a daily average.
T7 Excluding guarantees covered under GRA.
T  Including guarantees covered under GRAI
7j Debt principally comprises nongoveriAent-guaranteed IFDs and guarantees outstanding.
Ih 2.5Z after adjusting for net gain of W 16.3 billion on sale of main office building.



ANNEX 4
-123 -                           Table 31
KOREA
SECOND INDUSTRIAL FINANCE PROJECT
The Korea Development Bank
Actual Foreign Borrowings Against Projections, 1983-84
1983                   1984
Projected   Actual    Projected   Actual
Domestic Currency Borrowings (W mln)
Borrowings from COX                 238,367    362,904       274,122    127,942
NIF                                 432,110    222,604       540,138    177,576
IFDs                                400,000    370,319      500,000    449,551
Other
Subtotal                     1,070,477    955,827   1,314,260    755.069
Foreign Currency Borrowings (US$ mln)
Commercial Sources
IFDs                                   150         -90         150        149
Bank Loans                            500         744         500         580
Subtotal Commercial Sources        650         833         650         729
Official Sources
AUB                                      -          -          150
IBRD                                  130          24/a         -          11/a
Subtotal Official Sources          130          24         150          11
Subtotal Foreign Currency
(in US$ million)                 780.        857         800         740
(in Won million)            (587,730)  (682,068)   (602.800)  (613.800)
Total Domestic and Foreign
Borrowings (in W mln)       1,658,207  1,637,895   1.917.060  1,368,869
/a Amounts disbursed.



ANNE% 4
- 124 -                        Attachment 1
Page 1
KOREA
SECOND INDUSTRIAL FINANCE PROJECT
The Korea Development Bank
Policy Statement
Economic Role of KDB
1.        The KDB shall assist in the economic development of Korea in con-
formity with its purpose as stated in the Korea Development Bank Act (RDB Act)
enacted December 30, l953, as amended, its By-Laws enacted February 16, 1954,
as amended, and other other regulations governing its operations.
Operations
2.        The KDB will carry out its operations in accordance with sound
management and banking principles and practices. It shall endeavor to
specialize in extending capital funds to such industries as are designated by
the Government's economic plans or decrees as priority industries as well as
other major basic industries which form the substructure of the economy. KDB
may also make equity investments, provide working capital loans and render
managerial and technical assistance to its borrowers when the need arises.
KDB will also extend guarantees on behalf of client enterprises. KDB,
however, will not compete with other financial institutions in lending and
administering industrial loans to assist major industries.
Project Selection
3.        It will finance enterprises which are soundly managed and which
appear, on careful economic, financial and engineering investigation to be
viable. Following sound banking practices, the projects will be analyzed
taking the following factors into consideration before making a commitment of
financiaI assistance: (a) national economic benefits; (b) technical feasi-
bility; (c) financial soundness and profitability; (d) marketability; and
(e) quality of management.
Critria for Selection of Borrowers
4.        In its operations, preference will be given to the following major
industries:
(a) Generation, transmission and supply of electricity;
(b) Coal mining;
(c) Ship building;
(d) Iron and steel manufacturing;



ANNEX 4
- 125 -                         Attachment 1
Page 2
(e) Electronics;
(f) Export industries, designated by the Government to produce export
commodities;
(g) Import-substitution industries and industries producing raw
materials necessary for export and import-substitution;
(h)  Indigenous industries and labor-intensive industries; and
(i) Such other industries as may be designated by the Government's
economic plans or decrees as priority industries.
Qualifications for Eligible Borrowers
5.        Eligible borrowers for KDB financing must meet the following
qualifications:
(a) Borrowers must be financially sound;
(b) Borrowers must possess management and technical capacity for
implementing the projects being financed;
Cc) Borrowers should not have defaulted on any of their outstanding
obligations to KDB.
Maximum Investment and Assistance
6.   (a)  KDB shall not subscribe to and/or underwrite stocks (including
investment certificates) if the paid-up amount of the stocks so held
by KDB will exceed KDB's own paid-up capital;
(b)  KDB shall not normall, make equity investments in any single
enterprise in excess of either:
(i) fifteen percent (15X) of the total unimpaired paid-up captial,
surplus, and free reserves of KDB; or
(ii) fifty percent (50Z) of the paid in capital of the enterprise.
(c) KDB shall not normally extend financial assistance (loan, invest-
ments and guarantees) to any single enterprise which exceeds either
of the following ceilings:
(i) twenty-five percent (25Z) of KDB's total unimpaired paid-up
capital, surplus and free reserves;
(ii) sixty-five percent (65%) of the total assets of the enterprise.



ANNEX 4
- 126 -                        Attachment 1
Page 3
Foreign Exchange Risk
7.        As a general policy, KDB shall cover itself adequately against
foreign exchange risks in the conduct of its operations. However, in using
"revolving funds" generated in the case of some foreign borrowings, KDB may
assume the exchange risk temporarily.
Security Arrangements
8.   (a)  In accordance with normal business practices, KDB will obtain
adequate security for its loans and guarantees. In extending a loan
to an enterprise, KDB shall require such enterprise to provide
security the value of which shall be not less than 120% of the
amount of the Loan. In the case of guarantees covered by a
Government counter-guarantee the value of security shall be not less
than the amount guaranteed, an in all other cases of guarantees,
shall be not less than 120Z of the principal amount covered under
such guarantees.
(b) KDB may waive any of the foregoing requirements in cases where the
credit or the guarantee is extended in favor of those enterprises
enumerated in para. 2, Article 10 of the Operating Manuals of KDB as
of the date of this Policy Statement, provided however, that in such
cases KDB will endeavor to secure a guarantee or counter-guarantee
from the Government or from a suitabLe bank or banks to cover the
credit or guarantee granted.
Technical Assistance
9.        KDB will endeavor to provide its subborrowers with the necessary
technical services including assistance for upgrading production efficiency
and solving complicated technical difficulties. It will observe the opera-
tions of its subborrowers and will, whenever necessary, promptly make
available to them constructive and remedial advice on the operation of the
project. When considered necessary, KDB will also dispatch its own staff to
the project companies.
Management and Organization
10.       To build and strengthen its own management and staff as well as to
assist clients in the formulation and execution of their projects, KDB will
maintain an effective organization and an adequate staff, including financiaL
and economic analysis, engineering, accountancy, marketing and legal services.
Share-Holding Fund
11.       KDB shall administer the Share-holding Administration Fund (the
Fund) pursuant to the provisions of the KDB Share-holding Act (Act No. 2128,
enacted August 4, 1969) as a separate and distinct account in KDB's official
books, the Fund will be treated as segreated from the other transactions and
resources of RDB in accordance with the provisions of said Act.



- 127 -                          IANEX 4
Attachment 1
Page 4
Financial Policies
12.       KDB shall conduct its operations according to the provisions of the
KDB Act. It shall endeavor to match the maturity of its liabilities with
those of its assets. It will continually review the charges it levies for the
financial assistance it provides to ensure that it receives an adequate
"spread" to cover all its expenses including provisions for doubtful loans and
investments, and to enable it to build reserves as required legally and as
considered necessary by the management.



ANNEX 4
- 128 -                        Attachment 2
Page 1
KOREA
SECOND INDUSTRIAL FINANCE PROJECT
The Korea Development Bank
Outline of Development Strategy for 1985-90
1.        To achieve the goal of realizing an industriaLized society, the
Government will continue an export-oriented development strategy and emphasis
will be given to economic stabilization. Together with prudent aggregate
demand management, strong efforts will be made to encourage the public to join
the stabilization program. As an instrument of the Government's development
policy, KDB will in the six year period 1985-1990 further its development
activities particularly in the specific areas outlined below.
2. Project Promotion and Resources Allocation
(a) KDB will give priority financing for readjustment of the Industrial
structure by
i)  supporting the comparative advantageous industry sector and the
high value-added industry sector; and
(ii) expanding support areas such as the technological innovation
industry, the manpower developing industry, the energy-saving
industry, the anti-pollution industry, etc.
(b) KDB will increase its emphasis on financing the newly emerged
prospective industry projects, in particular, the high-tech
electronic industry, the new material industry, and genetic
engineering industry.
(c) KDB will expand its consultancy role to enterprises in the areas of
project formulation, project design, selection of technology,
engineering and project analysis, through further development of its
subsidiary companies - like KMCC and KTFC.
(d) KDB will continue to expand its contribution to the social overhead
capital sector to improve the people's standard of living through
the redevelopment of the biggest city and the modernization of
distribution facilities, prevention of pollution and improvement of
the environment, the expansion of waterworks and sewerage
facilities, railroads, roads, etc.
(e) KDB will endeavor to internationalize it banking operations by:
(i) enhancing the efficiency of the foreign capital inducement;



ANNEX 4
- 129 -                        Attachment 2
Page 2
(ii)  rationalizing the foreign-debt management system;
(iii)  upgrading of credit rating techniques through introduction of a
Loan-Officer System and improvement of feasibility research in
connection with project selection; and
(iv)  flexibly applying the security ratio according to the credit
ratings of the enterprises.
3.        Resource Mobilization.  In line with its objective of intensifying
its efforts at raising private resources, KDB plans to:
(a)  increase the issuing amount of domestic bonds (IFDs);
(b)  strengthen KDB's despoit-taking abilities; and
(c)  increase its authorized capital to Won 2.0 trillion by 1990.
4.        Return on Equity.  KDB will endeavor to realize a reasonable rate of
return on equity which would be sufficient to maintain the level of its equity
base in real terms.
5.        Return on Investments.  KDB will endeavour to increase the ratio of
return on investments to 2-3Z by 1990 by:
(a)  expanding development investment areas through increasing the
investment to the Venture Capital industry;
(b)  expediting the management rationalization of the invested
enterprise; and
Cc)  selling the capital stocks of the invested enterprises.
6.        Staff.
(a)  KDB will continue to enhance professional abilities of its staff
through adequate training courses (OJT, etc.) provided by domestic
and foreign institutions; and
(b)  To deal with the problem of data collection and processing on
personnel management, KDB will further develop computerization of
its banking operations.
7.   Organization.  KDB will endeavor to achieve its management goal by
(a) implementation of the responsibility management system; and
(b) elastic operation of the organization according to the change of the
management environment.



- 130 -
KORE
NOLUUMAL F44CEUI MROACI
-oKamn                                     - Wo   'r
(A.Doim c 31. 190
*                =~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~jMat3l



ANNEX 5
-131-                               Table 1
KOREA
SECOND INDUSTRIAL FINANCE PROJECT
Financial System Asset Structure /a
(U billion)
1975              1984 lb
Amount     Z       Amount      z
The Prim=  SIstem
The Bank of Xor&L                           2,174   22.59      11,807   11.51
Commercial Banks                            3,632   37.74      31,287   30.49
Nationwide                                2,890   30.03      22,649   22.07
Local                                       514    5.34       4,013    3.91
Foreign                                     229    2.38       4,625    4.51
Specialized Banks                           1,930   20.05      20,626   20.10
Korea Exchange                              695    7.22       7,061    6.88
Small-Medium                                283    2.94       3,122    3.04
Citizens National                           266    2.76       3,581    3.49
Korea Housing                                168    1.75      2,720    2.65
Agric. Coop.                                457    4.75       3,642    3.55
Fish. Coop.                                  61    0.65         500    2.49
Development Banks                              931    9.67     11,116   10.83
KDB                                         848    8.81       7,387    7.20
KLB                                           53    0.55        998    0.97
s13Chn                                       30    0.31       2,731    2.66
The Secondary System
Saving & Trust                                355    3.69       9,158    8.92
Trust Accounts Banks                        244    2.54       6,552    6.39
National Savings and Finance                 64    0.67       2,171    2.12
Postal Savings                               47    0.49         435    0.42
Insurance Companies                           207    2.15       4,963    4.84
Life Insurance                              105    1.09       3,936    3.84
Nonlife Insurance                            102    1.06      1,057    1.03
Investment & Finance Cos.                     395    4.10      13,658   13.31
SIFCs /c                                    395    4.10       7,428    7.24
Inv. Trust Cos.                                               4,731    4.61
Merchant Bank Cos.                                            1,499    1.46
Total                                  9,624  100.00    102,615  100.00
/a  Assets are in current Won and exclude, where relevant, acceptances and
gurantees.
/b Data for 1984 are as of June 30, 1984.
T7 Including notes sold without recourse.



AJNEX 5
132 -    -Table 2
i
SECOND INDUSTRIAL FINACE PROJECT
Use of Fina nall ITntrmmnts /a
(Won bllion)
1974             1976              1978              1980              1982
Amwnt             Amount    S      kmunt       S     Amount    S       AoutEt
Bank loas                          2,619      40.6   4,249      37.4   7.677      34.4  14,463      32.9  23.939      30.6
Insurance lo-ns                      148       2.3      51       0.4    179        0.8    603        1.4  1,409        1.8
Investment Finance loans               0       0.0    303        2.7    638        2.9    997        2.3   1,813       2.3
Other lons                           919      14.3   1,326      11.7  2,902       13.0  6,294       14.3  11,196      14.3
Covernment loans                     431       6.7    712        6.3  1,434        6.4  2,604        5.9  4,722        6.0
Trade credit.                        643      10.0   1,397      12.3  2,441       10.9  6,000       13.7  11,506      14.7
Securities                         1.641      25.5  3,172       27.9  6,725       30.2  11,846      27.0  20.967      26.8
Coomercial paper                      43       0.7    140        1.2    301        1.3   1.087       2.5  2,645        3.4
Total                       6.444      100.0  11,350    100.0  22.297     100.0  43.894     100.0  78.197     100.0
/a Measgred as outstanding balance at end of year.



-133-                               ANNEX 6
KOREA
SECOND INDUSTRIAL FINANCE PROJECT
Estimated Cumulative Disbursements of Proposed Loan /a /b
(US$ million)
Bank fiscal year       Training          KLB             KDB            Total
and semester      Amount    Z    Amount    %    Amount    Z    Amount    Z
FY86
First            -        -      -       -       -       -
Second          0.1      5.0    7.2     6.0    6.0      6.0   13.3      6.0
FY87
First           0.3    15.0   24.0    20.0   20.0    20.0   44.3    20.0
Second          0.6    30.0   45.6    38.0   38.0    38.0   84.2    37.9
FY88
First           1.0    50.0   67.2    56.0   56.0    56.0  124.2    56.0
Second          1.4    70.0   86.4    72.0   72.0    72.0  159.8    79.0
FY89
First           1.7    85.0   99.6    83.0   83.0    83.0  184.3    83.0
Second          2.0   100.0  109.2    91.0   91.0    91.0  202.2    91.1
FY90
First           2.0   100.0  115.2    96.0   96.0    96.0  213.2    96.0
Second          2.0   100.0  118.8    99.0   99.0    99.0  219.8    99.0
FY91
First           2.0   100.0  120.0   100.0  100.0   100.0  222.0   100.0
/a  Estimated disbursements largely conform with the disbursement profile for
"IDF Sector Loans" in East Asia and Pacific.
/b  Assuming the proposed loan becomes effective in September 1985.



ANNEX 7
- 134 -                           Page 1
KOREA
SECOND INDUSTRIAL FINANCE PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A.   General Project Information
1.   Securities Regulations in Korea, Problems and Recommendations for
Feasbile Reforms, Young Moo Shin.
2.   Introduction To The Korean Securities Market, Korea Stock Exchange.
3.   Korea Securities Finance Corporation:  General Information.
4.   Korea Stock Exchange:  Fact Korea, 1983.
5.   Korea Securities Settlement Corporation:  General Information.
6. The Securities Market in Korea, Securities and Exchange Commission.
7.   Korea Banking Institute Training Program.
8.   Bank Supervision in Korea, Office of Bank Supervision and
Examination, The Bank of Korea.
9.   Korea, National Investment Fund, Working Paper,
10. Financial System in Korea, The Bank of Korea.
11. Financial Sector Policy Letter Signed by the Minister of Finance.
B.   Korea Long-Term Credit Bank
1.   Draft Detailed Review of KLB.
2.   Five Year Financial Projects (1984-1988) dated April 1984.
3.   List of KLB's Recommendations to MOF (submitted in June 1984).
4.   Guidelines and Criteria for Appraisal of Project Loans.
5.   Staff Status by Position and by Department (as of December 31,
1984).
6.   Security Policy; Loans Outstanding by Type of Security (as of
May 30, 1984); Loan Approvals by Type of Security (1983); and Loan
Security (outstanding loans) by Financial Institution (as of
September 30, 1984.
7.   Detailed Ratio Analysis, as of December 31, 1983, and September 30,
1984.



ANNEX 7
135 -                           Page 2
8.   Yield on Various Financial Instruments (as of August 20, 1984 and
December 31, 1984).
9.   Procurement Performance by Type for 1980 - September 30, 1984.
10. Total Number of Individual Disbursements for IBRD Funds by Size
(Third Quarter of 1984).
11. Number and Amount of Loans Rescheduled/Refinanced (1980-September
1984).
12. Outstanding Equipment Loans to the Manufacturing Sector by Sources
(as of December 31, 1983).
13. Clarifications to Appraisal Tables provided by KLB (letter of
February 7, 1985).
14. Weighted Average Spread on KLB Debenture Loans (cumulative) (1980-
1984, by quarter).
15.  Trends of KUB's Debentures' Nominal Interest Rates (1980-84).
16. The Articles of Incorporation (February 1985).
17. Five Year Financial Projections (1985-1989) dated March 1985.
18. Amendments to the Definition of Small and Medium Enterprises.
19. Procurement Procedures by IBRD Loan (Revolving Fund Method and Q/A
Method).
C.   The Korea Development Bank
1.   Schedule of Equity Investments, as of December 31, 1983.
2.   Calculation of Effective Rates,
3.   Operational Program for FY84.
4.   Interest Rates Charged by [DB, as of June 30, 1984.
5.   Department-wide Staff Distribution by Position, as of December 31,
1984.
6.   Funding Cost of IFDs Denominated in Domestic Currency, 1982-84.
7.   Hierarchy in KDB and Major Functions of Each Department.
8.   Long Term Management Plan (1985-90) - Translated (unabridged).
9.   Assumptions for 1985-89 Projections.






