Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFMFCIL USE ONLY
4g. 2~>/-k'o
Report No. P-4080-KO
a
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$222 MILLION
TO THE REPUBLIC OF KOREA
FOR A
SECOND INDUSTRIAL FINANCE PROJECT
May 13, 1985
This doeunent bs a restricted distribuian and my be used by recipients only in the perfonuce of 
thei offica dutie  Its cotents many net othweri  be discosed without World Dbk  _auoation.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
As of April 1, 1985
$1           =     W 850
$1 million   =     W 850 million
w 1          =     0.001176
W 1 million  =     $1,176
W I billion  =     $1.176 million
W I trillion =     $1.176 billion
ACRONYMS
ADB                 -   Asian Development Bank
BOK                 -   Bank of Korea
CNB                 -   Citizens National Bank
DFC                 -   Development Finance Company
DMB                 -   Deposit Money Bank
ERR                 -   Economic Rate of Return
Exim Bank           -   Export/Import Bank. of Korea
FRR                 -   Financial Rate of Return
IFD                 -   Industrial Finance Debenture
KAIST               -   Korea Advanced Institute of Science and
Technology
KBI                 -   Korea Banking Institute
KDB                 -   Korea Development Bank
KLB                 -   Korea Long-Term Credit Bank
KTAC                -   Korea Technology Advancement Corporation
KTDC                -   Korea Technology Development Corporation
MOF                 -   Ministry of Finance
NIF                 -   National Investment Fund
SMI                 -   Small and Medium Industry
SMIB                -   Small and Medium Industry Bank
SMIPC               -   Small and Medium Industry Promotion
Corporacion
FISCAL YEAR
January-December



FOR OMCIAL USE ONL"-
KOREA
SECOND INDUSTRIAL FINANCE PROJECT
Loan and Project Sunmnary
Borrower:                The Republic of Korea
Beneficiaries:           Korea Long-Term Credit Bank (KLB) and Korea
Development Bank (KDB) for the credit component;
Government agencies and other financial institutions
for the technical assistance cDmponent.
Amount:                  US$222.0 million equivalent.
Terms:                   The proposed loan would be made at the Bank's standard
variable interest rate plus commitment fee. The
credit component of the loan ($220 million) for KLB
and KDB would have two separate amortization sche-
dules, neither exceeding 15 years, but conforming
substantially to the aggregate of the amortization
schedules applicabLe to the specific investment proj-
ects financed out of the proceeds of the proposed loan
by each institution. The technical assistance compo-
nent ($2.0 million) would have a fixed amortization
schedule, repayable in 15 years, including three years
of grace.
Relending Terms:         The Government of Korea would relend the proceeds of
credit component to KLB and KDB on the same terms as
the Bank loan, but with an administration fee of
0.05Z. $120 million equivalent of the credit compo-
nent would be allocated to KLB, and KDB's portion
would be $100 million equivalent. KLB and KDB would
onlend the funds to their clients at a variable
interest rate at least 2% above the effective cost of
the Bank loan with maturities not exceeding 13 years
including grace periods of up to three years, except
where longer grace periods would facilitate commercial
cofinancing of subprojects. Subborrowers would bear
the foreign exchange and interest rate risks on the
Bank loan.
Proceeds of the technical assistance component would
be onlent by the Governmenit on the same terms and
maturity as the Bank's loan to financial institutions
sending their personnel to project-supported training
activities.
This document has a resticed distbution and may be ued by recpents only i th perfonnance of
I thir ofi  duties. Its contents may not otewie be didscd without World Bank authoraton.



- ii -
Project Description:    The project constitutes the primary vehicle for Bank
invoLvement in financial sector reform in Korea. The
policy dialogue over ths FY85-87 period would be based
on a policy letter from the Minister of Finance that
outlines a monitorable program of reform through
decontrol of interest rates, reduction of directed
credit, commercial bank liberalization and
supervision, control of corporate indebtedness and
equity market development.
The project would provide credit to cover the foreign
exchange cost of industrial equipment imported by
private firms seeking to acquire, build, modernize or
replace productive assets.  The median economic rate
of return estimated for subprojects approved under the
first Industrial Finance Project is 25%, and similar
investment performance is expected under the proposed
project.
The project would also provide technical assistance
for the training of managers in private financial
institutions and in related Government agencies. The
project would also address financial and institutional
issues related to KLB and KDB that were initiated
under previous projects involving these institutions.
Civen KLB and RDB's record in utilizing Bank loans,
institutional risks in the proposed project are
minimal. The institutional arrangements for the TA
component will require careful supervision because of
their innovative nature and the number of institutions
that are expected to participate. The only signifi-
cant question is whether financial sector reform would
progress more slowly than expected because of unfore-
seen changes in domestic and international con-
ditions. The Government remains committed to the
gradual implementation of far-reaching financial
reform; its cautious and consistent approach appears
likely to succeed.
6 mos.              Bank FY            6 mos.
Estimated Disbursements:    1986    1987    1988   1989  1990    1991
Annual                        13.3    70.9    75.6   42.4  17.6       2.2
Cumulative                    13.3    84.2   159.8  202.2 219.8   222.0
Rate of Return: not applicable
Staff Appraisal Report:      No. 5455-KO, dated May 9, 1985



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE REPUBLIC OF KOREA
FOR A SECOND INDUSTRIAL FINANCE PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Republic of Korea, for the equivalent of $222 million, to help finance
a second Industrial Finance Project. The loan would have a term of 15 years,
including three years of grace at the standard variable interest rate. The
Government will relend $100 million of the Bank loan proceeds to the Korea
Development Bank (KDB), and $120 million of the Bank loan proceeds to the
Korea Long-Term Credit Bank (KLB) on the same terms as the Bank loan plus an
administrative fee of 0.05%. KDB and KLB will onlend the proceeds of the loan
to final subborrowers at a variable interest rate of 2% above the effective
cost of the Bank loan, (including the administrative fee) for a maximum
maturity of 13 years, including three years of grace. The portions of the
Loan earmarked for KDB and KLB would have two separate amortization schedules
conforming substantially to the aggregate amortization schedules applicable to
the specific investment projects financed out of the proceeds of the proposed
loan by each institution.  The Government would utilize the remaining $2 mil-
lion of the loan proceets for a _echnical assistance program.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The latest Economic Report entitled "Korea's Development in a Global
Context" was distributed under cover of Sec M84-570 dated June 21, 1984. The
following snmmary is based on this Report. The Country Data Sheets are
attached as Annex 1.
3.        Past Performance.  Twenty years ago, Korea was one of the poorest
developing countries, heavily dependent on agriculture, with a weak balance of
payments position financed almost entirely through foreign grants. But the
ability to sustain a growth rate of 8% p.a. from 1960 onwards raised Korea's
per capita income from $180 in 1960 to $1,700 in 1982 (both in current
prices), with more than 80% of the population above the poverty line, and
enabled her to join the ranks of the semi-industrial nations. During this
period, the share of the manufacturing sector in GNP rose from 14% to 29%
while the share of agriculture fell from 39% to 17%. Merchandise exports,
principally manufactured goods, accounted for aLmost 41% of GNP as against a
mere 4Z two decades earlier and the balance of payments position had been
considerably strengthened.
4.        Rapid industrial growth also brought about a marked shift in the
structure of employment. In the early sixties well over half the labor force
had been employed in agriculture. By 1982, employment in this sector had
fallen to a third, while manufacturing absorbed over 22% of the employed.
Heavy migration from the rural areas to the cities combined with deliberate
Government policies to improve the agricultural terms of trade and a steady



-2-
increase in agricultural value added helped to ensure growth in per capita
rural incomes more or less in line with the rest of the economy through the
1970s.
5.        Adjustment to Oil Crises and Domestic Shocks, 1974-84.  Foreign
borrowing, an increase in public sector savings, and export diversification
resulting from an ambitious industrial policy enabled the country to negotiate
the first oil crisis without faltering, and thereafter, to grow by 10% p.a.
until 1978. However, the very success of the Korean planners in stimulating
the economy generated serious inflationary pressures. Real wages rose at an
average annual rate of 18% between 1975-78, well in excess of the growth in
productivity, and by 1978 the Consumer Price Index (CPI) was increasing at
over 18% p.a., compared to a rate of 1OZ in 1977. In addition, the large
volume of subsidized credit which was made available to the heavy and chemical
industries by the financial system under the Government's direction, brought
about an excessive expansion of capacity in subsectors faced with weak demand
while the traditional light industries were frequencly starved of funds. This
trend was in line with the Government's view of Korea's changing comparative
advantage, but it created structural imbalances in the manufacturing sector
and in conjunction with exchange rate rigidity and a rising price level,
dampened export growth in the latter part of the 1970s.
6.        The Government announced, in April 1979, a far reaching program of
stabilization-cum-restructuring to contain price pressures and revive exports,
but it was overtaken by a series of unexpected shocks. The oil price adjust-
ment by OPEC raised Korea's petroleum import bill from about $2.3 billion in
1978 to $6.2 billion in 1980 with the price-induced increase equal to nearly
62 of GNP in 1980. In October 1979, President Park Chung Hee, the chief
architect of Korea's "economic miracle" since the mid-sixties, was assassina-
ted. This was followed by a period of the severest political uncertainty and
social unrest in twenty years, with the situation returning to normal only
after a new Administration under President Chun Doo Hwan was installed in
September 1980. On top of these developments, unfavorable weather reduced
agricultural output by about 22% in 1980, or over 4% of GNP, and a 20X decline
in investment led to a worsening of deflationary pressures that outweighed the
10% growth of export volume. As a result. GNP fell by 6.2Z in 1980, unemploy-
ment increased to 5.2% from 3.2% in 1978 and the higher costs of fuel, raw
materials and foodstuffs pushed up consumer prices by 29%.
7.        To stabilize the economy and promote external adjustment, the Gov-
ernment attempted, with some success, to restrain wages. It also adopted a
system of managed float, as a consequence of which the effective exchange rate
was cut by 30X in 1980. Improved competitiveness and weak domestic demand
allowed export volume to increase by 10% in 1980 and a further 17% in 1981.
This sizeable expansion in trade brought about a narrowing of the current
account deficit from $5.3 billion in 1980 (9.4% of GNP) to $4.6 billion (7.4X
of GNP) in 1981. Meanwhile a 0.32 cut in real wages following on the heels of
a 5% drop in the previous year, together with some levelling off of import
prices, led to an easing of inflationary pressures. These favorable develop-
ments continued through 1982, a year which saw inflation declining to 7.3% and
the payments deficit to 3.9% of CNP, largely because of movements in the terms
of trade favoring Korea, modest success on the wages front and rather more
conservative fiscal and monetary policies.



-3-
8.        1983 and 1984 saw a continuAtion of the improving trend brought
about by the stabilization and adjustment program begun in 1979/80. Helped by
the recovery of export demand in the electronics, machinery and transport
sectors, the current account deficit shrank further to $1.6 billion in 1983
and $1.4 billion in 1984. With money supply growth restrained to a conser-
vative 12Z-15Z and with wages running behind productivity inflation continued
to slide, being 3.4% in 1983 and 2.8Z in 1984. Real CUP surged by 9.51 in
1983 and 7.7Z in 1984. In short, Korea not only jumped back on to a high
growth trajectory but managed to do so while keeping its current account
deficit low and its prices stable.
9.        Medium-Term Prospects.  As was the case during the 1970s, Korea's
rate of growth during the 1980s will be determined largely by the performance
of exports on the one hand and savings on the other. The revised version of
the Fifth Plan aims for a growth rate target of 7.5Z which is to be achieved
via an export growth rate of 10Z and a national savings rate of 29%. All this
is to be accomplished in an environment of stable prices and equilibrium in
the balance of payments. The propcsed targets are ambitious and the self-
imposed constraints are tight. Hence, careful macroeconomic management will
be required over the next few years.
10.       Export performance over the last eighteen months has been very
encouraging. Merchandise exports grew by 12Z during 1983 and 13% in 1984.
However, this performance has been tied largely to the U.S. economic recovery
and the continued strength of the U.S. dollar.  Exports to the U.S. grew by
32.1% in 1983 while exports to the European countries rose only 6.91 and to
Japan only 0.5%. Therefore, if the U.S. recovery falters, or if protectionist
sentiment increases, it is likely that Korea's exports will grow more slowly
and the pace of GNP growth would slacken. Korea is aiming to soften the
impact of such eventualities by investing in domestic R&D and in upgrading the
skills of its labor force so as to be able to diversify its export base. It
is also diversifying its export markets.
II.       Nationai savings are b  -'  prom.ted partly througr. a process of
financial liberalization which ra_sed real rates of interest for depositors by
up to 5 percentage points in 1983, partly through budget surDluses arising
from restrained go-7erBmenc expenditure and partly through measures to increase
efficiency in public sector activities. The savings rate stood at 24.4% in
1983, up from a recent low of 21.9Z in 1980.  However, a savings rate of 292
and a level of fixed investment of about 31Z will be needed if growth is to be
maintained at 7.5% without pressure on the balance of payments. On the basis
of past aggregate savings performance, it is likely that the Koreans will
attain their savings target. However, the process may be more difficult in
the future than it has been in the past. There has been a marked shift up in
the demand for consumer durables in recent years.   While the burden of
increasing savings will largely be met by private savings as a result of
rising income and profit levels, Government is also taking action to raise
further the contribution of the public sector to savings.
12.       External Resource Balance.  While total debt is high ($40.4 billion
in 1983, 54% of GNP), the debt service ratio, including interest on short-term
debt, remains a manageable 20%. The share of short-term maturities in total



debt is, however, high (at 35%), and is a cause for concern. This aspect of
its debt and the continuing uncertainty in international financial markets,
which has Led to high and volatile interest rates, has persuaded the Koreans
to hold their new foreign borrowing at about $6 billion per annum through 1986
and to seek balance of payments current account equilibrium by then. This
implies a Level of net external borrowing of $2.5-$3 billion per year through
1986. Our assessment is that this level of borrowing is reasonable, and that
while a significant proportion of official assistance should be continued,
Korea is likely to move increasingly towards reliance on private flows to meet
external capital requirements.  This assessment was endorsed recently by the
Consultative Group for Korea which met on July 16, 1984 in Seoul. At that
meeting, the Consultative Group, recognizing the rapidly evolving character of
Korea's economy and the trends in external assistance, concluded that its role
as a forum for aid coordination and enhanced mobilization of external capital
is now being fulfilled by Government. Accordingly, it was agreed that the
Group should be formally dissolved. Nevertheless, the Government explicitly
indicated its need and its intention to continue with a substantial program of
borrowing from the Bank and its wish to continue with an active economic
diaLogue that would provide a vehicle for continued advice on matters of
economic poLicy.
PART II - BANK GBOUP OPERATIONS
13.       As-of March 31, 1985, Korea had received 75 Bank loans (including
one Third Window Loan) and 8 IDA Credits, totalling $5,311.54 million in loans
and $115.58 million in credits (taking into account cancellations and the
refinancing of one IDA Credit in a subsequent Bank loan). As of that date,
$1,087.17 million remained undisbursed on effective loans, mostly from commit-
ments in the past two years. Annex II contains a list of outstanding Bank
loans, IDA Credits, and IFC Investments as of March 31, 1985. Progress on
project impLementation is generally satisfactory. Although implementation
delays - mainly in irrigation, highways and population projects - had occurred
due primarily to shortfalls in Government budgetary contributions resulting
from cost overruns during a period of high domestic inflation, they have been
addressed and resolved. The Government has taken measures to increase local
funding of Bank-financed projects. However, as the Government's budgetary
situation continues to be tight, the status and plans for counterpart contri-
butions will remain an integral part of country implementation reviews held
jointly with the Government. Nevertheless, despite the recent delays, Korea's
disbursement rate remains the highest among major Bank borrowers in East Asia.
14.       The current pipeline of projects in the lending program for Korea
reflects an evolution in the Bank's strategy from lending for discrete proj-
ects concerned with micro-institutional issues increasingly to making loans
which are aimed at addressing more broadly based policy and institutional
issues. This gradual change in the Bank's lending approach, made possible by
relatively sophisticated Korean institutions, is proceeding well. Sector loans
have already been made for Highways, Education and Industrial Finance. The
Bank has also made two Structural Adjustment Loans (SALs), which complement
this approach by concentrating on issues that have macro and multi-sectoraL
impact.



15.       In 1984 the Bank undertook an Agricultural Sector Survey in Korea
which generally recommended that Government should stimulate nonfarm empLoy-
ment in rural areas, reduce its overall intervention in the sector, and adopt
a broader and longer-term view of agricultural problems. The credit project
which was approved on May 21, 1985 would focus on agricultural credit and
hence would promote agricultural development through financing private sector
investments covering a wide range of agricultural production and rural income
diversLfication activities. It would also address the institutional develop-
ment issues of the National Agricultural Cooperative Federation, the main
credit institution serving agriculture.
16.       Bank lending for the industrial sector is aimed at helping improve
Korea's trade and industrial incentives policies, at improving the performance
of the financial system and at developing the technoLogical capabilities of
Korean enterprises. So far, trade and incentives issues have been addressed
through two SALs. Issues pertaining to the strengthening of the financial
system are being addressed under the Bank's lending for industrial finance.
For example, the Industrial Finance project approved by the Board in June 1983
supports the Government's ongoing program of financial sector reform. The
technology enhancement objectives of the Government are being pursued with
Bank support through two projects approved in 1982, one for the Korea Techno-
logy Development Corporation (KTDC) which finances research, development and
engineering and the other for the machinery industries which is designed to
provide financial and technical assistance to raise the productivity of small
and med-ium machinery firms. Future lending planned Eor industry in Korea, of
which the proposed project is a part, would include continued support for
financial sector reform, for KTDC (second loan approved on October 25, 1954)
and for the small and medium-industry subsector, through the Small and Medium
Industry Project approved on April 16, 1985, which is expected to play an
important role in the growth of the skill-intensive industries which are
crucial to the next stage of development of Korean industry.
17.       The Bank has played a ma,or role in assisting Lhe Government to
modernize and expand the transport system tbrDugh lending for the railroad,
highway construction and improvement, and po:f expansion. The Highway Sector
loan approved in March 1384 as well as future operations would address sec-
toral and subsectoral issues such as improving the integration of investment
planning, energy conservation and transport efficiency related to regulation
and road user charges. Those transport issues which involve macroeconomic
policies affecting other sectors of the economy, such as relative fuel prices,
are being handled within the context of the second SAL.
18.       The Bank Group has been involved in helping to meet the requirements
for skilled technical manpower, a precondition of up-market industrial diver-
sification. The Bank's first sector loan for education, approved in 1980, was
aimed at improving engineering and management education and technician train-
ing. A second sector loan, approved in May 1984, would support measures
designed to improve qualitative aspects of secondary and higher level science
and technology education. The Bank's recent lending in the urban sector
involves support for three regional development projects, two low-income
housing projects and two water supply projects. The Bank is assisting Korea
to increase the availability of basic services such as housing, water supply



and transportation in the cities and to improve the functioning and efficiency
of urban areas. The Seoul Urban Transportation Project was approved on April
16, 1985, and new projects in local government finance and water supply are
under preparation. Continuation of the policy improvement and institution-
building efforts initiated under ongoing projects is planned by moving
gradually to a sector approach.
PART III - SECTORAL BACKGROUND
The Industrial Sector
19.       Three features characterize Korea's remarkable industriaL develop-
ment since 1960: rapid growth, export orientation and successful diver-
sification, and debt dependence.
20.       At 15X, Korea's manufacturing sector growth rate ranks among the
highest in the world between 1960 and 1983. This development has been asso-
ciated with a generally dirigiste approach within which the Government main-
tained comprehensive export incentives, an extensive system of guided, conces-
sional credit (leaving Korean corporations very highly leveraged) and substan-
tial expenditure on human and physical infrastructure investments. The
inherent weaknesses of the interventionist approach were exposed by the second
oil shock in 1979 and the subsequent world recession. The promotion of heavy
and chemical industries contributed to an increase in debt and excess cap-
acity. Between mid-1979 and 1981, GNP was stagnant and real per capita income
adjusted for terms of trade declined by about 10%. These circumstances caused
the Government to begin to question the costs of choosing sectors to develop
and promoting them through large infusions of cheap credit, and whether the
economy is too large and complex to be efficiently guided by direct con-
trols. Consequently, direct intervention is being gradually reduced in favor
of direction from incentives and market signals.
The Financial Sector
21.       Description.  The Korean financial system grew rapidly from W 9.6
trillion in average consolidated assets in 1975 to W 102.6 trillion in 1984.
It consists of three tiers diferentiated largely by degree of government
regulation: a heavily regulated primary system composed of the Bank of Korea
(BOK), commercial, specialized and development banks; a Less regulated
secondary system of insurance, investment, finance and securities companies;
and an unregulated tertiary system of informal lenders and agents known as the
curb market.
22.       The primary banking system accounts for 73% of reported financial
assets. It includes seven private "city banks" with nationwide branches, ten
private local banks with regional operations, and more than 50 branches of
foreign banks; these three types of commercial banks together account for 30X
of reported financial assets. The Government has increased the autonomy and
flexibility of commercial banks, and has allowed them to differentiate inter-
est rates within a narrow band to reflect loan cost and risk characteris-



tics. The rapid growth of foreign bank branches is likely to be enhanced by
measures expected to give them parity of regulatory treatment with domestic
banks by 1986. Six specialized banks, created by the Covernment to serve
particular sectors, account for 20X of total financial assets, their share
having remAined constant since 1975. There are three development banks: the
Korea Development Bank (KDB); the Korea Long-Term Credit Bank (KLB); and the
Korea Export-Import Bank. Their market share of 11% has remained roughly
constant. The remaining 12% of reported financial assets in the primary
system is represented by the Bank of Korea.
23.       The second tier financial system which accounts for 27% of reported
financial assets, contains savings and trust institutions, insurance
companies, venture capital firms, short-term finance companies, and securities
dealers. Each of these groups of institutions, with the ability to raise
deposits and lend at interest rates higher than those permitted banks, has
more than doubled its asset share since 1975. Short-term investment finance
companies, established since 1972 as alternative channels for funds that
flowed through the curb market, have more than trebled their market share.
24.       The curb market is noninstitutionaL.  Recent estimates of its size
range from W 1.0 to 1.5 trillion, approximately 6% of total domestic credit to
the private sector. This informal short-term finance market operates as a
"safety valve" by providin. relief from constraints in the formal credit
sector where rates and volumes are subject to government control. It also
caters to business shunned by banks and offers anonymity ani the prospect of
higher returns to depositors willing to accept the accompanying risk.
25.       Development of Financial Instruments.  Use of financial instruments
is changing: trade credit and commercial paper have become increasingly popu-
lar, and the bond and debenture market has grown faster than the stock
market. The most significant primary bond market development has been the
growing popularity of corporate bonds, which accou..t for B5% of the market.
Almost all corporate bonds carry bank guarantees, which in effect substitute
for loans that banks have been -:a.able rr issue because of slow deposit
growth. Secondary bond market transactions consist almost entirely of repur-
chase agreements. The stock market has ;rown, and tie long term trend in
share prices has oeen upward. Io.wever, as a proport-on of total securities
the total market value of shares dropped from 76% to 40Z and the number of
shareholders declined from 1 million in 1978 to 680,000 in 1982.
26.       Government Controls and Intervention.  Rapid development of the
economy was accompanied by highly interventionist policies. Strict control
over credit allocation was a major tool in development strategy. Government
controls included restrictions on the establishment of new financial institu-
tions, ownership stakes in financial institutions, detailed regulation of bank
management and staffing decisions, determination of interest rates, and selec-
tive credit controls. The Government also funded priority investmen-s through
development banks and deposit money banks. Subsidization of lending rates in
proportion to perceived investment priority was widespread. In aggregate, the
Government controlled approximateLy 50% to 60% of tocal ba.-e _ng resources.



- 8 -
27.       Disadvantages of the dirigiste approach became apparent when the
economy came under stress, largely from external economic developments.
Government has modified its approach to decentralize economic decision making
and to reduce intervention in finance so that market forces play a greater
role. The Government is gradually phasing in financial reform, which began in
1981, so that changes in interest rates and other policies do not unduly
destabilize the heavily indebted corporate sector or the commercial banks
which have had low profits and deteriorating portfolios emanating, in part,
from past government policies. As reform progresses, the Government is taking
measures to strengthen the commercial banks and the corporate sector so that
they will be able to operate effectively in a more competitive environment.
To date, the Government has successfully implemented reform measures.
28.       Financial Sector Issues.  The objective of financial reform is:  to
improve resource allocation by decentralizing investment decisions so that
entrepreneurs, financial institutions and portfolio investors can respond more
rapidly to perceptions of risk and reward; and to enhance efficiency in inter-
mediation as financial institutions are subjected to greater competition
through less legislated speciaLization and the establishment of new institu-
tions. The Government provided the Bank with a "Letter of Development Policy
for the Financial Sector" in April 1983 covering the period through 1985. A
second Policy Letter has been provided under the propGsed project, and it
outlines the financial reform measures to be undertaken through 4987, thus
serving as the basis for sector dialogue. The second Letter identifies five
main issues: (a) decontrol of interest rates, (b) reduction of directed
credit, (c) commercial bank liberalization and supervision, (d) control of
corporate indebtedness, and (e) equity market development. Equity market
development, not addressed in the 1983 Letter, is included in view of its
favorable prospects and economic and social importance. IFC has played a
major roLe in developing this aspect of the ?olicy Letter. The Letter out-
lines Government's objectives in dealing with each issue, and presents a
series of monicorable initiatives (see para. 44). It is attached to this
report as Annex IV; Annex V summarizes in tabular form actions to which the
Letter refers, including some of the specific actions recently implemented in
support of financial reform.
29.       Decontrol of Interest Rates.  The Government plans to decontrol
interest rates gradualLy to permit rate determination by market forces,
operating within the framework of monetary and fiscal management. In 1982,
commercial bank lending rates were sharply reduced and unified at 10Z as part
of a series of actions to deal with infLation and other economic problems. A
Lending rate band of 10-10.5% fer commercial banks was introduced in January
1984 with interest rate incentives for lengthening the term structure of
deposits. The ceiling was ircreased to 11.5% in November 1984 and to 13.5% in
April 1985. Similar increases were made on several types of time and savings
deposits. Outside the commercial banking sector, interest rate ceilings have
been less binding and yields on primary issues of corporate bonds and bank
debentures have moved close to second tier market rates ranging upward from
13X.  The Covernment has allowed development banks, including KDB and KLB, to
lend at rates approximating those in the second tier market. Thus, the dif-
ferential between administered and market rates has narrowed, but reform has
not yet fuLly met the objective of raising ceilings to exceed market rates.



- 9 -
Curb market rates are reported to have dropped to 1.2Z per month, partly in
response to partial deregulation of non-bank financial instruments and lower
inflationary expectations reflecting an increase of only 2.8X in the conoumer
price index in 1984.
30.       Government plans to keep real interest rates positive, reduce the
gap between controlled and market rates for similar transactions, and raise
interest rate ceilings for commercial banks and other financial institutions
while permitting adequate spreads to efficient intermediaries. New instru-
ments will continue to be introduced.
31.       Reduction of Directed Credit.  The Government intends, through
financial reform, to reduce its direct role in the allocation of credit, which
should enable financial intermediation to be more efficient. Progress in
reducing directed lending has involved phasing out some funds and raising
interest rates on most remaining funds to the minimum commercial bank lending
rate. Since 1982, the Government has made National Investment Fund (NIF)
allocations on a sectoral basis rather than targeting specific firms as Loan
recipients, and has given banks handling NIF loans more autonomy in credit
decisions. The volume of loans arranged through the NIF was reduced from
W 733 billion in 1983 to W 506 billion in 1984.
32.       Steps to be taken include continued reduction in NIF funding and,
possibly, eventual reduction in its total assets by refunding contributing
institutions' payments into the Fund. NIF activities will be increasingly
concentrated in KDB with the phasing out of commercial banks as conduits for
NIF lending.
33.       Commercial Bank Liberalization and Supervision.  Objectives for the
commercial banking system include the creation of a sustainable, competitive
market in banking services offered by strong financial institutions. This
requires that bank profitability be adequate to reward shareholders, increase
capitalization and provide sutficient reserves for bad debt losses.
34.       With liberalization, large nationwide city banks have been priva-
tized to increase their competitiveness and efficiency. Financial reform has
included a change in the approach to financial supervision, moving from reli-
ance on prior authorization by supervisory agencies to ex-post monitoring of
performance in relation to a simplified set of guidelines. Banks have been
authorized to undertake new activities in competition with nonbanks and to
improve their earnings. The Government has licensed new financial institu-
tions and deregulated some financial activities to reduce legislated special-
ization and market segmentation. The Ministry of Finance (MOF) is considering
proposals by KDB and KLB to diversify their sources of funds and improve their
competitiveness. These Government actions have raised issues concerning the
most desirable or appropriate functions of different classes of financial
institutions. A study of these issues has been commissioned by the Minister
of Finance. The report should be available by June 1985, and the Bank expects
its subsequent full discussion with MOF officials.
35.       A critical element in the liberalization of commercial banks will be
the development of their ability to earn revenues sufficient to cover costs of



- 10 -
administration, funds and risk, without subsidies. This objective was not
fully achieved in 1984 in spite of improvements in spreads and increases in
fees. Continued attention to Lending rate spreads is an important Government
priority in financial reform. A problematic element in reported bank profits
is allowance for bad debts. Provisions tend to equal 1Z of outstr-ding loans
because of tax regulations, and loan classification conventions result in
doubtful assets that are quite small in relation to the level that might be
expected as a result of corporate indebtedness. Regularization of the banks'
portfolio problems arising from directed credit could facilitate improvements
in the banks' capital through retained earnings and the issue of new shares,
which would facilitate a decrease in government intervention in banking. The
Government is taking action to improve the banks' profits so that they will be
adequate to cover bad debt losses and to strengthen their capital positions.
36.       Subjecting domestic and foreign banks to the same controls and
privileges will increase competition. In 1985, foreign banks are being
allowed access to BOK rediscount facilities, while currency swap arrangements
that shielded them from foreign exchange risk are being phased out. Limita-
tions on foreign bank competition for Won deposits will be phased out begin-
ning in 1986, restriction on their branching is expected to be relaxed, and
they will become subject to selective credit controls, primarily portfolio
requirements favoring smaLl and medium industry.
37.       Korean financial institutions, with Government and World Bank
support, are strengthening their training programs to-enhance their capability
to operate in a more competitive environment. The Bank has been involved in
training commercial bankers, central bankers and MOF staff under the first
Industrial Finance Project, and the technical assistance component of the
proposed project is designed to expand this activity.
38.       Control of Corporate Indebtedness.  The Government's objective in
dealing with corporate indebtedness is to have debt capacity increasingly
deter-mined by market forces, while averting payment crises by carefully struc-
turing measures that permit market forces gradually to exert more influence on
corporate financial behavior. CorDorate indebtedness in Korea is relatively
high, reflecting extensive use of debt, frequently at subsidized rates, to
finance growth. Export-led development has involved tompeting with relatively
small margins, retarding internal accumulation of equity.
39.       Progress towards this objective has included measures to help cor-
porations service debt, direct Limitations on debt and incentives to improve
corporate capital structure. Measures to help corporations service debt have
diminished with recovery from recession. Direct limitations have taken the
form of debt-to-equity ratios specified for major industries, which restrict
the investment activity permitted firms exceeding these limits. In 1984
special scrutiny was directed toward the debt of large corporations, and
additional oversight has been imposed in 1985. An instrument for enforcing
discipline on corporate borrowing is the prime bank agreement of January 1984,
which enabLes BOK to use commercial banks to control th'i indebtedness of large
borrowers according to Government guidelines. Incentives to reduce indebted-
ness include the increases in lending rates in 1984. Other measures have made
shareholding more attractive and provided incentives for corporations to sell
shares to the public.



- II -
40.       Steps to be taken include continuation of direct measures applied to
Large corporations and limits on debt-to-equity relationship.p consolidation
of accounts by large corporate groups, establishment of credit rating and
information services through independent agencies, interest rate decontrol,
and incentives for equity investment.
41.       Equity Market Development.  Objectives in promoting equity market
development are to make equities increasingly attractive to individual
investors, to strengthen the institutional framework for issuing and trading
shares, and to provide incentives for corporations to issue stock while
curbing the potential for abuse of the trading mechanism. Movement toward
these objectives will make risk-reward relationships more transparent,
increasing the scope for efficient investment. It will enable more entrepre-
neurs to obtain finance, widen participation in the capital gains that should
accompany growth, facilitate the development of a modern corporate structure
and help to ease the problem of corporate indebtedness.
42.       Progress in equity market development has been broad ranging.  The
Government has successfully created institutions to ensure orderly trading on
the Korea Stock Exchange. Listing requirements, procedures for settling
trades, and facilities for safekeeping of securities have been managed satis-
factorily. The most remarkable government measure has been the required
listing of large, closely-held firms: reflecting this effort and incentives
for issuers, the stock of more than 300 firms is traded on the Korea Stock
Exchange. The Government no longer attempts to control dividend rates, and
has eased restrictions on new issues. Special fiscal incentives are provided
for small investors, and firms issuing shares may receive tax credits. List-
ing requirements have been eased to create a wider range of securities. The
pool of investment funds has also been augmented by internationalization of
the market through the $60 million Korea Fund, launched on the New York Stock
Exchange in 1984 with IFC assistance.
43.       Steps to be taken are expected to include greater use of fiscal
incentives for shareholders and issuers. which is tv be included in the agenda
of the Committee of the Development of the Tax System.  Regulatory changes to
permit increased investment in equities by insurance companies, pension funds,
other financial firms and by foreign portfolio investors are expected by
1986. Measures to provide better financial informat-on include requiring
related firms to issue consolidated accounts. Intercompany equity and debt
will be subject to increased disclosure and discouraged by changes in tax
laws. Insider transactions will be subject to more rigorous reporting
requirements. A credit and investment rating agency is being established.
Issuing regulations permitting all listed firms to issue new shares at market
are expected. Government initiatives are also expected to revitalize the
over-the-counter market.
44.       Monitoring Financial Reform.  The Bank has monitored Korea's success
in financial reform since 1981. Monitoring will continue through an annual
exchange of views on the implementation and progress achieved in carrying out
the program of financial sector reform (Section 5.01 of the draft Loan Agree-
ment).  The monitoring would be based on annual summaries of progress to be
prepared by MOF and periodic reviews of plans for additional reform measures.
The procedure for exchange of views has been discussed and agreed.



- 12 -
The Bank's Industrial Lending Strategy
45.       The Bank's industrial lending strategy in Korea has focussed on
strengthening financial intermediaries lending long-term. This emphasis began
in 1968 with support for establishment of a predecessor of KLB, and was
extended to KDB in 1975. Small firms have been assisted through Bank loans to
the Small and Medium Industry Bank (SMIB) since 1975 and the Citizens National
Bank (CNB) since 1980. The Bank has lent about $1.4 billion to the industrial
sector through these institutions. This approach supported Government's
industrialization objectives, while providing funds for a range of industries
and strengthening the loan and investment appraisal capacities of financial
institutions lending Bank funds. Project Completion Reports (PCRs) for Loans
735-KO, 905-KO and 1145-KO to KLB, for Loan 1095-KO to KDB and for Loan
1175-KO to SMIB indicate, in general, that implementation has been excellent
and the Bank's objectives have been achieved. The PCRs noted that Bank
resources had been efficiently allocated to industrial projects yielding sub-
stantial financial and economic benefits, supporting Government priorities in
the industrial sector.  Project Performance Audit Reports for Loans 735-KO,
905-KO, 1145-KO and 1095-KO confirm these conclusions and support the Bank's
increasing attention to financial sector policy as client institutions mature.
46.       In the 1980s, the Bank's industrial lending, in giving greater
emphasis to the policy environment for industry and finance, has had three
main dimensions:  (a) structural adjustment loans heavily focused on the
industrial sector, giving particular attention to trade and incentive poli-
cies; (b) industrial finance projects which increasingly emphasize broad
financial policies; and (c) sector-wide projects which aim at supporting
specific industrial sectors and at improving industrial technology.
47.       The Bank raised the issue of financial liberalization with the
Covernment as early as the 1977 Basic Economic Report. As the effects of
overinvestment in subsidized subsectors and of the recession became manifest
in 1979-80, a new economic management team decided to reduce centralized
economic decision-making and place greater reLiance on market mechanisms, as
reflected in the Fifth Five-Year Plan (1982-86). The first Industrial Finance
Project supported financial sector reform and considerable progress has been
made in liberalizing interest rates, reducing directed credit, subjecting the
banking system to more competition, curbing corporate debt and promoting the
equity market as indicated in the preceding paragraphs. However, as demon-
strated by experience in a number of countries, financial reform is a long-
term process. The proposed project would support further reform in 1985-87,
and continue the Bank's dialogue with the Government on financial sector
issues.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
48.       The project was prepared by the Bank in consultation with the
Ministry of Finance, and was appraised in October 1984. Negotiations were
held in Washington from April 22-26, 1985. The Korean delegation was led by
Mr. Uhm, Rak Yong, Director of Economic Cooperation Division, Ministry of
Finance. A Staff Appraisal Report (No. 5455-KO) is being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately. Supplementary project data are provided in
Annex III.



- 13 -
Objectives and Description
49.       Project objectives are to:  (a) support the Government's financial
sector reforms through 1987; (b) support financially and economically viable
industrial projects by providing KLB and KDB $120 million and $100 million
equivalent, respectively, for Lending for the foreign exchange costs of
investments in plant and machinery by their clients in the industrial sector;
(c) assist KLB and KDB to adapt to a changing financial sector environment;
and (d) improve institutional capabilities and supervisory skills in the
financial system through a $2 million technical assistance component that
would provide training for key officials of participating financial institu-
tions and related Government agencies.
Korea Long-Term Credit Bank
50.       KLB was incorporated in 1967 to provide medium- and long-term
financing. Under the Long-Term Credit Bank (LTCB) Act of 1979, KLB conducts
Long-term foreign exchange borroving and lending, issues domestic currency
debentures and accepts deposits from its corporate borrowers. KLB's activi-
ties have expanded rapidly: total assets reached W 1.1 trillion in 1984. Its
assets represent about 1Z of Korea's financial system; at year-end 1983 KLB
held 6.6% of equipment loans outstanding to manufacturing firms. KLB has
three branches and four subbranches plus an office in Hong Kong.
51.       Overail poLicies and operating guidelines are provided by the Board
of Directors, while investment decisions are delegated to the Executive Com-
mittee, consisting of the President and three Managing Directors. KLB's
lending guidelines are established in its Statement of Investment and Opera-
tional Policies, and its Development Strategy Statement guides its operations.
52.       Appraisal and Supervision.  KLB's project appraisal procedures are
consistent with World Bank standards and cover managerial, technical, finan-
cial, marketing and economic aspects. Financial and economic rates of return
are calculated for large projects. Supervision cansists primarily of monitor-
ing disbursements, confirming project completion and reviewing financial
reports provided by subborrowers. Intensive supervision is undertaken when-
ever reports or repayment difficulties indica-:e Droblems.
53.       Procurement and Disbursement.  KLB's procurement procedures conform
to government guidelines and Bank requirements, and include (a) limited com-
petitive bidding, with at least three competitive quotations provided by
potential suppliers, or (b) the proprietary method, where compatability with
existing equipment dictates a specific supplier. KLB's procurement procedures
effectively encourage competition among prospective suppliers, which is keen
in the well-developed Korean market. KLB's disbursements are authorized in
accordance with progress in project implementation and against proper
documentation.
54.       Operations.  Term loans constitute the bulk of KLB's operations, and
its clientele are concentrated in medium- to large-size industries. 1anufac-
turing absorbed 83% of KLB lending in 1984. However, diversification has been
maintained, with any one subsector rarely accounting for more than 20% of



- 14 -
annual loan approvals. The maturity structure of KLB loans has shortened,
reflecting the growing importance of local debentures in KLB's resources. As
of December 31, 1984, KLB's equity portfolio and debenture bond and portfolio
amounted to 0.9% and 13.3%, respectively, of KLB's total portfolio.
55.       Economic Impact.  Indicators for 1,036 projects financed by KLB with
official and commercial foreign currency resources since 1968 show a total
investment of W 2.0 trillion, of which W 0.9 trillion (40%) was financed by
KLB. Annual incremental project sales were slightly less than W 4.2 trillion,
46X of which were exports. These projects created 68,800 jobs.
56.       Utilization of Bank Loans 1932-KO and 2309-KO.  The Bank's eighth
loan to [LB (Loan 1932-KO) of $90.0 million is fully committed and virtually
fully disbursed. Appraisals of the 70 projects financed show a total invest-
ment cost of $442.3 million equivalent. Almost 5,600 new jobs are expected to
be created, at an average cost per job of $79,500. As of March 31, 1985,
commitments totaled $97.6 milLion under the $120.0 million KLB credit compon-
ent of Loan 2309-KO. The 71 projects approved as of March 31, 1985, have an
estimated totaL investment cost of $352.9 million equivalent and are expected
to create 4,050 jobs at an average cost of $87,500 per job. Total incremental
sales for the 141 projects financed under these two Bank loans are expected to
reach $1.5 billion with exports accounting for 46Z. Their median FRR is 20%,
and their median ERR is 26%.
57.       Financial Conditi6h.  As of December 31, 1984, KLB's total assets
were W 1.3 triLlion, of which 84% were financed with long-term liabilities, 9%
with current liabilities and 7% with equity. Foreign borrowings, 99% of KLB's
long-term liabilities in 1979, were 54Z as of December 1984, reflecting KLB's
increasing reliance on the debenture market.
58.       In December 1984, KLB's long-term debt-to-equity ratio was 10.8:1;
in 1986 it is expected to exceed the 12.0:1 maximum covenanted under Loan
2309-KO. In view of KLB's financial, managerial and operational performance,
and the quality of its loan portfolio and high collection rate, it has been
agreed to raise KLB's long-term debt-to-equity ceiling to 15.0:1 (Section 3.04
of the draft KLB Project Agreement).  KLB's debt service and interest coverage
ratios are adequate, as is -lts current ratio.
59.       Financial Performance.  After a severe decline in effective interest
spreads from 3.3% in 1980 to 0.27% in 1982, KLB showed significant improvement
in 1983 and 1984 with spreads of 0.64% and 1.06%, respectively. The decline
was largely attributable to loans made with debenture proceeds at negative
spreads. As expensive debenture issues matured and interest rates stabilized,
the effective spread on loans funded with debentures improved in 1984 which,
along with success in controlling administrative and general expenses,
reversed [LB's two-year decline in earnings. Return on average equity in 1984
was 11.9%. KLB's performance has been satisfactory during a period of consid-
erable difficulty for the financial sector.
60.       Loan Portfolio Quality.  As of December 1984, KLB's W 903.0 billion
loan pcrtfclio consisted of 2,049 loans: 45 were in arrears. Arrears of
principal and interest amounted to W 4.0 billion, or 0.4% of the outstanding



- 15 -
portfolio. KLB collected 98.62 of amounts due in 1984. Provisions for possi-
ble losses of W 10.1 billion were equal to 1.1% of the portfolio.
61.       Projections.  KLB projections for 1984-89 indicate that loan, deben-
ture, and equity investment approvals will grow at an average annual rate of
about 141; domestic currency approvals would increase at a rate of 172 and
foreign currency approvals by about 9Z. Of $3.2 billion equivalent in pro-
jected total atpprovals, 63% would be domestic currency operations and 37Z in
foreign currency. K1B plans to mobilize W 2.8 trillion ($3.4 billion) over
the 1985-89 period, of which 691 would be in domestic currency (debentures)
and 31Z in foreign currency. Of the $1.04 billion to be raised in foreign
currency, 48Z ($500 million) would be from commercial sources and the remain-
ing 52% ($540 million) from foreign officiaL sources. The proposed Bank loan
of $120 million would be used primarily to finance longer maturity loans.
62.       KLB's net income, W 9.5 billion in 1984, is expected to increase to
W 15.9 billion in 1989, with return on equity estimated to range from 12Z to
14% during 1985-89. Throughout the period, KLB's debt-service coverage ratio
would remain about 1.1:1. The long-term debt to equity ratio of 15:1 proposed
under this loan would be adequate through 1989.
63.       Future Role.  KLB's greatest challenge is to compete in an increas-
ingly liberalized financial system.  In June 1984, KLB submitted recommenda-
tions to MOF to diversify and expand its domestic resource base and to provide
additional services.  Most of these recommendations require amendment of the
LTCB Act. MOF has delayed action on KLB's recommendations pending a review of
liberalization proposals currently under consideration.
The Korea Development Bank
64.       KDB was established in 1954 under the KDB Act.  As of December 1984,
KDB was the largest financial institution in Korea with total assets of
W 8.1 trillion ($9.5 billion), and the largest source of term finance for
industry. KDB is fully owned by the Government. KDB has 12 local offices,
seven representative offices and cwo-subsidiaries overseas. Lending guide-
lines and objectives are stated in KDB's Policy Statement, and day-to-day
operating poLicies are established by RDB's Major Management Group consisting
of the Governor, Deputy Governor and seven Assistant Governors. KDB's
Development Strategy Statement sets out the ways it seeks to achieve its
longer term objectives.
65.       Appraisal and Supervision.  All project proposals are appraised by
KDB, using cash flow analysis and other procedures consistent with World Bank
standards. Loans in excess of W 1 billion are given extensive financial and
economic analysis. Supervision chiefly consists of reviewing borrowers'
quarterly operational reports and annual financial statements. Site visits
are used to verify collateral, to confer with borrowers and to check on
problems noted in reports.
66.       Procurement and Disbursement.  KDB's procurement procedures are
sound and ensure a reasonable degree of competition. They conform to Govern-
ment guidelines and Bank requirements and include limited competitive bidding



- 16 -
requiring at least three quotations, and proprietary contracts in qualifying
cases. KDB's bidding procedures effectively encourage competition, and the
Korean market is highly developed, with keen competition among suppliers.
Offers provided by suppliers are reviewed by KDB's Technical Service Depart-
ment to ensure that prices are reasonable.  KDB's disbursement procedures are
adequate and ensure that funds are made available in accordance with progress
in project implementation and supported with proper documentation.
67.       Lending.  As of December 1984, KDB's loan portfolio amounted to
W 5.9 trillion ($6.9 billion). Total loan commitments increased at an average
annual rate of 49% over the 1978-80 period. Much slower growth since 1980 is
in part attributable to the economic recession in the early 1980s. More
recently, the increasing competitiveness of financial institutions, the
decline in directed credit, a scarcity of loanable funds at administered rates
and government policy to restrict lending to large firms have influenced KDB's
performance. Foreign currency loans have accounted for about 13Z of total
1980-84 loan commitments. Nearly 34Z of KDB's 1984 loan commitments were for
transportation and power, while 49% were for manufacturing. Working capital
loans are increasingly important in KDB's portfolio, accounting for about 40X
of loan commitments over the period 1980-84.
68.       Investments.  KDB's investment portfolio as of December 31, 1984,
amounted to W 816.5 billion ($961 million), of which 70% were equity invest-
ments and 30% were bonds and debentures. Many of KDB's equity holdings arise
from Government transfers of shares in state sector companies as contributions
to KDB's equity. These holdings provide relatively low returns, and KDB's
dividend yield on its equity investments was 0.8% in 1983 and 1984. KDB's
bond and debenture portfolio has grown rapidly and is profitable: interest
income for 1984 was 11.4Z of average bond and debenture investments.
69.       Economic Impact.  The 4,609 projects financed by KDB from 1978 thru
1983 had a total investment cost of W 13.2 trillion, of which W 7.3 trillion
(55%) was financed by KDB. Incremental employment from these investments was
expected to exceed 600,000 and annual incremental sales were estimated at
W 23.0 trillion, 42X of which represents exports.
70.       Utilization of Bank Loans 1933-KO and 2309-KO.  As_of year-end 1984,
KDB had virtually fuLly committed and dicbursed the $100 million availab e
under Loan 1933-KO. The 66 subprojects financed had an estimated investment
cost of $446.2 million equivalent, 39% of which was financed by KDB, and are
expected to generate $155.8 million in incremental annual exports and to
employ almost 11,300 people at an average cost per job of $39,600. The
expected median FRR and ERR were 22% and 26%, respectively. Under Loan
2309-KO, commitments as of March 31, 1985, totaled $59.2 million under KDB's
$130.0 miLlion credit component. The 23 projects approved have an estimated
total investment cost of $983.0 million equivalent and are expected to create
some 2,050 jobs at an investment cost-per-job of $479,200 (excluding a large
refinery project, the investment cost-per-job is $225,160). The median FRR is
22%; the median ERR is 30%.



- 17 -
71.       Financial Condition.  From 1980 to 1984, KDB's assets grew at an
average annual rate of about 20%.  As of December 31, 1984, 85% of KDB's total
assets of W 8.1 trillion were financed with long-term liabilities, 4Z with
current liabilities and 11% with equity. The long-term debt-to-equity ratio
of 7.7:1 at year-end 1984 was within the 10:1 limit agreed with the Bank, and
the debt service coverage ratio remained satisfactory at 1.4 times.
72.       Financial Performance.  The major issue facing KDB is profitabil-
ity. Met profit as a percentage of average net worth steadily declined from
7.4Z in 1980 to 2.5Z in 1984 (4.4X including gain on the sale of its former
headquarters building). KDB's low profitability is attributable to low
spreads on its lending, the overhang of high cost debenture issues and meager
dividend income on its equity investments. KDB's management has taken steps
to address the decline. In 1983 it established an Assets and Liabilities
Management Committee (ALCO), responsible for generating recommendations
concerning assets and liabilities management and interest rate policy. A
proposal for a long-term base lending rate (LTBR) reflecting KDB's cost of
funds and an adequate spread was one of its first major recommendations. This
proposal is pending with the Ministry of Finance. To improve profits KDB is
entering the call loan market, offering overdraft and bill discounting
facilities, and placing greater emphasis on issuing guarantees for corporate
bond issues.
73.       To address RDB's profitability, it has been agreed to maintain the
22-weighted average effective spread required on lending funded by foreign
commercial borrowings (Section 3.07(b) of the draft KDB Project Agreement).
KDB reaffirmed in its Development Strategy Statement the objective of earning
a positive real yield on its equity, which has been confirmed by Government
(Section 5.04 of the draft Loan Agreement).
74.       Loan Portfolio Quality.  KDB's loan collection rate for 1983 and
1984 was 98.5%. However, arrears have increased and as of December 31, 1984,
amounted to W 35.6 billion (0.6% of the outstanding portfolio), compared to
* 18.7 billion at year-end 1983. Principal affected by arrears increased from
i 147.8 billion to W 200.0 billion (3.4% of outstanding portfolio) over the
same period. Reschedulings as a percentage of the outstanding portfolio,
which approximated 5% to 6% over the 1980-83 period, increased to 6.5%. Of
total arrears, 45% are for less than 3 months, 23% are for 3 to 6 months and
none are in excess of 2 years. Arrears are concentrated in the transportation
sertor, particularly marine transport. KDB and the Government are encouraging
shipping company mergers, and refinancing and rescheduling projects which are
expected to be viable over the long-term.
75.       Projections.  During the period 1985-89, KDB loan approvals are
projected to increase at a modest rate of 6% p.a. To meet its projected
commitments, KDB plans to borrow approximately W 9.9 trillion between 1985-
89. Domestic currency resources would account for 63% of total resources
mobilized. Foreign currency borrowings are projected at $4.5 billion, with
about 9% ($410 million) from official sources. KDB's reliance on foreign
currency resources would decline slightly, from 39% for 1982-84 to 37% for
1985-89. The proposed Bank loan of $100 million would be used primarily to
finance long maturity loans. KDB's net profit as a percentage of average net



- 18 -
worth is expected to improve modestly from 1986, reaching 5X in 1989. Over
the projection period, KDB's debt service ratio fluctuates between 1.1 and
1.3, which is satisfactory. The long-term debt-to-equity ratio is expected to
remain within the contractual limit of 10:1 through 1989 (Section 3.04 of the
draft KDB Project Agreemenc).
76.       Future Role.  KDB has reviewed its prospects based on reduced
government intervention and preferential credit. KDB management believes that
as reforms are implemented, directed lending by commercial and other banks
would be eliminated and KDB would increasingly specialize in making poLicy
loans to support Government objectives. Expected reductions in government
funding would require KDB to tap market sources to fund policy Lending and to
improve itS commercial viability.
Technical Assistance
77.       The cechnical assistance (TA) component of the project responds to
the challenges and demands of financial reform and expands upon the training
initiatives of the first IndustriaL Finance Project. The TA component would:
(a) assist the Korea Banking Institute (KBI) through: (i) development
of training materials and evaluation through cooperation with the
Bank's Economic Development Institute (EDI); and (ii) secondment of
KBI officials to training institutions abroad for short-term train-
ing and for longer-term on-thie-job training;
(b) train Korean commercial bankers: (i) by bringing specialists to
Korea under an expert invitation program to conduct seminars at KBI;
and (ii) by sending approximately 100 senior bankers abroad for
seminars and for on-the-job training; and
(c) train approximately 60 MOF officials overseas at institutions of
higher learning, government regulatory agencies and at high-level
seminars.
78.       TA involving KBI and the training of com-mercial bankers would be
coordinated and supervised by KBI. KBI was established in 1976 by 11 banks to
develop and offer training programs for their staff. Its ownership structure
was changed in 1984, bringing it under the jurisdiction of the Korea Federa-
tion of Banks. KBI administers the training program under the first Indus-
trial Finance Project and has prepared a post-implementation evaluation report
with assistance from EDI and local consultants. The report was sabmitted to
the Bank at the end of April 1985 and would be discussed with the Government
and KBI following an internal review within the Bank.
79.       KBI has provided the Bank a list of prospective training programs
and institutions abroad, and annual training budgets and program plans based
on consultation with these institutions and on training requests of the parti-
cipating commercial banks. KBI has agreed to provide the Bank for review by
December 31, 1985, the training to be implemented during calendar year 1986,
and not later than September 30 each year thereafter, the training program to
be implemented in subsequent years (Section 5.02(a) of the draft Loan Agree-



- 19 -
ment). Persons to be trained and foreign specialists to be hired would be
selected according to criteria satisfactory to the Bank. KBr would propose
these criteria to the Bank by December 31, 1985 (Section 5.03 of the draft
Loan Agreement).
Features of the Proposed Loan
80.       Relending Arrangements and Terms.  The proposed Bank loan of
$222 million wouLd be made to the Government at the Bank's standard variable
interest rate. The Government would relend $120 million of the proceeds of
the credit component to KLB and $100 million to KDB on the same terms as the
Bank's loan, but with an administration fee of 0.05Z. KLB and KDB would
relend the proceeds at a variable interest rate at least 2X above the effec-
tive borrowing cost (Schedule to the draft KDB and KLB Project Agreements),
which is consistent with their past practice and is adequate to cover the
administrative costs involved. The final subborrowers would bear the foreign
exchange risk. The signing of subsidiary Loan agreements, satisfactory to the
Bank, between the Government and KLB and KDB respectively would be a condition
of effectiveness (Section 7.01 of the draft Loan Agreement).
81.       Under the $2 million technical assistance component, KBI's responsi-
bilities would be specified in an agency agreement to be entered into with the
Government. The signing of this agreement would be a condition of disburse-
ment for this component (Schedule 1 para. 2(b) to the draft Loan Agreement).
The cost of the training of MOF officials, estima5ed at $1 million, would be
borne by the Government. The estimated $1 million cost of the expert invita-
tion program, training of KBI staff abroad and the training program for com-
mercial bankers would be borne by the participating banks. The Government
would make subloans out of the Bank loan proceeds available to these banks for
this purpose. These subloans would bear the same interest rate as the Bank
loan, with a maximum repayment period of 15 years including a maximum grace
period of 3 years (Schedule 7 to the draft Loan Agreement). The Government
would enter into a Standard Relending Agreement, acceptable to the Bank, with
each participating institution for the training of its staff under the
project. Bank approval of the Standard Relending Agreement would also be a
condition of disbursement for this component of the project (Section 3.01(f)
and Schedule 1 para. 2(b) to the draft Loan Agreelent).
82.       Amortization Schedule.  The technical assistance component of the
loan would have a fixed amortization schedule and would be repaid by the
Government in accordance with the standard terms applicable to Korea, i.e., a
15 year maturity including a 3 year grace period. The credit component would
have two separate adjustable composite amortization schedules, one for KLB and
one for KDB, reflecting the aggregate amortization schedules of the subloans
made by each institution. Individual subloans would have a maximum maturity
of 13 years, including a normal grace period of up to three years. As in
previous loans and to minimize substitution of Bank funds for local sources,
KLB and KDB are encouraged to cofinance with commercial sources. The Bank
would permit the use of early principal repayments on cofinanced subloans to
amortize the co-mercial portion, and permit a grace period of up to five
years, with no change in the maximum maturity of 13 years.



- 20 -
83.       Procurement.  Procurement under the credit component would be on the
basis of the standard procurement procedures of KLB and KDB (paras. 53 and
66).  Both institutions usually require their borrowers to obtain at least
three price quotations and competition is keen among prospective suppliers of
local and imported goods. These procedures have been reviewed and found to
ensure satisfactory competition and reasonable prices. KBI will be respon-
sible for obtaining foreign specialists under the expert invitation program
following criteria and procedures acceptable to the Bank. It will be respon-
sible for selecting institutions abroad ac which its own officials may be
trained under the TA component. Commercial banks will be encouraged to select
institutions abroad for the training of their staff, and KBI wiLl be expected
to offer guidance in this selection if requested to do so by any participating
banks. All training contracts would be subject to ex-post review, and con-
tracts in excess of $75,000 would also be subject to prior approval of the
Bank.
84.       Disbursements.  Special Accounts in the amount for $15.8 million for
KLB and $13.2 million for KDB will be established from which reimbursement of
subloans would be obtained. Disbursements would be made against full documen-
tation for subloans in excess of $2.0 million. For subloans of $2.0 million
or less, Statements of Expenditure (SOE) would be used. All related sup-
porting documents for SOEs, including evidence of payment, would be retained
by KLB and KDB and made available for review by Bank supervision missions. As
with previous Bank loans to KLB and KDB, the proposed loan would finance:
(a) 100% of the foreign exchange cost of goods and services imported directly
by subborrowers; ard (b) 60Z of the cost in domestic currency (representing
the estimated foreign exchange component) of locally manufactured or locally
procured imported goods and equipment.
85.       A special account of $200,000 for the TA component would be estab-
lished from which reimbursement of expenditures would be made. Disbursements
would be made against 100% of the cost of (a) overseas training for Ministry
staff, !b) overseas seminars and on-the-job training abroad for commercial
bank and KBI officials and (c) the expert invitation program. Expenditures
would be reimbursed on the basis of SOEs in cases where the amount invoived is
less than $25,000. Supporting documents, including copies of contracts and
evidence of payment, would be retained in a central location, and made avail-
able for review by Bank supervision missions and SOEs would be audited
annually by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. For expenditures of
$25,000 or more, payments would be made directly to the institutions concer-
ned. The credit component of the loan would be committed in two years and
disbursed in five years. This schedule conforms to the standard Industrial
Development Finance disbursement profile.  The technical assistance component
would also be disbursed in five years.
86.       Eligibility Criteria.  Subloans appraised by KLB and KDB for medium-
and large-scale industriaL projects would be eligible for financing under the
loan, subject to the firms' having sound financial structures. Under the
first Industrial Finance Project the maximum debt-to-equity ratio for eligible
subborrowers was reduced from 5:1 to 4.5:1 in an effort to improve their
financial structure by encouraging project sponsors to increase their equity
contributions. The 4.5:1 limit has been retained under the proposed project,



- 21 -
as efforts continue to manage corporate indebtedness in accordance with
Government policy (Schedule 1 to the draft KDB and KLB Project Agreements).
87.       Subloan Ceiling and Free Limit.  The free limit for subloans under
the credit compcnent (including other outstanding balances financed from
previous Bank loans), above which KLB and KDB subproject appraisals are
reviewed in detail by the Bank prior to approval, would be $6 million. Under
the previous loan, a $5 million limit has alLowed review of 10% of the subpro-
jects representing 41Z of the total amount approved by KDB, while KLB has
submitted four subprojects above the free limit, representing 14% of amounts
approved.  In addition, severaL KLB amd KDB free limit subprojects have been
spot-checked to ensure that the appraisal is satisfactory to the Bank. To
ensure that credit component proceeds are not unduly concentrated, the maximum
subloan available to subborrowers under the loan would be $12 million, and
neither KLB nor KDOB would provide a total of more than $15 million each to any
single subborrower out of the Bank Loan proceeds (Schedule 1 to the draft KDB
and KLB Project Agreements and Section 2.02(b)(ii)(B) of the draft Loan
Agreement).
88.       Accounts and Audits.  KLB and KDB's accounts are audited annually by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. Future audits of these institu-
tions would include the Special Accounts and SOEs submitted under the project
and would be submitted to the Bank within six months of the close of the fis-
cal year (Section 3.02 of the draft KDB and KLB Project Agreements). The
project accounts (including SOEs) relating to the technical assistance compo-
nent would be audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. Audit
reports would be sub-itted to the Bank within six months of the close of the
fiscal year (Section 4.01 of the draft Loan Agreement).
89.       Project Benefits.  The project is designed to (a) promote financial
sector reform in Korea; (b) support financially and economically viable indus-
trial projects; (c) assist project institutions to adapt to a changing finan-
cial sector environment; and (d) improve in;titucional capabilities and
supervisory skills in the financial system through technicaL assistance and
training. The Bank has had an effective dialogue with the Government on
financial sector issues since 1979, which has supported financial reform. The
Government has made considerable progress in gradually liberalizing the finan-
cial system and the proposed loan would support this progress through 1987.
The measures to be taken during the 1985-87 period, which are spelled out in
the Government's Policy Letter (Annex IV), would be monitored closely during
project supervision. These measures are expected to contribute to improved
resource mobilization and allocation, the development of a stronger commercial
banking system, and revitalization of the equity market. The policy dialogue
would be supported by further financial sector work by the Bank.
90.       The $220 million credit component would support qualified investment
projects selected by KLB and KDB. Experience gained through previous lending
to these two institutions shows that the subprojects financed with Bank
resources have yielded substantial economic and financial benefits. It is
expected that about 150 subprojects would be financed under the credit com-
ponent and that the financial and economic benefits accruing to these sub-
projects would be similar to those generated under previous loans.



- 22 -
91.       The institution-buiLding impact of the proposed loan would support
the deveLopmer.- of KLB and KDB through discussions of their roles in a
changing financial environment. These discussions would continue to focus on
their PoLicy Statements and Development Strategy Statements. Institution-
building efforts would also be directed toward the agencies participating in
the TA component through the provision of training to key government and bank
staff. KBI, in particular, is expected to benefit from TA that would enable
it to devote more resources to deveLoping training materials geared to the
increasingly competitive financial environment in Korea.
92.       Project Risks.  Given KLB and KDB's record in administering Bank
loans, institutional risks in the proposed project are minimal. The institu-
tional arrangements for the TA component will require careful supervision
because of their innovative nature and the number of institutions that are
expected to participate.
93.       The main risk associated with the proposed loan relates to the pro-
gram of financial reform outlined in the Government's Policy Letter. WhiLe
commitment to the program is strong, changing domestic and international
economic and financial conditions might delay or weaken its implementation.
Since 1983, however, the Government has attached high priority to financial
sector reform and demonstrated that its cautious and consistent approach is
reasonable and likely to succeed.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
94.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Korea and the Bank,
the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and the Korea Development Bank
(KDB), the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and the Korea Long-Term
Credit Bank (KLB), and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article
III, Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank are being dis-
tributed separately. Special conditions of the project are listed in Section
III of Annex III.  The special actions that the Government plans to take ander
its financial policy reform program are contained in its Letter of Development
Policy which is attached as Annex IV. In addition to the features of the Loan
and Project Agreements which are referred to in the text and listed in Section
III of Annex III. the following features are of particular interest:
(a) additional conditions of effectiveness are that (i) the KDB Subsidiary
Loan Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Republic of Korea and KDB,
and (ii) the KLB Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on behalf of the
Republic of Korea and KLB (Section 7.01(a) and (b) of the draft Loan Agree-
ment); and (b) conditions of disbursement for the technical assistance compo-
nent include (i) the signing of an agreement between the Republic of Korea and
the Korea Banking Institute (KBI) and (ii) approval by the Bank of a standard
subsidiary loan agreement between the Republic of Korea and the institutions
participating in the training program (Schedule 1 para. 2(b) of the draft Loan
Agreement).
95.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.



- 23 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
96.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed Loan.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachments
May 13, 1985
Washington, D.C.



-24 -                                          ANINEX I
TABLE   3                                         no S I
sAn.  IUuzC OF        - bOCIA  WiosOms 0T  low
hOWA. RURLIC oF                      RPU3ICROUPS ihfn    AWEnAGES) b
MUST                     (MOT Bxr ISTINA251I)4A
ma               man    as  -Df                flu
19601k     im i    i7Lkuuauxlk     s    A mario           LAT. AMIn  a CaM
A=  cuSrND ma. 
TOTAL                                9.5        98.5      ".5                  .
aCzzc uaL                            an20.4     23.2      22.4
QM  ClrIS (t8)                         160.0      430.0   1910.0             l091.2                   210.6
INNN  COSPRll a cLrt
(KILORAMS OF OIL qUtALVEN)          143.0      495.0   1104.0              567.3                   9n5.5
11"AT    AMVZL MTM
POPUL.ATl0ON.MtIDtAx (THOUDS)    25003.0    32241.0  39336.0
URS PoPLATION a Or TOTAL)            27.7       41.1     61.3               34.7 ;6.5
POrtllJTON PROJCrTIONS
POPUIIATI0S    TER 200O CHILL)                          50.5 
STATIONART POPUUTION (HIUL)                             70.2
POrUlATION IfIfIgI                                       1.7
rorotinur a DEsm
PER SQ. IN.                       253.9      321.4    393.2              261.9                     35.7
PE SQ. PM. 4551. LAND            1223.2     1381.3   1730.3             1735.1                     92.4
OPULATION AGE STRCTUR  (C)
o-L4 URS                          42.9       42.1      33.1              19.0                     39.9
1S644 TIS                         53.7        54.6     62.6               57.6                     56.0
65 AND AIOVE                        3.3        3.3       4.1               3.3                      4.1
POPULATION COHU BATE (C)
TorAL                               2.l        2.3       1.7               2.3                      2.4
URIS                                4.7        6.7       5.1               4.3                      3.6
cuDe BIRTH RATE (PER TuoUS)          42.8       30.4     22.8               30.1                     31.3
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOS)          13.7        9.6      6.4                9.5                      8.1
COSS REPRDDUCTON RE                  2.8         2.1       1.5               2.0                      2.0
FAMLT PLANNING
ACCETORS. ANU.AL (THUS)              ..      671.0    t86.0 Ic
USERS (2 OF HARRIED WSCl)            -        25-0      54-0              52.7                     40.3
OOD A0
1IND  OF FOWD POD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                       89-0        99.0    125.0              123-0                    114.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (1 oF REQULRPJIETS)       98.0      101.0    126.0              114.1                    110.6
PROTEINS (CARS PER DA)             57.0       64.0     74.0               57.0                     67.3
OF WHICH ANIMAL AID PMLSE         7.0        5.0      14.0 Id           14.1                     34.1
CHILD (AGES 1-4) DATH RATE           6.6         4.0       1.9               7.2                      5.7
LIFE  MECT. AT 51123 (WEARS)         53.9       59.1     67.3               60.1                     64.7
lNFAI MORT1. RATE (PER IHOUS)       76.3        50.1     32.0               66.3                     60.6
ACCESS TO SAFE VATER (1POr)
TOTAL                              12.1       58.0      71.0 le           37.0                     65.4
vmAN                               18.6       64.0     S5.O 7T            54.8                     78.1
RWRAL                               9.5       3860      54.9 7T           26.1                     46.2
ACCESS TO EXWTA DISPOSAL
(Z OF POFI.ATflON)
TOTAL                                 *       25.0      66.0 IC           41.3                     52.9
DRIAN                               ..        59.0     SO.O Ic            47.1                     67.0
RURAL                                ..         ..      5O.07;            33.3                     24.5
POPULATION PER PRYSICIAJ           3540.0     2240.0   1410.0             7749.1                   1917.7
PUP. PER IRSINC PERSO              3240.0 /f.R 1790.01& 350.0             2460.1                    615.8
POP. PER HOSPITAL RE.D
TOTAL                            2510.0     1950.0    640.0 lb          1044.2                    367.2
CuR"                             1230.0 If  1100.0    750.0 7            651.2                    *11.3
RURAL                                ..          .        ..            2594.6                   2636.3
ADMISSIONS PER NOSPITAL RED                     14.9        ..              27.0                     27.3
AVERAGE SIZE or HOSEIOLD
ITXAL                               5.6        5.2       4.5
URBN                                5.4        *.9      4.4
RUIRAL                              5.6        5.5      4.7
AVERAGE NO. OF PERSONS/ROOK
TOTAL                               2.5        2.3       2.0 Ic
UREI                                2.8        2.7      2.1 7               --
RURAL                               2.4        2.2      2.0 77
ACCESS TO LECT. (I OF WELLIECS)
TOTAL                              28.4       49.9
URBSA                              67.3       92.4
RURAL                              12.4       29.9      64.9 Id



I-.
*.                -25-                                           ANNEX  I
:~~~~~~  T1L     3A                                         IFAS 2
I033A. RIPUXLIC 0r     - UOCiAL IUIMCAT0  DATA BRUT
* RPURLZC 01                        RURC         1  (UZI       A   A) 
MIT                      (lT MOCENT  STNAh) 
1960&  19711&   Civ            NMozz zuOKSHIL i
WOM o70t wo        MD"LATZZLI      ASIA A PACIFIC         LAT. AMMICA & CAR
AID8     EROLNUIZ  RATIB
132163!   TOTAL                    94.0       103.0    107.0              102.0                    105.4
IIA1.3                   99.0      104.0    101.0              103.9                     106.3
VIXA                     89.0      103.0    103.0               98.2                     104.5
83C001101  TOTAL                   27.0        42.0    83.0                46.0                     43.2
KLE                      38.0        50.0    89.                48.7                      42.3
IUAL                     14.0       32.0      10.0              43.1                     44.5
VOCATIWAL (t oF SusIDR)              14.2        14.3      16.6              17.5                     33.6
PUPZL-TEACUER RATIO
132(41                             38.a        57.0      46.0              31.8                     30.1
83I0DAA                            34.0        37.0      39.0              23.5                     16.6
ANLT16 LD.LC7 RATE (X)               70.6        67.6     96.0               72.9                     79.5
=A I  CA/TROUSAND FOM                 0.5         1.9      6.5               10.1                     46.0
RADI0 ZCNIVZRS/TOUSAD  POP           31.2       124.4    393.5              113.6                    2Z5.6
TV MOITS10/711IUUAND Po0              0.3        13.0    164.7               50.1                    107.2
SMPA  (SAw.I 0huL
I101123r) CIRCULATION
PR TIIOUSLJD PIOJIATU              68.2       136.3    173.1 /a            53.9                     63.3
CZEUIA AIAL  ATTUDAICECA1ITA          4.1         5.2       1.7 7;            3.4                      2.8
TOTL LAOR 103CR (1008)             8304.0    11285.0  15414.0
MM=6 (IRCEIT)                      26.1        32.7      32.5              33.5                     23.2
*0RILULTURE (!12331?)              66.0        50.0      34.0              32.2                     31.3
MausT21 CPUCzET)                    9.0        17.0     29.0               17.9                     23.9
Pmc=nlaff TZT (2rc3z1r)
TOTAL                              33.2        35.0      39.2              38.7                     32.2
IWz                                 49.5       46.8      52.4              50.9                     49.3
1!ENAZ                             17.2        23.0      25.7              26.6                     15.2
ECONOMIC DUIIDUCY RATIO               1.4         1.3      0.9                1.1                      1.4
X          m
KCEm   or PRIVATE  I
RECEIVED sT
UIlHIYT 30F3085X0HLS3                ..        17.1      16.1 :L           22.2
RIHST 20X 01 EOUSEUOLDS              ..        44.5     45.3 ii            48.0
IOET 20Z or IOSDLDS                  .-         7.1       5.7 T             6.4
T0815 400  IOr  UsEULs               ..        17.7      16.9S             15.5.
toVmR TAr  mNIa
EST-DI6    LSSOLUTE PoVu
L        (ps$ PER CAPITA)
n3*1                                 ..          ..    320.0 Ih           188.6                    288.2
-L                                   ..          ..    270.0 7ii          152.0                    184.0
ES121121 RlATIVE POVE RT
LEVL (CUS PE CAITA)
URI"                                 ..          ..    370.0 /h           177.9                    522.6
RURAL                                ..          ..    31.0 7             164.6                    372.4
SMTA   P1OP. BELOW AISOLu
10zWan 23c03 LEVEL CZ)
n                                    ..          ..      18.0 A            23.4
RUL                                  ..          ..     11.0 7             37.7
Mr AVAILASLE
wr APPLICABLE
N OTE S
/a  The group aveza*g  for each indicator are population-weighted aritbeetic means.  Coverage of conittiem among the
nudIcAtors deondo as avaiLability of data and in not uniforn.
/b  UnD1a otbhew8a noted. ef-ta for 1960- refer to an  year between 1959 and 1961; 'Deta for 1970' between 1969 and
1971; and data for "at Racant Kstlute  between 1980 and 1982d
/e  1975;  d 1977; / 1979; /f 1962; IL Reistred. not all practicing In the country;  /h 1978; /1 1976.
.n.mE, 1984



W-p   is.%-  lid  - -   aes l-  mind .-nae, l-Ata m
-   -s     aa- M              pia-ad  p   pit'   "h*i-iLi       -S  ai.
zenan  m .ini  ~.i.s - i -s ..- paa            pal-  *Tw tini asi.
w  Jam. J-   ms  ml i.sai   i   iile
r  st am-si-ida   *   mdii  ii. siSiiti n-  vIa. 66- 1
a- isismi   ala    a As  urn is     ijmiumh   sta.  M-a  t        Sa'l
anl.   4  ses   -. pflm I s-n-i.S a- auan isql.- 
P-tI    .  l-p- h %   l- "`nas   asapika.-                 tuls  L-s Ims
ls5 a5 ii13           1- Pu  *eis'lI-I.tn.                                                         -,h i* iAji-m--    51   Pl                b"tf'1idi                  ia.
- in.alpa ii -iti        -      Jb-al-   5. nlil  nai  mfl ns1  si
WISIM, JADM                                       1-4aip  i-sPlats  'el painia -i alt*il.  - 1S p i-i
1~    ~   P- A-   ~   --'tap    j.s   -          "n *is   ~a 
tlbliaqi  aia5g. 15t.'tai.~t s-va-.nala.t-n,.5it easajad    'al-a  -.  i- 1m-      J.)l P    I-` MO    shi r  R3-  ii  I'IT-l  -J iei T- ftf,
S,S-- IaiSse,            aieaa-   nl.,05   lsst-dbi -t--i'                                    -a                                                                             vi.-
I' .-l-pa-D                                                                                                       -b--1iP
S-  as -s-Sdtsbb   p- -3   Ilm-al.i  si.ihp iI5lli                                               iI       It't-ft      d-             mii -isM  pa am     msPali
- P    i iIft- - (ba-  Lin       l-A -ns   amp ali-Sa 51m   p_-di15                                             't%sp              14'~mu:aaepa   u                  a
'-         l-    teii5c3arma-dsa        Pat-    ,ea       iiis'pa.-ina   i-                                                             scaln    a-3
p-i 'timi  asnasad  a siJI-Imaas-~aaidl List ii aaasti!fr!~3J5n  c-am it  m iWib   raa  p  milDt~  a i-elP          mId   imit-  siam-i
'aftl t-I -.1 I...                        ic-I i. 9-       isod.-il   "li                              lis~le is Plal        -(PM"-.i51 'llasesi
tins a-: taisaid:  flhl~a  ~   %ana.t        fltm._~SL,~ti 
t-u  in l .ai.L   sai15'iP"ae-iii                                  3 l      a                            sa    i   nIluSlsae  i-1                 PiaSA. timTsam  Al-pa3-
'ts1-alili'  a.-.  -n5    -                              e-        fl-iel   ia-alma'iian    53h    mi.isa'
a  'mams iis st mm  iiasS.n  ssa-   n's-a. -a-ad  acnatnai'flal 'mil ~ii   mmi-.  audl- ass'ant                            --I n-a   m 'anasa
a:   l5Iilil     iil             uiai-             (iinl  55   atnmii la'-i
'i-n  ie   l  15   m  hal laPind  imi.  sla  isi -n   C . -i-sa -v                     n-
anal '911  ttait  ia(  tti It    lana    -  -   m sslsa'AllLliitts         II aiaaan  li-a PfSiinnd  atiaail   'W~91g--  -  i-   W  nlsS
-  -tentn.aaa  'ali*a'aa'ilta -  aa-  iltj-  ieas5  lli-ij'tai  ldili.  l---   -   lar   *  mii  mw.  i-n-i iani.
- l  lt  ImiaI'aI  -st  itZ                                                                                                          M  il-in- 'i-a''laa    ii   ma-ui*   ai    aaae-a   s a
0-Is.'assa.'ala. -   au   'lP.-enaaa   ieilaai                              m   t.   i-a  -iasan    -iia-ntia                         s-a-ia  i -
ItiaJ itll1It-III'aIciaa i  --at ati?  Jia      fiai   in.ali  n   nap   - .Cp                                               S 'i-C  Jt  hila'ta  ili  i   n
llelati "ii 'siilana'histsi-.ahll5~dat la es-udi-amm -d"*                         'n'is        d'aa  an pm.'-a  s-I-      i-- mtnsi"ni-i.ttldl
-.3-1 -     aftliLv   1-         I.sm   . c-1In-"   'a aplant.ialiaaa   3naA   Lslid
- la5t~a  li-eab' 5   mi-la allStlaal  "Ia-a  ...i~  ille1-1P. aa'la'la                                                                                  'mnSed-.   1
Sti   3- m-I     i4*5    l    ans  L3inaiIsii-.enhi Aisl a.  d51ieisetmWIaalslab
'P-   umai  -isi  a  5t4 lia-an    n  es   at mm  -lu                     -                    ti- a-v isa   mi- LP s ..aen   p              ins   I-a-a -sAS.na   s
asp-  nAleitmnapam  any  tiad      m -alis. eteals-   pc-sail-i_L                                                             'zmomea m-'-lle    91'lile  1-  m illa..*&
lentls   dlnilel  p  p.ll -  easti i is- al-apia.-n                                              tiles.3 iMlea -lna' i-ift l P- iln  Maiiss   nacii
M   %--     -aSd    -slel,sa.  aait.1                   -i1ta-                        S. ln  a1     ta      c-ia    iamieil-lS
'Ifto  p- 1- I f-     1-1 'ti-p        ~ 151   ii-  S.1'19   -I
-          tIaab Pm  'ille  al Psi~-p.  litianid l1  l-Tl"l                                                                                                owaaai" -I,7aalntnts-e   asIIs-  a    t.1ili  a  l
-   -p-   I=   n-1a .  af3       ll    'l'as-l e   -  d-'I.- slaa ft -ansile  'I've                                                'ilap 1551 his  e,l.'ee   lasa  tb         -
-5-    .-Al-  ..  - .-P ~                l      'e -P.-sia                 3L- -aa LS_t  a- ---  ''t-e   nlb i-Ia-h          . a .sinI            as
aU            A.11'.1--I a                     .bi'9p, --  -S I -NUaiM.a. - allaP.'aa.b-lsl.                                                   '    4a  .l'-1 ll
~ la  'n~~ai s-1' '.aniiedna     a-. it A  P n.'ti'ndsial              - -O            "LSati I' le _tneti,  I  tcl   oil..la   lit-   sa       l
-fl'_s.  'e-eln  -'  il.3  IanII  Iidei -     Ml,eil'Iq                                     a-IIt'.  es nil- -S'I     ~       S -tll"S '          lebISd iiilt-VsIl
i~"I  all-   PtalIt -  - IntIsa. t   'iai   baiIieaa  Iie.Ila--l _SaSml    i-9        it          t-Ii   i   t    l sI iail-ttnad t I1'LSLp aLIL-aa
Si  S  'ssit.actdil          P -ies --l  a  I  t Itl-1     1  n"aS Ia- dIMS         Allel listat~ mis  i-s*1  nI5it -ian Ime  se i~-
dad  pt'n.mgiI.llliainimb  s   151t ll* PI"'.ds   ai551ld-   -    S Sf-             maatIala  ttl-tsiilt  A-s1laal  i-i- a -PIlblaL
xa m           9laaale    aad   3i                t-a    I'e*m'.  alIsnihl-'l-t                                                ti-   s  liLilns  -asen   -ialp   53



-27                                                      ANE  I
Population       39.96      (mid-1983)                                                                                      KMe 4 of 5
cGP per capita:  USS2.010  (1983)
1KORRA - KOONWlNC INDICATORS
_unt
(mllnion USS at                               Annual growth rates (S)
current prices)                              A.tua                                   Projected
Indicator                                      1983/a          1979         1980        1981       1982        1983/a            1990
NATIONAL ACCOUhrS
Gross domestic product /a                   76,551            7.1         -3.5         6.9        5.5          9.5              7.5
Agriculture                               10,527            6.7       -21.7         24.5        4.1          6.3              3.5
Industry                                  30,219            8.2        -1.0          5.0        6.8         12.7             1D.0
Services                                  35,805            6.7          2.9         3.1        4.9          6.9              6.5
Consumption                                 56.530            7.4         -1.0         3.2        4.3          6.3              7.5
Gross investment                            20.763           17.5       -24.4          2.2       13.1         16.6              7.6
Exporte of GNFS                             27.919           -3.6          9.9        17.0        6.9         11.6              8.2
Imports of CNFS                             28.661            8.6        -7.7          7.6        3.2          9.1              8.2
Gross national savings                      19,156            3.7        -17.7         3.0        9.0         21.0              7.4
Prices
CDP deflator (1980 - 100)                                     0.796        1.0         1.158      1.241        1.274          157.7
Erchange rate (USSI -    )                                  484.0       607.6        681.0      731.1        775.75
Export price index (1980 - 100)                              95.6        100.0       103.0       99.2         96.4            142.7
Import price index (1980 - 100)                              78.4        100.0       104.0       98.7        94.4             141.0
Ters  of trade Index (19B0 - 100)                           115.3        100.0        97.9      102.2        103.1            101.2
Sare of GDP at market prices (2)                        Average annual increase (Z)
(at current prices ) /b                              (at conatant 1972 prices)
1960    197D     1975    1980    1985    1990       1960-70   1970-75   1975-80   1980-85   1985-90
Gross domestic product              100.0   100_0    100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0         8.6       9.8        8.2      7.0        7.5
Agriculture                        36.7    26.9     24.5    16.5    13.6    11.3         4.3       4.9       -1.2      7.3        3.5
Industry                          20.1    29.5      33.8    41.3    34.4    38.5        17.4      15.3       13.5      8.5       10.0
Services                           43.2    63.6     41.7    42.3    42.8   .40.9         8.1       7.7        7.6      6.7        6.5
Consumption                        85.3    B3.0     80.1    76.4    72.7    69.6         6.7       7.8        7.1      5.7        6.8
Gross investment                   11.0    26.9     29.0    30.2    28.8    30.8        23.6      11.2       14.6      6.0        8.9
mports of ClFS                     3.4    14.3      27.6    35.7    38.6    41.7        29.3      25.4       16.1      9.8        8.5
Exports of CUWS                    12.8    24.1     36.3    42.7    40.1    42.2        20.2      15.8       17.0      6.8        8.3
Crosa national savinga              8.0    19.5     20.6    21.7    26.5    29.8        17.2      14.6        9.0     12.7        9.5
AS Z OF CDP                        Labor Force in 1983         Itlliona    (2)
1960      1970      1975      1980       1984
PUIBLC FIIANCE
Current revenues                      18.5      17.8      17.9       19.9      19.4      Agriculture                    4.3      28.6
CQrremt expenditures                  16.3      13.1      15.4       15.6      15.9      Indratry                       4.2      27.7
Current surplus                        4.'       4.7       2.5        4.3       3.5      Services                       6.0      39.6
Capital expenditure                    3.4       6.4       6.4        5.9       5.5     Ulnemployed                     0.6       6.1
Foreign financing                       -        1.0       1.3        1.0       0.5
Total Labor Force       15.1    100.0
1960-70        197D-75        1975-80         1980-85        1985-90
OTHIE  INDICATORS
Annual CNP growth rate (2)                                            8.7           9.D            7.9             7.0            7.5
Annual CNP per capita growth rate (Z)                                 5.9           6.9            5.2             5.5            5.9
Annual energy conaumption growth rate (2)                            14.2           9.6            8.7             5.7            5.4
ICOR                                                                  1.9           Z.7            5.4             4.2            6.0
Arginal atvings rate                                                  0.3           0.3            0.3             0.3            0.35
Import elasticity                                                     2.2           1.6            2.0             1.2            1.11
/a Prelidinary.
East Aris and Pacific Regional Office
December 1984



-28-                                       W-Vr
Population    a 39,951    (mld-1983 thbrmado)
CW per capitO1  US$1,8a4  (1983)
EmIL - UALA1CZ OF PAIENTS, UTERAL CAPITAL AM11 DEBT
tMI1l  UfS at carent prices)
Aetuol                       _Projected
andicator                             1970   1975    1978       197 19UO    1981          1962    19I          "
D*ALANCK OF PLUEUTS
lxporct of oe-dm a*d  ervices      1,379   5.909   17.124   19.528   22.5B7   27.552   2B.500   30,389    82,502
Of whichi lhrcbandlae f.o.b.      882   5.028   12.678   14,694   17,220   20,938   20.961   23.204    70.56E
Import. of goods and service       2,180   7."2   18,651   24,115   28,360   32.476   31.500   32,5M8   84,033
Of ubicha  lkrhehndiae f.o.b.    1,804   6.671   14.436   19,266   21,604   24,337   23.361   24,904    7D,737
Not cransfers                        178    225       467     439      449      506      473      592        600
tarrent Ascount lal                -623 -1,858  -1.060   -' 153  -5 325  -4 418  -2 546  -1 607            -930
CZ of SUP)                         (-7.2)  (-9.2)   (-2.2)    -7.:)    )         Y74)   (^3.)   (-.)       -.
Direct inaet_nt                       66      53      61       17       -5       59      100    101.4       683
HLT Loan (net)                       242   1.252    2,216    2.945    2,096    4.267    2,051    1,332    3.298
Offticl                            147    486      663      862      689    1.337      880      861    IDB0
Private                             95    765    1,552    2,093    1,408    2.929    1,171      471     2,214
Other capital (tncl. arro  &         372    929    -510    2,090    3,770       367      48      -975       322
oumsmmona)
Chang  in reserves (groSs)           -57   -376    -707    -398    -536    -275          -93      -74    -3,174
International reserve (gross)        606   2,012    5.405    6.303    6,839    7,114    7,212    6.910    21,167
Reaerves as aetha Imports            3.3    3.0       3.5     3.1      2.9      2.6      2.7      2.1       3.0
EXIAL CAPITAL AND DnT
Cram Disburemats
Official Srant.                      -       -       -        -        -        -       50        -
CancseiLoael loan                  123     123      184     193      138      159      14R    203.3         -
DAC                              122    TO16       7      173      121      158      1      203.3      2NU
OPEC                               -       -       13      20       .7         1       -        -          -
ID1                                       14       3        -        -        -        _        _         _
Other                             _        I
_ooconcessional Loan               317   1.511    3,72   4.44R    3_655    4.779    3.937    3.230     5,661
Offielal export credits          1i    151       219      341      606      844      532      500       965
IBRD                              7      187     321      426      254      306      438      384       780
Otber sdtilateral                  5     81       89       91       90      104      116      168       223
Private - source (reesdual)      287   1,083   3,101    3.591    2,705    3,525    2.851    2.158     3,692
M.diu- end Lona-Tern Debt
Debt outstanding & dIsbures.     1,797   5.540   11,937   14.553   16.274   19,964   22.006   28.170    46.319
Offlcisl - source                613   2.657    5,016    5,667    6.498    7,702    8.572       -    15.832
Private  - source              1.185   2,83    6.921    8.886   9.776   12,263   13,433        -    30.487
Ihdtabureed debt                   902   1.679    6.294    5.337    7,072    5.996    5.324    6.298    6.370
Debt Service on ILT Loans
Total service payments             268    667    1.825    2.578    2,762    3.597    4.199   46,570     8.509
Interest                         70    283       657      890    1.310    1,777    2,164    2,187     3.295
Payment ae t export.              19.4    11.3     10.7    13.2     12.2     13.0    14.5      15.4      11.1
Short-Term Debt
Debt eatmtanding and dimbursed       -   2.409    3.575   6,279   10,047   13,658   14,100   11,940    13,030
Intereut paysents                   -       -      236      377      907    1.810    1.528    1,169     1.303
Interest as 7 exports               -       -       1.4     1.9      4.0      6.7      5.3      3.9       1.7
Averace Interest Rate on Nev Loans (2)
Official                             4.5     7.9      7.4     7.6      7.5      8.4      8.0     10.9       10.9
Private                              7.1    9.3       9.7    11.4    14.0    13.6    13.7    11.7           11.7
AveraRe Maturity on Ne, tLoan (year)
Official                            25.0   19.3    19.6    16.8    19.6    15.3    15.5          16.4       16.4
Private                             10.9    5.7    10.9    10.7    11.2    13.1          8.1     11.8      11.8
Am Z of debt outestanding
at end of moat recent
year (1982)
.bturity structure of debt outstanding
Maturities due  itbi,n S years                                   53.4
Mtturities due within 10 years                                   73.1
Interest structure of debt outstanding                              8.7
Interest due within first year
/a Preliminary
last Asia and PacifL. RegiDnal Office
December 1984



AhJ   1I
-29 -                                        Pao I of 2
KOREA
TFE STATUS OF MMNK CR01W? OPERATIONS TN TME REPUILIC OF ROREA /a
A. Stateunt of Bank Loans and IDA Credit. (as of March 31. 1985)
Loan or                                                                                Amount ($ million)
Credit     Calendar                                                                  (less cageellatlono )
Wunber       Year          Dorrover                                           Danl>a  Bank  TV  IDA    Undlebured
Forty-six loans and elght credlts fully dimbursed                          2,764.44   40.00   115.58
1364         1977     ADC                  Irrigation                         95.0                             0.26
1503         1978     ADC                  Agriculture/Irrigatlon             36.0                             4.00
1666         1979     ISWACO               Chungju Multipurpose               125.0                            4.38
1676         1979     Republic of Korea   glectromlc Technology               29.0                             8.35
*  1758         1979      Republic of Korea   Second Ohangju Regional             65.0                            1.54
1774         1979     Republic of Korea   Population I                        30.0                            20.20
1788         1979     Korea Electric Co.  Power                               111.0                            8.26
1800         1980     Republic of Korea   Education V                        100.0                             2.55
1836         1980     Republic of Korea   Rallway VII                         94.0                             1.50
1851         1980     AFDC                 Agriculture I1                     50.0                             1.23
1932         1981     KLTCB VIII           Div. Finance Co.                   90.0                             2.01
1933         1981     XDB IV               Div. Finnce Co.                   100.0                             0.16
1980         1981     Republic of Korea   Nat. Urban Land & Rouoing           75.3                            13.07
2004         1871    S51B IV               Dev. Finance Co.                   60.0                             3.37
2072         1982     Republic of Korea   Water Supply                         90.0                           25.75
2111         1982     Republic of Korea   Agricultural Warketing              31.3                             2.04
2112         1982     KTDC I               Technology Development              50.0                           11.53
2144         1982     CNB II               DFC                                30.0                             8.60
2215         1982     Republic of Korea  nachinery Industry                   70.0                            61.99
2216         1982     Republic of Korea   Nat. Urban Laud and Housing         100.0                           50.44
2228         1982     Republic of Korea   Provincial and County Roads         125.0                           50.77
2267         1983     Republic of Korea   Coal and Cement Distribution        122.0                          100.00
2309         1983     Republic of Korea   Industrial P nance                  255.0                          144.23
2350         1983     Republic of Korea   Second Water Supply                 78.5                            59.51
2388         1984     Republic of Korea   Jeonju Regional Development          60.0                           59.85
2392         1984     Republic of Korea   Rlghway Sector                     230.0                           202.12
2427         1984     Republic of Korea   Education Sector                    100.0                           98.46
2473         1984     KTDC II              Second Technology Development    50.0                             46.00
2491         1985     Republic of Korea   Water Supply                        95.0                            95.00
Total                                                         5,311.54   40.00   115.58      1.087.17
of which has been repaid                                      822.20    3.69      7.33
Total now outstanding  -                                       489_34   36.32   108.25
Amount sold                   8.83
of which has been repaid   8.83                                  -       -         -
Total nov held by RAnk and IDA
(prior to exchange adjustment)                              4,489.34   36.32   108.25
Total undlbursed                                             :.087.17     -         -       1,087.17
la   The status of the projects listed in Part A are described in a separate report on all Bank/IDA-financed
projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly and circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30
and October 31.



ANWFZ TX
-30-                                  Page 2 of 2
D. Statement of IPC Investments (as of Warch 31, 1984)
Fiscal                                                        Amount t$ million)
Year        Oblilor            Types of Ilusineus            Loan  Equity Total
1968     RLR (KDFC)             Development Financing           -     0.7    0.7
1969     Honam Silk Co.         Textlle.                       1.4    0.3    1.7
1970     Atlas Paper            Pulp and paper                 4.5    n.5    5.0/a
1971     Korea Investment
Financea Corp.       Capital Market Development    -       n.7    0.7
1974     KLB (KDFC)             Development Financing           -     0.4    n.4
1974     Korea Investment
Finance Corp.        Capital Market nevelopment   -        n.3    0.3
1975     Gold Star & Co. Ltd.  Electronic Products            16.0    1.3   17.3
1975     Korea Securities
Finance Corp.       .Capital Market nevelopment   5.0    0.6    5.6
1975     Tong Yang Nylon
rompany, Ltd.        Synthetic Fibers              6.9    2.1    9.0
1975     Rae lin Dae nevelop-
ment Company Ltd.   Tourism                         2.8    0.7    3.5
1976     Korea Investment
Finance Corp.        Capital market Develooment    -       0.4    n.4
1976     Chonju Paper Mfg. ro. Papea                           5.0    n.8    5.8
1976     Korea Zinc. Co. Ltd.  Zinc                           15.0    4.0   19.0
1976     KLR (KDFC)             Development Financing         17.8     -    17.R
1976     Cold Star & Co. Ltd.  Flectronic Products            ll.0    0.4   10.4
1977     Cold Star & Co. Ltd.  Flectronic Products              -     0.2    0.2
1977    !.LB (KDFC)             Development Financing           -     0.3    0.3
1977     Korea Securities
Finance C.orp.       Capital Market                 -      0.5    0.5
1977     Korea Development
Leasing rorp.        Capital Market                15.0    0.4   15.4
1978     KLB (KDFC)             levelopment Financing           -      1.1    1.1
1979     Cold Star & Co. Ltd.  Electronic Products              -     1.7    1.7
1979     KIFC                   Capital Market                  -     n.6    n.6
1979     Korea Development
Leasing Corp                                        -      0.2    n.2
1979     rold Star & Co. Ltd.  Electronic Products              -      1.5    1.5
1980/84  Cold Star & ro. Ltd.  Electronic Products              -     5.3    5.3
1980     Korea Investment
Finance rorp.        Capital Market                 -      0.6    0.6
1980/    Korea Securities
82/84     Finance rorp.                                        -     2.3    2.3
1980     KLR (K1WC)             Development Financing           -     2.2    2.2
1981     Taihan Rulk Terminal           -
Co. Ltd.             Grain Port Terminal            7.n    2.5    9.5
1982     KIFC                   Capital Market                  -     n.6    n.6
1982     K-TAC (Korea Technology
Advancement Corp.)  Research  Development          -      0.6    0.6
1983     FDIC                   Money & Capital Market          -     n.9    n.0
1984     Halla Caent            Cement rCnst. Material         4.3    1.9    R.2
1985     Korea Fund             Money 6 Capital Market          -     9.1    9.1
Total gross commitment                              110.7   47.7  158.4
less cancellations, terminations
repayment and sales                              101.6   18.6  120.2
Total commitments now held by IFC                    9.1   29.1   38.2
TOTAL undisbursed                                            0.1    n.1
/a Cancelled at the rew'est of the Company.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
- 31 -
KOREA
SECOND INDUSTRIAL FINANCE PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to pr2pare the project:                14 months
(b)  Agency which prepared the project:                MOF, World Bank
(c)  First presentation to the Bank:                   March 1984
(d)  First Bank mission to identify this project:    March 1984
(e)  Date of departure of appraisal mission:           October 5, 1984
(f)  Date of completion of negotiations:               April 26, 1985
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness:                    November 30, 1985
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Action
None
Section III: Special Conditions
-     (a)  Conditions of Loan Effectiveness:  The signature of two subsidiary
loan agreements between the Government and KLB and KDB under terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank (para. 80).
(b) Condition of Disbursement: The signature of an agency agreement
between the Government and KBI and the approval by the Bank of a
Standard Relending Agreement between the Government and the insti-
tutions participatiing in the training component (para. 81).
(c) Others:
(i)  the Bank and the Government to exchange views on progress
achieved in carrying out the program of financial sector reform
(para. 44);
(ii)  the Government to ensure that KBI would, by December 31, 1985,
propose for Bank approval, the selection criteria for
participants and foreign specialists in the training program
(para. 79);



3ANuI III
Page 1 of 2
(iii)  the Covernment to ensure that MOP and KBI annually submit to the
Bank for approval'by December 31, beginning in 1985 the content,
organization and cost of their respective training program in
1986 and not later than September 30 each year thereafter for the
training program to be implemented in subsequent years (para.
79).



Annex IV
~ 33 -                      Page I of 8
REPUBLIC OF KOREA
SECOND INDUSTRIAL FINANCE PROJECT
The Minister's Financiai Sector Policy Letter
Mr. A.W. Clausen, President                                          May 10, 1985
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
USA
Dear Mr. Clausen:
1.        I am  writing to inform you of changes in financial poLicy that have
occurred since my predecessor wrote to you in 1983 concerning financial sector
reform in Korea. That letter was provided in connection with the Industrial
Finance Project, and I am pleased to address this letter to the International
Bank for Reconstruction and Development for its appraisal of the Second
Industrial Finance Project.
2.        The-Government has initiated a long range program of financial
liberalization that is expected to promote the development of the national
economy by providing incentives for equitv market development, resource mobi-
lization, and efficient alLocation of credit. To achieve these long range
objectives. my Government seeks gradually (a) to enhance the role of market
forces in the determination of interest rates; (b) to increase competition
within the financial sector, and (c) to reduce the role of Government in cred-
it allocation.
3.        Our financial reforms are expected to (a) improve resource alloca-
tion by decentralizing decision-making so that financial institutions and
entrepreneurs can respond more flexibly to market forces; and (b) raise effi-
ciency in financial intermediation by subjecting intermediaries to greater
competition through freer entry and fewer legislative and administrative con-
straints on their activities. The benefits of these developments are expected
to include an increase in the supply of long term capital and a more effective
equity market that would enable more firms to raise capital from a broader
spectrum of savers.
4.        The long term objective of financial reform is clear, but the high
indebtedness of the corporate sector and the priority attached to strengthen-
ing the commercial banks constrain the pace of liberalization. Therefore,
reform is being implemented in a phased manner to minimize any potentially
destabilizing effects on the financial system and the corporate sector, while
efforts are being made to deal with these constraints.



Annex IV
- 34 -                       Page 2 of 8
5.        This letter describes in detail the Covernment's objectives and its
planned course of action in major areas of policy reform. These reforms, pre-
sented below under five headings, will be directed toward both debt claims and
ownership claims. Policy formulation will seek to achieve an appropriate bal-
ance between these two broad forms of finance, which will require a more pro-
minent role for equity capital and a longer term structure of debt. Measures
that directly influence the price, composition and quantity of debt claims
include (a) interest rates and (b) directed credit. Measures that determine
the manner in which debt claims are generated include (c) liberalization and
supervision of commercial banks and (d) control of corporate indebtedness.
Ownership claims are treated as a separate issue (e) under the heading of
equity market development.
Decontrol of Interest Rates
6.        The Government's long-term objective as stated in the Fifth Five
Year Plan (1982-86) is to allow interest rates to be determined by market
forces. This objective should be achieved gradually in view of the volatility
of international interest rates, the heavy indebtedness of the corporate
sector and the persistence of the gap between official and market rates for
essentially similar instruments. The Government will use selective, incre-
mental adjustments to permit official rates to move more closely in line with
market rates for similar instruments as economic conditions and opportunities
permit. This should also help the development of an integrated aTrray of rates
reflecting transaction costs, risks and the time value of money.
7.        In January 1984 the Government adjusted official interest rates to
lengthen the term structure of deposits, increase the effective spreads of
credit institutions, and provide scope for small differentiations in lending
rates to reflect risk and maturity. This reform included the following
changes in commercial bank interest rates: the time deposit rate for maturi-
ties exceeding one year was increased from 8% to 9%, short-term time and
savings deposit rates were lowered from 8% to 6%, and the lending rate was
changed from a uniform 10 to a 10% to 10.5X band. Commensurate changes were
made in other official rates specified for commercial banks and for non-bank
financial institutions.  Subsequent changes-in November 1984 increased major
lending rates and deposit rates by 1%, broadening the discretion of banks'
management by widening the commercial lending rate band from 10% to 11.5%. In
April 1985 the upper limit of the lending rate band was further increased to
13.5% for loans having a maturity in excess of one year. At the same time,
the rate structure on household savings deposits was altered to encourage
longer term deposits. The interest rate on these deposits having a maturity
in excess of six months was raised for 6% to 12%, and the rate on deposits
maturing in three to six months was raised from 6% to 9%.
8.        Rates are now generally positive: inflation was reduced in 1984 to
less than 3% as measured by the consumer price index. The Government is com-
mitted to maintaining positive real rates of interest by keeping the rate on
time and saving deposits and on commercial bank loans above the rate of inf-
lation as measured by the consummer price index. In the longer run, with
liberalization, the present emphasis on levels of nominal rates will naturally
be supplemented by greater concern for and attention to real rates in monetary



Annex IV
35 -                       Page 3 of 8
policy and in private financial decision-making. The Government will seek to
ensure that those official rates that remain will be set in accordance with
trends in the domestic economy, the balance of payments and interest rates in
international financial markets. The Government is also commir'-ed to keeping
a spread between the weighted cost of funds and official lending rates suffi-
cient to ensure the profitability of efficient commercial banks.
9.        The Government has adjusted the commercial bank deposit and lending
rates so as to reduce the differential between official rates and rates in the
second tier financial market (as evidenced, for example, by the reduction in
the differential between the one-year time deposit rate and the annual yield
on three-year corporate bonds from 6.2% at the end of 1983 to 4.7% at the end
of February 1985). The Government will continue to attempt to narrow the
differential by making strong efforts to keep the rate of inflation low and to
minimize inflationary expectations. These efforts will facilitate interest
rate decontrol, which would be achieved initially by gradually raising rate
ceilings and ultimately by removing controls entirely in order to permit the
market freely to determine deposit and lending rates of interest and reLated
cerms and conditions. The Government expects that further adjustments in the
structure of commercial bank interest rates would be made in light of these
longer run objectives and current domestic and international circumstances.
Official rates and spreads for other types of financial institutions would be
changed accordingLy in order not to discriminate sharply against any
particular type of institutior.
10.       The Government has taken several steps to increase the range of
services offered by financial institutions, to improve the attractiveness of
financial assets, and to shift regulatory focus toward functions and away from
institutional type. Innovative financial instruments bearing higher rates of
interest have served as vehicles for these changes; one effect of their intro-
duction has been to bring official interest rates closer to market rates.
11.       The first of these was permitting all nationwide city banks to
undertake trust business, which was previously the preserve of a specialized
trust bank, and, since May 1983, also of local commercial banks. Trust busi-
ness involves term deposits placed by households and others.  These funds are
accepted at rates ranging from 9% to 12.2% and loaned at 15.5% to 16.5%,
producing positive spreads.
12.       Negotiable certificates of deposit were introduced on June 1, 1984.
These certificates may be issued by nationwide city banks, local banks and the
Korea Exchange Bank, and have maturities of from 91 to 180 days. Their unit
price is W100 million. They bear interest at no more than 11%, discounted in
advance. Ninety percent of funds raised by banks from this source must be
loaned by the issuing banks at 12%. In February 1985 the deposit and lending
rates were increased to 12% and 13%, respectively. These certificates have
received an overwhelming response in the market.
13.       For smaller savers, cash management accounts (CMA) were introduced
in April 1984. These accounts are offered by short term finance corporations,
have maturicies of up to 180 days and are issued in units of at least W2 mil-
lion. The funds deposited in these accounts earn a floating rate and are used



Annex IV
-36 -                        Page 4 of 8
to purchase instruments in the second tier market. More than half of these
portfolios must consist of debt issued by small and medium industries.
Government will continue to consider new instruments and measures (a) to
encourage greater long-term borrowing and lending and (b) to increase the
volume of financial savings.
Reduction of Directed Credit
14.       To increase the efficiency of resource allocation through financial
markets the Government will reduce the proportion of directed credit in total
domestic credit and reduce the use of private financial institutions as
conduits of concessional funds to preferred sectors.  The share of commercial
banks in NIF disbursements will be progressively reduced, and efforts will be
made to transfer new NIF lending to specialized banks.
15.       Net contributions to the National Investment Fund were reduced from
W 444 billion in 1983 to W 73 billion in 1984, and the volume of loans
extended was reduced from W 732 billion in 1983 to W 506 billion in 1984. The
size of the NIF will be further diminished by progressively reducing the vol-
ume of lending and phasing out obligatory contributions through deposits and
bond purchases. Other special investment and guarantee funds established by
the Government to direct credit will also be limited to a declining portion of
total domestic credit. It is also the Governmentts intention that directed
credit will be provided ae interest rates comparable to those charged
elsewhere in financial markets.
Commercial Bank Liberalization and Supervision
16.       The long-term objective of the Government is to enhance Korea's
economic growth by improving efficiency and competitiveness in the financial
sector. In the commercial banking subsector this will be achieved by
licensing new banks, expanding the powers of the regionaL banks, permitting
greater autonomy of bank management, and broadening the accivities in which
banks are permitted to engage as a means of reducing enforced specializa-
tion.  These changes have major implications for the manne: in which banks are
supervised, and efforts ire being made to enhance the supervisory function.
17.       Privatization of commercial banks has been completed, and a number
of new financial institutions have been chartered. The commercial banks have
improved their performance substantially in 1984 due in part to changes in
interest rate and fee structures, and from the expansion of their business
into new functions and through new instruments. The nationwide commercial
banks are active participants on both sides of international financial
markets. These banks are making efforts to develop their long range planning
mechanisms, internal controls and computerization of accounts.
18.       The Government is considering measures that would allow regional
commercial banks to expand their activities. Government will gradually
provide scope to specialized banks, including the Korea Development Bank and
the Korea Long Term Credit Bank, to engage in a wider range of services. With
respect to KDB, the Government expects eventually to segregate its funding and
accounts as a commercial entity from chose as a government agent, and ensure



Annex IV
_37 -                       Page 5 of 8
that KDB in its commercial role does not compete with private financial
institutions by relying on preferential treatment from Government. The
Government has provided foreign bank branches in Korea greater access to the
domestic market, and has given them access to rediscount facilities with the
Bank of Korep
19.       The Government expects that concessional rediscounting arrangements
for paper from preferred sectors will be gradually altered to coincide with
the terms prevailing for other eligible paper. This may require adjustments
in the rate and the level of refinancing currently available. These changes
will be made to encourage banks to operate more efficientlv, and are expected
to facilitate the growth of an interbank funds market.
20.       Capital adequacy is being addressed through the supervisory mech-
anism appLied to banks by the Bank of Korea. Capital adequacy is affected by
profitability and by the bad and doubtful loans carried by banks. With libe-
ralization, the Government seeks to demonstrate continued support for domestic
banks while easing their burden of bad and doubtful debts. Adjustments in
official interest rates and fees have augmented internally generated capital,
and the Government is taking further steps to improve the banks' capital ade-
quacy by increasing their profitability, and is considering additional mea-
sures that may be required to address portfolio quality problems.
21.       Any measures to regularize bad and doubtful loans would be intended
to perffmit the banks to increase their capital internally and through the issue
of new shares, and to facilitate their acceptance in international capital
markets on the basis of their own financial performance.  Following this
reform, and uith a significant decrease in direct Government involvement in
credit allocation, the Government would not expect to intervene to maintain
bank profits or confidence except in extreme cases affecting the nation's fin-
ancial structure.
22.       The Government has addressed the issue of the ownership of the
nationwide commercial banks by major corporations by limiting the voting
interest of any single shareholder to 8% of total shares outstanding. The
incentive for abuse of the special relationship between banks and their share-
holders is being diminished by the move toward market rates of interesc on
bank loans. Inspection procedures applied by th- Office of Bank Supervision
and Examination seek to ensure that major shareholders are not given an undue
advantage over comparable bank clients through credit allocation and
charges. The relations between banks and their major corporate shareholders
will be kept under close review by supervisory authorities.
Control of Corporate Indebtedness
23.       The recession of 1980-82 highlighted the problem of corporate
indebtedness. In an effort to reduce the financial burden on Korean business
the Government lowered lending rates and certain corporate tax rates in June
1982. It also took steps to revive the economy and reduce inflation.
Assisted by positive developments internationally, these measures have
returned the Korean economy to a high growth path and improved the profit-
ability of the corporate and financial sectors.



Annex IV
-38 -                         Page 6 of 8
24.       The problem of corporate indebtedness is perhaps the most difficult
to resolve through liberalization. In a fully liberalized environment, the
issue of corporate indebtedness would be handled through market solutions to
problems and responses to opportunities. To deal with corporate indebtedness
while introducing liberalization, the Covernment does not expect to move
directly to recapitalize or reorganize firms in financial difficulties except
where national security is concerned or where the nation's export performance
could be severely damaged. The Government's general policy is to deal with
these situations on a case-by-case basis.
25.       The problem of corporate indebtedness is being managed through the
prime bank system. The prime or lead bank for each large corporation centra-
lizes information about the corporation's borrowing and banking relation-
ships. It controls the manner in which commercial banks manage their large
clients' debt limits in conformity with Government guidelines under the close
scrutiny of the Office of Bank Supervision and Examination. The prime bank
system is working satisfactorily and helps to improve the financial structure
of corporations. However, in the longer run, those elements of the prime bank
system that restrict competition among the banks for aLtracting and serving
financially healthy clients would require modification. Liberalization
requires lending institutions to develop their own credit criteria, including
appropriate debt to equity and debt service guidelines. Credit quality mea-
sures could be further refined by independent, specialized credit rating and
information agencies.
26.       The control of corporate indebtendness by market forces will be
improved by disclosure measures discuss- I in this letter in connection with
equity market development. Consolidation of group financial statements,
emphasis on training of accountants, enhancing disclosure standards and
requiring issuers of commercial paper to file prospectuses annually will all
contribute to better management of corporate indebtedness in the public
interest.
Equity Harket Development
27.       The development of the manufacturing and modern non-financial
services sectors in Korea has in most cases been much more dynamic than the
development of its financial instruments, the term to maturity of credit
markets and type of access to financial services available to many firms are
now perceived as a constraint to economic development. The part of the finan-
cial sector through which all of these problems are connected is the equity
market. An enhanced role for this market would help to make risk-reward rela-
tionships more transparent. It would also permit firms to adjust their finan-
cial structures to avoid some of the burden of debt, it could assist entrepre-
neurs seeking to raise funds and would permit greater private participation in
the capital gains produced by Korea's continued economic progress.
28.       The development of the stock market is fundamental to broadening the
financial base of Korean industry and to facilitating resource mobilization
for industrial investment through increased participation of individual savers
in the investment process.  Accordingly, the Government will continue its
efforts to make investment in securities (especially equities) more attractive



Annex IV
- 39~ -Page 7 of 8
by measures that will contribute to the quality and quantity of information
available to shareholders and facilitate equLity capital issues by corpora-
tions. These efforts will include measures to enhance disclosure of corporate
finances and insider transactions. To this end, the Government ;s considering
proposing revisions in the Security and Exchange Law. The Government will
continue to discourage intercompany equity and debt holdings. Also, the
Government will encourage large business groups to prepare consolidated fin-
ancial statements on a voluntary basis, and then consider gradually requiring
large groups to prepare consolidated financial statements. Covernment has
concentrated on maintaining confidence in the market and offering investors a
large pool of securities by requiring large enterprises to go public. These
efforts have included attention to listing and reporting requirements and have
resulted in the listing of more than 330 firms of the Korea Stock Exchange and
more than ten years of trading without any major irregularities.
29.       Diversification of investors' protfolios will be assisted by
continuing to permit the formation of unit trusts, mutual funds, and similar
vehicles in response to investor demand. Insurance companies will be encour-
aged to invest more heavily in securities through changes in investment guide-
lines. Foundations and pension funds will also be encouraged to buy securi-
ties. Special consideration will also be given to the importance of pension
funds for both social and investment purposes. Fiscal incentives to promote
contributions to pension funds will also be explored.
30.       The Government is committed to the use of fiscal incentives to
promote shareholding more widely within Korea, in recognition of the great
social benefits that result from increased shareholding by the public. Steps
already taken in this direction incLude a reduction of corporate income tax
Liability by 12% of the value of new shares issued, in effect through 1986.
During 1985-86, the Committee cn the Development of the Tax System will con-
sider, among other matters, fiscal incentives to encourage the development of
the equity market.
31.       Encouragement will be provided to the owners of famiLy businesses to
go public. In late 1983 this was accomplished by reducing from 402 to 20% the
proportion of equity that had to be sold in an initial public offering. In
addition, the Government will promote plans to encourage small investors to
accumulate securities. For example, increases in limits governing participa-
tion in the Employees Security Savings Plan will be reviewed to encourage
greater shareholding by wage and salary earne-3.
32.       Efforts will increasingly be devoted to making the securities market
more dynamic by permitting market forces to play a larger role. A step was
taken in this direction in 1983 by permitting companies to make rights issues
at market value when market value exceeds par value. The.Goverament will
continue its efforts to encourage private corporations to issue at market
price, and measures to ease current requirem2nts will be considered.
33.       A more important change is that the Government no longer officially
or semiofficially influences the Level of dividends to be paid by individual
firms or irdr*':rial segments. Firms are now free to declare dividends to
accommoda'te their internal financial situation and the expectation of their



Annex IV
-40 -                         Page a of a
creditors and of their shareholders. This measure should help differentiate
investors' perceptions of the shares of listed companies and should create a
more dynamic stock market.
34.       The Government intends to permit revitalization of Korea's inactive
over-the-counter market under regulations enacted in 1984. OTC transactions
could benefit small firms and small investors, and could complement the
Government's efforts to direct resources towards small and medium industry.
OTC trading would be facilitated by the introduction of a "B List" of equities
traded on the Korea Stock Exchange, subject to less rigorous Listing require-
ments than presently applied.  Current listings would constitute the "A list"
under the revised listing categories. Introduction of OTC trading on the
Exchange will minimize any fragmentation that may arise from different listing
requirements.
35.       The Korea Stock Exchange will also be used increasingly to attract
foreign portfolio investment for Korean enterprises. Internationalization of
the market began with the formation of several investment trusts permitted to
offer shares to offshore investors. A major step towards further internatio-
nalization was taken in September 1984 with the formation of the Korea Fund
and the listing of its shares on the New York Stock Exchange. Further steps
to attract portfolio investment will include the development of new instru-
ments designed especially for this purpose. Steps have been taken to permit
quaLified foreign securities firms to open representative offices, and Korean
securities firms have been approached by foreign securities firms seeking
minority shareholdings.
36.       I would be pleased to inform the World Bank of our progress in the
impLementation of financiaL reforms.
Yours sincerely,
Minister of Finance
::~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



KOREA
SECOND INDUSTRIAL FINANCE PROJECT
Financial Policies and Reforms
During Implementation of the Second Industrial Finance Project
I. Decontrol of Interest Rates
Specific Actions
Policies                   Measures Proposed in 1985-87                 Taken Between 1/84-4/85
1.  maintain positive real rates        o  raise upper limit of commercial    o  Increased lending rate ceiling
bank lending rate band                   from 10% to 13.5%.
2. ensure adequate spreads for
efficient banks                     o  continue good economic manage-    o  increased interest rate on time
ment to keep inflation rates             deposits over 1 year from 10%
3.  narrow differential between             low                                      to 12%.
official rates and second tier
market rates                        o  introduce financial instruments   o  Increased interest rate on time              4
bearing higher internt rates as         deposits over 6 months from 6%
a vehicle of implementing                to 12%.
reform.
o Introduced negotiable
certificates of deposit and
cash managment accounts.
II. Reduction of Directed Credit
Specific Actions
Policies                   Measures Proposed in 1985-87                 Taken Between 1/84-4/85
1. reduce flow of directed credit       o  reduce the scope of NIF:              o  Reduced net contributions to
(i) diminish use of commercial          NIF from W 444 billion to W 73
2. reduce financial burden of NIF               banks as conduits for NIF            billion.
on cormmercial banks                         loans
(ii) phase out compulsory con-        o  Reduced NIF loans from W 732
tributions from financial           billion to W 506 billion.
institutions by end of 1985
o  limit other special investment                    
funds and guarantee funds to a                                                     N
declining portion of total
domestic credit



III.  Commercial Bank Liberalization and Supervision
Specific Actions
Policies                   Heasures Proposed in 1985-87                Taken Between 1/84-4185
1. increase competition in banking   o  expand scope of specialized             o  Introduced new financial
throvSh free entry and less             banks including KDB and KLB             instruments (see I).
forced mnarket segmentation
o  permit regional banks to open        o  Increased competition in the
2. expand scope of regional banks          branches throughout Korea               commercial banking sector by:
3. increase autonomy of bank            o  improve access of foreign banks         (i) providing foreign bank
management                              to the Koreakl market:                      branches in Korea greater
access to domestic market;
4. broaden activities of  banks         o  gradually increase rediscount
rate for paper of preferred            (ii) providing foreign bank
5. improve capital positions of            sectors                                     branches with greater
commercial banks                                                                    access to rediscount
'facilities at the Central
Bank (BOK).
IV. Control of Corporate Indebtedness
Specific Actions
Policies                  Measures Proposed in 1985-87                 Taken Between 1/84-4/85
1. encourage market determination    o  continued reliance on the Prime   o  Strengthened the prime bank
of corporate debt capacity,             Bank System to manage/the prob-         system to improve the manage-
while maintaining dirent                lem of corporate indebtedness,          ment of the level of indebted-
controls, as required, to dis-          accompanied by consideration, of        ness in the capital structure
courage excessive indebtedness.         long-run alternatives that              of large corporations.
permit greater competition
among lenders
o  measures to make equity
financing more attractive
o  introduction of more rigorous
accounting disclosure standards
and other measures to improve
financial information
4 
I     9 



V. Equity Market Development
Specific Actions
Policies                  Measures Proposed in 1985-87                Taken Between 1/84-4/85
1. increase the relative attrac-        o  encourage private firms to go        o  Reduced tax liability by 12% of
tiveness of equity financing            public                                  value of new shares to
for corporations                                                                encourage the use of equity.
O revitalize OTC trading by
2. increase the reLative attrac-           introducing a "B list" subject    o  Enacted regulations Lo
tiveness of equities among              to less stringent listing               revitalize the over-the-counter
investors                               requirements on the Korea Stock        market.
Exchange
3. increase funds available for                                                o  Further internationalized the
equity finance from domestic        o4 allow issue of equity pt market          capital market with the
and international sources               value rather than at par                formation of the Korea Fund and
its listing in the New York
o  encourage investment through            Stock Exchange.                       .
Employees Security Savings
Plans
o reduce restrictions on foreign
investment in Korean companies
o instruct the Committee on the
Development of the Tax S)stem
to consider fiscal incentives
for equity market development
4I
LII 



IBRD 1  51 aa
DEMOCRATIC  PEOPLES  REPUBLIC                     I
CHINA                                              OF  KOREA
Japant Sea
M. RAISeeSe2f                                                                                    -         East  Se-o
*I7REPO
V_, __w -.    -          tJAPAN
i Sea  ~~        ~                GY        0      -'  ~~       GA   CY WEON
--         +   t                  r                G Y 
Yellow  Sea                               j           f
N.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
- Jr
J Ef8SaTt  J1 '2 K/
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-- -  Pt,nca bounar;'
-:< .-Z9- - ~REPUBLIC OF KOREA
,                           _~~~~~~Ptimary froads
* = L-. _ _-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Rad-avs
_                              - - - ~~~~~~~~~~ ~Rrilwoy under costructioyn  30
_  - _   =Intwrnationol boundaries
.iniu
a    kg   40   60     s O    00o   MD'U       MO
a        20       10       6.0                 We
*r                         126                        127-                       1.                  M IE  12N
AUGUST 1984



