                                      Document of
                                  The World Bank


                                                                    Report No: 68823-MZ




                              RESTRUCTURING PAPER

                                         ON A

                   PROPOSED PROJECT RESTRUCTURING
                                   OF
                 MARKET LED SMALLHOLDER DEVELOPMENT
                    IN THE ZAMBEZI VALLEY PROJECT
                                 LOAN
                              20 June 2006


                                        TO THE

                           REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE


                                     April 17, 2012




Agriculture and Rural Development Unit
Sustainable Development Department
Country Department AFCS2
Africa Region

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.
                  ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


CAEIF:   Community Agriculture and Environment Investment Fund
CBO:     Community-based Organizations
CF:      Community Facilitators
DNPDR:   National Directorate for the Promotion of Rural Development (translated)
GEF:     Global Environment Fund
IDA:     International Development Association
MAE:     Ministry of State Administration (translated)
MPD:     Ministry of Planning and Development
SDR:     Special Drawing Rights
SLG:     Savings and Loans Groups




          Regional Vice President:         Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili
                 Country Director:         Laurence C. Clarke
         Sector Manager / Director:        Karen Mcconnell Brooks
                Task Team Leader:          Patrick Verissimo



                                      ii
                        MOZAMBIQUE
   MARKET LED SMALLHOLDER DEVELOPMENT IN THE ZAMBEZI VALLEY
                           P093165
                          CONTENTS

                                                                                                                                 Page
A. SUMMARY ........................................................................................................................... 1
B. PROJECT STATUS .............................................................................................................. 1
C. PROPOSED CHANGES ...................................................................................................... 2
D. APPRAISAL SUMMARY.................................................................................................... 3
ANNEX 1: RESULTS FRAMEWORK AND MONITORING ................................................. 4
ANNEX 2: REALLOCATION OF PROCEEDS ......................................................................... 6




                                                                  iii
                MARKET LED SMALLHOLDER DEVELOPMENT
                        IN THE ZAMBEZI VALLEY

                              RESTRUCTURING PAPER


A. SUMMARY

The proposed changes cover four areas:
    Results/indicators: Implementation delays caused by the need to properly sequence
     Project-supported interventions have rendered unrealistic the end-of-project target
     for the performance indicator on Savings and Loans Groups. The target will be
     adjusted to a more realistic level.
    Institutional arrangements: The Project implementing agency, the National
     Directorate for Rural Development (DNPDR), has been mapped to the Ministry of
     State Affairs (MAE) and is no longer with the Ministry of Planning and
     Development (MPD). The Financing Agreement will be revised to reflect the new
     implementation structure.
    Financing: Measures taken in response to the recommendations made by the Mid-
     term Review to address lagging Project performance have increased coordination
     costs. IDA proceeds will be reallocated to reflect the new cost arrangements.
    Closing date: The Project is a blended operation with funding from IDA
     (US$14,000,000) and GEF (US$6,200,000). To align the timing of IDA activities
     with that of the GEF, and to prevent activities to be terminated in the middle of the
     agricultural season, the IDA closing date should be extended by 6 months. The IDA
     Financing Agreement will be revised to reflect the new closing date.

B. PROJECT STATUS

The Market-led Smallholder Development in the Zambezi Valley Project was approved
by the Board on August 28, 2007 and declared effective on September 27, 2007. During
the first two years of implementation, performance was adversely affected by weak
implementation capacity and a lack of ownership on the part of the Government.

The performance of the Project has improved noticeably following the gradual
implementation throughout 2010 of the action plan agreed during Mid-term Review. The
strengthening of the Project management team (through the hiring of additional
consultants) and its relocation to the field have boosted the execution of activities on the
ground, which in turn has resulted in much stronger involvement by and leadership of the
corresponding district administrations. While ownership by local stakeholders has been
considerably enhanced, the institutional leadership provided at central level has been
weakened with the move of the national directorate, DNPDR, from the Ministry of
Planning and Development (MDP) to the Ministry of State Administration (MAE), where
the Project is now mapped.


                                             1
The number of Community-based Organizations (CBOs) being supported under
Component 1 has surged to 380 across the five target districts. Thanks to activities being
supported under Component 2, these CBOs have been exposed to agricultural technology
innovations demonstrated through the public extension services, specifically through the
network of more than 400 Community Facilitators (CFs) set up by the project. These
innovations, many of which are now being adopted, include measures designed to
enhance agricultural productivity and production, income-generating activities, and
natural resources management-related practices. The Community Agriculture and
Environment Investment Fund (CAEIF) (Component 3) has processed or is currently
processing more than 800 proposals for grant funding submitted by advanced CBOs,
individuals and district administrations.

Despite recent improvements, the Project continues to face severe challenges at the
institutional level (e.g., weak capacity, remapping of the coordinating unit to a new
Ministry, lack of ownership). As a result, the Project is suffering from implementation
delays, a low rate of disbursement, and a poorly functioning M&E capacity that makes it
difficult to determine progress achieved. For these reasons, it is currently rated MU/MS
for PDO/IP, with one flag for M&E and another for Country Record.


C. PROPOSED CHANGES

    Results/indicators
     Given the long delays that were experienced during the first two years of Project
     implementation, it was decided that the initial focus of activities supported under
     Component 1 (Community Group Organization and Local Institutional
     Strengthening) should be capacity development among community groups. As a
     result, efforts to enroll new members in Savings and Loan Groups (SLG) were
     launched only in late 2011. Because of this sequencing, the end-of-project target for
     the Performance Indicator “Number of members of savings and loans (SLGs)
     groups? (see Financing Agreement, Schedule 4) is unlikely to be achieved by the
     March 2013 closing date. The target therefore is being revised from 12,000
     members enrolled in SLGs to 6,000 members enrolled in SLGs.

    Institutional arrangements
     Effective January 2010 through Presidential Decree 1/2010, the agency responsible
     for overseeing the Project, DNPDR (National Directorate for the Promotion of
     Rural Development), was transferred from the Ministry of Planning and
     Development (MPD) to the Ministry of State Administration (MAE). Following this
     transfer, the Project Coordination Unit including all the consultants employed by
     the unit was relocated to the field, with the goal of addressing the inefficiencies
     related to the coordination from Maputo of project activities being implemented at
     district level. The Financing Agreement will be revised to reflect the new
     institutional arrangements.



                                            2
    Financing
     Measures taken in response to the recommendations made by the Mid-term Review
     have increased Project coordination costs. IDA proceeds will be reallocated to
     reflect the new cost structure (see details in Annex 2).

    Closing date
     The closing date for the Project IDA Financing Agreement will be extended from
     March 31, 2013 to September 30, 2013 (see Annex 3 for details).


D. APPRAISAL SUMMARY

    Technical:
     Lowering the end-of-project target value for the performance indicator “Number of
     members of savings and loans (SLGs) groups? will reduce the economic benefits
     generated by the pilot on CBO access to rural finances. This reduction in benefits is
     likely to be offset to some extent by improvements in access to financial services by
     CBOs in the Project area due to the opening of new branches of commercial banks,
     enhanced coverage of microfinance institutions, and the promotion of savings and
     loans associations by NGOs in the project area.




                                            3
                                                                         ANNEX 1:

                                             Results Framework and Monitoring:
                  Performance Indicators as per Schedule 1, Financing Agreement for Cr.4198-MZ; Aug.9, 2006

           MOZAMBIQUE: MARKET LED SMALLHOLDER DEVELOPMENT IN THE ZAMBEZI VALLEY


Project Development Objective (PDO): Increase the income of smallholder farmers in the project area
Revised Project Development Objective: not applicable
                                         D=Dropped                                                                                                      Responsibility
                                         C=Continue                                                                                   Data Source/
                                  Core



                                                      Unit of           Baseline      MTR                    End      Frequency                           for Data
PDO Level Results Indicators             N= New                                               2011    2012                            Methodology
                                                      Measure       (reconstructed)   2010                   2013                                        Collection
                                         R=Revised

Indicator One: Average                   C            %         Ag. Income per HH     n.a.     n.a.   25%    30%    Baseline        TIA 2007
increase in agricultural income                                 in MZN:                                             Mid term        INE CAP 2010
of participating project                                        Chemba      11,490                                  Q1 2012         (tbc)              IFPRI/INE
beneficiaries smallholder                                       Maringue      8,760                                 Q1 2013         Household survey   DNPDR/INE
farmer households (compared                                     Mopeia       4,930                                                  Household survey
with non-participating                                          Morrumbala 4,690
households)                                                     Mutarara      6,510
                                                                Mean          6,090
                                                                          INTERMEDIATE RESULTS
Intermediate Result Indicator            C            number    0                     317     403     530    660    Annually        Project progress   CBO service
One:                                                                                                                                reports            provider and
Number of CBOs engaging in                                                                                                                             District
project supported                                                                                                                                      Facilitator
organizational development
activities
Intermediate Result indicator            C            number    0                     60      104     350    600    Semi-annually   Project progress   National CAEIF
Two:                                                                                                                                reports            Coordinator
Cumulative number of
project beneficiaries
smallholder farmers’ groups
active in at least one
subproject supported by



                                                                               4
CAEIF

Intermediate Result indicator   R   number   0       23   110   2,500   6,000   Semi-annually   Project progress   CBO Service
Three:                                                                                          reports            Provider
Number of members of
Savings and Loans Groups
(SLG)




                                                 5
                                              ANNEX 2:
                                        Reallocation of Proceeds

        MOZAMBIQUE — MARKET LED SMALLHOLDER DEVELOPMENT
                      IN THE ZAMBEZI VALLEY
                              P093165
                           CREDIT 4198-MZ
                                          Restructuring Paper

1.     Proceeds for Mozambique - Market led Smallholder Development in the Zambezi
Valley Project, Credit No. 4198-MOZ, P093165 will be reallocated as follows:

      Category of Expenditure                  Allocation (SDR)           Share of Financing
    Current              Revised            Current        Revised      Current        Revised
(1) Goods,          (1) Goods,              5,300,000       4,740,000    38%             34%
consultants’        consultants’
services and        services,
training for        operating costs
Component 1         and training for
except for          Component 1
Component 1 (d)     except for
                    Component 1 (d)
(2) Works goods,    (2) Works goods,        2,700,000       2,700,000    19%             19%
consultants’        consultants’
services and        services and
operating costs     operating costs for
for Component 2,    Component 2,
except for          except for
Component 2 (d)     Component 2 (d)
(3) for             (3) for
Component 3:        Component 3:
a) subproject       a) subproject          1,900,000        2,100,000    13%             15%
grants for First    grants for all
Phase districts     project districts
and Provinces       and Provinces
b) subproject       b) Consultant’s         1,500,000        700,000     11%             5%
grants for Second   services except
Phase districts     for Component 3
and Provinces       (c)
c) Consultant’s                              700,000                     5%
services except
for Component 3
(c)




                                                       6
(4) Goods,          (4) Goods,            1,400,000    3,500,000   10%            25%
consultant          consultant
services            services including
including audits,   audits, training
training and        and operating
operating costs     costs for
for Component 4,    Component 4,
except for          except for
component 4 (e),    component 4 (e),
(f) and (g).        (f) and (g).
(5) Refund for      (5) Refund for         500,000      260,000    4%              2%
Project             Project
Preparation         Preparation
Advance             Advance
TOTAL AMOUNT                             14,000,000   14,000,000



2.      Project implementation progress

The performance of the Project has improved noticeably following the gradual
implementation throughout 2010 of the action plan agreed at the time of the Mid-term
Review. The strengthening of the Project management team (through the hiring of
additional consultants) and its relocation to the field have boosted the execution of
activities on the ground, which in turn has resulted in much stronger involvement by and
leadership of the corresponding district administrations.

The number of Community-based Organizations (CBOs) being supported under
Component 1 has surged to 380 across the five target districts. Thanks to activities being
supported under Component 2, these CBOs have been exposed to agricultural technology
innovations demonstrated through the public extension services, specifically through the
network of more than 400 Community Facilitators (CFs) set up by the project. These
innovations, many of which are now being adopted, include measures designed to
enhance agricultural productivity and production, income-generating activities, and
natural resources management-related practices. The Community Agriculture and
Environment Investment Fund (CAEIF) (Component 3) has processed or is currently
processing more than 600 proposals for grant funding submitted by advanced CBOs,
individuals and district administrations.

There are no overdue audited financial statements for the Market-led Smallholders.


3.      Rationale for proposed reallocation
The restructuring proposed is aligned with the provisions made in BP13.05 for Project
supervision and the changes do not involve any changes to the Project Development
Objective. The proposed changes are minor and cover four areas: i) adjusting the end-
of-project target for the performance indicator on Savings and Loans Groups to a more
realistic level to account for implementation delays; ii) revising the Financial Agreement
to reflect the remapping of the project implementing agency to a different ministry; iii)

                                                  7
reallocating IDA proceeds to finance increased project coordination costs; and iv) extend
the closing date by six months to September 30, 2013, in order to align with the closing
date of the co-financing from the GEF grant.

The proposed reallocation of IDA proceeds is needed to respond to changes in project
coordination and management costs expected to result from improvements made to
project coordination and implementation arrangements. These improvements have been
implemented based on the recommendations of the Mid-term Review and are designed to
strengthen the Project Coordination Unit through the hiring of additional consultants and
the relocation of the Unit to the field. Specifically, the reallocation addresses the need for:
      Increased funding to cover additional projected expenses under Category 4. The
       additional expenses will result from the expansion of the project team through the
       hiring of additional consultants and its relocation to the field (this will increase
       cost of Component 4).
      Correcting for the absence of operating costs budgeted under Category 1
       (Component 1) and Category 3.c (Component 3). Operating costs are needed
       under these two components primarily to cover the travel expenses of staff hired
       as resource persons to participate in knowledge transfer sessions (relevant to
       Components 1 and 2).
      Scaling back the original budget allocation for Category 1. Adjustments are
       needed to the budget of Component 1 to reflect the revised, more modest (and
       more realistic) end-of-project target relating to the activities on rural finance.
      Scaling back the original budget allocation for Category 3. The budget of
       Component 3 (CAEIF) is being adjusted to more realistic levels that take into
       account the considerable impact of the delays in project implementation on
       CAEIF.




                                              8
                                        ANNEX 3:
                                 Extension of Closing Date

       MOZAMBIQUE — MARKET LED SMALLHOLDER DEVELOPMENT
                     IN THE ZAMBEZI VALLEY
                             P093165
                          CREDIT 4198-MZ
                                   Restructuring Paper


1. The closing date for Mozambique – Market Led Smallholder Development in the Zambezi
Valley (Cr.4198-MOZ) (P093165) will be extended from March 30, 2013 until September
30, 2013.
2. Project implementation started with considerable delays due to the complexity of the
project design relative to the capacity of the original implementation agency and the
innovative features of the project (no PIU, project on-budget, flow of funds through the
Single Treasury Account and electronic public financial management system e-SISTAFE).
As an outcome of the midterm review a range of measures was introduced to improve project
performance (e.g. relocation of the project coordination team to the field, hiring of a project
manager, improved coordination between IDA-funded and GEF-financed activities).
Implementation performance improved, but operationalization of the M&E system remains a
challenge. To that effect, a partnership was initiated with the Bank’s DIME/ADAAPT impact
evaluation initiative and a comprehensive household and community survey led by IFPRI and
the National Statistics Institute, is now underway to quantify progress on PDO and all other
project indicators. Disbursement significantly improved in FY12 and disbursement rate is
currently at 68 per cent.
3. The proposed extension of the IDA credit is necessary for two reasons: 1) to align with the
closing date for GEF Grant Number TF91638, whose funding for the Market-led
Smallholders project is scheduled six months later than the current IDA closing date; given
that the Market-led Smallholders project is a blended IDA/GEF operation, the outcomes of
the GEF would be compromised should the funding from IDA become unavailable; and 2) to
take into account the seasonality aspects of the project and allow the impact evaluation to
capture the outcomes of a full final agriculture season; as is, the current closing date would
not permit to evaluate project outcomes including the final production year since the harvest
season would occur several months after current closing date. As a result, project outcomes
would likely be under-valued since key indicators such as the PDO (Increase in income of
smallholder households) would not be captured for the final year of the project.
4. The Borrower has submitted an action plan to complete the project by September 30, 2013,
which has been reviewed and endorsed by the Bank. This will be the first extension of the
project.




                                              9
