                                   Document of
                                The World Bank




                                                  Report No: ICR00003028



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                        (IDA-41980 TF-91638)



                                      ON A

                                    CREDIT
                    IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 14.0 MILLION
                       (US$ 20.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                     AND A

                GLOBAL ENVIRONMENTAL FACILITY GRANT
                   IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 6.20 MILLION

                                    TO THE

                         REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE

                                     FOR A

  MARKET LED SMALLHOLDER DEVELOPMENT IN THE ZAMBEZI VALLEY



                                 March 30, 2014



Agriculture and Rural Development Department
Country Department 2, Mozambique
Africa Region
                        CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                  (Exchange Rate Effective March 15, 2014)

             Currency Unit = new Mozambican Metical (MZN)
                          MZN 1.00 = US$ 0.03
                         US$ 1.00 = MZN 30.40

                               FISCAL YEAR
                           January 1 – December 31

                   ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ADB      African Development Bank
BDS      Business Development Services
CAEIF    Community Agricultural and Environmental Investment Fund
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
CBD      Convention on Biological Diversity
CBNRM    Community Based Natural Resource Management
CBO      Community Based Organization
CDD      Community Demand Driven
CFAA     Country Financial Accountability Assessment
CLUSA    Cooperative League of the USA
DA       District Administrator
DANIDA   Danish International Development Agency
DBS      Direct Budget Support
DDA      District Agricultural Directorate
DF       District Facilitator
DPFP     Decentralized Planning and Finance Project
DNA      Department of Water Affairs
DNPDR    National Directorate for the Promotion of Rural Development
DTT      District Technical Team
ERR      Economic Rate of Return
ESMF     Environmental and Social Management Framework
FMA      Field Management Advisor
FMR      Financial Monitoring Report
GDP      Gross Domestic Product
GEF      Global Environment Facility
GIS      Geographical Information System
GOM      Government of Mozambique
GPZ      Zambezi Valley Development Authority
GTZ      German Foundation for Technical Cooperation
IC       Individual Consultants
ICB      International Competitive Bidding
IDA      International Development Association
FAD      International Fund for Agricultural Development
IGF      Inspectorate General of Finance
IPCC     Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change
LCS      Least-Cost Selection
LIG      Local Investment Grant
M&E      Monitoring and Evaluation
MICOA    Ministry for the Coordination of Environmental Affairs
MINAG    Ministry of Agriculture
MPD      Ministry of Planning and Development
MPWH     Ministry of Public Works and Housing
NAP      Nation Action Program
NAPA     National Adaptation Plan of Action
NBSAP    National Biodiversity Strategy and Action Plan
NCB      National Competitive Bidding
NEPAD    New Partnership for African Development
NEMP     National Environmental Management Program
NGO      Non-Government Organization
OP       Operational Policy
PAMA     Agricultural Markets Support Project
PARPA    Action Plan for the Reduction of Absolute Poverty
PEFA     Public Expenditure and Financial Accountability
PIU      Project Implementation Unit
PFM      Public Financial Management
PPC      Provincial Project Coordinator
PWH      Ministry of Public Works and Housing
PRSP     Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
QCBS     Quality and Cost Based Selection
RPF      Resettlement Policy Framework
SBD      Standard Bidding Document
SIDA     Swedish International Development Cooperation Agency
SLG      Savings and Loans Group
SLM      Sustainable Land Management
SPA      Strategic Priority of Adaptation
sss      Single Source Selection
SWAP     Sector Wide Approach
UMC      Community Management Unit within the National Directorate of Forest & Wildlife
UNAC     National Union of Farmers Association
UNDP     United Nations Development Program
UNEP     United Nations Environment Program
UNFCCC   United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change
UNCCD    United Nations Convention on Climate and Desertification
VSL      Village Savings and Loans
WVI      World Vision International



                         Vice President: Makhtar Diop
                       Country Director: Mark Lundell
                        Sector Manager: Severin Kodderitzsch
                   Project Team Leader: Pedro Arlindo
                      ICR Main Author: Hardwick Tchale
                                   MOZAMBIQUE
                Market Led Smallholder Development in the Zambezi Valley



                                                    CONTENTS




Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

  1. Project Context, Development and Global Environment Objectives Design ............. 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 6
  3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 11
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome and Global Environmet Outcome .. 22
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 23
  6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 25
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 26
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 28
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 30
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 34
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 39
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 41
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 43
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 44
  Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 50
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 52
  MAP
A. Basic Information
                                                                         Market led Smallholder
Country:               Mozambique              Project Name:             Development in the
                                                                         Zambezi Valley
Project ID:            P093165,P098040         L/C/TF Number(s):         IDA-41980,TF-91638
ICR Date:              12/06/2013              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                         REPUBLIC OF
Lending Instrument:    SIL,SIL                 Borrower:
                                                                         MOZAMBIQUE
Original Total         XDR 14.00M,USD                                    XDR 13.72M,USD
                                               Disbursed Amount:
Commitment:            6.20M                                             6.08M


Environmental Category: B                      Focal Area: L
Implementing Agencies: National Directorate for the Promotion of Rural Development
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners: None



B. Key Dates
Market led Smallholder Development in the Zambezi Valley - P093165
                                                                              Revised / Actual
     Process            Date             Process           Original Date
                                                                                  Date(s)
Concept Review:       05/26/2005    Effectiveness:          12/28/2006           12/28/2006
Appraisal:            04/07/2006    Restructuring(s):                            05/24/2012
Approval:             06/20/2006    Mid-term Review:        12/31/2009           03/31/2010
                                    Closing:                03/31/2013           09/30/2013

Market-Led Smallholder Development in the Zambezi Valley - P098040
                                                                              Revised / Actual
     Process            Date             Process           Original Date
                                                                                  Date(s)
Concept Review:       12/06/2005    Effectiveness:          12/05/2007           09/27/2007
Appraisal:            04/07/2006    Restructuring(s):                            05/24/2012
Approval:             08/28/2007    Mid-term Review:        02/01/2010           03/15/2010
                                    Closing:                09/30/2013           09/30/2013




C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes                                       Moderately Satisfactory




                                               i
GEO Outcomes                                  Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome                   Substantial
Risk to GEO Outcome                           Substantial
Bank Performance                              Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance                          Moderately Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                 Ratings                 Borrower         Ratings
Quality at Entry        Moderately Satisfactory Government:          Satisfactory
                                                Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Moderately Satisfactory                  Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
                        Moderately Satisfactory                  Moderately Satisfactory
Performance                                     Performance


C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
Market led Smallholder Development in the Zambezi Valley - P093165
     Implementation                          QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                 Rating:
       Performance                                (if any)
Potential Problem Project                     Quality at Entry
                                Yes                                      None
  at any time (Yes/No):                            (QEA)
 Problem Project at any                          Quality of
                                Yes                                      None
      time (Yes/No):                         Supervision (QSA)
     DO rating before        Moderately
 Closing/Inactive status    Satisfactory

Market-Led Smallholder Development in the Zambezi Valley - P098040
    Implementation                         QAG Assessments
                          Indicators                                    Rating:
      Performance                               (if any)
Potential Problem Project                   Quality at Entry
                               No                                        None
 at any time (Yes/No):                           (QEA)
 Problem Project at any                        Quality of
                               No                                        None
     time (Yes/No):                        Supervision (QSA)
   GEO rating before
                          Satisfactory
 Closing/Inactive Status




D. Sector and Theme Codes
Market led Smallholder Development in the Zambezi Valley - P093165
                                                        Original            Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Agricultural extension and research                           11              11



                                             ii
Agro-industry, marketing, and trade                        21                21
Central government administration                           7                 7
General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector           61                61


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Other rural development                                     14               14
Rural markets                                               29               29
Rural non-farm income generation                            29               29
Rural policies and institutions                             14               14
Rural services and infrastructure                           14               14

Market-Led Smallholder Development in the Zambezi Valley - P098040
                                                       Original            Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Crops                                                      23                23
General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector           31                31
Sub-national government administration                     46                46


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Biodiversity                                                29               29
Climate change                                              14               14
Land administration and management                          29               29
Other rural development                                     14               14
Participation and civic engagement                          14               14




E. Bank Staff
Market led Smallholder Development in the Zambezi Valley - P093165
        Positions                   At ICR                      At Approval
Vice President:        Makhtar Diop                   Gobind Nankani
Country Director:      Mark Lundell                   Michael Baxter
                                                      Richard Scobey/ Frank
Sector Manager:        Severin Kodderitzsch
                                                      Byamugisha
                                                      Jeeva A. Perumalpillai-Essex/
Project Team Leader:   Pedro Arlindo
                                                      Daniel Liborio da Cruz E Sousa
ICR Team Leader:       Hardwick Tchale
ICR Primary Author:    Hardwick Tchale




                                                   iii
Market-Led Smallholder Development in the Zambezi Valley - P098040
        Positions                 At ICR                       At Approval
Vice President:      Makhtar Diop                    Gobind Nankani
Country Director:    Mark Lundell                    Michael Baxter
Sector Manager:      Severin Kodderitzsch            Michel Wormser
                                                     Jeeva A. Perumalpillai-Essex/
Project Team Leader: Pedro Arlindo
                                                     Daniel Liborio da Cruz E Sousa
ICR Team Leader:     Hardwick Tchale
ICR Primary Author:  Hardwick Tchale




F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)

The development objective of the project is to increase the income of smallholder farmers
in selected districts of the Zambezi Valley region of central Mozambique. Increased
incomes will be achieved not only by direct support to smallholder groups and other
supply chain participants, but also through the strengthening of local level capacity to
undertake and manage service delivery within the context of the Government of
Mozambique’s decentralization policy.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving
authority)

Project Development Objective was not revised.

Global Environment Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)

The Global Environment Objective is to limit land degradation, provide predictive
capacity for assessing vulnerabilities to climate change, and to improve the ecosystem's
resilience towards climate change in the Central Zambezi Valley.

Revised Global Environment Objectives (as approved by original approving
authority)

The Global Environmental Objective was not revised.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)




                                           iv
                                             Original Target   Formally   Actual Value
                                  Baseline    Values (from     Revised     Achieved at
         Indicator
                                   Value        approval        Target    Completion or
                                              documents)        Values    Target Years
30% average increase in
agricultural income of
participating project
beneficiaries smallholder          6,089            30%          NA           65%
households (compared with
non-participating households
(HHs)

(b) GEO Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target   Formally   Actual Value
                                  Baseline    Values (from     Revised     Achieved at
          Indicator
                                   Value        approval        Target    Completion or
                                              documents)        Values    Target Years
Increase in area under
improved sustainable land
management (SLM) or natural
resource management                  0           20,000          NA          21,313
practices in Project area by at
least 20,000 hectare by
Project end
Cumulative number of project
beneficiaries smallholder
farmers’ groups active in at
least one natural resources
management sub-project               0              250          NA           414
supported by CAEIF under
Part C© of the Project
described in Schedule 1 of the
Grant Agreement
Predictive and Basin Specific
scenarios for land use land
cover impacts on hydrology
                                     0               4           NA            4
(flooding and drought) under
changing rainfall and
evapotranspiration regimes
Variable Infiltration Capacity
(VIC) Distributed
Hydrological Model installed         No             Yes          NA           Yes
and operating (introduced
after MTR)


(c) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)




                                                v
                                          Original Target                 Actual Value
                                                            Formally
                               Baseline    Values (from                    Achieved at
         Indicator                                          Revised
                                Value        approval                     Completion or
                                                          Target Values
                                           documents)                     Target Years
Number of CBOs engaging in
Project supported
                                  0               660         NA              733
organizational development
activities
Cumulative number of project
beneficiaries smallholder
farmers’ groups active in at      0               600         NA              473
least one Subproject
supported by CAEIF
Number of members of
savings and loans (SLGs)          0           12,000          6,000           7,291
groups




                                             vi
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

 -
                                                             Actual
         Date ISR                                        Disbursements
No.                      DO           GEO         IP     (USD millions)
         Archived
                                                       Project 1 Project 2
     1   08/18/2006       S                       S      0.00      0.00
     2   10/04/2006       S                       S      0.00      0.00
     3   05/15/2007      MS             S         MU     2.02      0.00
     4   12/07/2007      MS            MS         MU     2.02      0.00
     5   05/31/2008      MS            MS         MU     2.58      0.00
     6   06/30/2008      MS            MS         MS     3.30      0.00
     7   12/23/2008      MS            MS         MS     4.51      0.50
     8   06/26/2009      MS            MS         MS     5.71      0.83
     9   11/17/2009      MS            MS         MS     5.81      0.89
 10      06/11/2010      MS             S         MS     7.33      1.26
 11      03/30/2011      MU             S         MU    10.75      1.57
 12      09/20/2011      MU             S         MS    11.05      2.12
 13      06/11/2012      MS             S         MS    14.74      2.55
 14      02/21/2013      MS             S         MS    16.94      4.84
 15      09/15/2013      MS             S         S     20.53      5.71
 16      10/19/2013       S             S         S     20.99      6.08



H. Restructuring (if any)

Level 2 restructuring approved on May 24, 2012.




                                            vii
I. Disbursement Profile
P093165




P098040




                          viii
1. Project Context, Development and Global Environment Objectives Design

1. Agriculture is the largest sector in the Mozambique’s economy, contributing 25
percent of gross domestic product (GDP) and employing about 80 percent of the
workforce albeit with low productivity. While Mozambique has recently started
witnessing major investments in the gas and mining sectors, agriculture remains the
sector with the real potential to increase incomes among the vast majority of rural
inhabitants and to reduce income inequalities between rural and urban areas.
Mozambique’s agriculture is dominated by smallholder farmers, most of whom do not
have access to inputs. The 2009–10 agricultural census indicates that the cultivated area
increased by 24 percent from 1999 to 2009 and the share of women-headed agricultural
households increased from 23 percent to more than 27 percent. Roughly one-third of
farms are smaller than 1 hectare, and only 5 percent of producers use irrigation and less
than 3 percent use fertilizers (INE, 2011).

2.      The long-term sustainable use of natural resources and, more specifically land,
water, forestry, and wildlife continues to be an important component of the Government’s
vision. Agriculture is the first pillar under the country’s 2010-2014 Poverty Reduction
Strategy Paper. In 2011, the Government of Mozambique approved the country’s 2011 –
2020 Agricultural Development Strategy, and signed its Comprehensive Africa
Agriculture Development Program (CAADP) Compact. Agricultural GDP growth has
averaged about 7 percent per year since 2003 and has been an important contributor to
overall economic growth. Growth in the agricultural sector has been driven mainly by the
increased use of labor and expansion in the cultivated area, and a key policy challenge for
Mozambique is to increase productivity and turn agriculture into an engine of poverty
reduction.

1.1 Context at Appraisal

3.      The Market-led Smallholder Development in the Zambezi Valley was designed in
a context where agricultural growth rates were primarily driven by increases in the
cultivated area and population growth rates rather than by increased productivity.
Investing on sustainable agricultural intensification has thus been an important concern,
and the Project was conceived to promote a more sustainable growth of the sector in the
long-term.

4.      The Project aimed to use the Bank’s global experience in community-driven and
market-led approaches to assist Mozambique’s efforts to implement this approach. The
Project was aimed to build on and support Mozambique’s decentralization policy and
program, where districts become the focus of development and budget entities. The
Project was designed to address aspects that were not likely to be resolved by other actors
in the short to medium term including the promotion of local markets and integration of
rural households in the Project area in domestic markets. While the Project area offered
high potential for agriculture and trade, it was among the most devastated areas during
the 16-year civil war that ended in 1992.



                                            1
5.     The blending of the Project with a Global Environment Facility (GEF) grant
offered an opportunity to harness the potential synergies of national and global benefits
such as reduced deforestation and the resulting above- and below ground biodiversity loss.
At Project design, the loss of ecosystem services (local hydrology, habitats for native
biodiversity) from deforestation and land degradation was a major concern.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

6.      The development objective of the project is to increase the income of smallholder
farmers in selected districts of the Zambezi Valley region of central Mozambique.
Increased incomes will be achieved not only by direct support to smallholder groups and
other supply chain participants, but also through the strengthening of local level capacity
to undertake and manage service delivery within the context of the Government of
Mozambique’s decentralization policy. The PDO indicator is to achieve 30% average
increase in agricultural income of participating project beneficiaries smallholder farmer
households - including self-consumption - compared with non-participating households,
by the end of the Project.

1.3 Original Global Environment Objectives (GEO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

7.      The Global Environment Objective is to limit land degradation, provide predictive
capacity for assessing vulnerabilities to climate change, and to improve the ecosystem's
resilience towards climate change in the Zambezi Valley.

8.      The key performance indicators for the GEO are: (i) increase in area under
improved sustainable land management (SLM) or natural resource management practices
in Project area by at least 20,000 hectare by Project end; (ii) cumulative number of
project beneficiaries smallholder farmers’ groups active in at least one natural reso urces
management sub-project supported by CAEIF under Part C(c) of the Project described in
Schedule 1 of the Grant Agreement; measurable increase in biodiversity or carbon
sequestration in targeted Project sites vs. control sites through one or more of the
following: reappearance of native species, increased carbon stocks, reduced soil erosion,
reduced incidences of wild fires; (iii) at least 3 predictive and basin specific hydrology-
land cover-climate change scenarios for land use-land cover change impacts on
hydrology under changing rainfall and evapotranspiration regimes (this was changed at
MTR as highlighted in section 1.5 to Variable Infiltration Capacity Distributed
Hydrological model installed and operating); (iv) increased use by local land users of
drought tolerant crops, fodder species and varieties, crop rotations to increase soil organic
matter, reduce weeds, and conserve soil moisture.

1.4 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

9.     The PDO and key indicators were not revised. After the Mid-Term Review,
a Level 2 restructuring (no change in PDO, in GEO, or in environment category) was
undertaken (approved on May 24, 2012), which introduced a change on the target for the


                                             2
intermediate outcome indicator - Number of members of savings and loans groups (SLG).
The target was reduced from the planned 12,000 members to a new target of 6, 000
members at project completion.

1.5 Revised GEO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

10.     The GEO and key indicators were not revised. After the Mid-Term Review,
a Level 2 restructuring (no change in PDO, in GEO, or in environment category) was
undertaken (approved on May 24, 2012), which introduced a change in GEF
Performance Indicator - Number of Predictive Scenarios. This was replaced with the
need to have the Variable Infiltration Capacity (VIC) Distributed Hydrological Model
installed and functioning at ARA-Zambezi because the ability to run scenarios would be
conditional on having a functioning VIC model.

1.6 Main Beneficiaries,

11.      Primary beneficiaries: The primary beneficiaries (although not explicitly spelt out
in the PAD) were farmers and community-based organizations (CBOs) from the five
districts of Chemba, Maringue, Mopeia, Morrumbala and Mutarara of the Zambezi
Valley region of central Mozambique. These farmers and CBOs directly benefited from
agricultural production support and funding for various related sub-projects under the
Community Agricultural and Environmental Investment Fund (CAEIF).

12.    Other beneficiaries included the savings and loans groups; various agricultural
value-chain players, including input traders and commodity buyers; government officials
from the National Directorate for the Promotion of Rural Development (DNPDR) of the
Ministry of State Administration (MAE) and other related ministries such as Agriculture
and other government departments, including the district administrators.


1.7 Original Components (as approved)

13.    The approved project comprised the following components:

Component 1: Community Group Organization and Local Institutional
Strengthening (Total: US$8.6 million; IDA: US$7.6 million; GEF: US$0. 9 million;
Government: US$0.1 million) comprising: (a) community based organization capacity
development; (b) rural financial services, and; (c) district capacity development.
Expenditures under this component included consultancy services, training, goods and
equipment and a modest amount of civil works. Activities under this component were
meant to lay the basic foundation for the sustainability of Project interventions. The
primary objective was to empower and build the social capital of farmer groups, women’s
groups and other supply chain participants in areas such as marketing, agribusiness
development and district agricultural staff. The empowerment of groups would ensure
that district planning process has the participation of key stakeholders in the rural
community. The vision for the farmer and savings and loans groups was that from small


                                             3
groups of 15-25 individuals, they would grow into apex organizations of community
based organizations such as rural producer organizations and village savings groups.

Component 2: Agricultural Production and Marketing Development (Total: US$6.4
million; IDA: US$3.9 million; GEF: US$2.5 million) comprising: (a) agribusiness and
market development; (b) strengthening of extension services; (c) applied research,
training and demonstrations; and (d) improved agricultural and agroforestry systems.
Expenditures under this component included limited civil works, equipment, consultancy
services and incremental operating costs. This component was meant to provide technical
support for market driven, broad-based sustainable agricultural development. Through a
strengthened extension service, technical assistance would be provided to stakeholders
involved in production, marketing and processing of agricultural products. Contracted
studies, applied research, specialized training and awareness campaigns were to be
undertaken in such areas as market opportunities identification and development, crop
diversification, sustainable land and water management, market information etc.

Component 3: Community Agricultural and Environmental Investment Fund
(Total: US$8.5 million; IDA: US$5.9 million; GEF: US$1.7 million; Beneficiaries:
US$0.9 million) comprising the following windows: (a) agriculturally related
infrastructure; (b) small-scale agricultural investment; and (c) sustainable land
management. Expenditures under this component included civil works, consultancy
services, equipment, and materials for infrastructure, agriculture and agribusiness
investments. The Fund was designed to operate under a demand driven approach linked
with the participatory district planning process. It was meant to provide resources for
identified priorities in agriculturally related infrastructure, small scale investment and
improved land management.

Component 4: Project Management, Coordination and Monitoring and Evaluation
(Total: US$2.6 million; IDA: US2.0 million; GEF: US$0.4 million; Government: US$0.2
million). This was meant to coordinate project implementation within the decentralized
set-up at the district level. Expenditures included consultancy and training and goods and
equipment. This component was meant to provide technical supervision and coordination,
work plan and financial reporting functions at district, provincial and national levels. The
component was designed to be congruent with the government’s decentralization
initiatives and would utilize existing public sector arrangements as far as possible.
Additionally, the existing inter-ministerial national and provincial steering committees
and district consultative councils established under GOM’s Decentralization Law were to
be utilized for the Project. In addition, two key technical staff were recruited; a District
Facilitator for each district and a Field Management Advisor who would work across all
five districts. The component also provided funds for intensive monitoring of the Project
implementation.




                                             4
1.8 Revised Components

14.     The components were not revised.

1.9 Other significant changes

15.      A few changes were introduced during the level 2 restructuring which was undertaken
after the MTR (approved on May 24, 2012). These included:

(i)     Project implementation arrangements: Setting up a Project Coordination Team
        (PCT) in the field. To achieve results on the ground and closer proximity with
        District Administrations who are key for local project implementation, the
        consultants hired with the Smallholders project team in Maputo would relocate to
        the field (to be based at SDAE Morrumbala). The Project Manager (hired after
        MTR) and the Financial Management specialist would continue to be based with
        DNPDR in Maputo; coordination on the ground would continue to be ensured by
        the Project Field Coordinator under overall management by the Project Manager
        and strategic guidance by the DNPDR Project Director.

(ii)    Strengthening of the Project Coordination Team: DNPDR hired additional
        consultants located in the field to meet identified needs: (i) an M&E Service
        Provider for project monitoring and impact evaluation (Comp. IV); (ii) a
        Market/Agribusiness specialist (Comp. II), and (iii) an Extension/Technology
        dissemination specialist (Comp. II);

(iii)   Modification in Project Scope or Design: Streamlining of activities within
        components to achieve better integration/synergies of IDA and GEF
        activities/financing, to enable better monitoring of project implementation, and to
        address the duplication of subcomponents introduced with the slightly delayed
        launch of GEF grant (6 months after IDA credit was launched);

(iv)    Changes to one intermediate outcome target and replacement of one GEO
        performance indicator, as highlighted in sections 1.4 and 1.5 of this ICR;

(v)     Reallocation of proceeds: to make the necessary adjustments across budget
        categories;

(vi)    Extension of the closing date for the IDA Financing Agreement to September 30,
        2013 in order to reflect the full integration of the IDA and GEF activity
        implementation on the ground.

(vii)   Revision of the Financing Agreement and the GEF Grant Agreement to
        reflect the remapping of the DNPDR from MPD to MAE and to take into account
        all the changes introduced.




                                             5
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

16.     The project design and preparation were sound and relied upon earlier
background analyses which demonstrated that continued economic growth for
Mozambique, as the country emerged from the post-conflict period, would have to be
based on supporting on a broader-scale environmentally sustainable agricultural
intensification among the smallholder farmers, who comprise the majority of the
population. The project was meant to directly complement the implementation of the
country’s agricultural strategy, PROAGRI II, by directly mobilizing demand for
agricultural and environmental services from the community-level. The selection of the
project area was based on its potential for agriculture and trade through its proximity to
the regional markets for agricultural products. Given the neglect the area suffered as a
result of the war, relative to other areas, this was seen as a viable option to integrate the
central provinces in the country’s overall development.

17.     The project implementation was built on the support to the Government of
Mozambique’s (GOM) Decentralization Policy and Program where districts were to be
the focus of development. At the time of design, the Bank was supporting the
Decentralized Planning and Financing Project (DPFP) (Grant No.80670), which was
operational within the selected project area. DPFP had a strong emphasis on capacity
building and participatory planning at the district level. It was therefore assumed that the
project would benefit from and consolidate the capacity built at the district level.
Furthermore, it was assumed that the synergies created through the two projects would
result in valuable experience that could help GOM in its efforts to move to a more
horizontal (i.e. multi-sectoral), territory-based (i.e. district) approach to agriculture and
rural development.

18.     The project heavily relied on the use of the decentralized framework, as this
would help consolidate the capacity at the local level, thereby promoting broad-based
sustainable development. The project design also benefited from the complementarity
with several World Bank financed infrastructure projects such as the second Roads and
Bridges Project, which constructed the Caia Bridge over the Zambezi River and the Beira
Railway Project. These projects contributed to opening the Zambezi Valley to the rest of
the country and thus improved the market access conditions for agribusiness entities into
the project areas.

19.      While the design of the project was well informed by the prevailing background
analysis, Government’s development programs, and the lessons learnt from the existing
projects, it is very clear that the project design overstated the existing capacity at the
district level. At the time of project design, the implementation of the decentralization
program was still in its early years. The capacity development at the district level was
still in its formative years. Many of the capacities relevant for project implementation,
such as procurement, financial management, monitoring and evaluation were not
adequately available at the district level. This significantly affected both the quality at
entry and therefore the subsequent implementation progress particularly during the initial


                                             6
few years of the project. Although at project design, low institutional capacity at all levels
of GOM and among service providers was identified (and rated substantial in the risk
assessment, as per the PAD), the mechanisms put in place to address this critical
challenge were neither adequate nor effective, given the low levels of the critical mass of
capacity required to kick-start project implementation. Secondly, the design should have
considered a longer-term approach to institutional capacity building, particularly in the
situation of Mozambique (as a post-conflict state).


2.2 Implementation

20.     The project experienced a very slow start and low disbursement during the first
two years. This was mainly due to factors related to the inadequate existing capacity and
the challenges inherent in the nascent district decentralization framework. At the
beginning, the arrangement was that the project implementation would be undertaken
using the existing staffing in the National Directorate for the Promotion of Rural
Development (DNPDR) which was under the Ministry of Planning and Development
(MPD) but was later placed under the Ministry of State Administration (MAE). However,
without a dedicated team of staff to be responsible for the day to day coordination of
project implementation at the local level, coupled with lack of clear understanding of the
project at the district level, implementation stalled. Moreover, given the alignment of the
project implementation within the district decentralization framework, activities at the
district level were to be coordinated by the District Administrators. Given the many
coordination responsibilities of the Administrator within the decentralization set-up, the
implementation of project activities suffered.

21.     These initial challenges were well noted by the project team. These included: (i)
the lack of a dedicated team at the national level to coordinate project implementation;
(ii) low technical and fiduciary capacity at the district level including financial
management, procurement and monitoring and evaluation; (iii) lack of legislative
provision for the transmission of public funds to the communities through the CAEIF;
and (iv) inadequate understanding of the project at the implementation level. To address
these challenges, a number of important changes were introduced at MTR, such as: (i)
establishment of a dedicated project coordination team, including the hiring of the Project
Manager who would report to the DNPDR National Director; (ii) hiring of additional
staff (on contract) to complement the existing staff; (iii) transferring of some of the key
members of the dedicated staff to operate from Morrumbala district within the project
area. Some of these changes started to be implemented immediately after the MTR.
However, the changes which required to be formalized through the amendment of the
legal agreements were introduced through a level 2 project restructuring which was
approved by Bank Management on May 24, 2012. The Project Restructuring was
requested by the Government in April 2011, and prepared jointly by the Bank and the
Project Implementation team in the months that followed. The time lag between the MTR
(March 2010) and the approval of the restructuring (May 2012) was mainly due to the
late official submission of the request by the Government and the lengthy discussions
which took place to agree on the many changes.



                                              7
22.      These changes turned around the pace of project implementation significantly.
The new set-up and the placement of dedicated staff closer to the project areas, as well as
the availability of a dedicated project manager re-energized the entire team and
significant progress started to be achieved. The other aspect which helped to improve
project implementation effectiveness was the integrated planning involving all the project
districts, which hitherto, was undertaken by each district almost independent of others. It
is quite clear that had these changes and the associated project restructuring been
undertaken much earlier, the project implementation challenges would have been
addressed much earlier.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

23.     The initial design entailed that project monitoring and evaluation capacity would
be provided by the DNPDR, working with district staff to provide the monitoring
framework and create the database required to accurately measure the outcome indicators.
However, due to the capacity challenges already described, particularly at the district
level, a decision was made to use the services of consultants, working hand in hand with
Government staff as technical counterparts. A consultant was hired to facilitate the
establishment of the initial database which was later discontinued because it lacked data
from the districts. In 2010, the project hired a computer consultant who designed and
installed an interactive M&E program linked with the districts, as well as trained district
and national level M&E staff. However, M&E challenges still continued and the DNPDR
and the World Bank decided to hire a firm through international tender to operationalize a
system of monitoring, reporting and evaluation of the project, and to facilitate the
implementation of impact evaluation surveys. The contract with this firm was
discontinued due to poor performance. Finally the DNPDR proposed to the Bank to
directly hire the National Statistics Institute (INE), a public institution with the
experience and capacity to undertake impact evaluation surveys. The INE implemented
the impact evaluation at MTR and was also directly hired to implement the final impact
evaluation.

24.     The M&E capacity challenges affected the establishment of an effective M&E
system for the project. The capacity for integrated planning was also highly constrained
and this led to inconsistencies across districts in the implementation of project activities.
However, through pro-active efforts on the part of both the World Bank and the DNPDR,
the project baseline for the PDO indicator was re-constituted using data from the National
Agricultural Surveys (TIA), and this was re-confirmed through the involvement of the
World Bank’s DIME team in collaboration with the International Food Policy Research
Institute (IFPRI). As such, in spite of the initial challenges the project still managed to
measure and reconfirm the achievement of the key performance indicators.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

25.    Environmental safeguards: The EA Category for this project at appraisal was B.
As most of the actual project investments were to be demand-driven and could only be
determined during project implementation, the project prepared an Environmental and
Social Management Framework (ESMF). Four Safeguard Policies were triggered i.e.


                                             8
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01), Pest Management (OP/BP 4.09), Involuntary
Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12) and Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP 7.50). The
ESMF therefore contained screening procedures for determining if resettlement plan
would be required for any particular investment according to the Resettlement Policy
Framework (RPF) which was prepared according to the requirements of the OP4.12.
Both ESMF and the RFP were disclosed in the project districts and provinces and in the
Bank’s Infoshop. The OP/BP 7.50 was triggered because of the possible water
withdrawals for the small irrigation projects implemented in the Zambezi river basin,
including the Shire river, a major tributary of the Zambezi River. Notifications were sent
to all riparian countries and none of them objected to the project by the deadline of May
15, 2006.

26.     In terms of the actual implementation, none of the project activities implemented
under the project have had any significant adverse social and/or environmental impacts or
risks. All activities have brought much more positive impacts in terms of improving the
livelihood and living conditions of the beneficiaries. 1 Some of the environmental
safeguards coordinated during Project implementation included: the introduction and
implementation of the Districts’ land use plans (LUPs) which were preceded by series of
technical training on territorial planning aimed at local traditional leaders and
government officials; numerous training activities on SLM/NRM for various target
groups were also carried out; partnerships with community radios was essential to raise
community awareness on the need to comply with environmental safeguards standards.
Particular attention was also given by project implementers and beneficiaries on the need
to incorporate issues such as gender and vulnerable groups’ empowerment in line with
environmental and social safeguard principles. An assessment done in April 2013 2
concluded that seed supplies had been improved to minimize production losses, an
increasing number of lower income and vulnerable groups were involved in the use of
improved honey production techniques, which led to significant reduction of uncontrolled
bush fires. Nearly 77% of groups of beneficiaries eligible under CAIEF-3 funding were
already engaged in activities under SLM3.

27.     Social Safeguards: There were no major negative social impacts and conflicts as
a result of the project implementation.

28.    Procurement: Throughout the Project implementation period, the overall
responsibility of carrying out Procurement activities rested at the National Directorate for
the Promotion of Rural Development. As per the Project design, the Project did not have
a Project Implementation Unit. To adequately perform the procurement function,
DNPDR recruited an experienced Procurement Officer. For most of the Project
implementation period, procurement activities were coordinated and managed by the




1 DNPDR (2010). Report on the joint DNPDR/World Bank project mid-term review
2 Aide-Memoire for the joint DNPDR/World Bank Implementation Support Mission. May, 2013.
3 DNPDR (2013). Projecto de Pequenos produtores orientado para o mercado. Relatório Final. Novembro
de 2013


                                                 9
recruited procurement officer but had a strong integration of a civil servant who
benefitted from on-the-job training.

29.      At the district level, each district had a civil servant who managed local
procurement. At project design, it was expected that each district would have
procurement capacity in place as a result of previous support including that from the
Bank-supported Decentralized Planning and Finance Project. The reality, however, was
that the expected capacity did not exist in most of the districts, hence the recruited
Procurement Officer was tasked with undertaking intense training and supervision
activities to the district civil servant procurement officers. Another challenge was the
continuous relocation of civil servants at the district level, which affected the Project as
some of the trained staff moved to other districts for other functions and new
procurement officers needed to be hired and trained.

30.    The implementation of community-based procurement started with important
challenges, which required intensive assistance, training and supervision of the Project
Procurement Officer to improve performance. Overall, there was a limited availability of
service providers and good suppliers in the Project districts, which often resulted in
delays with supply of goods and services by suppliers located in distant cities, mostly in
the provincial capital cities of Beira, Quelimane and Tete. This led to a general thinking,
among local authorities, on the need for flexibility of procurement arrangements for
community procurements. However, without adequate capacity in procurement,
introducing flexibility would have presented a major risk to the proper utilization (value-
for-money) of the project resources.

31.     Financial Management: The Market led Smallholder Project was the first Bank-
financed project in Mozambique to pioneer the use of the country’s FM systems,
particularly the government’s single treasury account and the government’s Integrated
Financial Management Information System (IFMIS), and with the additional challenge of
being implemented at the decentralized level. The implementation arrangement brought
significant challenges with the need to open four Designated Accounts, two of which for
funds to flow through the government’s single treasury account and two in commercial
banks to cater for payments in foreign currency, as at the commencement of the project
the government’s single treasury account could only account for payments in local
currency. Despite such challenges, the Project remained adequately staffed throughout its
life, where, the contracted Financial Management Specialist (FMS) was able to train and
eventually pass the FM responsibilities to a civil servant who continued to work
adequately for the last three years of the project. The project was also able to meet its FM
obligations and there were no overdue Interim Financial Reports (IFRs) and audit reports.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

32.     One key advantage of the project design was that activities implemented by
communities would be integrated in the district decentralized development framework in
order to ensure continuity of support services, such as for example, agricultural extension
– through the District Services of Economic Activities (SDAE), which include agriculture.
The DNPDR has also put in place arrangements for some of its officials to be following


                                            10
up and monitoring the project activities, and seeking ways of linking community groups
to service providers. The project design principles have also been adopted by other
projects, working on similar development such as for example, the Local Economic
Development Project, funded by the European Union to improve value-chain
infrastructure, as well as a number of other projects aimed at fostering partnerships
between community groups/farmer based organizations and agribusiness investors. These
continued arrangements for supporting community groups will continue to improve the
economic prospects for the project areas and therefore create the demand for agricultural
commodities.

33.    The World Bank is also planning to prepare a new project aimed at strengthening
agribusiness activities, and will use the lessons from this project in its design and
implementation arrangements.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

34.      The overall relevance of the objectives, design and implementation is rated
Moderately Satisfactory. The PDO still remains highly relevant to the country’s overall
development objectives. The country’s inclusive growth prospects largely depend on
agriculture which supports 80% of the population. The Government of Mozambique’s
(GOM) recent Agriculture Sector Strategy is characterized by a multi-sectoral approach.
Its strategic objective is to contribute to food security and producer income in a
competitive and sustainable manner which guarantees social and gender equity. The
Strategy is built around the four pillars of agricultural productivity enhancement, market
access promotion, natural resources management and institutional capacity development.
The sector strategy seeks to achieve annual growth of at least 7% through a combined
effect of farm productivity increase and expansion of cultivated area. The strategy
promotes public investments in areas of strong economic potential while supporting local
initiatives and private sector participation in various agricultural value chains. The
Strategy is to be implemented along six development corridors, one of which is the
Zambezi Valley – where this project was implemented.

35.    The sound design and relevance of the objectives was affected by the weak
capacity at the district and local levels during the initial start-up of the project until the
MTR. At MTR, a number of changes were agreed upon to improve project
implementation, but as mentioned earlier in paragraph 21 the project restructuring was
undertaken quite late. As such the overall relevance of the design, objectives and
implementation is rated Moderately Satisfactory to reflect implementation challenges
encountered particularly during the first few years.




                                             11
3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives and Global Environment Objectives

3.2.1    Achievement of the Project Development Objective

36.     The achievement of the project development objective is rated Moderately
Satisfactory. Although the project development objective was fully achieved, at least one
performance indicator was not achieved. The project development objective was fully
achieved because the increase in income from 2007 to 2012 is higher among project
beneficiaries compared to the control group. Table 1 shows the estimated average
household income weighted by population size increased in both the project and non-
project districts.

Table 1: Population weighted average household incomes in the project area compared to
non-project districts (control group) - MZN/household
                                        HH Income at                        HH Income at        Increase in
     District         Population1                          Population2
                                         Baseline2                          End of Project4     HH Income
                                             Project Districts
Chemba                    65,107               1,490            75,061               8,483           -3,007
Maringue                  75,089               8,760            88,794               3,512            4,752
Mopeia                   115,614               4,930           146,287              10,719            5,789
Morrumbala               361,896               4,690           434,695               3,257            8,567
Mutarara                 209,360               6,510           259,031               8,250            1,740
Project Area             827,066                 6,089         1,003,868            11,261            5,172
Average income increase within Project Area
                                                                                      85%
                                       Non-Project Districts (control)
Caia                     115,455                 9,505           139,510             4,618            -4,887
Nicoadala                232,929                 2,039           253,348             9,317             7,278
Control Area             348,384                 4,513           392,858             7,648             3,135
Average income increase within non-Project Districts
                                                                                      69%

Average Income increase in Project Area compared to average increase in non-Project
                                                                                                       65%
Districts
Source of Information: 12007 Population Census; 22007 TIA data; 3INE Population Projections
for 2013 based on the 2007 Population Census; 42012 TIA Data

37.    Within the project area, the average incomes at the end of the project increased by
85% compared to the baseline. Average incomes increased in all the project districts
except Chemba. 4 In the non-project districts, average household income increased



4
  The decline in income in Chemba and Caia could be explained by the fact that these districts are more
exposed to natural disasters, particularly floods. In 2012, the Zambezi River basin was affected with floods,
and the two districts were among the most affected, in terms of the proportion of crop areas which were
destroyed.



                                                     12
significantly in Nicoadala district but declined in Caia district, compared to the baseline.
Overall average income at the end of the project was estimated at MZN 11,261 per
household in the project area compared to MZN 7,648 per household in the control area.
The nominal income increase in the project area (end of project income minus the
baseline income) was estimated at MZN 5,172 per household (85% increase compared to
the baseline) 5 . Similarly, the nominal income increase in the non-project area was
estimated at MZN 3,135 per household (69% increase compared to the base). The
increase in income in the project area compared to the non-project area is estimated at
65%). Even if we discount the percentage difference in income between the project and
non-project areas at the baseline (35%), the increase in income in the project area
compared to the non-project area is 30% which is consistent with the PDO target. As
such, we conclude that based on the income figures from the Agricultural Survey Data
(TIA Survey), the PDO indicator was fully achieved.

38.     While issues of attribution between the increase in income and the project
interventions have not been fully explored, it is likely that the project contributed
significantly to the increase in the income levels achieved in the project area mainly due
to the effect of the project interventions on increasing crop yields (see Figure 1 for yields
for key crops) as well as the adoption of various income generating activities among
communities in the project area. In the choice of the control districts, it was assumed that
Caia and Nicoadala districts have similar characteristics as the five Project districts in
terms of the following: same agro-ecological zones since all the seven districts are in the
Zambezi Valley in central Mozambique and are adjacent to each other; main crops in all
the seven districts include maize and rice; road infrastructure/access to market is better in
some districts e.g. Morrumbala, Mopeia, Mutarara and Nicoadala than in Maringue and
Chemba; all the districts except Maringue, Morrumbala and Nicoadala lie along the
Zambezi River.

39.    Increase in yields was achieved through the following project interventions
implemented since 2007: provision of production kits, support for small-scale irrigation,
post-harvest facilities and adoption of sustainable farming practices including use of
organic fertilizer in combination with reduced quantities of inorganic fertilizer, mulching,
crop rotation and use of improved seed varieties. As shown in Annex 2, about 23,814
smallholder farmers adopted the various productive technologies which were introduced
through the project interventions. The project also facilitated the provision of extension
services to farmers in the project area through the construction of 33 houses for extension
workers, including provision of transport facilitates and operational support. This enabled
farmers to appropriately use the technologies provided through the project interventions.
Overall average crop yields in the country rarely go beyond 1 mt/ha in most areas



5
  It is estimated that prices increased by 45% in both the project and non-project areas. If we deflated the
incomes with the assumed increase in the Consumer Price Index (CPI) of 45%, the resulting income
increase remains the same. We do not show this in Table 1 because the PDO refers to nominal and not real
income.



                                                     13
(including the non-project districts) without productivity enhancing interventions (based
on yield data from Agricultural Survey 2007 and 2012).

                        Figure 1: crop yields (mt/ha) in the project area: 2008 - 2013
                  3
                      rice
                      maize
                      sesame
Yields in mt/ha




                  2




                  1




                  0
                      2008        2009         2010         2011         2012        2013
Source: Project Monitoring and Evaluation Records (2008 – 2013)

40.      Income gains were also achieved in the project area because the project
introduced and facilitated increased adoption of income generating activities which were
supported under the community agricultural and environmental investment fund (CAEIF)
established to facilitate community up-take of sub-projects to complement agricultural
and natural resource-based livelihood options. These activities included small-scale
irrigation (for vegetable production), bee-keeping for improved honey production,
livestock production (chicken and goats), small-scale fishing and other community
demand-driven activities. By the end of the project, a total of 733 community groups had
been formed and more than 60 percent of these were involved in these income generating
activities (see Annex 2 under component 3).

Market Linkages

41.    One of the core design features of the project was the creation of market linkages
between community producers and buyers. The project facilitated market linkages with
various agribusiness value-chains through promotion of market fairs where community
producers were able to show-case their products to buyers. This was complemented by a
number of interventions including: (i) investments in market access infrastructure
including bridges, drifts and rural access roads which were constructed using project
support in order to open up the project areas to various market opportunities, (ii)
promotion of group sales for commodities that traders had indicated willingness to buy in
large quantities, (iii) preparation of consultation meetings on crop sales, attended by
farmer groups’ representatives and interested traders, and (iv) identification of
agribusiness actors that could establish formal contracts with farmers for selected
products (e.g. honey). All these interventions significantly complemented the agricultural
incomes, and thereby raising the average household incomes in the project area (as shown


                                                             14
in Table 1). Both DNPDR and district authorities have shown strong willingness to
continue with their implementation. However, the actual success of these interventions
requires long term trust and good faith from both parties (farmers and traders). The
success depends also on farmers’ and traders’ ability to timely identify the crops they
want to trade under these mechanisms, and agree on (and fulfill) the quantities, quality,
price, and trading locations and timing. All this requires time and continued investment.
This aspect may have to be explored further in future projects, including the proposed
agribusiness project which is currently under preparation.


Achievement of the intermediate outcomes

42.     Number of community-based organizations: The target was fully achieved as
the actual total number of community-based organizations engaged in project supported
organizational development activities was 733, which is over 11% more than the target of
660 groups set at appraisal. The project provided community empowerment through the
training on group organization, institutional capacity and on savings mobilizations and
loans.

43.      Number of community groups active in at least one sub-project on CAEIF:
Of the total number of community groups formed, about 65% (473 groups – as shown in
Table 2) were involved in Community Agricultural and Environmental Investment Funds
(CAEIF) activities. This means that the appraisal target of 600 groups was not fully met.
The main reason why some of the groups could not enlist in some of the CAEIF sub-
projects was because some of the sub-projects were introduced much later. This is due to
the fact that the Government took some time to operationalize the CAEIF component due
to initial inconsistencies between the cost-sharing grant arrangement and the applicable
policy/law that could allow for such an arrangement in Mozambique.

Table 2: Achievement of the intermediate outcomes
                                          Original Target                   Actual Value
                                                              Formally
                              Baseline     Values (from                      Achieved at
          Indicator                                           Revised
                               Value         approval                       Completion or
                                                            Target Values
                                           documents)                       Target Years
Number of CBOs engaging in
Project supported
                                  0             660             NA              733
organizational development
activities
Cumulative number of project
beneficiaries smallholder
farmers’ groups active in at      0             600             NA              473
least one Subproject
supported by CAEIF
Number of members of
savings and loans (SLGs)          0            12,000          6,000            7,291
groups
Source: Borrower’s ICR and Project Restructuring Paper



                                             15
44.      Number of members of savings and loans groups (SLGs): This indicator was
fully met as the SLGs managed to enlist 7,291 members (over 21% above the revised
target of 6000 members). The revision of the target indicator at MTR was realistic given
the status of implementation at mid-term. This also achieved significant level of women
empowerment as 51% of the members were women. The general information on the
performance of these SLGs is that they were quite successful in mobilizing savings, and
as such they also managed to distribute significant amounts on loans to members as
shown in Table 3. The continued functioning of these community savings and loans
groups will help sustain the other activities such as small-scale businesses and
agricultural production, given that small business owners will be able to access capital
and farmers will be able to afford agricultural inputs. In the absence of formal financial
institutions, these SLGs play a critical role in providing financial services in areas where
such services would otherwise not be available.

Table 3: Information on savings and loans groups (SLGs)
District          No. of       No. of      Amounts         Credit       Loans       Amount
                  SLGs       members,      saved by      obtained    distributed    aside for
                             (of which      groups        (MZN)     to members     social fund
                              female)       (MZN)                      (MZN)         (MZN)
Morrumbala        271          4,392      1,663,360     3,027,869    2,055,242      180,589
                              (2,162)
Mutarara           81          1,066       396,910       797,220     476,632         34,151
                               (544)
Mopeia             40           699        287,671       348,907     348,880         38,789
                               (409)
Maringue           31           510        135,684       184,726     166,541         19,695
                               (259)
Chemba             35           624        251,043       126,425     304,420         32,859
                               (332)
Total             458          7,291      2,734,668     4,485,147   3,351,715       306,083
                              (3,706)
Source: Project Monitoring and Evaluation Records, 2012


3.2.2      Achievement of the Global Environmental Objective

45.     The GEO is rated Moderately Satisfactory. The project, as per the final figures
provided by the project M&E, achieved to put 21,313 hectares under sustainable land
management practices (see Annex 2) compared to the appraisal target of 20,000 hectares.
The project also managed to achieve all the other GEO performance indictors: as 414
community groups (compared to a target of 250) supported under CAEIF were involved
in natural resources management sub-projects; the installation of the VIC model was also
achieved, and the model has been tested and calibrated for use in making predictions on
the effect of land use and land cover scenarios on the hydrology of the Zambezi river.
The model will continue to be used by the Water Authority in the Zambezi Valley (ARA-
Zambezi).



                                             16
46.     There is adequate evidence (see Annex 2) that communities and local authorities
have been actively engaged in reducing land degradation by increasing the number of
sustainable land management practices with particular emphasis on the following: 6

       -    Increasing interest in CBOs to participate in environmentally friendly income
            generating sub-projects (supported under CAEIF) such as honey production
            (including for market sales), community-based forest management practices, and
            conservation farming activities.

       -    Capacity building of local farmers along with improvement in the provision of
            extension (the project districts employed 8 additional extension workers) services
            seem to be the fundamental factors that have led to the results above. In addition,
            the fact that the Project implementation team was relocated to the Project area,
            has allowed a continued supervision and improvement of activity implementation
            on the ground.

       -    Elaboration of Participatory Land and Natural Resources Planning - Land Use
            Plans (LUP) of Mopeia, Chemba, Mutarara, Morrumbala and Maringue have
            already been completed and approved by District Governments respectively;
            series of technical training on planning and territorial ordering and
            implementation of the LUPs were conducted for 50 district officials.

       -    Calibration of a VIC Model for the Zambezi River basin: Under the project, the
            VIC model was tested and applied to simulate and predict changes in land use and
            land cover scenarios on the hydrology of Zambezi river basin7. An MoU between
            the DNPDR and ARA - Zambezi was signed in order for the institution to
            continue using the VIC model to predict the impact of changes in land use and
            land cover on basin hydrology in the Zambezi valley. The institution has managed
            to calibrate, test and validate the model in order to provide the information
            dynamic framework (DIF) for use in the prediction. Technical staff from both
            ARA- Zambezi and MICOA were trained to undertake regular updating of data
            that feeds into the model. The Zambezi - DIF, which includes geo-referenced
            information (soil, elevation, temperature, rainfall, access roads, watersheds), and
            is used to generate reports and tables, is expected to be available for public use
            once it is uploaded on the official ARA – Zambezi’s website.




6
 DNPDR (2013). Projecto de Pequenos produtores orientado para o mercado. Relatório Final. Novembro
de 2013
7
    DNPDR (2013) Calibração do Modelo Hidrológico e Elaboração do DIF. Vol. 1.



                                                              17
Table 4: GEO indicators
                                            Original Target                   Actual Value
                                                                Formally
                                Baseline     Values (from                      Achieved at
           Indicator                                            Revised
                                 Value         approval                       Completion or
                                                              Target Values
                                             documents)                       Target Years
Increase in area under improved
sustainable land management
(SLM) or natural resource
                                    0            20,000           NA             21,313
management practices in Project
area by at least 20,000 hectare
by Project end
Cumulative number of project
beneficiaries smallholder
farmers’ groups active in at
least one natural resources
management sub-project              0             250             NA              414
supported by CAEIF under Part
C of the Project described in
Schedule 1 of the Grant
Agreement
Predictive and Basin Specific
scenarios for land use land
cover impacts on hydrology
                                    0              4              NA                4
(flooding and drought) under
changing rainfall and evapo-
transipiration regimes
Variable Infiltration Capacity
(VIC) Distributed Hydrological
                                   No             Yes             NA              Yes
Model installed and operating
(introduced after MTR)
Source: Borrower’s ICR and Project Restructuring Paper

47.     However, the extent to which these interventions will result in limiting land
degradation, providing predictive capacity for assessing vulnerabilities to climate change,
and improving the ecosystem's resilience towards climate change in the Zambezi Valley,
as per the GEO, largely depends on the community groups capacity not only to maintain
these environmentally friendly activities, but also whether these activities will continue to
support their livelihoods. The assessment of the ICR team based on the discussion with
project implementation officials shows that most of these activities are likely to be
continued because they were demanded by the community groups due to the fact that
they offer viable and sustainable livelihoods. However, continued support and monitoring
from government authorities and other stakeholders operating in the project area will be
fundamental for the long-term sustainability and replication of these environmental
outcomes across and beyond the project area. It is highly likely that continued support
beyond the project is going to be a major challenge given the capacity and resource
limitations at the local level.




                                             18
3.3 Efficiency

48.     The project efficiency is rated Satisfactory because of the favorable estimated net
benefits and rate of returns compared to the appraisal estimates. The results indicate that
the Project was financially and economically viable given the positive discounted net
present values and the rate of return.

49.     Detailed analysis of economic and financial returns was undertaken at appraisal.
These analyses were based on the assumption that the primary economic benefits as a
result of the Project would accrue from increased agricultural productivity due to the
agricultural interventions such as crop production support through the introduction of
improved varieties, the provision of extension services (and production kits provided
through community facilitators), coupled with sustainable land management practices and
investment sub-projects supported through the CAEIF. The methodology for the
estimation of the economic and financial returns at appraisal was based on representative
farm models for traditional food crops and newly introduced cash crops, with production
valued at 2005 farm-gate prices. Key assumptions were made regarding the production
costs and yields, as detailed in Annex 3. The results indicated that the economic and
financial net benefits (in terms of net present values) were US$ 1.8 million and US$ 0.5
million, respectively. The economic and financial rate of return was estimated at 15% and
13%, respectively (see Table 5).

Table 5: Appraisal estimates
                          NPV          IRR (%)
                      (US$ million)
 Economic                  1.8            15%
 Financial                 0.5            13%
Source: Project Appraisal Document, 2006.

50.     The ICR mission re-estimated the economic and financial returns of the project
based on the data collected through the final project impact evaluation, in order to
validate the appraisal estimates. While the estimation approach is the same as at appraisal,
there are two fundamental differences between the estimation at appraisal and at ICR: (i)
most of the assumptions have been revalidated using actual data obtained after project
implementation; and (ii) the appraisal estimates did not include the expected net benefits
from the sub-projects supported through the CAEIF because at the time of appraisal, the
CAEIF sub-projects were not known with certainty, as this component was to be demand-
driven by the community groups once they were put in place and properly trained.

51.     The results indicate that the project economic and financial returns remained
positive, with discounted net benefits estimated at US$ 3.74 million and US$ 1.6 million,
for the economic and financial net benefits, respectively. The economic and financial
internal rates of return have been estimated at 18% and 14%, respectively. These higher
returns are attributed to increased crop production (both food and cash) and the increased
adoption of income generating sub-projects supported under the CAEIF. It should be
noted that the net benefits related to community and institutional capacity building as
well as the long-term benefits of the environmentally sustainable land management


                                            19
practices have not been fully incorporated in the analysis, due to methodological
challenges. It is therefore highly likely that the overall net benefit and rate of return for
the project should be much higher than estimated.

Table 6: End of project estimates of economic and financial returns8
                 End of project      End of     End of project       End of project
                     ENPV            project        FNPV               FRR (%)
                 (US$ million)     ERR (%)      (US$ million)
Food crops/1          1.39             17             0.4                 14
Cash crops/2          1.32             19             0.7                 17
CAEIF                 1.03             15             0.5                 12
subprojects/3
Overall               3.74             18             1.6                 14
Source: End of project estimates based on Impact Evaluation data, 2013; Appraisal estimates
based on the Project Appraisal Document (Annex 9).
1/ includes: maize, rice, beans, pigeon peas and cassava
2/includes: seed cotton, paprika, sesame, vegetables (horticulture)
3/includes: poultry, small ruminants (goats) and honey production

52.     The analysis shows that project returns are highly sensitive to changes in yields
and output prices, particularly for the food and cash crops. A more than 10% reduction in
the estimated yield levels lowers the rate of return below the discount rate which was
assumed at 12%. Similarly, output prices mainly for cash crops such as sesame, paprika
and vegetables are critical to ensure continued viability of the project activities.


3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome and Global Environment Outcome Rating

53.     Overall project outcome is rated as Moderately Satisfactory. This rating is based
on the high relevance of the Project objectives, the Moderately Satisfactory rating for
both the project development and global environmental objectives, as well as the
favorable estimated economic rate of return. The achievement of the outcome as well as
the impact of the project were significantly facilitated by the positive changes made
during the MTR. Two key shortcomings have been highlighted that justify the proposed
ICR outcome rating: (i) the achievement of some key outcome indicators being slightly
below the target levels e.g. the number of smallholder farmer groups active in at least one
CAEIF supported sub-project and (ii) the inadequate institutional capacity, particularly
for M&E which affected the establishment of an effective framework for monitoring
project implementation and measuring the outcome indicators which remained an issue
for most of the project implementation.




8
  The differences in the economic and financial returns are explained by the difference between financial
and economic price assumptions used in the analysis.



                                                     20
3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

54.     Targeting and beneficiary selection: Even though the PAD indicate that the
project would directly benefit 20,000 smallholder households in the project area, the
project implementation manual did not elaborate on the targeting and beneficiary
selection criteria. During Project implementation, a decision was made to implement the
project through community groups (as indicated in the Project Implementation Manual).
However, due to lack of clear targeting and beneficiary selection criteria, the number of
project beneficiaries, both in terms of individual households and community groups far
exceeded the appraisal targets. While this is important in that it increased social inclusion,
and that many people benefited in terms of production gains, and overall income increase
in the project area, it is also likely that the resources were spread too thinly. During the
discussion with the implementation officials, it was indicated that the use of the targeting
and beneficiary selection criteria could not be uniformly applied across all districts
because of different levels of understanding among staff at the district level. This was
also partly attributed to lack of uniformity in understanding the project documents
(particularly at the district and local levels).

55.     Interface between agriculture and natural resources management: The
interface between agricultural and natural resources interventions created the basis for
long-term approaches to reduce vulnerability and strengthened the communities focus
beyond the immediate subsistence needs. As a result, to the extent that community
empowerment process on sustainable land use was consistent and effective, it likely that
the project has left behind communities that are well equipped to better cope with the
effects climate change by avoiding destructive tendencies such as unsustainable
intensification, including setting up of bush fires. The challenge remains how to replicate
and scale-up such community empowerment across the other provinces of Mozambique.
The PAD indicated that the Replication Strategy and Action Plan would be prepared
before the end of the project. However, it is unclear whether this strategy has been
prepared and whether arrangements have been made within the framework of the
decentralization process to provide the resources to support its implementation.

56.     Gender: Overall, the project did very well to encourage the participation of
women as direct beneficiaries in various project activities. For example, there was very
strong participation of women in agricultural production activities and in the CAEIF sub-
project community group activities including the savings and loans groups where 51% of
the members were women. Given the important role women play in livelihood activities
at the household level in many parts of sub-Saharan Africa, including Mozambique, it
was very important that this project emphasized on women empowerment as a basis for
building the capacity for sustainable livelihoods.

57.    Spillover effects: The project resulted in numerous secondary beneficiaries
including agribusiness value-chain players and commodity processors (such as honey
producers) who were able to source the supply for intermediate raw materials for their
commodities. Similarly agricultural input traders also benefited because the increase in


                                             21
agricultural production activities entailed an increase in effective demand for agro-inputs.
The project facilitated the market fairs which brought together agribusiness industry
players from other provinces, including those operational in neighboring South Africa to
interface with farmers thereby creating the demand for their products.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

58.      This is the first project which tested the implementation of the fiscal
decentralization framework – whereby resources were transferred from the Treasury
straight into the district accounts. Although this proved challenging in the beginning, by
testing the decentralization framework, the project provided an opportunity to address
some of the systemic capacity challenges, and also helped create the essential
management, technical and fiduciary capacities required for an effective decentralization
system. The project therefore helped to consolidate the implementation of the district
decentralized framework, thereby contributing towards building longer term capacity and
institutional development in Mozambique.

59.     At the community-level, the project helped to establish the framework for
generating local development through the empowerment of community groups and the
creation of social capital required to effectively mobilize community development. The
project also improved the plight of women and vulnerable groups (as indicated in Annex
5 on beneficiary perceptions), re-dynamized local farmers and the political economy and
helped foster more social cohesion, accountability and stability. The project has left a
strong legacy among rural communities in the targeted 5 districts.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

N/A

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

60.     The project did not undertake a beneficiary survey and/or stakeholder workshop
because towards the end of the project implementation, elements of the emergence of
conflicts between the Government and the opposition (RENAMO) started surfacing and
affected some parts of the project area. However, from various project documentaries, the
Project prepared a compilation of beneficiary success stories and perceptions, extracts of
which are included as part of the GoM’s ICR, as summarized in Annex 4 of this ICR.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome and Global Environment
Outcome

61.    The risk to the development outcome is rated Substantial. While the project
interventions were demand-driven, i.e., chosen by communities on the basis of their
importance in sustaining their livelihoods, they were more appropriate to the local
context and well tested by the communities and are therefore likely to be continued.
There is substantial risk that without adequate support and availability of competitive
markets for the agricultural and other commodities, the development outcomes may not


                                            22
be sustained. Furthermore, although there is demonstrated high level of national and local
ownership for the project activities, capacity and resource constraints at the district and
local levels will make it difficult to sustain the provision of public sector services
required by the communities such as agricultural extension beyond the project period. 9,10

62.     Similarly the risk to the global environmental outcome is rated Substantial. The
inclusion of the GEF component in an agricultural project implies that communities have
been provided with the necessary capacity on production practices which are sustainable,
allowing communities to be able to adapt to the changing contexts, brought about by the
effects of climate change. However, without the continued support to the community
groups, mostly due to lack of relevant capacity at the district level, the continuity of the
sustainable land management practices is likely to be affected.

 63.    The other major factor which may raise the risk to the development and global
environmental outcomes is the possible escalation of the conflict which is now emerging
and may affect large parts of the project area, with obvious challenges on both the local,
provincial and national institutional capacity. Although this risk was not anticipated at
design and is outside the control of the project, it is considered critical in the assessment
of the risk to the development outcomes.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry


64.     Rating: Moderately Satisfactory. The quality at entry is rated Moderately
Satisfactory because the project design overstated the existing capacity when it should
have been very clear that capacity at all levels was a major and binding constraint to
effective project implementation. This was particularly critical given that the Project was
designed to be implemented by GoM institutions, without a PIU. The project envisaged
quite correctly the need to build the capacity at the district and community levels in order
to ensure effective uptake of the project interventions, on a demand-driven basis.
However, the approach for building the capacity was neither adequate nor effective
particularly in critical areas such as financial management, procurement, and monitoring
and evaluation. The design should have examined these issues, given that it was one of
the first projects which would be implemented through the district decentralization
framework, largely using the country’s own systems. This design limitation had far-
reaching implications which persisted throughout the project period.




9 PAD - Market-led smallholder development in the Zambezi valley project
10
   GoM – PARPA II - Plano de Acção de redução da pobreza absoluta



                                                              23
(b) Quality of Supervision


65.     Rating: Moderately Satisfactory. The Project benefitted from close monitoring
and implementation support by the Bank team. Implementation support missions were
undertaken consistently, both the mission aide memoires and implementation status
reports flagged key issues related to capacity challenges, especially on M&E and the
fiduciary responsibilities at the district level. The team also proactively undertook a
detailed Mid-Term Review which brought changes which turned around project
implementation in a very significant way. The strong participation of the country office
(three of the Task Team Leaders were country-based) strengthened the close monitoring
of progress. However, the delay in undertaking the restructuring of the project (more than
one year after the MTR) affected project implementation. Furthermore, the challenges on
M&E were not adequately and consistently addressed during the early years of the
project.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

66.    Rating: Moderately Satisfactory. Based on the performance ratings at entry and
during supervision, the overall Bank performance is rated Moderately Satisfactory. It
reflects a well-designed and relevant operation with respect to country development
priorities, as well as close and professional implementation support provided to the
Project. However, the design should have adequately examined the capacity challenges in
view of the relatively new decentralization framework, the project should have been
restructured much earlier and the team should have been more proactive to address the
challenges with M&E.

5.2    Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance
67.     Rating: Satisfactory. The GOM supported the implementation of this project, as
designed and provided clear policy guidance with regard to the decentralization policy
and its operational framework at the district level. The GOM also respected the
requirement for funds to be directly transferred to the district level. There were no issues
which affected the implementation of the project due to lack of clarity of government
policy and/or strategic guidance. Government also continued to support DNPDR, the
department which was responsible for providing overall oversight and coordination in the
implementation of the project. Even though the GOM relocated the department from the
MPD to the MAE, this change did not affect the department’s responsibilities with regard
to project implementation. Finally, GOM lived up to its obligations in terms of honoring
its counterpart contribution to the project.




                                            24
(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance


68.     Rating: Moderately Satisfactory. Although the DNPDR initially struggled to
create the dedicated team of staff to be responsible for project implementation, when this
team was put in place, it comprised staff that were highly proactive and responsive to
project implementation issues. After the changes introduced at MTR, the team was so
well organized, ensured integrated planning and made sure that the project adhered to
implementation procedures and guidelines, maintained good working relationship with
the Bank team and ensured adequate fiduciary oversight by preparing and submitting
audited financial statements, maintained financial integrity, filed financial monitoring
reports with the Bank, timely production and submission of annual progress reports. The
main challenge is that the DNPDR was unable to establish an effective project M&E
system to measure project progress. This role was performed by hired consultants,
including the INE, albeit not in an effective and consistent manner as would have been
envisaged in a project of this nature. A number of challenges were also experienced with
financial management at both the center as well as the district level.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

69.     Rating: Moderately Satisfactory. Based on the combination of the two ratings
above, overall Borrower performance is rated as Moderately Satisfactory. It reflects a
real Government’s willingness to facilitate project implementation and to achieve desired
project development objectives, in spite of the capacity challenges faced.

6. Lessons Learned

The following are the key lessons from the implementation of the project:

6.1    General Lessons

70. The design of projects for implementation under decentralized arrangements,
using country systems, should critically examine the existing capacity at all levels:
The design should assess the capacity of the entity to handle project activities (fiduciary
requirements) and propose how sufficient capacity will be developed, if needed. While
the Bank is focusing on building institutional capacity in our client countries the use of
dedicated project implementation teams should be considered as an option in countries
where the use of Government agencies would entail over-riding fiduciary concerns.

71.     Institutional capacity development requires long-term engagement: In order
to build the strong decentralization capacity at local, district and national levels, this
project should have considered a long-term approach; using flexible lending instruments
e.g. Adjustable Program Loan (APL) in order to ensure consistent and continued support
for a longer period of time than the planned five year period. This would have provided
the flexibility, learning and accumulation of capacity required for long-term institutional
development. Apart from the limited sensitization of implementers at the district and


                                            25
local levels, the project should have put in place a longer-term training and capacity
development plan for key implementers in order to ensure full understanding of the
project design and implementation arrangements required to adhere to applicable Bank
procedures.

6.2    Project Specific Lessons

72.      The sustainability of community empowerment requires continued
government follow-up, facilitating appropriate linkages with service providers and
agribusiness value-chain players: The smallholder’s project was a truly community
empowerment project as it enlightened women and vulnerable groups, re-dynamized
local farmers and the political economy and helped foster more social cohesion,
accountability and stability. The project has left a strong legacy among rural communities
in the targeted 5 districts. The creation of market linkages between communities and
agribusiness value-chain players is critical in order to sustain the development outcomes.
The project provided an opportunity for workable model of market fairs which brought
together producers and buyers. Given the success that this has represented, it should be
continued and perhaps scaled-up in other areas with Government’s own funds and future
support from the development partners including the World Bank. Continued follow-up
is required by Government and non-governmental institutions to ensure that the district
authorities have the capacity to link up the communities with service providers, more
especially agricultural extension, including livestock management. With continued
support, the communities are likely to continue to produce quality commodities which
will attract agribusiness value-chain players.

73.     Targeting and beneficiary selection: There is need for clear targeting and
beneficiary selection criteria in order to maximize project impact. Otherwise, it appears
that during the implementation of the project, there was no strict adherence to the
beneficiary selection resulting in spreading the resources too thinly and this often
compromises the project impact. It is always good practice to ensure that the targeting
and beneficiary selection criteria is well spelt out in the Project Implementation Manual,
and that its application is as participatory as possible to ensure that it is fully understood
by all stakeholders.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

74.      While the Borrower agrees with the overall storyline and the ratings in the Bank
ICR, the Borrower’s perception is that the project was a success because of the
institutional capacity it has helped to establish, and the livelihood opportunities that have
been created at the local level. The key lasting achievement is the institutional capacity,
which started at a very low base, and needs to be built upon. On Government
performance, it is important to balance between long term development goals and short
term Project indicators and targets. It would not be conceivable to achieve long-term
development goals within a short period of time. There is need to build upon the
successes of the project.


                                             26
75.     The Borrower’s impression is that the Bank team seemed to have some tendency
to interfere in Project implementation particularly when things were slow on the
Government side, but at the end of the day the Bank promoted dialogue and helped the
Government to understand the Bank rules and procedures, and to keep focus on results.
The key lesson is that the Project was designed under the assumption that the
Government would have the necessary implementation capacity, but this was a challenge
particularly at the district level, mainly for financial management, procurement and
monitoring and evaluation. For financial management, this further complicated with the
need to use clientconnection, with electronic signatures starting at some point of Project
implementation, which was far beyond the capacity at the district level.

(b) Cofinanciers

N/A

(c) Other partners and stakeholders

N/A




                                           27
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
 Market led Smallholder Development in the Zambezi Valley - P093165
                                    Appraisal
                                               Actual/Latest
                                    Estimate                     Percentage of
            Components                         Estimate (USD
                                     (USD                         Appraisal
                                                  millions)
                                    millions)
1. Community group org. and local
                                           7.3         5.9            80%
institutions strengthening
2. Agricultural production and
                                           4.2         3.8            90%
marketing development
3. Community agricultural and
                                           4.3         4.4           102%
environmental investment fund
4. Project management,
coordination, and Monitoring and           5.4         4.1            76%
Evaluation
Disbursed amount but still in
                                            -          2.6
designated accounts
                 Total Project Cost       20.0
Project Preparation Facility               0.4         0.4           100%
       Total Financing Required           21.5       21.02            98%

 Market-Led Smallholder Development in the Zambezi Valley - P098040
                                  Appraisal
                                              Actual/Latest
                                  Estimate                      Percentage of
            Components                       Estimate (USD
                                   (USD                          Appraisal
                                                millions)
                                  millions)
1. Community group org. and local
                                         0.9         0.8             89%
institutions strengthening
2. Agricultural production and
                                         2.5         2.5            100%
marketing development
3. Community agricultural and
                                         1.9         1.5             80%
environmental investment fund
4. Project management,
coordination, and Monitoring and         0.9         0.5             56%
Evaluation
Disbursed amount but still in
                                          -          0.8
designated accounts
               Total Project Cost
Project Preparation Facility                0.0             0.0
      Total Financing Required              6.2             6.1      98%



                                          28
(b) Financing
 P093165 - Market led Smallholder Development in the Zambezi Valley
                                                 Appraisal Actual/Late
                                                                       Percentag
                                   Type of       Estimate st Estimate
         Source of Funds                                                  e of
                                  Financing       (USD        (USD
                                                                       Appraisal
                                                 millions) millions)
 Borrower                           Parallel          0.3       0.24     80.00
 Beneficiaries                      Parallel          0.9       0.9     100.00
 International Development
                               Parallel/Blending    20.00       0.00      .00
Association (IDA)
 Global Environment Facility
                               Parallel/Blending      6.20      0.00      .00
(GEF)




                                      29
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Component 1: Community Group Organization and Local Institutional
Strengthening

Output Indicator: Number of CBOs engaged in Project activities
                Baseline
 District       Value     Target     Results      Achievements
 Morrumbala            0         317        335                106%
 Mutarara              0         145        135                 93%
 Mopeia                0          75        104                139%
 Chemba                0          65         79                122%
 Maringue              0          58         80                138%
 Project Area          0         660        733                111%

Output Indicator: Number of Groups with at least one CAEIF sub-project
                Baseline
 District       Value     Target      Results       Achievements
 Morrumbala            0         288          141               49%
 Mutarara              0         132          107               81%
 Mopeia                0          68           85              125%
 Chemba                0          59           74              125%
 Maringue              0          53           66              125%
 Project Area          0         600          473               79%

Output Indicator: Number of Members of Savings and Loans Groups
                Baseline
 District       Value     Target     Results     Achievements
 Morrumbala            0       2900        4392              151%
 Mutarara              0       1300        1066               82%
 Mopeia                0         700        699              100%
 Chemba                0         600        624              104%
 Maringue              0         500        510              102%
 Project Area          0       6000        7291              122%




Output Indicator: Number of District Land use Plans
                Baseline
 District       Value     Target       Results      Achievements
 Morrumbala            0            1            1            100%
 Mutarara              0            1            1            100%


                                         30
Mopeia                  0            1            1                100%
Chemba                  0            1            1                100%
Maringue                0            1            1                100%
Project Area            0            5            5                100%

Output Indicator: Number of trainings on participatory preparation of district land use
plans
                Baseline
 District       Value     Target       Results       Achievements
 Morrumbala            0            3             1                33%
 Mutarara              0            3             1                33%
 Mopeia                0            3             2                67%
 Chemba                0            3             2                67%
 Maringue              0            3             3               100%
 Project Area          0           15             9                60%

Component 2: Agricultural Production and Marketing Development

Output Indicator: Number of smallholders adopting demonstrated technologies
                Baseline
 District       Value     Target      Results      Achievements
 Morrumbala            0       7600         9790               129%
 Mutarara              0       3500         4241               121%
 Mopeia                0       1800         5637               313%
 Chemba                0       1300         1640               126%
 Maringue              0       1400         2506               179%
 Project Area          0      15600        23814               153%

Output Indicator: Productivity of Key Crops (metric tons/ha)
             Baseline
 Crop        Value      Target          Results      Achievements
 Rice                              1.5        2.01             134%
 Maize                            1.34        1.52             113%
 Sesame                           1.08        0.77               71%

Output Indicator: Area with sustainable land management practices
                Baseline
 District       Value      Target       Results    Achievements
 Morrumbala            0         9500         8543                90%
 Mutarara              0         4400         3859                88%
 Mopeia                0         2600         4904              189%
 Chemba                0         1600         1620              101%



                                            31
Maringue              0        1900        2387               126%
Project Area          0       20000       21313               107%

Component 3: Community Agricultural and Environmental Investment Fund

Output Indicator: of CAEIF sub-project on public infrastructure
                Baseline
 District       Value     Target       Results       Achievements
 Morrumbala            0          49           47                96%
 Mutarara              0          32           42               131%
 Mopeia                0          14             9               64%
 Chemba                0          12           16               133%
 Maringue              0          11             6               55%
 Project Area          0         118          120               102%

Output Indicator: Number of productive CAEIF sub-projects
                Baseline
 District       Value     Target       Results    Achievements
 Morrumbala            0         144          497           345%
 Mutarara              0          66          182           276%
 Mopeia                0          43          169           393%
 Chemba                0          30          184           613%
 Maringue              0          26          164           631%
 Project Area          0         309        1196            387%

Output Indicator: Number of SLM / GEF CAEIF sub-projects
                Baseline
 District       Value     Target     Results    Achievements
 Morrumbala            0          67        121           181%
 Mutarara              0          65         91           140%
 Mopeia                0          40         67           168%
 Chemba                0          40         70           175%
 Maringue              0          38         65           171%
 Project Area          0         250        414           166%

Typology of CAEIF Sub-projects by Component
                                             District            Total
     Sub-Project
                      Morrumbala Mutarara Mopeia Maringue Chemba
                               Public infrastructure
Drifts                         7           1          2 2      4    16
Bridges                        9           4          3 0      1    17
Marketplaces                   6           4          4 0      3    17



                                         32
Vaccination
facilities               0          18         0     1     0     19
Rural roads             24          15         0     1     8     48
Dip tanks                1           0         0     0     0      1
Sub-total window 1      47          42         9     4    16    118
                       Productivity sub-projects
Hummer mills             9           9         6     6    12     42
Threshing machines      40          18        15    10    10     93
Small-scale
Irrigation               2          6         1      2     7     18
Animal traction         26         23        13      8    26     96
Chicken rearing          3          0         0      1     0      4
Goats multiplication     7          8         0      0     0     15
Productivity kits to
FCs                     16       18        14       17    16      81
Improved silos         394      100       120      120   113     847
Sub-total window 2     497      182       169      164   184   1,196
                       SLM / GEF sub-projects
Community forestry      18        8         5        5    12     48
Improved honey
prod                    55         61        26     57    43     242
Forestry nurseries       0          0         0      3     3       6
Small-scale fishing     48         22        22      0    12     104
Sub-total window 3     121         91        53     65    70     400
Grand Total            665        315       231    233   270   1,714




                                 33
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

Detailed analysis of economic and financial returns was undertaken at appraisal. These
analyses were based on the assumption that the primary economic benefits as a result of
the Project would accrue from increased agricultural productivity due to the agricultural
interventions such as crop production support through the introduction of improved
varieties, the provision of extension services (and production kits provided through
community facilitators), coupled with sustainable land management practices and
investment sub-projects supported through the CAEIF. The methodology for the
estimation of the economic and financial returns at appraisal was based on representative
farm models for traditional food crops and newly introduced cash crops, with production
valued at 2005 farm-gate prices. Key assumptions were made regarding the production
costs and yields, as detailed in Table A3.4. The results indicated that the economic and
financial net benefits (in terms of net present values) were US$ 1.8 million and US$ 0.5
million, respectively. The economic and financial rate of return was estimated at 15% and
13%, respectively (see Table A3.1).

Table A3.1: Appraisal estimates
                          NPV          IRR (%)
                     (US$ million)
  Economic                 1.8            15%
  Financial                0.5            13%
Source: Project Appraisal Document, 2006.

The ICR mission re-estimated the economic and financial returns of the project based on
the data collected through the final project impact evaluation, in order to validate the
appraisal estimates. While the estimation approach is the same as at appraisal, there are
two fundamental differences between the estimation at appraisal and at ICR: (i) most of
the assumptions have been revalidated using actual data obtained after project
implementation; and (ii) the appraisal estimates did not include the expected net benefits
from the sub-projects supported through the CAEIF because at the time of appraisal, the
CAEIF sub-projects were not known with certainty, as this component was to be demand-
driven by the community groups once they were put in place and properly trained.

The results indicate that the project economic and financial returns remained positive,
with discounted net benefits estimated at US$ 3.74 million and US$ 1.60 million, for the
economic and financial net benefits, respectively. The economic and financial internal
rates of return have been estimated at 18% and 14%, respectively. These higher returns
are attributed to increased crop production (both food and cash) and the increased
adoption of income generating sub-projects supported under the CAEIF. It should be
noted the net benefits related to community and institutional capacity building as well as
the long-term benefits of the environmentally sustainable land management practices
have not been fully incorporated in the analysis, due to methodological challenges. It is
therefore highly likely that the overall net benefit and rate of return for the project should
be much higher than estimated. Furthemore, the effects on the fiscus as a result of the
broader tax base created through the vibrant rural production and businesses created from



                                             34
the CAEIF sub-projects have not been factored into the analysis due to lack of credible
data.

Table A3.2: End of project estimates of economic and financial returns
                End of project     End of      End of project       End of project
                    ENPV           project         FNPV                FRR (%)
                (US$ million)     ERR (%)      (US$ million)
Food crops/1         1.39             17             0.4                 14
Cash crops/2         1.32             19             0.7                 17
CAEIF                1.03             15             0.5                 12
subprojects/3
Overall              3.74             18             1.6                 14
Source: End of project estimates based on Impact Evaluation data, 2013; Appraisal estimates
based on the Project Appraisal Document (Annex 9).
1/ includes: maize, rice, beans, pigeon peas and cassava
2/includes: seed cotton, paprika, sesame, vegetables (horticulture)
3/includes: poultry, small ruminants (goats) and honey production

The key assumptions used for the analysis of economic and financial returns at appraisal
(and updated at ICR) are provided in Table A3.3. The table shows the baseline income
flows, costs and net benefits (margins) for both project and non-project scenarios. These
are projected for the project period and using appropriate discounting assumptions (as
highlighted in paragraph 47), the net discounted benefits (NPV) and rates of return are
computed. Note that the with project scenario includes additional commodities such as
vegetables, poultry, small ruminants and honey production, reflecting the community-
level income generating activities which were introduced under the CAEIF component.

Table A3.3: Crop models with and without project scenarios11

               Production      Labour       Yield         Price       Income   Margin   Margin/day
                  costs        (days)      (ton/ha)     (MZN/kg)       (‘000
                 (‘000                                                 MZN)
                 MZN)
                                        Without project scenario
Maize               70            72        1.2          3.0          3,600    3,530       49
Seed               550           110       0.55          5.0          2,700    2,200       20
cotton
Rice               450           165          1.0           5.0       5,000    4,550       28
Beans               60            60          0.4           4.5       1,800    1,740       29
Pigeon              60            60          0.5           4.0       2,000    1,940       32
peas
Cassava            60            60         4.0          0.8          3,200    3,140       52
                                          With project scenario



11




                                                      35
Maize             1,650           76          2.0            3.0          6,000      4,350           57
Seed               550           130          0.8            5.0          4,000      3,450           27
cotton
Paprika           1,450          250          0.7            14.6         10,200     8,770           35
Rice              3,000          157          3.0            5.0          15,000    12,000           76
Beans              500            64          0.6            4.5           2,700     2,200           20
Pigeon             100            65          0.7            4.0           2,800     2,700           34
peas
Sesame              30            60          0.5            11.0          5,500     5,470           42
Cassava            100            65          7.0            0.8           5,600     5,500           85
Vegetables        1,800          350          8.0            5.0          40,000    22,000           63
Poultry            100           140        10.0**            --          45,000    44,900           321
Small               80           130         2.0**            --          75,000    74,920
ruminants                                                                                            576
Honey              120           160         7.0**           150*         79,565    79,445
production                                                                                            497
** For poultry, the yield is the average number of birds per group; for small ruminants it is the average
number of animals per group; and for honey, it is the average liters of honey produced per beehive.
* For honey, the price is MZN/liter; the other prices are per head.

Table A3.4: Area covered with project interventions (ha)

                Baseline           Year2               3               4              5              6
Maize             4,000            4,000             8,000          12,000         16,000         20,000
Seed              1,000            1,000             2,000           3,000          4,000          5,000
cotton
Paprika              20              20                40             60             80             100
Rice                 40              40                80            120            160             200
Beans               400             400               800           1,200          1,600           2,000
Pigeon              600             600              1,200          1,800          2,400           3,000
peas
Sesame              100             100               200            300            400             500
Cassava            1,600           1,600             3,200          4,800          6,400           8,000
Vegetables           50              50               100            150            200             250
Poultry              0               3                 0              0              1               0
Small
ruminants             0                7              8               0               0               0
Honey
production            0                55             61             26              57              43
Note: for poultry, small ruminants and honey production, the numbers represent groups

47. Other assumptions based on similar analysis on projects within the region were used.
The key assumptions include the following:

    1.       Where data is significantly inconsistent and/or unreliable, fairly conservative
             assumptions have been made. An improvement in this analysis is that actual
             activity output estimates from the beneficiaries (based on the impact


                                                      36
           evaluation) as well as input and output prices have been used instead of
           informed assumptions as was the case at appraisal.
   2.      A 15 year time horizon is considered for the full project build-up of costs and
           benefits based on individual activity or activity groups assuming a 10 year
           horizon.
   3.      The value of beneficiaries’ output for all activities were assumed to increase
           by 0.5% per year (in the project area) and 0.2% per year in the non-project
           area, reflecting the differences in technology adoption and related productivity
           gains.
   4.      Input costs include fertilizer, seeds, establishment costs, farm implements,
           labour and cost of feed (for small ruminants and poultry) and other capital
           requirements. Output prices assume low quality, rural level prices.
   5.      Family labor is valued at the rural labor rate (informal labor) equivalent to
           60% of the average rural wage, as the opportunity cost in the remote rural
           areas where alternative gainful employment is scarce.
   6.      A discount rate of 12% is used, in line with the rate used in most economic
           analyses. The current discount rate for Mozambique is likely to be higher than
           12%.
   7.      Significant distortions in the economy in input costs (e.g. fertilizer) and output
           prices are assumed to be minimal. Therefore, the difference between financial
           and economic costs and prices are due to the tax and other levies on inputs.
   8.      The non-farm multiplier from the linkage effect of a change in farm
           production and cash on the local economy is assumed to be 1.5, given that the
           local economy is driven by the agricultural sector.
   9.      Overall project costs include the component costs as estimated at project
           appraisal as given in Annex 4 of the PAD.
   10.     Some benefits have not been included in the analysis because they are either
           difficult to value, or due to lack of reliable data e.g. value of assets such as
           village grain silos, irrigation equipment, rural access infrastructure etc.
           Benefits from interventions under component 1 (capacity building and group
           formation) have not been included in the analysis of economic returns.

48. Sensitivity analysis: The sensitivity analysis shows that project returns are highly
sensitive to changes in yields and output prices, particularly for the food and cash crops.
A more than 10% reduction in the estimated yield levels lowers the economic rate of
return to 11%, below the discount rate which was assumed at 12%. Similarly, a more than
10% reduction in output prices mainly for cash crops such as sesame, paprika and
vegetables reduces the economic rate of return to less than 10%. Similar results are
obtained when input costs are also increased. As such, sustaining productivity gains and
ensuring that farmers continue to access better markets for their output, as well as
competitive prices for key inputs, are critical factors for the continued viability of the
project activities.

50.    On the basis of the economic rate of return analysis based on data provided
from the end of project evaluation, the results indicate that the project achieved
positive returns. It is important to note that the analysis is limited to components for


                                            37
which objective data is available. As such, it is likely that the social return for the
project is much higher than can be empirically demonstrable.




                                          38
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Task Team members
                                                                             Responsibility/
           Names                                Title               Unit
                                                                               Specialty
Lending

Alberto Ninio                  Chief Counsel                       LEGEN
Anil S. Bhandari               Consultant                          AFTG1
Caroline L. Guazzo             Language Program Assistant          AFTCS
Daniel Liborio Da Cruz Sousa   Consultant                          AFTA1   Team Member
Eduardo Luis Leao de Sousa     Senior Economist                    AFTA1   Team Member
Gilberto de Barros             Senior Private Sector Development   AFTFW   Team Member
Joao Tinga                     Financial Management Specialist     AFTME   FM
Josef Ludger Loening           Consultant                          MNACE
Katherine Kuper                Sr. Urban Spec.                     AFTU1
Leonard John Abrams            Consultant                          AFTU1
Luisa Moises Matsinhe          Senior Executive Assistant          AFCS2   Team Assistant
Slaheddine Ben-Halima          Consultant                          MNAPC
Supervision/ICR

Amos Martinho Malate           Procurement Analyst                 AFTPE PS
                               Senior Rural Development
Aniceto Timoteo Bila                                               AFTA2 Team Member
                               Specialist
Anne Louise Grinsted           Consultant                          AFTP1
Anne Ritchie                   Consultant                          HDNSP
Antonio L. Chamuco             Senior Procurement Specialist       AFTPE PS
Boris Enrique Utria            Country Operations Adviser          LCC5C Sector Leader
                               Sr. Financial Management
Brighton Musungwa                                                  AFTME
                               Specialist
Caroline L. Guazzo             Language Program Assistant          AFTCS
Celia Faias                    Team Assistant                      AFCS2 Team Assistant
Cheikh A. T. Sagna             Senior Social Development Spec      AFTCS Social Safeguards
Daniel Liborio Da Cruz
                               Consultant                          AFTA1 TTL
Sousa
                                                                   LEGAF-
Eduardo Brito                  Senior Counsel                             Lawyer
                                                                     HIS
Elvis Teodoro Bernado
                               Financial Management Specialist     AFTME FM
Langa
Erick C.M. Fernandes           Adviser                            LCSAR Advisor
Florence Kondylis              Senior Economist                    DECIE Economist
Joao Tinga                     Financial Management Specialist    AFTME FM
                                                                  AFTWR-
John A. Boyle                  Consultant
                                                                    HIS
Jonathan Nyamukapa             Sr Financial Management Specialist AFTME FM



                                                 39
Leonard John Abrams        Consultant                          AFTU1
Luisa Moises Matsinhe      Senior Executive Assistant          AFCS2    Team Assistant
Lungiswa Thandiwe Gxaba    Consultant                          AFTTR    Env. Safeguards
Luz Meza-Bartrina          Senior Counsel                      LEGAM    Layer
Mohamed Arbi Ben-Achour    Consultant                          AFTN2
Patrick Verissimo          Lead Rural Development Specialist   SASDA    TTL
Pedro Arlindo              Agric. Economist                    AFTA2    TTL
Rui Manuel Benfica         Consultant                           DECPI
Slaheddine Ben-Halima      Consultant                          MNAPC
Susan Hume                 Senior Operations Officer           AFTFE    CPC
                                                               CTRFC-
Suzanne F. Morris          Senior Finance Officer                       FM
                                                                 His
Teresa De Jesus S. McCue   Operations Analyst                  CAFPP    Operations
Tijan M. Sallah            Sector Manager                      AFTA3


(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                        Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                       USD Thousands (including
                                      No. of staff weeks
                                                             travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  IDA                                           96                  480,456.73
  GEF                                            --                 352,102.21
                           Total:                                   832,558.94
Supervision/ICR
  IDA                                        322                    900,762.87
  GEF                                         --                     385,295.20
                           Total            418                   1,286,058.07




                                           40
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

Success Stories

Ms. Belita Jaime Lopes, Head of Nlape Novilela Association: The Project has been
very important to us; it has helped us to make investments with positive outcomes. We
have our own association. We now sell fish as a group. There are group members who are
now running their own business, some of which travel to cities like to Quelimane where
they go and buy different products that are then sold here in our community. We are now
planning to have a chicken rearing facility to further increase our incomes. Once we have
our new planned investment, we will be able to sell chicken to local inhabitants here in
Morrumbala district, hence reducing distance for consumers who now have to travel to
buy chicken. We will also increase chicken availability in local markets. Prices to
consumers will drop. That is our dream.

Mr. Sebastiao Olesse, Community Trainer on CBOs and SLGs: I am happy to be
working with Savings and Loans Groups under the Smallholders Project. As part of the
SLGs program that we have introduced under the project, there are smallholder farmers
who are now planning to buy goats. Others are planning to improve their houses, and
others are considering to kick-start their own business. Each one has his/her own ideas,
but all those ideas result from the fact that they are now able to save money thanks to the
project activities. I can foresee that the livelihoods in the community will improve.

Mr. Albano Miquitais, member of the Nlape Novilela Association: We have decided
to get together and form our own association. As an association, we have decided to
organize a Savings and Loans Groups to which we all belong. It is our own bank, our
own way to save money and make our own investment. We do not have much money, so
we start saving the little we have. By saving it, we make it available to those who want to
invest, and hence we get some revenues because of the interest they pay. The Project has
brought a Service provider who is helping us get organized and we like the idea. We can
now make our own savings and be able to buy agricultural tools and school materials for
our children. Our group is now our own bank.

Mr. Assane Cuacia Camala: I work for a Service Provider that supports the
establishment and strengthening of Savings and Loans Groups in Morrumbala District. I
work with several SLGs here in Morrumbala, and I have been witnessing that some group
members throughout the district are improving their livelihood. As a result of saving their
money and adding value to it through rolling credits, some people have been able to buy
bicycles, radios, and some are planning to use part of the money to increase their
cultivated areas and employ seasonal workers who they will pay using the money they
have been able to save through this mechanism.

Ms. Damalesse Augusto: I am a member of a Savings and Loans Group, and I have
started to save the little money that I have. As a result of saving, I have been able to
receive some additional money, which I used to buy school materials for my children. I




                                            41
am now starting my own business with the money that I have been able to save and
receive back after six months.

Mr. Martins Bire: I am simple farmer and I have been farming on my own farming
fields for many years here in Morrumbala district, Zambezia Province. When the
Smallholders Project started to be implemented in my community, I was selected to be a
contact farmer, or Community Facilitator as we call it now. The Project thought that I
could play the role of improving farming practices among other smallholder farmers in
my community. For that, I have participated in a training course in Sofala Province,
where together with others I was taught, among other things, how to use animal traction.
Then, the Project has given me the opportunity to buy my own productivity kit. I spent
MZN 3,500 for the kit. In addition to working in my own fields, I am also assisting other
farmers in my community.

Mr. Bengala Trocsida: Thanks to the Smallholders Project, I now have two silos for
storing maize. Each silo has the capacity to store up to a ton of maize. They are
operational and I now store my maize safely. I have reduced post-harvest losses. Building
these silos is not difficult at all. I did not need to have any particular training outside the
community. Artisans from the community have been trained and they can build these
silos for farmers who want them.

Mr. Antonio F. Lino, District Administrator in Morrumbala: The Smallholders
Project has made significant contributions to the livelihoods of local inhabitants in
Morrumbala district. The project has supported the outreach of extension services in our
district, including in the Administrative Posts. Working conditions for our extension
officers have improved including those in the Administrative Posts.




                                              42
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results (if any)




                                     43
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

Introduction

The Market led Smallholder Development project was designed to be implemented
without a Project Implementation Unit (PIU), on the basis that the priorities for
investment under the Project would be defined at the district level through the District
development Plans (PEDD).

Financial management was implemented using the country systems. The Project used the
e-SISTAFE on pilot basis among other Projects in the country, with the particularity of
being a Project to be implemented at the decentralized level. Contracts and payments to
services provided by local entities were paid at the district level. The Project was
implemented in the Zambezi Valley which, in 2006, was the home of 25% of
Mozambique’s inhabitants. The Zambezi Valley has a great potential for agriculture
development, both rain fed as well as irrigated agriculture, and had the potential to
integrate investments made under the Smallholder Project with those made under other
initiatives in the geographic area. At the time of Project design, the Zambezi Valley had
mostly comprised rural, agriculture-based households, and had a considerable rate of
poverty. But it also had potential for improved farming and for market linkages. At the
time, agricultural products from the Zambezi Valley could be traded to all the sub-regions
within Mozambique and to Malawi, but the scope for improved market linkages existed
and needed to be further explored.

The following were the key activities developed under each Project component:

Under Component 1.a – Development of local capacity:

Key activities, implementation and achievements: For the implementation of this
component, the Project contracted Service Providers. The Project indicator for this sub-
component was to assist 660 CBOs in the Project area. Despite delays in starting with this
activity, the Project was able to assist 733 CBOs including 426 that were assisted to
become legal groups.

Constraints, challenges, and the way forward: the observed delays with the
implementation of the activities under this sub-component were caused by the long time
spent in preparing the Terms of Reference for the Service Providers, and for the long time
that the approval process took by the Government approving entity, the Commission for
Foreign Affairs (CRE). The key consequence of these problems was that the work with
the CBOs was discontinued in some instances and geographical areas, particularly in the
Phase 1 districts. As a result, the Project could not ensure a continued evolution of the
CBOs throughout the Project implementation period, which is critical for the
sustainability of the work. As a way forward, the district authorities will need to continue
assisting the CBOs.

Under sub-component 1.b – Rural finance services:


                                            44
Key activities, implementation and achievements: At the Project design stage, an
assumption was that the establishment and strengthening of Savings and Loans Groups
(SLGs) would be a consequence and follow-up activity to the establishment and
consolidation of CBOs. This reviewed at the Project MTR, and a new strategy was
adopted, which consisted in increasing the tasks of the CBOs Service Providers so that
the creation and strengthening of SLGs would be an inclusive part of the work with the
CBOs. The new strategy yielded visible results on the ground. The level of acceptance of
SLGs among CBO members was very high, indicating the importance of, and the need
for rural services. The high adherence level to the Savings and Loans Groups also
provided an indication that the CBOs can be more sustainable in the long term if their
members understand them as economic units in addition to the social dimension. The
regular meetings for savings and loans were also used as an opportunity to introduce new
activities including on health and agriculture. As a result of the new strategy, the number
of members of SLGs was 22% higher than the target value of 6,000 members expected
for this activity.

Under sub-component 1.c – Strengthening of district capacity for agriculture and
sustainable development

Key activities, implementation and achievements: This sub-component aimed to create,
among district authorities, the capacity to identify and respond to local demand on
agriculture development and sustainable management of natural resources. Activities in
this sub-component were mostly focused on the support to the allocation of technical and
administrative staff to the districts to increase districts’ capacity to better respond to local
development needs. As part of this, the Project supported the allocation of a project-paid
position of Project District Facilitator in each district, and incentivized the districts to
increase their technical capacity for procurement and financial management by hiring
staff for these functions. The Project also assisted the districts with instruments for the
preparation of District Land Use Plans (LUP). As a result of these investments, local
capacity for Procurement and Financial Management increased in the five Project
districts, and each district has completed the participatory process of preparing a LUP,
which followed consultations with communities, which were trained on the participatory
planning on land use. As a result of these investments,

Constraints, challenges, and the way forward: At the time of the preparation of the
District LUPs, Mozambique did not have a consolidated experience in pursuing with this
process. As a result, there were problems with the preparation of the LUPs as initially
planned, and after the first experience, the process was successfully completed. As a way
forward, this experience should be continued to the extent possible in other districts.

Under sub-component 2.a – Market development and value chain

Key activities, implementation and achievements: The focus of this sub-component was
on strengthening linkages of smallholder farmers to markets by supporting value chain
investments among others. The active activity implementation under this sub-component
started in 2010 when the project started to organize Market Forums, which comprised



                                              45
mobilizing CBOs for the identification geographic areas within their communities where
farmers would gather together their products and be able to negotiate to promote group
sales and have group negotiations with traders for better prices. Then implementation of
this activity was heavily supported by the extension officers and community facilitators
who helped identify buyers and the products that the buyers were more interested on.

With support from the project, district authorities in the Project area organized two
agricultural trade fairs to which traders and input suppliers from various parts of
Mozambique including the cities of Maputo, Beira, Quelimane and Chimoio were invited
and participated. The main outcome of the fairs was that local farmers were exposed to
improved inputs and tools, and traders were happy to sell all the equipment and inputs
they had. This gave a clear indication that (i) the Project districts have good potential for
market linkages which can be explored further, and (ii) agricultural fairs are an important
opportunity to reduce transaction costs for traders who want to reach out rural areas, and
local farmers can buy and use improved tools and inputs if those are available in local
markets. As lead farmers, those FCs who had access to productivity kit through CAEIF,
had an opportunity to expose their improved products, which were sold, and were able to
establish contacts for future linkages with urban markets. To increase knowledge of the
importance of these fairs among local authorities and lead farmers, all district
Administrators, selected Community Facilitators visited a similar fair in South Africa.

Constraints, challenges, and the way forward: The Project made several attempts to
promote formal contractual arrangements between traders and farmer groups, but this has
never worked due to: (i) the pertaining spirit of individual sales among smallholder
farmers, (ii) difficulties in estimating the actual quantities that individual farmers had to
sale, which would allow for better planning on the side of traders and (iii) price
uncertainty particularly for export products, which depended on international price
levels. As a way forward, local authorities in the Project are encouraged to continue
promoting agricultural fairs and group sales.

Under sub-component 2.b – strengthening district extension services:

This sub-component results from the fusion, at the Project MTR, of three sub-
components identified at Project design. To actually implement the activities under this
sub-component, the Project supported the allocation of extension officer in each of the
five districts. For each extension officer, improved working conditions were allocated
including a motorbike and a kit of extension tools. The ensure a better outreach of the
extension services, each district hired two extension officers for each Administrative Post,
and the Project supported to improve their working conditions by supporting the
construction of a house for extension officer allocated in Administrative posts. A total of
33 houses were completed and occupied by the extension officers. Each house was
equipped with a solar panel and basic furniture. To further increase the outreach of the
extension services, the Project supported the identification of lead farmers (with at least 2
Ha) in each community who became Community Facilitators (CFs). These were local
farmers, not public officials, and hence did not have salaries. They benefitted from
training on extension including on conservation agriculture, and the best CFs had access


                                             46
to a productivity kit each, under the CAEIF mechanism. Overall, 352 CFs were integrated
in extension services.

The Project also introduced new farming practices and technologies in the Project area.
Among the different technologies, inter-cropping was the most widely used technology,
which can be attributed to the fact that smallholder farmers in the Project area already did
inter-cropping, but with no knowledge of inter-cropping techniques for higher yields and
lower crop diseases. Other introduced farming practices including were also widely
adopted by smallholder farmers, and those include crop rotation, minimum fertilizing. In
addition to improved farming practices, the Project introduced post-harvesting
technologies, in particular the household “Gorongosa” silos, which are expected to
reduce post-harvest losses in the Project area. The demand for “Gorongosa” silos among
households in the Project area was high, and it is believed that this will continue. Other
activities implemented by the Project in this sub-component included chicken vaccination
against Newcastle, training on control and reduction of bush fire, and community
reforestation.

This was one of the first sub-components to be implemented by the Project. The main
constraint in this sub-component was the delay in introducing activities in some Project
areas. On the way forward, the Government should continue with the investment made in
establishing the CFs in the communities, and should continue supervising the good use
of the working conditions that were allocated t the extension officers, and continue
providing them with working conditions including fuel.

Under Component 3 – Community Agricultural and Environmental Investment Fund
(CAEIF)

The objective of the component was to provide beneficiaries with access to investment
funds. Activities included capacity building and technical support on how to prepare
documentation to access the CAEIF investment funds. Under the component,
beneficiaries had access to investment funds through the following three windows: (1)
improving public infrastructure that enhances agricultural production and market linkages,
(2) productive agriculture investments, both under farming activities as well as on post-
harvest management, and (3) activities aimed at better management of natural resources.
For a consistent preparation of CAEIF proposals for sup-projects, DNPDR and the Bank
agreed on the need to prepare and approve CAEIF sub-project models, which were then
developed and followed. While the whole process of preparing, agreeing and approving
the CAEIF sub-project models took some time, this showed to be very important as it
helped to have models for each CAEIF sub-project type, allowing for cost comparison,
assessing and comparing the quality of proposal and as well as that of the investment, and
for easy supervision by local authorities. This also allowed a faster implementation of the
CAEIF sub-projects once DNPDR and the bank agreed on the models. To further ensure
sustainability of the CAEIF sub-projects, there was a requirement that all CAEIF sub-
proposals include an environmental assessment. This implied the preparation of training
courses to beneficiaries and their support entities on the basics of environmental




                                            47
safeguards. Local suppliers of goods and services were identified in the Project area, and
participated in providing goods and services.

Constraints, challenges, and the way forward: The CAEIF component used country
systems to transfer funds from the project to CAEIF beneficiaries. While using country
systems was a good aim, it proved to be challenging as some of the anticipated
transactions were not easy. For instance, to use CAEIF funds to finance activities under
window 2, the Ministry of Finance had to classify differently the CAEIF funds in order to
be able to allocate funds to the investments made by individual or groups of farmers.
Other constraints faced by the Project in implementing this component included
administrative processes (inclusion of the CAEIF funds in the General State Budget) and
lack of experience with community-based procurement. As a result, the CAEIF
component only started to be actively implemented in 2010.

Key Lessons:

The Project brought about many lessons, some of which are summarized below:

 1. The difficulties that DNPDR faced in the first years of implementing the Project as
    a public sector agency and without a dedicated PIU suggest that for the benefit of
    achieving the intended Project objectives, it is advisable to have a PIU.
 2. By using country systems to allocate funds to the districts and allow for
    decentralized management of funds, was important for transparency, for the
    creation of institutional capacity at the district level, and for improving ownership
    among district authorities. However, the complexity of the system and the lengthy
    period needed for some of the transactions comprised the pace of activity
    implementation on the ground.
 3. The Project was precise in terms of the intended objectives and outcomes, but was
    open with regards to the actual activities that needed to be implemented to achieve
    the intended objectives and outcomes. While this type of project design is good for
    allowing pro-activity in selecting the activities are thought to better contribute to
    the objectives, it would be important to define up-front the activities that should be
    implemented to avoid the inclusion of activities that do not contribute to the
    objectives of the project.
 4. The Project made a good decision in allocating District Facilitators (DFs) to each
    of the Project districts as they played an important role in ensuring the actual
    activity implementation on the ground. The DFs were critical in maintaining
    District Administrators informed about the Project priorities and activities, and
    ensured that the Bank procedures were followed at the district levels where a
    substantial part of the Project funds and resources was managed.
 5. At Mid-term, DNPDR and the Bank agreed to have a dedicated team of Project
    staff based in the Project area. This decision was instrumental in accelerating the
    pace of project implementation on the ground. In addition, the spirit of team work
    and the level of contact with district authorities and beneficiaries increased
    substantially.
 6. At Mid-Term, the Project decided to blend the training on, and the establishment of



                                           48
    Savings and Loans Groups (SLGs) with the strengthening of CBOs. This was an
    important decision as SLGs became an important engine that increased the level of
    activity in CBOS and increased cohesion among CBO members.
7. The CAEIF experience suggests that sub-project can result in better advantages to
    beneficiaries if the CAEIF sub-projects can allow for integrated investments in the
    value chain.
8. The construction of houses for extension officers in the district Administrative
    Posts was instrumental for allowing extension officers to be based in those remote
    localities and thus have better access to the farmers they assisted.
9. Sometimes, extension officers were transferred to other districts, which inhibited
    the Project from achieving the intended results by investing in those officers.
10. The Project organized visits to agricultural fairs in South Africa, which was an
    important catalytic element for the replication of similar fairs in the Project area.
    The fairs organized in the Project area were also important for linking input/tools
    suppliers with smallholder farmers. This has created opportunities for increased
    access to inputs by smallholder farmers, and shown that smallholder farmers can
    buy and use improved inputs and agricultural tools if they are available in their
    residential areas.




                                          49
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

This Annex summarizes comments from the Borrower/Implementing Agency.

The project met the planned outcomes. Beyond the outcomes, there is need to remember
the capacity that existed within DNPDR and at the district level when the Project was
designed, and all the institutional strengthening that was needed in order for DNPDR and
the districts to be able to fully accomplish the planned outcomes. The project has helped
to strengthen institutional capacity at the district level.

On Financial Management, the Project was designed to use the country FM system
(eSISTAFE), which was challenging. When a given amount was disbursed by the Bank,
it was deposited in Designated Accounts. From the designated accounts, it needed to be
transferred to FOREX accounts, and from there to Multi-currency Account, and finally to
the Project accounts. All this resulted in lengthy financial transactions and was not easy.
Also, a strong training of the local level FM officers would have been necessary for them
to understand the principles and challenges, and be able to operate in such a way that no
delays could be caused by the FM system including submission of withdrawal
applications to the Bank. Similar challenges were faced on Procurement where districts
were expected to play an important role but they did not have the necessary capacity. But
the Project helped to create that capacity. It is there now.

At MTR, there was a profound change in Project management, which turned around the
project performance thereafter, to the better.

The Project was very open in terms of the activities that needed to be implemented to
reach the Project outcomes. While this is good as it allows for proactivity, this is not
similar to what other donors do (they basically indicate the activities that need to be
implemented) and allowed for some confusion on the priorities. This was particularly the
case because the project was designed to be implemented in a centralized context where
different districts had different priorities, and they thought that the Project would be
necessarily aligned to each district’s priorities. Among local authorities, the level of
understanding the Project objectives and the need to follow Bank procedures increased
over time.

The relocation of some of the key functions of Project Management to the Project area
following MTR was important to bring closer communication between the Project
implementation team and beneficiaries and local authorities.

The districts did not have the aimed implementation capacity. As a result, the District
Facilitators spent more time on administrative aspects than needed. They should have
spent more time on assisting actual project implementation on the ground. Also, Project
ownership among local authorities was not as strong until the MTR mission. Because
District Administrators report to the Ministry of State Administration, the fact that the
DNPDR was relocated from MPD to MAE at some point during the Project
implementation period helped to better work with local authorities.



                                            50
In terms of sustainability, the public infrastructure that was financed through the CAEIF
mechanisms (small bridges, segments of rural roads, rural marketplaces) will stay on the
ground for years. The Project also trained beneficiaries on concrete activities to improve
production and productivity that will stay. Overall, we are not expecting that every single
investment will stay on the ground for many years, but the Project has made important
investments and has left lessons. For instance, farmers will reduce post-harvest losses
with the introduction of the Gorongosa Silos. The introduction of improved bee keeping
technologies coupled with conservation of forestry has the potential to reduce
uncontrolled bush fire. It is also good that Project introduced productivity kits for
selected community facilitators (78 out of 308 have benefited). The Project has also made
investment on public extension including the construction of houses that has the potential
to stay, but local authorities will need to include in their district budget some items
including maintenance costs for the houses and motorbikes, and recurrent costs for
extension officers.

On Government performance, it is important to balance between long term development
goals and short term Project indicators and targets. This is not easy and needs to continue
being thought about. For the Project to achieve the target values of its indicators, the
Government needs dedicated staff to implement the Project.

On the Bank performance, it was overall good. However, the Bank seemed to have some
tendency to interfere in Project implementation particularly when things were slow on the
Government side. At the end of the day, the Bank promoted dialogue and helped the
Government to understand the Bank rules and procedures, and to keep focus on results.

The key lesson is that the Project was designed under the assumption that the
Government already had the necessary implementation capacity, but this was a challenge
particularly at the district level.

The FM function was also challenging as the Project needed to use clientconnection, with
electronic signatures starting at some point of Project implementation, and all this was
challenging.




                                            51
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

IFPRI/DIME, 2013 - 3ie Final Report Draft: Seeing is Believing? Evidence from a
      Demonstration Plot Experiment - Washington DC.

Instituto Nacional de Estatística, 2013 – Relatório da Implementação dos Inquéritos 2013
        para o Projecto de Desenvolvimento de Pequenos Produtores Orientado para o
        Mercado no Vale do Zambeze – Maputo, Mozambique.

Instituto Nacional de Estatística, 2013 – Relatório da Implementação dos Inquéritos 2013
        para o Projecto de Desenvolvimento de Pequenos Produtores Orientado para o
        Mercado no Vale do Zambeze – Maputo, Mozambique

Republic of Mozambique/World Bank, 2006 – Financing Agreement for the Market led
      Smallholder Development in the Zambezi Valley.

Republic of Mozambique, 2006 – Environmental and Social Management Framework for
      the Market led Smallholder Development in the Zambezi Valley – Maputo,
      Mozambique.

Republic of Mozambique/World Bank, 2007 – Global Environment Facility Grant
      Agreement for the Market led Smallholder Development in the Zambezi Valley.

Republic of Mozambique - Operations Manual for Community Agricultural and
      Environmental Investment Fund for the Market led Smallholder Development in
      the Zambezi Valley – Maputo, Mozambique.

República de Moçambique, 2013 – Relatório Final do Projecto de Desenvolvimento de
      Pequenos Produtores Orientado para o Mercado no Vale do Zambeze – Maputo,
      Mozambique.

World Bank, 2006 – Project Appraisal on a Proposed Credit for the Market led
      Smallholder Development in the Zambezi Valley – Report no 35466-MZ –
      Washington DC.

World Bank, 2006 - Project Appraisal Document on a Proposed Grant from the Global
      Environment Facility for the Market led Smallholder Development in the Zambezi
      Valley - Report No 39806-MZ - Washington DC.

World Bank, 2010 – Report on the joint DNPDR/World Bank project mid-term review for
      the Market-led Smallholder Development in the Zambezi Valley project – Maputo,
      Mozambique.

World Bank, 2012 – Restructuring Paper on a Proposed Project Restructuring of Market
      led Smallholder Development in the Zambezi Valley – Maputo, Mozambique.




                                          52
World Bank, 2009-2013 – Various aide-memoires of supervision missions for the
      Community-Based Rural Land Development Project.

World Bank, 2010-2013 – Various Implementation Status and Results Reports for the
      Community-Based Rural Land Development Project.




                                       53
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          IBRD 34637
            30° E                                                                                          35° E                                                                                            40° E
10° S                                                                                                                                                                                                                               10° S


                                                                                                           Lake                        TA N Z A N I A                                                         To
                                                                                                                                                                                                            Mtwara


                                                                                                           Malawi

                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Mocimboa
          MOZAMBIQUE                                                                                                                                                                                 Mueda            da Praia




                                                                                                                                                                    a
                                                                                                                                                                end
                                                                                                                                                          Lug
                                                                                                            Metangula                                                                 CABO
                                                                                                                                                                             ssa
                                                                                                                                                                                lo   DELGADO
                                                                                                                                    NIASSA                                 Me
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Pemba
                                                                                                                       Lichinga
                                                                                                                                                                                                Montepuez
                                                                          M ALAWI                                                                    Marrupa

                                                                                                                             Itepela
                                                             To
                                                                                      To
                                                           Chipata                                                                                                                         io
                                                                                  Lilongwe                                                                                           Lúr
         ZAMBIA                                                                                                 To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Nacala
                                                                                                              Mangoche
                       To
                     Petauke                                              Furancungo                                                          Cuamba                             NAMPULA
                                                                                                             To
                                                                                                                                                                        Ribáué
15° S       To                                                        Chifunde                             Zomba                                                                                                               15° S
          Lusaka                         Fíngoè                                                                                                                                  Nampula                                 Mocambique
                                       Lago de          TETE          Zam
                                                                           Manje                                                                     Guruè
                                     Cahora Bassa                        be
                         Zumbu                               Songo         ze                                                                                       Alto Molócuè
                                                                                                               To
                                                                                                            Blantyre                   Namarrói




                                                                                                                                                                                           Ligo
                                          Mphende                                      Moatize                                                            Ile
                                                                                                                                   Milange                                       Gilé




                                                                                                                                                                                               nha
                                                                                   Tete                                                       Lugela                                                         Angoche
                                                                                                                                             un




                                                                                                                                        Lic
                                                                     Luenha Changara
                                                                                             MU
                                                                                              UTAR
                                                                                                TA R AR
                                                                                                     ARA                                        go   ZAMBEZIA
                                                                                                                    OR
                                                                                                                   MO     U M B AL
                                                                                                                      R R UM    ALA
                                                                                                                                          Mocuba
                                                             To                                Chemba                    Morrumbala
                                                            Mutoko
                                                                                               C HEMBA
                                                                                               CHE
                                                                                                                                       Namacurra            Maganja           Pebane
                                                                                              Nhamayábué
                                                                         MANICA Marínguè                      Caia
                                                                                                                            MOPEIA                   Nicoadala
                                                                                                                             Mopeia                    Quelimane
                                                                           Catandica
                                                                                             MA
                                                                                              ARR Í N GUÈ
                                                                                                      GUÈ                                            Inhassunge
                                                                                                                   Marromeu
        ZIMBABWE                                           To
                                                                                Gorongosa                        Inhaminga
                                                          Harare
                                                                                               SOFALA
                                                                     Chimoio
                                                                                                            Muanza                                                        INDIA N O CEA N
                                                                                  Nhamatanda
                                                           To                                              Dondo
                                                         Masvingo
                                                                                                               Beira
20° S                                                                                               Búzi                                                                                                                            20° S
                                                          To                 uzi
                                                                            Bú
                                                        Masvingo
                                                                               Chibabava
                                                                     Espungabera
                                                                                                      Machanga
                                                                                                                 Nova Mambone
                                                                                                                                                                          0      50         100      150     200 Kilometers
                                                                          Save                                         Inhassôro
                                    To Rutenga
                                                                                                                                                                          0             50            100            150 Miles
                                                                                                                        Vilanculos
                                                   Chicualacuala
                                                                          Machaíla
                                To
                                                                                 INHAMBANE                                                                                              MOZAMBIQUE
                               Messina


                                                 Mapai
                                                                                  Chigubo                                                                          MARKET LED SMALLHOLDER
                                                                  GAZA                                                                                                  DEVELOPMENT
                                                                                       Cha
                                                        Lim




                                                                                           ngan




                                                                                                                                                                    IN THE ZAMBEZI VALLEY
                                                           po




        SOUTH
                                                             po




                                                                                               e




                                                       Massingir                                                          Inhambane                                                    PROJECT PROVINCES
        AFRICA                                                                                     Panda
                                                                                                                                                                                       FIRST PHASE PROJECT DISTRICTS
                                                                                                                                                                                       SECOND PHASE PROJECT DISTRICTS
                                                              Guija                                              Inharrime
                                                                          Chibuto                                                                                                      SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS

25° S                                                                                                                                            25° S                                 DISTRICT CAPITALS
                                             To                                      Xai-Xai                                                                                           PROVINCIAL CAPITALS
                                           Nelspruit                                                                     This map was produced by
                                                                       Manhica                                           the Map Design Unit of The
                                                                                                                         World Bank. The boundaries,                                   NATIONAL CAPITAL
                                                 Moamba       MAPUTO                                                     colors, denominations and
                                                                                                                         any other information shown                                   RIVERS
                                              To
                                                                     MAPUTO                                              on this map do not imply, on
                                                                                                                                                                                       MAIN ROADS
                                                                                                                         the part of The World Bank
                                            Mbabane                                                                      Group, any judgment on the
                                                                                                                         legal status of any territory,                                DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
                        SWAZILAND                                      Zitundo
                                                                                                                         or any endorsement or
                                                                                                                         acceptance of such                                            PROVINCIAL BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                         boundaries.
             30° E                                                                                         35° E                                                                       INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 MAY 2006
