                                                Report No.: 104190-MZ




                PROJECT PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT REPORT

                               MOZAMBIQUE

       MARKET-LED SMALLHOLDER DEVELOPMENT IN THE ZAMBEZI
                         VALLEY PROJECT
                       (IDA-41980, TF-091638)

                               March 30, 2016




IEG Sustainable Development
Independent Evaluation Group
                                        ii




Currency Equivalents (Annual Averages) during Implementation

Currency Unit = new Mozambican Metical (Mt)

2006                US$1.00              Mt 26.23
2007                US$1.00              Mt 23.64
2008                US$1.00              Mt 25.35
2009                US$1.00              Mt 28.45
2010                US$1.00              Mt 32.39
2011                US$1.00              Mt 26.76
2012                US$1.00              Mt 29.70
2013                US$1.00              Mt 30.00


Abbreviations and Acronyms

BP           Bank Policy
CAEIF        Community Agricultural and Environmental Investment Fund
CBO          Community-based organization
DNPDR        National Directorate for the Promotion of Rural Development
ERR          Economic rate of return
ESMF         Environmental and Social Management Framework
GDP          Gross domestic product
GEF          Global Environment Facility
ICR          Implementation Completion Report
IDA          International Development Association
IEG          Independent Evaluation Group
IEGPS        IEG Public Sector Evaluation Unit
M&E          Monitoring and evaluation
MLSDP        Market-Led Smallholder Development Project
OP           Operational Policy
PAD          Project appraisal document
PDO          Project development objective
PIU          Project implementation unit
PRSP         Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
PPAR         Project Performance Assessment Report
3ie          International Initiative for Impact Evaluation
                                                     iii


       Fiscal Year

       Government:               January 1 – December 31




Director-General, Independent Evaluation                            :   Ms. Caroline Heider
Director, IEG Financial, Private Sector & Sustainable Development   :   Mr. Marvin Taylor-Dormond
Manager, IEG Sustainable Development                                :   Ms. Midori Makino
Task Manager                                                        :   Ms. Lauren Kelly
                                                                    v



Contents
Principal Ratings ............................................................................................................... vii
Key Staff Responsible...................................................................................................... viii
Preface................................................................................................................................. x
Summary ............................................................................................................................ xi
1. Background and Context................................................................................................. 1
2. Project Objective and Design, and Their Relevance ...................................................... 2
3. Implementation ............................................................................................................... 6
4. Monitoring and Evaluation ............................................................................................. 7
5. Achievement of the Project Objective ............................................................................ 8
   Inputs, Outputs, and Process-Related Interim Outcomes ............................................... 9
6. Efficiency ...................................................................................................................... 12
7. Outcome ........................................................................................................................ 13
8. Risk to Development Outcome ..................................................................................... 14
9. Bank and Borrower Performance.................................................................................. 15
   Bank Performance ......................................................................................................... 15
   Borrower Performance .................................................................................................. 16
10. Lessons ........................................................................................................................ 17
References ......................................................................................................................... 19
Annex A. Basic Data Sheet ............................................................................................... 22
Annex B. Supplementary Tables on Project Achievements ............................................. 25
Annex C. List of Persons Consulted ................................................................................. 28
Annex D. Group Interview Questions .............................................................................. 31
Annex E. Fieldwork Methodology ................................................................................... 33
Annex F CAEIF Asset Verification Information from Beneficiary Assessment ............. 36
Annex G. Map of the Project and IEG Assessment Areas ............................................... 64



 This report was prepared by Lauren Kelly, senior evaluation officer, and Jack W. van Holst Pellekaan,
 senior consultant, supported by Xavier Justino Muianga, Gaurav Relhan, and Kathryn Steingraber
 (consultants), who conducted fieldwork for the beneficiary assessment in November/December 2015.
 The report was peer reviewed by Isabelle Tsakok and panel reviewed by John Eriksson (consultants).
 Vibhuti Narang Khanna provided administrative support.
                                                       vi




Tables
Table 2.1. GDP per Capita by Province (2006) .................................................................. 4
Table 5.1. Number of CBOs with at Least One CAEIF-Funded Project .......................... 10
                                                       vii


Principal Ratings
Market-Led Smallholder Development in the Zambezi Valley Project (IDA-41980,
TF-91638, P093165, P098040)
                                ICR*                ICR Review*                               PPAR
Outcome                  Moderately satisfactory Moderately satisfactory                    Moderately
                                                                                           unsatisfactory
Risk to
 development
 outcome                        Significant                   Significant                   Significant
Bank Performance Moderately satisfactory Moderately satisfactory                            Moderately
                                                                                           unsatisfactory
Borrower                 Moderately satisfactory Moderately satisfactory                    Moderately
 performance                                                                               unsatisfactory
* The Implementation Completion Report (ICR) is a self-evaluation by the responsible Bank department. The ICR
Review is an intermediate IEG product that seeks to independently verify the findings of the ICR.
                                         viii


Key Staff Responsible
Market-Led Smallholder Development in the Zambezi Valley Project (IDA-41980,
TF-91638; P093165)
                                           Division chief/
Project       Task manager/leader          sector director      Country director
Appraisal     Jeeva A. Perumalpillai-   Richard Scobey/ Frank    Michael Baxter
                      Essex/                 Byamugisha
             Daniel Liborio da Cruz E
                      Sousa
Completion        Pedro Arlindo         Severin Kodderitzsch     Mark Lundell

Market-Led Smallholder Development in the Zambezi Valley Project (IDA-41980,
TF-91638 P098040)
                                          Division chief/
Project       Task manager/leader         sector director       Country director
Appraisal     Jeeva A. Perumalpillai-     Michel Wormser         Michael Baxter
                      Essex/
             Daniel Liborio da Cruz E
                      Sousa
Completion        Pedro Arlindo         Severin Kodderitzsch     Mark Lundell
                                                           ix


      IEG Mission: Improving World Bank Group development results through excellence in evaluation.


About this Report
       The Independent Evaluation Group assesses the programs and activities of the World Bank for two purposes:
first, to ensure the integrity of the Bank’s self-evaluation process and to verify that the Bank’s work is producing the
expected results, and second, to help develop improved directions, policies, and procedures through the
dissemination of lessons drawn from experience. As part of this work, IEG annually assesses 20-25 percent of the
Bank’s lending operations through field work. In selecting operations for assessment, preference is given to those that
are innovative, large, or complex; those that are relevant to upcoming studies or country evaluations; those for which
Executive Directors or Bank management have requested assessments; and those that are likely to generate
important lessons.
      To prepare a Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR), IEG staff examine project files and other
documents, visit the borrowing country to discuss the operation with the government, and other in-country
stakeholders, and interview Bank staff and other donor agency staff both at headquarters and in local offices as
appropriate.
      Each PPAR is subject to internal IEG peer review, Panel review, and management approval. Once cleared
internally, the PPAR is commented on by the responsible Bank department. The PPAR is also sent to the borrower
for review. IEG incorporates both Bank and borrower comments as appropriate, and the borrowers' comments are
attached to the document that is sent to the Bank's Board of Executive Directors. After an assessment report has
been sent to the Board, it is disclosed to the public.


About the IEG Rating System for Public Sector Evaluations
     IEG’s use of multiple evaluation methods offers both rigor and a necessary level of flexibility to ad apt to
lending instrument, project design, or sectoral approach. IEG evaluators all apply the same basic method to arrive
at their project ratings. Following is the definition and rating scale used for each evaluation criterion (additional
information is available on the IEG website: http://worldbank.org/ieg).
     Outcome: The extent to which the operation’s major relevant objectives were achieved, or are expected to
be achieved, efficiently. The rating has three dimensions: relevance, efficacy, and efficiency. Relevance includes
relevance of objectives and relevance of design. Relevance of objectives is the extent to which the project’s
objectives are consistent with the country’s current development priorities and with current Bank country and
sectoral assistance strategies and corporate goals (expressed in Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers, Country
Assistance Strategies, Sector Strategy Papers, Operational Policies). Relevance of design is the extent to which
the project’s design is consistent with the stated objectives. Efficacy is the extent to which the project’s objectives
were achieved, or are expected to be achieved, taking into account their relative importance. Efficiency is the
extent to which the project achieved, or is expected to achieve, a return higher than the opportunity cost of capital
and benefits at least cost compared to alternatives. The efficiency dimension generally is not applied to adjustment
operations. Possible ratings for Outcome: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately
Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.
     Risk to Development Outcome: The risk, at the time of evaluation, that development outcomes (or
expected outcomes) will not be maintained (or realized). Possible ratings for Risk to Development Outcome: High,
Significant, Moderate, Negligible to Low, Not Evaluable.
     Bank Performance: The extent to which services provided by the Bank ensured quality at entry of the
operation and supported effective implementation through appropriate supervision (including ensuring adequate
transition arrangements for regular operation of supported activities after loan/credit closing, toward the
achievement of development outcomes. The rating has two dimensions: quality at entry and quality of supervision.
Possible ratings for Bank Performance: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately
Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.
     Borrower Performance: The extent to which the borrower (including the government and implementing
agency or agencies) ensured quality of preparation and implementation, and complied with covenants and
agreements, toward the achievement of development outcomes. The rating has two dimensions: government
performance and implementing agency(ies) performance. Possible ratings for Borrower Performance: Highly
Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly
Unsatisfactory.
                                                x


Preface
This Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) looks at the Mozambique Market-Led
Smallholder Development in the Zambezi Valley Project. The project, cofinanced by the
Global Environment Facility, was aimed at increasing the incomes of poor, small-scale
farmers in five districts in three provinces in the Zambezi Valley through improved
agricultural support services, public and on-farm investments, and sustainable land
management.

The World Bank approved its contribution to this project on June 20, 2006, with an
International Development Association (IDA) credit of US$20 million. The Global
Environment Facility contributed US$6.2 million. The government made a commitment of
US$0.3 million, and beneficiaries (farmers) were expected to make an in-kind contribution of
US$0.9 million. Hence, the total original cost of the project was appraised at US$27.4
million. The project closed in September 2013. The actual total cost of the project was
US$28.42, due mainly to an exchange rate appreciation between the SDR in terms of the
U.S. dollar.

The report was prepared by Jack W. van Holst Pellekaan, senior consultant, under the
guidance of Lauren Kelly, senior evaluation officer, IEG Public Sector Evaluation Unit
(IEGSD). The field team was led by Ms. Kathryn Steingraber and was supported by Mr.
Xavier Muianga and Mr. Gaurav Relhan. The team undertook a mission to Mozambique
between November 20 and December 12, 2015.

Methodology This assessment utilized a mixed-methods approach that included a desk
review of documentation (such as appraisal, supervision, and completion reports; the mid-
term review; and external project assessments); interviews with key stakeholders, including
Bank and project staff and other donor partners; group and individual interviews with
subproject recipients and members of the project-financed rural savings and lending groups
(see the expanded methodology, including a description of the sampling frame, in appendixes
D and E); and an asset verification exercise of a sample of the public and private assets
supported by the project (appendix F). The Independent Evaluation Group (IEG) also
conducted semi-structured interviews with other relevant stakeholder groups—traders,
shopkeepers, and technicians.
IEG is grateful to the government of Mozambique and the World Bank country staff for
facilitating a high level of access to the project and its associated sites. IEG thanks the many
district administrators and their staff for the generous amount of time and attention that was
given to this review. IEG received excellent administrative and coordination support from
Clarisse Nhabangue in the World Bank Country Office in Maputo.

Following standard IEG procedures, a copy of the draft PPAR was sent to the relevant
government officials and its agencies for their review and feedback, and no comments were
received.
                                                 xi


Summary
This document is a Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) of the Mozambique
Market-Led Smallholder Development in the Zambezi Valley Project (MLSDP). The project
was approved in June 2006, 15 years after the cessation of the country’s brutal civil war,
which caused massive economic upheaval and destruction of rural and agricultural
infrastructure in the Zambezi Valley. Following the formation of a stable representative
government in 1994, Mozambique’s agricultural sector and the econom y as a whole started
to grow rapidly.

Project Objective and Financing. The project was designed, in an extended post-conflict
context, to help poor rural farmers in the Zambezi Valley to increase their productivity and
incomes and to connect to wider opportunities within the emerging rural economy. The project
development objective was “to increase the income of smallholder farmers in the project area.”
The total appraised cost of the project was US$27.4 million, including a US$20 million
International Development Association (IDA) credit, a US$6.2 million contribution from the
Global Environment Facility, US$300,000 from the government of Mozambique, and
US$900,000 of in-kind support from the project beneficiary farmers. The actual total cost of
the project was US$28.42 million, due mainly to an exchange rate appreciation between the
SDR in terms of the US dollar.

Project Performance
The relevance of the project’s development objective to Mozambique’s development
strategies and the country assistance strategies was—and remains—high. The project
was located in some of the poorest districts of the poorest provinces in Mozambique. The
goal of increasing agricultural incomes of smallholders is also in line with the government’s
Poverty Reduction Strategies, its Decentralization Policy and Program, the Mozambique
Agenda 2025, and it’s Five-Year Development Program (2004–09). The government’s
recent Strategic Plan for Agricultural Development places a high priority on stimulating the
structural transformation of the agriculture sector. The project’s objective was relevant to the
Bank’s FY04-07 Country Assistance Strategy and to the FY12–15 Country Partnership
Strategy (which, among other things, aimed to support decentralization and reduce poverty).

The relevance of the project’s design was modest. The project’s results framework was
inadequate, since it lacked causal chains to show how the project’s activities would lead to
intermediate outcomes and the development objective. For a project designed to build
service delivery capacity in one of the world’s poorest countries, the design choice of using
country systems was premature and proved to be prone to mismanagement. The project
lacked robust and clear participation criteria. This—coupled with the need to distribute
capital-intensive infrastructure that required skills and access to labor and land—resulted in
elite capture of these project assets. The project also overestimated famers’ willingness to
sustain the project-supported assets within an environment characterized by weak and risky
markets for the agricultural outputs.

Efficacy is rated modest. While a number of the project’s outputs were produced, the
project fell short of achieving its development objective of increasing the agricultural income
of smallholder farmers relative to non-project farmers. According to project assessment data,
                                              xii

the average increase in household income for the project beneficiaries was 36 percent higher
than the average recorded at baseline. However, for the control group, the average increase in
household income was 69 percent compared with the average income recorded at baseline.
Overall, the data examined by IEG reveal that agricultural productivity increased for the
treatment area and that farmers achieved additional crop diversity through the provision of
enhanced technical assistance and the distribution of improved agricultural inputs and
knowledge about improved techniques. But the project failed to tackle the drivers of poverty
in the region related to the composition and nature of the agricultural input and marketing
chains, which were unstructured, asymmetric, and highly unfavorable for the rural farmer.
There was no evidence that the project supported sustained increased marketing opportunities
for the target groups.

Project interventions—such as the support for rural savings and lending schemes—helped to
smooth consumption and, according to beneficiary interviews, were a vital tool used to
respond to shocks (flooding, for example). But the savings and lending schemes in this
project did not include seed capital, and expectations were low regarding their ability to
support investments or increased productivity. Rather, savings schemes were designed to
teach financial literacy and funds were allowed to be redistributed periodically, rather than
revolved among members. Public infrastructure was built, and support for rural roads can be
linked to the overall modest outcome, but there is evidence that the quality of rural road
construction and small bridges was poor, and that there is insufficient maintenance. The
construction of individual grain silos can also be linked to the overall modest outcome,
because they provided some beneficiaries with an opportunity to earn higher agricultural
income by selling grain in the off-season. But many beneficiaries interviewed noted that they
used the small silos mainly for smoothing consumption during the lean season. Other
investments, such as the design and financing of markets, showed severe weaknesses with
regard to their placement and the opportunity for increased profitability (compared with
roadside sales). Gender was not considered in the design of the Community Agriculture and
Environment Investment Fund (CAEIF), but women were represented well in the rural
savings and lending groups.

Efficiency is rated modest. Undocumented estimates of yields and commodity prices were
used to estimate the economic rate of return of 18 percent for the small enterprises supported
by the project, which is above the 15 percent estimated at appraisal. However, the estimates
at project close do not bear this out in relation to the overall outcomes achieved by the
project. Other aspects of the project proved highly inefficient: project coordination and
monitoring costs increased by 92 percent over the course of the project, owing to
management inefficiencies (failed baseline surveys, changing of staff). While a decision to
decentralize project management to the districts was relevant and proved effective, the
management of this process ate away at the funds originally designed to support subproject
investments.

The overall outcome of this project is rated moderately unsatisfactory on the basis of the
high relevance of the project’s objective, the modest relevance of its design, and its modest
efficacy and efficiency.
                                               xiii

Bank performances is rated moderately unsatisfactory. For the Bank, the project’s
quality at entry was rated moderately unsatisfactory because of inadequate attention to the
lessons of previous community-driven development approaches. These lessons would have
argued for additional time and attention to targeting, group formation, capacity building, and
decision-making capabilities. Insufficient attention was given to the choice of consultants as
community facilitators—for example, better behavior was demonstrated by the consultants
chosen to support the rural savings and lending schemes than by the firm selected to support
the Community Agricultural and Environmental Investment Fund (CAIEF). There was also
insufficient attention given to lessons learned from marketing approaches, which require an
understanding of culture and behavior, both with regard to individual capacity and policy
making. There is no evidence that project design at entry was equipped to tackle the
unstructured nature of the value chains and to support the types of marketing interventions
that could level the playing field for small farmers. The centralization of project management
in Maputo also caused severe implementation delays. Supervision was rated moderately
satisfactory. It neglected issues related to monitoring and reporting and the difficulties
created by using country systems early on (deemed premature in the project design section).
But efforts to decentralize implementation after the mid-term were very responsive to the
needs of farmers, and these efforts can be directly linked to the outputs achieved, albeit
insufficient, with regard to outcomes.

Borrower performance is rated moderately unsatisfactory. Government performance
was rated moderately unsatisfactory because of the substantial delays in formalizing the
restructuring agreed to at the mid-term review. An official request was not made until April
2011, which was over a year after the review. Subsequent protracted discussions about the
implementation of the changes contributed to a further delay of 11 months before the
restructuring was made effective. The performance of the implementing agency was rated
moderately satisfactory.

Lessons
   Rural institutions can play a key service delivery role in the absence of strong state
    capacity, but sustained support (throughout and beyond the project period) is
    needed to ensure good governance and the capacity to provide services to the poor.
    In the absence of this support, there is a risk that such institutions may favor some
    participants over others, may neglect attention to gender and other vulnerable groups, and
    may lack the capacity to deliver sustained services after project close. The quality of
    sensitization and training, grounded in local culture, is key to enabling equitable and
    sustained service delivery. In the case of the MLSDP, IEG found that the poor quality of
    facilitation services undermined the ability of the rural poor to benefit more from the
    productive investments made by the project and to engage in productive activities after
    project close.

   Social accountability tools are important elements of a project intended to be
    implemented through village-level organizations. Monitoring and evaluation systems
    that include social accountability assessments, including village-level scorecards, can
    help the project team (client counterpart and the Bank), identify and address
    underperforming areas, the under provision of services, the relative strength of rural
    organizations, and other behavioral issues that may be undermining efficacy.
                                             xiv

   A market-based approach to developing the smallholder sector requires an up-front
    analysis of skills, knowledge, and capacity in order to engage in various value chain
    activities, such as marketing. In Mozambique, owing in part to the nascent nature of
    the country’s market-led economy, skills in areas such as efficient marketing were rare in
    many of the district-level administrations.

   Simple technologies work best in poor rural communities. The introduction of
    complex technology into poor farming areas is risky and unlikely to succeed, because the
    maintenance of complex systems is almost always unaffordable for poor smallholder
    farmers.

   Behavior and incentives, both individual and at the policy level, should be placed at
    the heart of programs geared toward supporting sustainable land management. In
    the case of this project, land tenure security and land rights are central to a farmer’s
    decision to engage in sustainable land, soil, and water management practices, and yet the
    project tended to focus more on the technical fixes.




                                                     Marvin Taylor-Dormond
                                                     Director, Financial, Private Sector and
                                                     Sustainable Development Department
                                                          1


1. Background and Context
1.1     This is a Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) of the Market-Led
Smallholder Development Project (MLSDP) in Mozambique. The project was approved by the
World Bank’s Board in June 2006, roughly 15 years after Mozambique reached a peace
agreement to end its brutal civil war in April 1992. The war caused extreme destruction to
Mozambique’s economy. It wreaked particular havoc on the agricultural sector in the Zambezi
Valley. This is where some of the fiercest fighting took place because of its proximity to what
was then Rhodesia, which provided the Mozambique Resistance Movement with substantial
assistance during the war. Following the formation of a stable representative government in
1994, the agricultural sector and the economy as a whole started to grow rapidly.

1.2     Between 1994 and 2004, the total gross domestic product (GDP) grew by 8 percent
annually, albeit from a very low base. During this period, the national poverty headcount index
fell from 69 percent in 1996 to 54 percent in 2002, and by 2002/03, rural poverty had declined,
from 71 percent in 1996/97 to 55 percent (Republic of Mozambique 2006, table 2). The
conditions for income growth were created by economic reforms initiated by the government, as
well as the government’s success in maintaining national peace and stability.

1.3     The agricultural sector was an important contributor to overall economic growth. This
contribution was primarily the result of the introduction of more progressive economic policies,
which led to a departure from the collectivization of agricultural production, among other things,
and the post-conflict resettlement of refugees in the rural areas. The resulting expansion in the
availability of land and labor led to a rapid increase in areas harvested, which prompted
agricultural production to grow by an average of 6.8 percent per year from 1992 to 1997, and
4.6 percent per year between 1997 and 2003 (World Bank 2006b, p. 7).

1.4    At design, smallholder farm enterprises in Mozambique as a whole accounted for 99
percent of all rural households and provided 95 percent of agricultural GDP. Most of the
smallholders were subsistence farmers with an average of 1.4 hectares of cultivated land per
household.1 The traditional low-input farming practices resulted in generally low yields
compared with neighboring countries with similar agro-ecological potential, such as Tanzania
and the north of South Africa.

1.5     Smallholders, particularly in the Zambezi Valley, had similar characteristics. Overall,
poverty rates throughout the project area at appraisal varied from a high of 66 percent in the
Mutarara District in Tete Province to a low of 45 percent in Meringue and Chemba Districts in
Sofala Province. Farmers were also highly vulnerable to extreme climatic conditions, which
alternated between frequent droughts and floods. Unsustainable exploitation of natural resources
as a result of slash-and-burn agricultural systems and the changing climatic patterns were likely
to aggravate land degradation and threaten future productivity in the Zambezi Valley. Despite
these challenges, the recovery of the agricultural sector in the 1990s at the national level
provided hope that the sector would continue to grow and that smallholder incomes could rise.
This led to the design of the Market-Led Smallholder Development Project in the Zambezi


1
 Rights to land for farmers typically encompass a much larger area than the cultivated area in the Zambezi Valley
because of traditional user rights associated with “shifting agriculture .”
                                                        2

Valley, which was intended to increase average farm incomes and, at the same time, address the
underlying environmental challenges. The project area involved about one million people.

Market-Led Smallholder Development in the Zambezi Valley Project
Cost, Financing, and Important Dates

1.6    Project cost and financing. The World Bank approved its contribution to this project on
June 20, 2006, with an International Development Association (IDA) credit of US$20 million.
The Global Environment Facility (GEF) contributed US$6.2 million. The government made a
commitment of US$0.3 million, and the beneficiaries (farmers) were expected to make an in-
kind contribution of US$0.9 million. Hence the total original cost of the project was appraised
at US$27.4 million. The actual total cost of the project was US$28.42 million, due mainly to an
exchange rate appreciation between the SDR in terms of the U.S. dollar.

1.7     Dates. The project was approved by the World Bank Board in June 2006, and it became
effective in December of the same year. The project underwent a level II restructuring in May
2012, when the original IDA credit closing date of March 31, 2013, was extended by six months
to align with the GEF project closing date. This was done to reflect the full integration of the
IDA and GEF activity implementation on the ground and to prevent activities from being
terminated in the middle of the agricultural season.


2. Project Objective and Design, and Their Relevance
Project Objective and Its Relevance
2.1     IDA credit objective and project development objective (PDO) indicators. The
PDO, as stated in the credit agreement, was “to increase the income of smallholder farmers in
the Project Area.”2 The project focused on selected districts in the Zambezi Valley in the
provinces of Zambezia, Tete, and Sofala. The project appraisal document (PAD) explained that
increased incomes would be achieved not only by direct support to smallholder groups and other
supply chain participants, but also through the strengthening of capacity at the local level to
undertake and manage service delivery within the context of the government’s decentralization
policy. The key PDO indicator was “to achieve 30 percent average increase in agricultural
income of participating project beneficiaries”— smallholder farmer households—including self-
consumption, compared with nonparticipating households, by the end of the project.3

2.2     Global Environment Facility objective. The project’s global environment objective, as
stated in the Global Environment Facility (GEF) Agreement, was the same as the PDO: “to
increase the income of smallholder farmers in the project area” (GEF 2007, schedule 1). A
broader statement of intent, located in the PAD, goes further, to say that the GEF grant would be

2
  The interpretation of this objective is reflected in the definition of its indicator in Annex 3 of the PAD (World
Bank 2006b) and in the ICR’s data sheet (World Bank 2014). The PAD states that the PDO indicator is “30%
average increase in agricultural income—including self-consumption.” The ICR defines the PDO indicator as
“30% average increase in agricultural income of participating beneficiary households (compared with
nonparticipating households).”
3
  Neither the project’s credit agreement (World Bank 2006a) nor the PAD (World Bank 2006b) made it clear
whether the increase in income compared with nonparticipating households was intended to be in real terms. At the
same time, footnote 5 on page 11 of the ICR for the project asserts (without any apparent authority) that the 30
percent income increase was intended to be in nominal terms.
                                                          3

used to “limit land degradation, provide predictive capacity for assessing vulnerabilities to
climate change, and to improve the ecosystem's resilience towards climate change” (World Bank
2006b, p. 11).

2.3     Relevance of the project development objective was and remains high. The
relevance of the project’s objective to the Bank’s Country Assistance Strategy for FY04-07 was
high, since one of its goals was to build government capacity within the framework of
decentralization and reduce poverty through rapid growth based on increased yields (resulting
from improved inputs and technologies) in the agricultural sector. The project supported the
first and second pillars of the CAS objectives: “raising crop yields through farmers’ use of
improved technologies” and “an improved structure of service delivery through local
authorities.” The project’s objective continues to be highly relevant to the World Bank Group’s
current Country Partnership Strategy for Mozambique for fiscal 2012–15, which cites the need
for enhanced agricultural productivity and increased employment opportunities in the economy.
With respect to the environment, the current Country Partnership Strategy focuses on mitigating
the impacts of climate change.

2.4     The relevance of the PDO to the government’s past and current policies and programs is
also high. Increasing incomes of smallholders was in line with the government’s Poverty
Reduction Strategies I and II,4 its Decentralization Policy and Program, Agenda 2025, and Five-
Year Program (2004–09). The government’s Strategic Plan for the Development of the
Agrarian Sector (2011–20) placed a high priority on stimulating the structural transformation of
agriculture. This involved increasing agriculture sector productivity, improving the efficiency of
labor in agriculture, thereby releasing labor for productive engagement in areas such as rural
towns and small cities, as well as in the rest of the national economy. This would establish the
conditions for integrating agriculture’s labor resources into the rural nonfarm economy. It was
recognized that structural transformation of agriculture would require rural producers to be
better organized through public investment and more effective rural institutions and
organizations.

    2.5 More recently, agricultural growth was emphasized again as a priority for the
    government when it released the National Agriculture Investment Plan in June 2015. The
    president of Mozambique described the plan as “a central instrument to attract investment to
    the agriculture, fisheries and livestock, agricultural extension and research of simple processing
    technologies, food conservation and trade of domestic production” (Republic of Mozambique,
    Ministry of Agriculture and Food Security 2015). With the plan, the government recognized
    that targeted investments in rural development are warranted to provide the basis for growth in
    the rural nonfarm economy, and hence reduce the urban-rural income divide. The plan
    underlies the continued relevance of the project.




4
 Referred to as the “Action Plan for the Reduction of Absolute Poverty I and II” (PARPA I and II) (Republic of
Mozambique 2006), that became the defining economic and social policy framework for the Government.
                                                   4

The project was located in a number of the poorest districts in some of the poorest provinces in
Mozambique: Morrumbala and Mopeia Districts in Zambezia Province, Chemba and Meringue
Districts in Sofala Province, and in the Mutarara District in Tete Province. Table 2.1 shows the
average per capita GDP in all provinces in Mozambique in 2006, when the project was
approved. In that year, the average daily per capita GDP levels were $0.8 and $0.9 in Zambezia
and Tete Provinces, respectively, and $1.4 per day in Sofala.

Table 2.1. GDP per Capita by Province (2006)

                                                             GDP per capita
 Region/provinces/project districts                             (US$)
 Northern Region                                                 285
     Niassa                                                        242
     Cabo Delgado                                                  230
     Nampula                                                       320
 Central Region                                                    292
     Zambezia (project in Morrumbala and Mopeia Districts)         304
     Tete (project in Mutarara District)                           327
     Manica                                                        224
     Sofala (project in Chemba and Meringue Districts)             517
 Southern Region                                                   794
     Inhambane                                                     463
     Gaza                                                          286
     Maputo Province                                              1,307
     Maputo city                                                  1,226

 Mozambique                                                        418

Source: National Statistics Institute.


Project Design and Its Relevance
2.6     Project activities. The project had four components or groups of activities: (i)
community group organization and local institutional strengthening; (ii) agricultural production
and marketing development; (iii) community agricultural and environmental investment funds;
and (iv) project management. They are briefly described below:

   (i)      Component 1: Community Group Organization and Local Institutional
            Strengthening (planned: IDA, US$7.6 million; GEF, US$0.9 million/ actual: IDA,
            US$5.9 million; GEF, US$0.8 million). This component provided financing for the
            establishment, capacity building, development, and ongoing support for community-
            based organizations (CBOs), rural financial services (savings and loan groups), and
            capacity development for district administrations in the five districts covered by the
            project.

  (ii)      Component 2: Agricultural Production and Marketing Development (planned:
            IDA, US$3.9 million; GEF, US$2.5 million/actual: IDA, US$3.8 million; GEF, US$2.5
                                                         5

            million). This component provided financing for agribusiness and market development,
            strengthening of extension services, applied research, training and demonstrations (such
            as demonstration plots testing different varieties of maize), and improved agricultural
            and agroforestry systems.

    (iii)   Component 3: Community Agricultural and Environmental Investment Fund
            (planned: IDA, US$5.9 million; GEF, US$1.7 million/actual: IDA, US$4.4 million;
            GEF, US$1.5 million). This component provided grants financed by the Community
            Agricultural and Environmental Investment Fund (CAEIF) for agriculturally related
            public infrastructure (CAEIF-1), small-scale agricultural investment (CAEIF-2), and
            sustainable land management (CAEIF-3). Funds were mainly used for civil works,
            consultants, equipment, and materials for building infrastructure, as well as farming and
            agribusiness investments.

    (iv)    Project Management (planned: IDA, US$2.0 million; GEF, US$0.4 million/actual:
            IDA, US$4.1 million; GEF, US$0.5 million). This component provided financing for
            project management and coordination, as well as monitoring and evaluation (M&E).

2.7     Project restructuring. The project undertook a level II restructuring—approved by
Bank management—on May 24, 2012. The restructuring had no impact on the project’s
objective, but it did lead to changes in some indicators and management arrangements. The
restructuring reduced the targeted number of savings and lending group members from 12,000
to 6,000. It moved many members of the project management team from Maputo to the project
area. And it reflected the remapping of the project-implementing agency, the National
Directorate for the Promotion of Rural Development (DNPDR), from the Ministry of Planning
and Development to the Ministry of State Affairs. The project’s closing date was extended to
September 30, 2013.

2.8     Project design. The project was designed as a community-driven development program
of service delivery. It was designed to support the country’s decentralization efforts, with a
focus on delivering services to the poor rural smallholder farmers in the central region of the
country. It was intended to help build the capacity of the district administrations and their staff
to better deliver agricultural services and technical assistance, especially to remote, underserved
farming communities. With a focus on capacity building, it was the first project in Mozambique
to have been implemented through its own country systems, including financial management,
procurement, and monitoring systems.

2.9     This assessment rates the relevance of design as modest for several reasons, explained
in the following sections.

2.10 Use of country systems. The decision to design a program using country systems in
2006 was premature. Although the focus on capacity building at the district level was correct,
the effective implementation of the project—and ultimately the successful achievement of the
project objective—required a different system of support for many of the project design
elements.5 Project design assumed too readily that the district-level capacity built through the
government’s Decentralization Policy and Program and the Bank-supported Decentralized
Planning and Financing Project had prepared the districts for the management of a complex

5
  The ICR (World Bank 2014, para. 19) pointed out, “design should have considered a longer -term approach to
institutional capacity building, particularly in the situation of Mozambique (as a post-conflict state).”
                                                           6

community development project. This led to an over-reliance on the country’s decentralization
framework, which was too recent a construction to be fully in place and operational. In
particular, project design overestimated existing capacity at the district and local levels (in terms
of procurement, financial management, and M&E), thereby adversely affecting progress during
the first years of implementation. Although an assessment of capacity at the project formulation
stage recognized that institutional capacity at the district level was weak, insufficient project
activities (for example, further capacity building) were included to address this weakness (IEG
2015, section 3b). As a general principle, project implementation units (PIUs) are not favored,
because they seldom lead to strengthening the capacity of government institutions. In this case,
however, a separate PIU in place from the start could have been appropriate, because of the
limited capacity of the Ministry of Planning and Development staff to manage a large project in
a remote region.

2.11 District administrations had difficulties tackling the substantial challenges, such as
forming sustainable CBOs and savings and loan groups. To deal with these problems, the
project brought in consultants to undertake the tasks and to handle the day-to-day management
of extension support to farmers and support to the implementation of the CAEIF. At the central
and district levels, the DNPDR was not staffed with project management specialists, it was too
remote from the project area, and district administrations had inadequate experience in
managing project implementation. A specialized PIU in the DNPDR, headed by a manager with
specialized project management staff and competent local office in the project area, would have
been a far more relevant design choice.

2.12 Weak planning and a lack of a causal chain. The project design failed to articulate a
coherent theory of change, supported by a causal frame that would have linked the activities to
the anticipated intermediate outcomes, in a manner that would have allowed attribution to the
project. This design weakness was pointed out by the mid-term review, but it was not until 2012,
just before project close, that efforts were made to retrofit a coherent, populated results frame to
the project activities.

2.13 The project also lacked clear beneficiary selection criteria. Criteria for beneficiary
selection were not included, for example, in the Project Implementation Manual.6 As a result,
district-level staff had a difficult time identifying groups and individuals that were capable of
qualifying for the more capital-intensive subprojects. Because of the need for a significant in-
kind contribution, access to land, and, in some cases, labor, these major assets were found to be
awarded to the more capable and influential members of the targeted areas. A robust stakeholder
analysis or political economy analysis could have helped to identify a more appropriate
subproject menu with regard to capacity, and could have provided advice on more appropriate
methods of distribution.


3. Implementation
3.1    The project was designed to be implemented in two phases over six years (World Bank
2006b, p. 12, para. 3). The first phase was implemented in the districts of Mutarara and
Morrumbala, in the provinces of Tete and Zambezia, respectively. These first 2 districts had a
combined population of 500,000, with an average population density of 25 persons per square
kilometer, living within 8 administrative posts and 21 localities. The second phase was
implemented in Mopeia and Meringue Districts in Sofala province, and in the district of
6
    The PAD refers only to a proposed 20,000 beneficiaries in the project area (Annex 3, p. 45).
                                                        7

Chemba, in Zambezia. Combined, the second-phase districts had a total population of 250,000
and a low population density of 12 persons per square kilometer. Poverty rates were—and
remain— high throughout the project area, ranging from 66 percent in Mutarara District at the
time of design to 45 percent in Sofala District. Literacy rates were some of the lowest in the
country, averaging 13 percent across the project area.

Safeguards
    3.2 Environmental safeguards. This project was rated category B for environmental
    assessment at appraisal. Actual project investments to be financed by the CAEIF were designed
    to be demand-driven and could only be determined during project implementation. The project
    prepared an Environmental and Social Management Framework (ESMF). In addition, four
    World Bank safeguard policies were triggered: Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01), Pest
    Management (OP/BP 4.09), Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12), and Projects on
    International Waterways (OP/BP 7.50). The ESMF contained screening procedures for
    determining if a resettlement plan would be required for any particular investment according to
    the Resettlement Policy Framework that was prepared according to the requirements of the
    OP4.12. Both ESMF and the Resettlement Policy Framework were disclosed in the project
    districts and provinces and in the Bank’s Infoshop. The OP/BP 7.50 was triggered because of
    the possible water withdrawals for the proposed small-scale irrigation projects implemented in
    the Zambezi River Basin, including the Shire River, a major tributary of the Zambezi River.
    Notifications were sent to all riparian countries, and none of them objected to the project by the
    deadline of May 15, 2006. None of the project activities implemented under the project have
    had any significant adverse social and/or environmental impacts or risks.7

    3.3 The environmental safeguards coordinated during project implementation included: the
    introduction and implementation of the districts’ land use plans, which were preceded by series
    of technical trainings on territorial planning aimed at local traditional leaders and government
    officials. In addition, numerous training activities on sustainable land management/natural
    resource management were also carried out for various target groups. Partnerships with
    community radio services were pertinent in raising community awareness of the need to
    comply with environmental safeguards standards. For example, an increasing number of
    lower-income and vulnerable groups were involved in the use of improved honey production
    techniques using box hives, which led to significant reduction of uncontrolled bush fires
    (World Bank and Republic of Mozambique 2013). According to project documentation, there
    were no major negative social impacts and conflicts as a result of the project’s implementation
    (World Bank 2014, para. 27).

4. Monitoring and Evaluation
4.1     Design. M&E was to be implemented at three levels: (i) internal monitoring by the
project’s district facilitator; (ii) process monitoring by an independent contractor reporting
directly to the Inter-Ministerial Steering Committee; and (iii) impact evaluations carried out at
the time of the mid-term review and at project completion. A baseline survey of the project area
was to be carried out prior to credit effectiveness. It would include remote sensing and
geographic information systems capturing baseline and diagnostic information on natural

7
 Compliance with the safeguards was confirmed in the ICR (World Bank 2014), para. 26, and in the
DNPDR/World Bank Joint Mid Term Review (World Bank 2010), April-June 2010, p. 4, para 9.
                                                     8

resource endowments, villages and communities, and infrastructure and establish baselines for
project indicators. According to the PAD, these surveys were fully budgeted (World Bank
2006b, p. 20).

4.2      Implementation. To implement the M&E system, DNPDR hired a consultant at the
start of the project to establish an initial baseline. This process was discontinued, reportedly
because of the lack of data at the district level. A second attempt was made to develop a
database for the project. The project management unit hired a consultant who reportedly
designed an interactive management information system that linked the unit to the districts. The
exercise included training of national- and district-level staff in M&E. However, in spite of this
exercise, neither the originally planned baseline nor the needed data were collected and utilized
in a meaningful way by the project team. A third attempt was made during the life of the project
to construct a project baseline, beginning in April 2011, after the mid-term review. But the firm
hired was found to have insufficient capacity to carry out the task and the contract. Eventually
the DNPDR, in collaboration with the International Initiative for Impact Evaluation (3ie) and the
International Food Policy Research Institute, retained the National Institute of Statistics, which,
after 15 months of training, undertook a household survey in the project area that has been
described as the “midline survey.” The funds available for the earlier planned baseline survey
were used to finance the National Institute of Statistics again to undertake a second household
survey in 2013, referred to as the end-line survey.”8

4.3     In order to measure progress toward the achievement of the project’s development
objective, the Bank team, in partnership with the Bank’s Development Impact Evaluation team,
reconstructed the baseline values and “final” average smallholder incomes in the project area
and in districts not benefiting from the project.

4.4      Use of the M&E data. There was no evidence uncovered by this PPAR that M&E
activities, such as “Process monitoring (which) will be undertaken by an independent contractor
reporting directly to the Inter-Ministerial Steering Committee,” as planned in the PAD (World
Bank 2006b, p. 20), or “community-based M&E as a tool for building the capacity of
associations to implement their plans and monitor their impact,” also in the PAD (p. 21) were
implemented. The Implementation Completion Report (ICR) (World Bank 2014) noted that
“The M&E capacity challenges affected the establishment of an effective M&E system for the
project. The capacity for integrated planning was also highly constrained and this led to
inconsistencies across districts in the implementation of project activities” (para. 24).

4.5     Overall M&E is rated modest.

5. Achievement of the Project Objective
5.1    Both the IDA- and GEF-financed operations had the same objective: “to increase the
income of smallholder farmers in the Project Area.” This section will assess the project’s
achievements in terms of outputs (including intermediate outcomes) and final outcomes.

5.2    The project modestly increased the incomes of smallholder farmers in the project area.
While a number of the project’s planned outputs were produced, the project fell short of
achieving its development objective of increasing the agricultural income of smallholder farmers
8
 For sources see the ICR for the MLSDP (World Bank 2014), paras. 23 and 24; and Kondylis, Mueller, and Zhu
(2014), Appendix B: Sample Design; Grantee Final Report accepted by 3ie, August 2014. This paper was
subsequently published as World Bank Policy Research Working Paper No. 700.
                                                             9

over those of non-project farmers. According to data collected by the end-line survey, the
average increase in household agricultural income for the project’s treatment group was 36
percent higher than the average agricultural income recorded for that group at the reconstructed
baseline. However, for the control group, the average increase in household agricultural income
was 69 percent, compared with the average agricultural income recorded at the reconstructed
baseline. While the reported 36 percent increase exceeds the PDO target of 30 percent, no
explanation is provided by the data collected at end-line as to why the treatment districts
performed worse on average than the control.9 It is also necessary to note that by achieving the
PDO target, the project beneficiaries would have still been categorized as poor, since the 30
percent target increase would not be sufficient to propel the target beneficiaries over the
internationally agreed poverty line of US$1.25 a day as of project close in 2013.

Inputs, Outputs, and Process-Related Interim Outcomes
5.3     Building agricultural extension capacity. At appraisal, the government of
Mozambique stressed the need to improve, among other things, the performance of its
agriculture extension services (World Bank 2006b, p. 8). The project supported the provision of
extension services to farmers in the project area by increasing the number of extension officers
available at the administrative posts and by supporting the construction of houses (33) located in
the districts, close to the farmer populations. The project also financed the purchase of motor
bikes and petrol and provided other operational support.

5.4     IEG interviewed many of the district-level staff involved in the delivery of these
services, and in the absence of staff, interviewed 365 project beneficiaries located across 3 of the
5 target regions.10 While the quality of the services was found to have varied across parts of the
project area, there was uniform agreement by project beneficiaries that the availability and
quality of the extension services provided under the project was superior to the services
provided prior to the project and after the project ended. Farmers interviewed by IEG attested to
being provided more and better information on new cropping techniques under the project; they
also received improved seed and fertilizer.

5.5      The extension technique utilized was the Training and Visit System. It involved
engaging a community facilitator and employed a trainer-of-trainers approach. Community
facilitators were given productivity kits that included a bicycle, boots, hoes, and other technical
assistance provisions. An impact evaluation of the Training and Visit system in Mozambique,
conducted by the Bank’s Development Impact Evaluation Team, examined the efficacy of the
practice in relation to the sustainable land management goals of the project. The impact
evaluation found that the system was effective in influencing the behavior of the community
facilitator (in such areas as contour ploughing and micro catchments), but that there was a
statistically insignificant impact on farmers’ (other than the community facilitator) adoption of
sustainable land management techniques promoted by the project. 11


9
  These results are based on recalculations performed by IEG. See Table 1 of the ICR (World Bank 2014). IEG
identified errors with regard to different income baselines and transcription errors for incomes in some districts at
the end of the project, compared with the baseline and end-of-project district incomes shown in the project's
Implementation Supervision Report, submitted in October 2013.
10
   See appendix E for a description of the methodology used.
11
   Kondylis, Mueller, and Zhu 2014. This experience is consistent with other research on the impact of the T&V
extension system.
                                                    10

5.6     Building Resilient Rural Institutions for Sustained Service Delivery. Against a target
of 660 organizations, the project helped form 733 CBOs. Against a target of 600, 473 groups
received at least one asset from the CAEIF. The actual assets awarded per district, compared to
the targets, are listed below (Table 5.1)

Table 5.1. Number of CBOs with at Least One CAEIF-Funded Project
 District                    Baseline      Target   Result            Increase over target
                                        (number)                           (percent)
Morrumbala                      0           288      141                       49
Mutarara                        0           132      107                       81
Mopeia                          0           68           85                   125
Chemba                          0           59           74                   125
Meringue                        0           53           66                   125
Project Area                    0           600      473                       79
Source: IEG 2015, Annex 2.


5.7      The beneficiary assessment conducted by the PPAR was designed to provide
information about the quality of group formation, decision-making with regard to asset
allocation, the sufficiency of allocations with regard to reported welfare impacts (non-
quantified), and the sustainability of the organizations and assets. Group interview questions are
attached in appendix D of this report. The sampling frame for the Beneficiary Assessment can
be found in appendix E, and the asset verification exercise findings in appendix F.

5.8     IEG found that the CAIEF distributed a mix of public and private sector goods to both
groups (CBOs) and to individuals (see appendix B for summary of all investments financed by
the CAEIF). Overall, the effort was undermined by a lack of transparent criteria for beneficiary
participation. The project lacked a clear and transparent system of identifying and targeting
beneficiaries and assessing their capacity. It also connected strategic linkages to the broader
rural economy. A program of this nature, that invests in strengthening social capital and offers
start-up investment, should ideally be structured as an adjustable program loan, so that capacity
can be reinforced and decision making can be linked to broader local economic development
aims. Specific findings concerning the different types of assets that were allocated follow.

5.9     Access to Markets. The project attempted to facilitate market linkages with various
agribusiness value chains through promotion of market fairs, where community producers were
able to showcase their products to buyers through (i) investments in market access
infrastructure, including bridges, drifts (stone or concrete river crossings), and rural access roads
constructed to open up the project areas to market opportunities; (ii) promotion of group sales
for commodities that traders had indicated they were willing to buy in large quantities; (iii)
preparation of consultation meetings on crop sales, attended by farmer groups’ representatives
and interested traders; and (iv) identification of agribusiness actors that could establish formal
contracts with farmers for selected products (for example, honey).

5.10 From the project documentation, IEG found that the borrower believed that attempts to
promote formal contractual arrangements between traders and farmer groups “never worked,”
because of the prevailing spirit favoring individual sales among smallholder farmers, difficulties
                                                   11

in estimating the actual quantities that individual farmers had to sell, and price uncertainties
(World Bank 2014, p. 46).

5.11 The construction of markets, supported by the CAEIF, also demonstrated limitations.
IEG visited 8 of the 17 village market facilities supported by the CAEIF. In interviews with
market participants, IEG learned that there was a universal perception across the sites visited
that profits from the CAEIF markets were similar to those earned roadside, and in some cases
lower, although the facilities afforded more comfort. There was little understanding of the
choice of placement of the markets, some of which were located at very inopportune sites
because of land constraints. Before these markets were established, vendors would pursue
opportunities, for example, to set up shop near high traffic areas such as bus stops or along main
roads and at intersections. Participation in the market also requires a fee, which IEG learned
was not used to help maintain the market—none of the markets had an operational or
maintenance plan or maintenance fund. None of the amenities brought by the project (such as
latrines) were in use at the time of the IEG visit. The markets were also insensitive to gender
needs. Dominated by male vendors, women tended to occupy the stalls farthest from the roads,
and their activities were usually limited to cooking market-day food and selling beverages.

5.12 Grain Storage. Another marketing tool supported by the CAIEF was the construction of
silos. The CAEIF financed the construction 847 grain silos. These were individually awarded
assets (cofinanced in kind by the recipients) capable of storing about a season’s worth of grain,
and simply constructed of sand and brick. They required in-kind contributions (a thatch shelter,
brick, and sand) and were all constructed by a single vendor commissioned by the project. The
mission learned that the sand design was relevant to the local environment since the sand, as
opposed to cement, would keep the grain cool.

5.13 Although simple in their design, far too many of the silos were found by IEG not to have
been sustained. About half of the silos visited—randomly selected by IEG—had fallen into
disrepair or were destroyed. In each case, there was evidence that the community member was
not correctly maintaining the asset; for example, by keeping it sheltered from sun and rain. The
use of silos was part of a change process that required more time and sensitization to support
community members’ understanding of the benefits of maintaining this important investment. In
the successful examples, community members had been taught by technicians how to properly
maintain silos, store the grains, and subsequently sell when prices were relatively high during
the post-harvest season. In some cases, community members were able to utilize the stored
grains for personal consumption during the lean seasons.

5.14 Work Animals and Animal Traction Equipment. The CAEIF also offered the option of
investing in work animals and animal traction equipment. Of the villages visited that had opted
for this type of asset, IEG found this activity to have been the least successful. Agricultural
extension agents, the community facilitators, and farmers lacked training in the use and
maintenance of the equipment. However, the observed failure in this area may be attributable to
the reported receipt of sick or older animals and poor or second-hand traction equipment, as well
as the limited access villages have to veterinary services, including vaccines. One of the
challenges with this asset choice can be traced back to project design: the animals and the
equipment were distributed as group assets, and communities lacked cohesion and the ability to
engage in effective collaborative decision making. In a few cases, for example, community
members reported that the animals procured were slaughtered at the behest of some of the
members. There were also a few reports of inappropriate behavior on the part of project staff,
                                               12

who “asked for the animals back” after project close, although owing to the small size of the
sample, it is not possible to know how pervasive this behavior was. Interviews with technicians
revealed that the project could have benefited considerably from increased technical training in
animal husbandry and more investment in veterinary care.

Rural Savings and Lending Groups
5.15 Against a revised target of 6,000 members, the project enlisted some 7,291 persons into
rural savings and lending groups. Project documentation indicates that, together, the groups
mobilized some $85,458 in savings, representing an average of US$12 per person over the
course of the project. Project documentation also indicates that approximately US$104,741 was
circulated in loans to members. While IEG was not able to independently validate these figures,
the level of loans in excess of savings appears to have been a result of numerous short-term
loans, which allowed savings to be used multiple times.

5.16 IEG interviewed 23 savings and loan groups. These interviews included one-on-one
questioning with 96 group members. The interviews were conducted to learn more about the
“rules of the game” that were imparted but that were unclear from project documentation, to
learn about savings and borrowing attitudes and behavior, to observe and learn about gender and
other demographic characteristics and behavior, and to learn about the sustainability of the
groups after project close.

5.17 IEG learned that the design of the rural savings and lending schemes in Mozambique
differed from similar schemes that the Bank has supported. These schemes did not include seed
capital, for example, and expectations were very low with regard to the use of funds. Trained by
external actors (a French nongovernmental organization), the groups were given a box with
multiple keys as a means to engender socially accountable behaviors. The schemes were geared
mostly toward promoting a savings culture: members were required to save a small amount of
income and then were allowed to draw it out every few months. This differs from other schemes
supported by the Bank that are designed to help grow an endowment, to promote lending at
small and then larger levels, and to use this training to eventually promote linkages with the
formal banking sector.

5.18 Nevertheless, IEG found that, in addition to smoothing consumption and weathering
shocks, income saved and then withdrawn was being used for investment in income-generating
activities, many of which were in the rural nonfarm sector, such as in petty trade. With regard
to lending, feedback from the rural savings and lending group interviews revealed that men
appear to borrow more than women, and this was explained by the higher level of (real or
perceived) risk that men are willing to take. Women were also required to seek their husbands’
permission to take a loan.

6. Efficiency
Economic Rate of Return Analysis
6.1 At appraisal, the project undertook an analysis of economic and financial returns using
representative farm models. The same approach was used at project close. At appraisal, the
economic and financial net benefits (net present values) were estimated at US$1.8 million and
US$0.5 million, and the economic and financial rates of return were, respectively, 15 and 13
percent. At project close, the efficiency analysis indicated that the economic and financial
returns remained positive, with discounted net benefits estimated at US$3.74 million and
                                                  13

US$1.6 million, for the economic and financial net benefits, respectively. The ex-post
economic and financial internal rates of return were estimated at 18 percent and 14 percent,
respectively.

6.2 This assessment questions key assumptions used in the efficiency analysis. For example,
estimated yields of maize and rice were much higher (30 and 49 percent respectively) than the
yields obtained from “actual activity output estimates” as measured by the project’s M&E
system. Since, as stated by the economic rate of return (ERR) analysis, a “more than 10 percent
reduction in the estimated yield levels [would] lowers the economic rate of return to 11
percent,” the reliability of the data matters from the point of view of validating the economic
efficiency of this project.

6.3 Other key assumptions in the ERR raise doubts about the veracity of the project’s
efficiency analysis. It is assumed that a 15-year time horizon is needed in the analysis to
“consider the full project build-up of costs,” and a 10-year horizon is needed to “consider the
full project build-up of benefits, based on individual and group activity over this time horizon.”
It is unclear why it would take longer to assess costs than benefits.

6.4 Finally, the combination of the varied enterprises listed in Table A3.3 in the ICR used to
estimate the total net benefit stream was also not stated in the analysis.

Project Efficiency
6.5 Project costs for management, monitoring, and reporting were 20 percent higher than
projected, mainly due to inefficiencies in project implementation. At appraisal, these costs were
estimated to be $2.9 million (10.6 percent of total project costs). However, following
substantial reallocations from components 1 and 2 of the project, the total management costs
increased to $5.9 million (20.8 percent of actual total project costs). Some of these increased
management costs are associated with the many unsuccessful attempts to generate baseline data
and the reconfiguration of the project after mid-term to respond to implementation delays.

6.6   This assessment concludes that the project’s efficiency was modest.

7. Outcome
7.1 The overall outcome of the Market-Led Smallholder Development Project in the
Zambezi Valley is rated moderately unsatisfactory. The relevance of the project’s objective
to the Bank’s Country Assistance Strategy and Country Partnership Strategy and the
government’s development strategy was high. The relevance of the project’s design in terms of
the results framework and use of country systems as a key design feature was rated modest.
Efficacy is rated modest, since there is evidence that the project’s outputs—agricultural
support services, public and private subproject investments, and the establishment of rural
savings and lending schemes—modestly contributed to overall well-being, but were not
sufficient to increase the incomes of the project farmers compared with similar farmers not
supported by the project. According to project assessment data, the average increase in
household income for the project beneficiaries was 36 percent higher than the average recorded
at baseline. However, for the control group, the average increase in household income was 69
percent compared with the average income recorded at baseline. Efficiency is rated modest.
While questionable data used for estimates of rates of return, together with delays in project
                                                14

implementation, undermined the confidence in the project’s efficiency, it should be
acknowledged that this project was implemented under difficult conditions.

8. Risk to Development Outcome
8.1     Despite continued government and local community ownership of the project’s
objectives and support for its continuation, this PPAR concludes that risk to development
outcome is significant.

8.2     Institutional Risks. Capacity and financial (budget) constraints at the district and local
levels (a problem well-identified at appraisal and during the mid-term review) because of
chronically low district-level revenues will make it challenging to sustain the provision of public
sector services such as road maintenance and agricultural extension for the communities. There
is also a significant risk that without adequate support and availability of competitive markets
for agricultural and other commodities, as well as investment in market access (including better
rural roads and bridges), increased and sustainable agricultural production increases may be
limited to a relatively small number of producers with the easiest access to markets,
infrastructure, and inputs. This would leave the more remote smallholders behind in terms of
their income earning capacity.

8.3     The inclusion of a GEF component in an agricultural project implied that communities
should have been provided with the necessary capacity to implement sustainable production
practices that allow communities to adapt to the changing contexts brought about by the effects
of climate change. However, without continued support to the community groups, most of
which lack relevant capacity at the district level, unsustainable land management practices such
as periodic slash-and-burn rotations (in the context of adequate land availability) have
continued, and have undermined achievements in sustained land management.

8.4     The underlying question facing the achievement of sustained land management among
poor farmers was whether there was any incentive for them to engage in more sustainable
practices. Slash-and-burn techniques are a traditional land management practice, and for decades
they have been a preferred and effective strategy for maintaining productivity of crops. Weak
incentives to invest in better land management are rooted in the lack of a system of smallholder
land rights and secure land tenure that would make the more sustainable land management
practices worthwhile (for an example, see Heath and Binswanger 1996).
                                                          15



9. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank Performance
9.1     Quality at Entry is rated as moderately unsatisfactory.

9.2     The Bank adequately addressed the borrower’s priority needs (economic growth and
poverty reduction through agricultural development). The project was aligned with other
interventions that had been supported by the Bank to achieve these aims—including the
Agricultural Services and Rehabilitation Project, the Decentralized Planning and Finance
Project, the Roads and Bridges Project, and the Beira Railway Project, which were intended to
contribute to stimulating agricultural development in the Zambezi Valley. However, in the case
of the Market-Led Smallholder Development Project in the Zambezi Valley, the Bank
overestimated implementation capacity, especially at the district level.12 The prior project on
decentralized planning and finance was mostly focused on urban areas, but, overall, the
government’s decentralization program was still in its early years.

9.3     Efforts were made to incorporate lessons learned from previous community-driven and
market-led approaches to agricultural development in Mozambique, but there was a lack of
uptake of many of these lessons, many of which require doing business differently in the World
Bank. First phases of community-driven or participatory rural development programs require
long lead times: Bank teams need to be particularly engaged in helping to develop the rules of
the game for the establishment of well-governed rural institutions, both with regard to the
selection of participants and leaders and the manner in which resources will be allocated. These
project often require tolerance for upfront disbursement lags, during a sensitization phase.
Examples of other well-prepared rural development programs have shown that task teams have
had to stay engaged both with the client and with Bank management to showcase the merits of
this approach in the ultimate achievement of the poverty-related project objective, but also with
regard to the sustainability of the approach.

9.4     The blending of the GEF grant reflected an awareness during preparation that sustainable
land management was a critical component of ensuring sustained yield increases, especially in
light of future risks posed by climate change. However, changing land use practice ultimately
has as much to do with incentives and behavior as with the availability of technical assistance.
At appraisal, the Bank noted that the arrest and reversal of land degradation practices should be
made as demand-driven as possible by linking them to community-level land-use planning. The
project focused more on the supply than the demand side.




12
  The earlier Agricultural Services and Rehabilitation Project was implemented between 1992 and 2000 with the
objective of increasing production and returns from smallholder food crop and cotton cultivation in the northern
provinces of Nampula and Cabo Delgado through the rehabilitation and development of effective agricultural
services and the strengthening of institutional capacity. According to the ICR for the project (World Bank 1999),
farmers had adopted the use of improved seed varieties, although they complained about the lack of new extension
messages. However, because of inadequate evidence on the project’s efficacy, its outcome was rated moderately
unsatisfactory in the ICR Review prepared by IEG (IEG 2001).
                                                16

Quality of Supervision

9.5    Bank supervision performance is rated as moderately satisfactory

9.6      On average, there were two supervision missions each year. The missions flagged key
issues related to capacity challenges, especially in M&E and the fiduciary responsibilities at the
district level. However, there was a lack of urgency, as observed from a review of the
supervision reports, with respect to the need to address the challenges associated with managing
the project from Maputo, and with DNPDR staff that had competing work priorities. Ratings of
both progress toward the development objective and implementation were moderately
satisfactory, until they were assessed as moderately unsatisfactory in 2010–11. This assessment
of the project’s difficulties should have come earlier. The 2010 mid-term review had rather
belatedly addressed project implementation challenges. Nevertheless, it led to a project
restructuring that did not affect the objectives, but incorporated a number of adjustments to the
project’s implementation arrangements. These included (i) establishment of a dedicated project
coordination team, including the hiring of a project manager who would report to the national
director for the promotion of rural development; (ii) hiring of additional staff on contract; and
(iii) the transfer of some key staff of the dedicated staff to the project area. The changes enabled
implementation to be accelerated, and the project was completed with only a six-month delay.

9.7     Following the 2010 mid-term review, the Bank launched a follow-up joint
implementation support mission to review project performance and evaluate if enough progress
had been made to upgrade the overall project ratings. However, a review of the documentation
reveals that by this stage, the focus tended to be on the risks associated with the rating, rather
than addressing the underlying constraints. An Implementation Status and Results Report in
2011 noted that “A prolonged period of any Bank co-financed project in a MU status would
affect the overall quality of the IDA portfolio in Mozambique, which in turn determines the
allocation of new IDA funds to the country.”

9.8     Summary of Bank performance. The project’s quality at entry is rated moderately
unsatisfactory because of inadequate attention to the lessons of previous community-driven and
market-led approaches, as well as weak project design, which was not sufficiently attuned to the
need for more attention to capacity building and close attention to arrangements for efficient
project management. Bank supervision is rated as moderately satisfactory. Bank performance is
rated moderately unsatisfactory, based on the harmonized criteria agreed between IEG and
Operations Policy and Country Services, stating that when one rating is in the satisfactory range
and the other in the unsatisfactory range, then the overall rating depends on the outcome rating.

Borrower Performance
Government

9.9      The government’s performance was rated as moderately unsatisfactory. The
government of Mozambique supported the implementation of the project through existing policy
and development plans at the national, district, and local levels. The government delivered its
counterpart contribution and respected its commitment for funds to be directly transferred to the
district level. The relocation of the National Directorate for the Promotion of Rural
Development (responsible for overall oversight and coordination of implementation) from the
Ministry of Planning and Development to the Ministry of State Administration did not seem to
adversely affect project implementation.
                                                   17

9.10 However, the government of Mozambique did not respond quickly enough to the need to
restructure the project, according to the joint recommendation of the mid-term review in 2010.
An official restructuring request was not lodged until April 2011, one year after the mid-term
review. Following this, protracted discussions about the decentralization of the program and the
introduction of changes related to procurement and financial management resulted in a further
11-month delay before restructuring could become effective. Most of the groups visited were
not formed until the second half of the project period; most of the rural savings and lending
groups visited were not formed until 2011. These delays resulted in rushed decision making
about the funds distributed through the Community Agricultural and Environment Investment
Fund, with allocations ultimately awarded to individuals—some of whom should not have
qualified to receive the project-supported assets.

Implementing Agency

9.11 The implementing agency performance is rated as moderately satisfactory. The
Implementing Agency was the National Directorate for the Promotion of Rural Development
(DNPDR). It bore a heavy burden because the project was designed to be implemented without
a dedicated implementation unit. The Directorate initially struggled to create a dedicated team
of staff to be responsible for project implementation. When this team was put in place, it
comprised staff that were proactive and responsive to project implementation issues. A further
challenge was the continuous relocation of civil servants at the district level, which affected the
project because some of the trained staff moved to different districts for other functions and new
officers needed to be hired and trained. After the changes introduced at the mid-term review and
subsequent restructuring, the team was reportedly better organized. It carried out integrated
planning exercises and made sure that the project adhered to implementation procedures and
guidelines. A good working relationship with the Bank team was maintained. There was
adequate fiduciary oversight through the preparation and submission of audited financial
statements and other financial reports (World Bank 2014, para. 68).There were, however,
important shortcomings in M&E: the Directorate was unable to operate an effective M&E
system to measure progress toward meeting the development objective, as discussed in an
earlier section of this PPAR.

9.12 Summary. Borrower performance was rated as moderately unsatisfactory because
of the government’s substantial delay in formalizing the restructuring agreed at the mid-term
review. The performance of the implementing agency was rated as moderately satisfactory.
Overall, the borrower performance is rated moderately unsatisfactory based on the
harmonized criteria agreed between IEG and Operations Policy and Country Services that
when one rating is in the satisfactory range and the other in the unsatisfactory range, then the
overall rating should depend on the outcome rating.

10. Lessons
   Rural institutions can play a key service delivery role in the absence of strong state
    capacity, but sustained support is needed to ensure their good governance and capacity
    to provide services to the poor. In the absence of this support, there is a risk that such
    institutions may favor some participants over others, may neglect attention to gender and
    other vulnerable groups, and may lack the capacity to deliver sustained services after project
    close. The quality of sensitization and training, grounded in local culture, is key to enabling
    equitable and sustained service delivery. In the case of the Market-Led Smallholder
                                                18

    Development Project in the Zambezi Valley, IEG found that the poor quality of facilitation
    services undermined the ability of the rural smallholders to benefit more from the productive
    investments made by the project and to engage in productive activities after project close.

   Social accountability tools are important elements of a project intended to be
    implemented through village-level organizations. M&E systems that include social
    accountability assessments, including village-level scorecards, can help the project team
    (client counterpart and the Bank), identify and address underperforming areas, the
    underprovision of services, the relative strength of rural organizations, and other related
    behavioral issues that may be undermining efficacy.

   A market-based approach to developing the smallholder sector requires an upfront
    analysis of skills, knowledge, and capacity in order to engage in various value chain
    activities, such as marketing. In Mozambique, owing in part to the nascent nature of the
    country’s market-led economy, skills in areas such as efficient marketing were rare in many
    of the district-level administrations.

   Simple technologies work best in poor rural communities. The introduction of complex
    technology into poor farming areas is risky and unlikely to succeed because the maintenance
    of complex systems is almost always unaffordable for poor smallholder farmers.

   Behavior and incentives, both individual and at the policy level, should be placed at the
    heart of programs geared toward supporting sustainable land management. In the case
    of this project, land tenure security and land rights are central to farmers’ decision to engage
    in sustainable land, soil, and water management practices, and yet the project tended to focus
    more on the technical fixes.
                                                    19

References
GEF (Global Environment Facility). 2007. “Global Environment Facility Grant Agreement, Market-Led
    Smallholder Development in the Zambezi Valley Project, GEF TF Grant Number TF091638.
    September 21, 2007.” World Bank, Washington, DC. http://www-
    wds.worldbank.org/external/default/WDSContentServer/WDSP/AFR/2008/02/21/FE6D315980752
    AD7852573F6007B0031/1_0/Rendered/INDEX/conformed0GEF0Grant0Agreement.txt

Heath, John, and Hans Binswanger. 1996. “Natural Resource Degradation Effects of Poverty Are
    Largely Policy Induced: The Case of Colombia.” Environment and Development Economics 1 (1):
    65–84.

IEG (Independent Evaluation Group, World Bank Group). 2001. “Implementation Completion Report
    (ICR) Review— Mozambique Agricultural Rehabilitation and Development Project.” World Bank,
    Washington, DC.
    http://lnweb90.worldbank.org/oed/oeddoclib.nsf/24cc3bb1f94ae11c85256808006a0046/8525682e0
    068603785256a77006be4ed?OpenDocument

———. 2015. “Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review—Market-Led Smallholder
    Development in the Zambezi Valley.” World Bank, Washington, DC.
    http://lnweb90.worldbank.org/OED/oeddoclib.nsf/DocUNIDViewForJavaSearch/8525682e
    0068603785257ca7007ec198?OpenDocument&Click=

Kondylis, Florence, Valerie Mueller, and Siyao Zhu. 2014. “Seeing is Believing? Evidence from an
    Extension Network Experiment.” World Bank Policy Research Working Paper No. 700. World
    Bank, Washington, DC.

Mozambique, Republic of. 2006. “Action Plan for the Reduction of Absolute Poverty (2006–2009).”
    Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper. EDMS 295111. Maputo.
    http://mz.one.un.org/eng/Resources/Publications/PARPA-II

Mozambique, Republic of, Ministry of Agriculture and Food Security. 2015. “National Agricultural
    Investment Plan—2013–2017.” Maputo.
    http://www.resakss.org/sites/default/files/pdfs/Final%20PNISA%20Revised%20Version_0.pdf

Mozambique, Republic of, Ministry of Planning and Development. 2006. “Environmental and Social
    Management Framework for the Market-Led Smallholder Development in the Zambezi Valley.”
    Maputo. http://www-
                                                20

    wds.worldbank.org/external/default/WDSContentServer/WDSP/IB/2006/06/20/000160016_200606
    20135357/Rendered/PDF/E138010PAPER.pdf

Tvedten, Inge. 2011. “Mozambique Country Case Study: Gender Equality and Development.”
    Background Paper, World Development Report 2012 – Gender Equality and Development, World
    Bank, Washington, DC.

USAID (United States Agency for International Development). 2015. “End-line Survey Report,
    Improving Health and Livelihoods of Children, Women and Families in the Province of Zambézia,
    Republic of Mozambique.” Prepared for USAID by Vanderbilt Institute for Global Health,
    Ogumaniha SCIP Project, Nashville, TN.

World Bank. 1999. “Implementation Completion Report, Mozambique Agricultural Rehabilitation and
    Development Project.” Report No. 19416. World Bank, Washington, DC.

———. 2006a. “Financing Agreement for the Market-led Smallholder Development in the Zambezi
    Valley.” Credit 4198—MZ Conformed.” World Bank, Washington, DC.

———. 2006b. “Mozambique— Market-Led Smallholder Development in the Zambezi Valley Project.”
  Project Appraisal Document. Report No. 35466-MZ. World Bank, Washington, DC.
  http://documents.worldbank.org/curated/en/2006/05/6827183/mozambique-market-led-
  smallholder-development-zambezi-valley-project

———. 2006c. “Project Appraisal Document on a Proposed Grant from the Global Environment Facility
    for the Market led Smallholder Development in the Zambezi Valley.” Report No 39806-MZ. World
    Bank, Washington DC.

———. 2007. “Proposed Grant from the Global Environment Facility Trust Fund for the Market-led
    Smallholder Development in the Zambezi Valley.” Report No. 39806-MZ. World Bank,
    Washington, DC.

———. 2010. Report on the joint DNPDR/World Bank Project Mid-Term Review for the Market-Led
    Smallholder Development in the Zambezi Valley Project. Maputo.

———. 2011. “Implementation Status and Results Report— Market-Led Smallholder Development in
    the Zambezi Valley Project.” Report No. ISR4584. World Bank, Washington, DC. http://www-
    wds.worldbank.org/external/default/WDSContentServer/WDSP/AFR/2011/09/20/2B0486247C5E4
    08185257911006EEE58/1_0/Rendered/PDF/P0931650ISR0Di020201101316549499489.pdf

———. 2012. “Mozambique—Market-Led Smallholder Development in the Zambezi Valley Project:
    Restructuring.” Vols. 1-3. World Bank, Washington, DC.
                                                 21

———. 2014. “Mozambique—Market-Led Smallholder Development in the Zambezi Valley Project.”
    ICR 3028. World Bank, Washington, DC.
    http://documents.worldbank.org/curated/en/2014/03/19416514/mozambique-market-led-
    smallholder-development-zambezi-valley-project
                                           22                                          ANNEX A



Annex A. Basic Data Sheet
Market-Led Smallholder Development in the Zambezi Valley (IDA-41980, TF-091638,
P093165, P098040)

Key Project Data (amounts in US$ million)
                                            Appraisal              Actual or             Actual as % of
                                            estimate            current estimate        appraisal estimate
Total project costs                           27.4                   28.42                   103.70
Loan amount                                       20.0                21.20                    105.10
Cofinancing (GEF)                                 6.2                   6.08                   98.06
Government contribution                           0.30                  0.24                   80.00

Beneficiary contribution                          0.90                  0.90                   100.00



Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
                                   FY07    FY08         FY09     FY10          FY11    FY12       FY13
Appraisal estimate (US$M)            3.51 7.86          12.49   17.62          21.93   24.48      25.50
Actual (US$M)                       2.02   3.30          6.54    8.59          13.19   17.29      27.07
Actual as % of appraisal             56    42             52     49             60      71          106
Date of final disbursement: 10/19/2013


Project Dates
                                                     Original                             Actual
Initiating memorandum                               03/10/2005                          05/26/2005
Negotiations                                        04/19/2006                          04/20/2006
Board approval                                      04/18/2006                          06/20/2006
Signing                                                                                 08/09/2006
Effectiveness                                       12/28/2006                          12/28/2006
Mid-term review                                     12/31/2009                          3/31/2010

Restructuring                                                                           5/24/2012

Closing date                                         3/31/2013                          9/30/2013
ANNEX A                                   23

Staff Time and Cost
                                       Staff time and cost (Bank budget only)
                                                            US$ (including travel and
 Stage of project cycle            Number of staff weeks        consultant costs)
Lending
IDA                                            96                  480,456.73
GEF                                            --                  352,102.21
Total                                                              832,558.94
Supervision/ICR
IDA                                          322                   900,762.87
GEF                                           --                   385,295.20
Total                                                              1,286,058.07

Task Team members

Names                                     Title                        Unit
Lending

Alberto Ninio                        Chief Counsel                   LEGEN
Anil S. Bhandari                       Consultant                    AFTG1
Caroline L. Guazzo             Language Program Assistant            AFTCS
Daniel Liborio Da Cruz                 Consultant                    AFTA1
Sousa
Eduardo Luis Leao de Sousa          Senior Economist                 AFTA1
Gilberto de Barros                Senior Private Sector              AFTFW
                                     Development
Joao Tinga                   Financial Management Specialist         AFTME
Josef Ludger Loening                   Consultant                    MNACE
Katherine Kuper                      Sr. Urban Spec.                 AFTU1
Leonard John Abrams                    Consultant                    AFTU1
Luisa Moises Matsinhe          Senior Executive Assistant            AFCS2
Slaheddine Ben-Halima                  Consultant                    MNAPC
Supervision/ICR

Amos Martinho Malate              Procurement Analyst                AFTPE
                                Senior Rural Development
Aniceto Timoteo Bila                    Specialist                   AFTA2
Anne Louise Grinsted                   Consultant                    AFTP1
Anne Ritchie                           Consultant                    HDNSP
Antonio L. Chamuco            Senior Procurement Specialist          AFTPE
                                      24                       ANNEX A

Names                                  Title                  Unit
Boris Enrique Utria          Country Operations Adviser      LCC5C
                              Sr. Financial Management
Brighton Musungwa                     Specialist             AFTME
Caroline L. Guazzo           Language Program Assistant      AFTCS
Celia Faias                        Team Assistant            AFCS2
Cheikh A. T. Sagna         Senior Social Development Spec    AFTCS
Daniel Liborio Da Cruz
                                     Consultant              AFTA1
                                                             LEGAF-
Eduardo Brito                      Senior Counsel              HIS
Elvis Teodoro Bernado
Langa                      Financial Management Specialist   AFTME
Erick C.M. Fernandes                  Adviser                LCSAR
Florence Kondylis                 Senior Economist           DECIE
Joao Tinga                 Financial Management Specialist   AFTME
                                                             AFTWR-
John A. Boyle                        Consultant                HIS
Jonathan Nyamukapa            Sr Financial Management        AFTME
                                      Specialist
Luisa Moises Matsinhe         Senior Executive Assistant      AFCS2
Lungiswa Thandiwe Gxaba               Consultant              AFTTR
Luz Meza-Bartrina                  Senior Counsel            LEGAM
Mohamed Arbi Ben-Achour               Consultant              AFTN2
Patrick Verissimo              Lead Rural Development        SASDA
Pedro Arlindo                         Specialist
                                  Agric. Economist            AFTA2
Rui Manuel Benfica                    Consultant              DECPI
Slaheddine Ben-Halima                 Consultant             MNAPC
Susan Hume                    Senior Operations Officer       AFTFE
                                                             CTRFC-
Suzanne F. Morris               Senior Finance Officer
                                                               His
Teresa De Jesus S. McCue         Operations Analyst           CAFPP
Tijan M. Sallah                   Sector Manager              AFTA3

Leonard John Abrams                  Consultant               AFTU1
                                25                           ANNEX B

Annex B. Supplementary Tables on Project Achievements

Number of CBOs Engaged in Project Activities


                                                         Achievement
District             Baseline          Target   Result    (percent)
Morrumbala              0               317      335         106
Mutarara                0               145      135         93
Mopeia                  0                75      104         139
Chemba                  0                65      79          122
Meringue                0                58      80          138
Project area            0               660      733         111



Number of Members of Savings and Loans Groups

                                                         Achievement
District             Baseline          Target   Result    (percent)
Morrumbala              0               2,900   4,392        151
Mutarara                0              1,300    1,066        82
Mopeia                  0               700      699         100
Chemba                  0               600      624         104
Meringue                0               500      510         102
Project area            0              6,000    7,291        122

CAEIF Subproject on Public Infrastructure

                                                         Achievement
District             Baseline          Target   Result    (percent)
Morrumbala              0                49      47           96
Mutarara                0                32      42          131
Mopeia                  0                14       9          64
Chemba                  0                12      16          133
Meringue                0                11       6          55
Project area            0               118      120         102
ANNEX B                                             26


Number of Productivity Increasing CAEIF Subprojects

                                                                                  Achievement
District                 Baseline         Target                Result             (percent)
Morrumbala                  0              144                   497                  345
Mutarara                    0              66                    182                  276
Mopeia                      0              43                    169                  393
Chemba                      0              30                    184                  613
Meringue                    0              26                    164                  631
Project area                0              109                  1,196                 387

Number of Sustainable Land Management GEF CAEIF Subprojects

                                                                                  Achievement
District                 Baseline         Target                Result             (percent)
Morrumbala                  0               67                   121                  181
Mutarara                    0              65                    91                   140
Mopeia                      0              40                    67                   168
Chemba                      0              40                    70                   175
Meringue                    0              38                    65                   171
Project area                0              250                   414                  166

Typology of CAEIF Subprojects

                                                   Districts
 Subprojects                 Morrumbala   Mutarara     Mopeia          Meringue    Chemba       Total
                                                    Public Infrastructure
Drifts                              7           1           2             2           4          16
Bridges                             9           4           3             0           1          17
Marketplaces                        6           4           4             0           3          17
Vaccination facilities              0         18            0             1           0          19
Rural roads                         24        15            0             1           8          48
Dip tanks                           1           0           0             0           0          1
Subtotal                            47        42            9             4          16         118
                                            Productivity Increasing Subprojects
Hammer mills                        9           9           6             6          12          42
Threshing machines                  40        18           15             10         10          93
Small-scale irrigation              2           6           1             2           7          18
Animal traction                     26        23           13             8          26          96
Chicken rearing                     3           0           0             1           0          4
Goats multiplication                7           8           0             0           0          15
                                  27                                     ANNEX B

Productivity kits to FCs    16         18            14        17        16       81
Improved silos              194        100          120       120       113       847
Subtotal                    497        182          169       164       184      1,196
                                             Sustainable Land Management/GEF Projects
Community forestry          18          8            5         5         12       48
Improved honey production   55         61            26        57        43       242
Forestry nurseries           0          0            0         3         3         6
Small-scale fishing         48         22            22        0         12       104
Subtotal                    121        91            53        65        70       400
GRAND TOTAL                 665        315          231       233       270      1,714
ANNEX C                                         28


Annex C. List of Persons Consulted
Name                                 Title                        Institution
                         Government of the Republic of Mozambique
Raimundo Matule          National Director, Directorate of   Ministry of Agriculture and Food
                         Planning and Cooperation                        Security
Vasco Correio Nhabinde   Director National of Studies        Ministry of Economy and Finance
Olegario dos Anjos       National Director, National         Ministry of Land, Environment and
Banze                    Directorate of Rural                       Rural Development
                         Development (DNPDR)
Isabel Cossa             Deputy Director -DNPDR              Ministry of Land, Environment and
                                                                    Rural Development
Mateus Abelardo          National Director of Industry         Ministry of Industry and Trade
Americio Matusse
Antonio Do Rosario       Chairman/Chief Executive                Commodity Exchange of
Grispos                  Officer                                     Mozambique
Edgar Baloi              Executive Director                      Commodity Exchange of
                                                                     Mozambique
Eduardo Neves Joao       Executive Director                      Commodity Exchange of
                                                                     Mozambique
Danilo Nalá              Director General                     Special Economic Zones Office
                                                             (GAZEDA), Ministry of Planning
                                                                     and Development
Dinis Lissave            Director of Special Economic         Special Economic Zones Office
                         Zone Services                       (GAZEDA), Ministry of Planning
                                                                     and Development
Sansao Buque             Project Coordinator – Women’s       Ministry of Gender, Children and
                         Empowerment and Skills                       Social Welfare
                         Development Project (WESDP
                         II) financed by African
                         Development Bank
Palmica Antonio          WESDP II project team               Ministry of Gender, Children and
                                                                      Social Welfare
Luis Nhancolo            WESDP II project team               Ministry of Gender, Children and
                                                                      Social Welfare
Agatha Ntauma Bisque     WESDP II project team               Ministry of Gender, Children and
                                                                      Social Welfare

Jacinto Tualufo          Head of Cadaster Department,        Ministry of Land, Environment and
                         National Directorate of Land               Rural Development
Mario Rui                Cadaster Department, National       Ministry of Land, Environment and
                         Directorate of Land                        Rural Development
                                            29                                  ANNEX C


Lavinia Bechardas         Cadaster Department, National   Ministry of Land, Environment and
                          Directorate of Land                    Rural Development
Halima Nguice             Planning Department, National   Ministry of Land, Environment and
                          Directorate of Land                    Rural Development
Multilateral and Bilateral Donors
Enrico Strampelli         Head of Cooperation                      European Union
Geert Ankaert             Counsellor – Economics and                European Union
                          Governance
Els Berghmans             Counsellor – Public Financial             European Union
                          Management and Governance
Sheryl Stumbras           Deputy Director                               USAID
Todd Flower               Feed the Future Coordinator -                 USAID
                          Agriculture, Environment and
                          Business Office
Theodora B. Dell          Mission Economist                             USAID
Alicia Herbert            Country Representative              Department for International
                                                                    Development
Kobi Bentley              Team Leader – Governance and        Department for International
                          Economic Policy                           Development
Francois- Phillipe Dubé   First Secretary (Development)      High Commission of Canada
Miguel J. Rombe           Development Officer                High Commission of Canada
Cristina Gutiérrez        Coordinator General – Spanish            Embassy of Spain
Hernandez                 Cooperation
Cristina Manzanares       Program Officer – Spanish                Embassy of Spain
                          Cooperation
Andre Ameida Santos       Senior Economist                    African Development Bank
Mirianaud Oswald          Senior Evaluation Officer       African Development Bank - Abidjan
Agbadome
Carla Felix Silva         Evaluation Officer              African Development Bank - Abidjan
Latefa Cone Camara        Consultant                      African Development Bank - Abidjan
International Monetary Fund and World Bank
Alex Segura Ubiergo       Resident Representative                 IMF, Maputo Office
Mark Austin               Program Leader – Sustainable        World Bank Country Office
                          Development
Jan Nijhof                Senior Agricultural Economist       World Bank Country Office


Isabel Neto               Senior Operations Officer –         World Bank Country Office
                          Africa Energy Practice
ANNEX C                                        30


Pedro Arlindo            Task Team Leader for the               World Bank Country Office
                         MLSDP
Kulwinder Singh Rao      Senior Highway Engineer                World Bank – Washington
Jumoke Jagun-Dokunmu     Country Manager for                International Finance Corporation –
                         Mozambique and Angola                          Washington
Dieter Fischer           Senior Operations Officer –        International Finance Corporation –
                         Smallholder Supply Chains -                    Washington
                         task team leader for PROTOCEL
Jane Onoka               Operations Officer                 International Finance Corporation -
                                                                        Washington
Private Sector and Academia
William Grant            Global Practice Leader -Market               DAI – London
                         Systems Development
Daniel Liborio da Cruz E Original Task Team Leader for      Retired Bank staff member - Maputo
Sousa                    the MLSDP
Paulo Brito              Project Facilitator for MLSDP in     Private consultant - Quelimane
                         Morrumbala for the last 5 years
                         of implementation
Antonio Lino             District Administrator in            Retired public servant - Maputo
                         Murrombala during the final year
                         of implementation
Michael Baxter           Country Director, World Bank              OZMOZIS - Maputo
                         Country Office in Maputo during
                         the implementation of the
                         MLSDP – now retired and
                         Managing Director of a private
                         company
Rafael Uaiene            Assistant Professor in              In-Country Coordinator, Michigan
                         International Development               State University – Maputo
                         Agricultural, Food and Resource
                         Economics
Khalid Sultan Ali        Director                              Sarah Trading LDA. Nampula
M.Yunuss A. Gafar        Administrator/Manager               Gani Commercial, LDA, Nampula
Shrikantha K. Naik       Country Head                          Export Marketing Co (ETG),
                                                                       Nampula
Mohamed Yaseen           General trader of commodities in
                         Morrumbala
                                                    31                                            ANNEX D

Annex D. Group Interview Questions
Part I
 District:                 Village:                      Group Name:
                                                         Year Formed:
                                                         Number of Participants:
                                                         Does the Group Still Exist? Y/N

Part II

 Qualifying questions                 Y                                  N
 Are you a farmer that                                                   Why Not?
 participated in
 Sofrico/CAIEF/Banco Mundial
 project?
 Were you also a member of                                               Why Not?
 savings and lending?



Part III: Diagram the Group

 One by one, please tell   Mark the gender of the        Did you        Did you            Note
 us your role in the       member, by role.              save?          borrow             quantities if
 group                                                                                     possible.
 1
 2
 3
 Etc.

Part IV: Analysis of Constraints/Relevance of the Project Response

 What do you need the      What did you receive          If an asset,   Did it
 most to increase farm     from the project?             what is it,    generate a
 production? Is this the                                 and is it      profit? Was
 same or have they                                       functioning?   there
 changed?                                                               reinvestment?

 1
 2
 3
ANNEX D                                              32

Part IV. Training and Extension Services

 Did you     In the last few years,        How have you    Has there     Have you added or changed
 receive     what kind of services         applied these   been any     what you grow?
 training?   have you received from        new             change in    (For example, produced maize,
             the technicians (general      techniques?     service      cotton, rice, beans, pigeon
                                                                        peas, cassava;
             CBO)? Extension:                              provision
                                                                        Added: paprika, sesame,
             Improved varieties of                         since 2012   vegetables, poultry, small
             seeds, mulching, crop                         (close of    ruminants, honey)
             rotation, fertilizer, other                   project)?
             ag extension support                          If yes,
                                                           how so?
 1
 2
 3

Part V. Rural Savings and Lending Groups

 Are you     Was it started by the Do you          Do you        What are    Able to        Describe the
 part of a   Sofrico/CAIEF/Banco save?             borrow?       the loans   invest? In     savings and
 rural       Mundial project?                                    used for?   what?          lending rules
 savings     What year?                                                      (Probe for     of the group.
 and                                                                         AG and         (Probe TA)
 lending                                                                     Non-Ag
 group?                                                                      activities).

 1 (f)
 2 (m)
 3 (m)
                                                            33                 ANNEX E


Annex E. Fieldwork Methodology
 The primary objective of the Market-led Smallholder Development Project (MLSDP) was to
 increase the income of smallholder farmers in selected districts of the Zambezi Valley region of
 central Mozambique. It was projected that increased incomes would be achieved not only by
 direct support to smallholder groups and other supply chain participants, but also through the
 strengthening of local-level capacity to undertake and manage service delivery within the
 context of the government of Mozambique’s decentralization policy. This appendix to the
 PPAR seeks to contribute to the validation of the relevance, efficiency, and effectiveness of the
 reported results of the MLSDP in the Zambezi Valley of Mozambique.

The MLSDP was implemented in five districts in the Zambezi Valley—Morrumbala, Mutarara,
Chemba, Mopeia, and Maringue.13 As outlined in the Bank’s ICR , M&E capacity challenges
during the course of project implementation affected the establishment of an effective M&E
system for the project. Consequently, verifiable data at the beneficiary level on the project’s
impact are not available. This constraint, coupled with a lack of clarity in the Bank’s ICR
regarding the basis for estimates of income changes for project beneficiaries led IEG to design a
participatory evaluation methodology that targeted beneficiary groups to assess the project’s
performance at the grassroots level. To test the project’s critical assumption—that beneficiaries
of the MLSDP sustainably increased their incomes as a result of the transfer of project-
supported assets and training—IEG conducted fieldwork for two-and-a-half weeks during
November and December 2015.

Unit of Analysis and Sampling
Sampling Frame: The unit of analysis for the beneficiary assessment was a purposively
selected, geographically stratified set of groups and individuals that received subprojects
financed under the project’s Community Agricultural and Environment Investment Fund
(CAEIF). Based on their relative weight of financing, IEG selected three of the five districts that
were assisted under the project for the beneficiary assessment. Morrumbala, Mutarara, and
Mopeia received 80 percent of the project’s subproject financing. Chemba and Meringue were
removed from the sampling frame due to the low level of coverage, remoteness, and time
constraints.




13
     These districts are located in the Zabezia, Sofala, and Tete Provinces.
ANNEX E                                           34


                                                           Percentage of total groups formed
                    Share, number of CAIEF projects          under the project (473 groups
District Name           received (total of 1,058)                      formed)
Morrumbala                        47%                                     30%
Mutarara                           33%                                   18%
Mopeia                             14%                                   16%
Chemba                             19%                                   23%
Meringue                            5%                                   14%

At the district level, IEG purposively selected the administrative posts that received the most
assets (a combination of public and private) to test the project’s theory of change: that a
combination of access to finance (rural savings and lending groups), improved infrastructure
(such as rural roads, bridges, markets), and productive assets (threshing machines, hammer mills,
and the like) could help individuals achieve the project development objective of increasing
income. Groups and individuals with reportedly equal access to the project-supported public and
private assets were then chosen randomly. IEG interviewed a total of 365 project beneficiaries
through 33 group and 22 individual interviews. The fieldwork also included visiting and
validating the quality and sustainability—and, in the case of productive assets, the profitability—
of a stratified but small number total project-financed subprojects (68 assets).

                                                                                        Total
                                                                                     interviews
                                   Group               Individual       Public        and asset
District                      assets/interviews          assets     infrastructure     checks
Morrumbala                            14                   7               3             24
Mutarara                             11                   11               5             27
Mopeia                                8                    4               5             17
Total                                33                   22              13             68
                                                     35                             ANNEX E


A. Administrative Posts14
Morrumbala (11 administrative posts included in the project):
IEG did not visit Guerissa or Derre because these administrative posts combined into a new post
named Derre, and IEG did not have the requisite permission to work in this new district. IEG did
not visit Sabe administrative post because of security concerns. Of the eight remaining
administrative posts, IEG visited six: Morrumbala sede, Boroma, Megaza, Chire sede, Mepinha,
and Pinda. These were selected because the other two administrative posts (Muandiua and
Chilomo) received no group assets.

Mutarara (4 administrative posts included in the project):
IEG did not visit Doa, because it is a new district and IEG did not have the requisite permission
to work there. IEG visited the remaining three administrative posts: Charre, Nhamayabue, and
Inhangoma.

Mopeia (7 administrative posts included in the project):
IEG selected six of the seven posts, leaving out Catale because of the relatively low level of
project activities. The following six posts were visited by the mission: Campo sede, Lua-Lua,
Sambalendo, Rovuma, and Mopeia sede.

B. Village/Beneficiary/Group:
After selecting the administrative posts to be visited by the mission, IEG selected the villages
and groups to visit according to the following criteria: wide coverage of different asset
typologies (IEG interviewed groups and individuals that received each type of asset); and
villages that received a public infrastructure investment (especially markets, because these
accounted for a large percentage of infrastructure expenditure) financed by the project. It should
be noted that, in some cases, villages that had reportedly received assets by the project had not
received them, and therefore IEG group interviews included some groups (especially in
Morrumbala) that only received training and a savings and lending scheme.

Assessment Limitations:

Not all villages of Morrumbala and Mutarara Districts could be included in the assessment as
originally intended, because certain villages had been absorbed into newer districts. Covering
these villages would have necessitated further administrative procedures at the provincial level
(for purposes of seeking the government’s permission and facilitation for these surveys), which
was not possible due to time constraints




14
  After district, the next administrative division is “posto administrativo,” or administrative post (there
are 405 in Mozambique). The next and lowest geographical level of central state administration is
locality.
ANNEX F                                                           36


.ANNEX        F.


Annex F CAEIF Asset Verification Information from Beneficiary Assessment
Region                    Morrumbala
Locality                  Unknown location in
                          the project area within a
                          one-hour drive of
                          Morrumbala
CAEIF asset type          Market
Individual or community   Community                   Asset functional? Yes,
infrastructure            infrastructure              but the market functions
                                                      only one day a week. On
                                                      the day of the visit by the
                                                      beneficiary assessment
                                                      team a few merchants
                                                      were selling fish from
                                                      Mopeia.
                                                      .
                                                        37                           ANNEX F


Does the asset increase   This market, a concrete structure with a roof and
productivity or lead to   concrete selling tables in rows, was built by the
increased income for      project in October 2013. No information could be
beneficiary (ies)?        obtained about the benefits of having this market in
                          this location on the outskirts of a village. However, it
                          is within 25 yards of the main road, and those selling
                          fish at the market stated that selling along the road is
                          more lucrative than selling in the new market. On
                          market day vendors pay Mt 5 per day to rent a stall.
                          The revenue goes to the district administration.
Other Notes               None of the approximately 25 young men who joined
                          the discussion with the beneficiary assessment team
                          had found off-farm employment in the vicinity or in
                          Morrumbala. If low-skilled jobs were found, the
                          daily wage was typically Mt 50 per day (about
                          US$1).
                          When asked about the credit, the prospect of having
                          credit facilities brought an enthusiastic response. The
                          universal reason for using credit would be for
                          financing marketing activities.
ANNEX F                                                           38



Region                    Morrumbala
Locality                  Morrumbala-sede
CAEIF asset type          Chicken/rabbit coop
Individual or             Individual (male)                              Asset functional?
community                                                                Yes
infrastructure
Does the asset increase   This entrepreneur’s principal job is raising the rabbits and
productivity or lead to   chickens. He currently has only three chickens and three rabbits,
increased income for      but will soon get more chicks (from companies in Malawi,
beneficiary (ies)?        Quelimane, Nambula). Buys feed from either Maputo or
                          Chimoya; wants to learn to make his own feed to sell using local
                          grains. He buys a chick for Mt 30 and sells it for Mt 140.
Other Notes               Individual paid 40 percent (Mt 300,000) of the total cost for the
                          structure. He was able to invest this by using savings from his
                          professional skills (computer equipment repair). He says he
                          heard about the project through the government in Morrumbala,
                          where he owns two homes, and that he qualified under a criterion
                          relating to entrepreneurship. To his knowledge, there were four
                          similar coops financed by this project in and around Morrumbala;
                          only two are still operational. The coop was designed and
                          planned to have a meat processing and conservation facility (the
                          coop is quite large) but this did not get financing. He needed
                          the processing because most restaurants prefer processed meat
                          and so that he can meet hygiene and food safety standards.
                                                        39                           ANNEX F


Region                    Morrumbala
Locality                  Ries
CAEIF asset type          Grain silo
Individual or community   Individual (woman)          Asset functional?    Yes
infrastructure


Does the asset increase   She currently has her third harvest in the silo. It has
productivity or lead to   been very useful for her because her maize is
increased income for      conserved and she can get more money for it by
beneficiary (ies)?        selling it later. She does not share the storage with
                          anyone, it is just her maize.
                          Owner present, silo covered and well maintained —
                          currently full of maize. Owner showed us where she
Other Notes               used to keep maize, in thatch and pole structure, not
                          as protected from the elements, and the water could
                          get in. The silos are constructed of brick on the inside
                          and a layer of sand on the outside. The project
                          provided the top and bottom of silo and covered
                          construction costs. The owner provided the
                          roof/covering and some construction materials. If
                          she could make any changes, she would like a bigger
                          silo.

                          Top picture is maize storage before project, bottom
                          picture is covered silo.
ANNEX F                                                            40

Region               Morrumbala
Locality             Muandiua
CAEIF asset type     Market
Individual or        Community infrastructure                  Asset functional? Beneficiaries
community            (interviewed group of women               reported yes, no one was present
infrastructure       gathered at market)                       because it wasn’t market day

Does the asset       Previously the women sold the same things (beer and ready-made foods)
increase             at a market down the road, but they much prefer selling at the market, and
productivity or      they reported that they make more money at the new market than they
lead to increased    previously did.
income for
beneficiary (ies)?
Other Notes          Few people at market; it was not market day and there were heavy rains
                     the day before. Market days rotate on different days of the week around
                     the district. Local residents indicated they have market day on Thursday
                     and the market is full; people come from surrounding villages to buy and
                     sell fish, clothes, shoes, and other things needed for their households. IEG
                     spoke with a group of women who sell food and beer for the seller and
                     buyers at the market. The best stalls at the market are in the covered
                     structure constructed by the project, or in the outside stalls behind the
                     structure. A few reported that they sold inside. Daily fees (Mt per stall)
                     are collected and by local government, the government cleans the
                     marketplace the day before the market. The record of collections indicated
                     that between 50 and 100 stalls are occupied on market days. Women
                     typically sell bread, bear, and ready-made food, while men sell meat, fish,
                     beans, grains, and vegetables. These vegetables came from Malawi.
                     There is no water at the market (they fetch it from the hospital across the
                     street), and although the project constructed bathrooms, they were not
                     maintained, and now they are too dirty and no one uses them. The women
                     reported that they were not part of the decision-making process; they
                     thought this was because they were too busy with house duties. They do
                     not know who was consulted in the design of the marketplace. When
                     asked how they would improve the marketplace, they were not sure.




Region                       Morrumbala
                                                       41                             ANNEX F


Locality                  Megaza-Sede
CAEIF asset type          Livestock tank/veterinary facility
Individual or community   Community infrastructure                Asset
infrastructure                                                    functional?
                                                                  Reportedly yes;
                                                                  does not seem
                                                                  recently used.
                                                                  See notes below

Does the asset increase   The facility is reportedly free to use for all community
productivity or lead to   members and helps them with the control of cattle ticks,
increased income for      which have a serious detrimental effect on cattle and
beneficiary (ies)?        may lead to their death. The crush is used to facilitate
                          the vaccination of cattle.
                          Because this facility provides a service and prevents
                          cattle mortality, it could lead to increased incomes.

Other Notes               This structure was here from colonial times, and the
                          project financed the repair of the structure in 2013. The
                          community did not pay any contribution for repair. The
                          demand for this project came from the community, and
                          the local government was looking for partners to assist
                          with the reconstruction. The project is currently in use,
                          but only recently became functional because after it was
                          constructed the nearby well dried up, so now the
                          community has to haul in water from nearby sources. It
                          appears that the infrastructure was not functional for
                          quite some time.
ANNEX F                                                             42


Region                    Morrumbala
Locality                  Pinda - Gera

CAEIF asset type          Silo and animal traction
                          (including plow and cart)



Individual or             Individual (male)            Asset functional? Silo: Yes
community                 Also community               Cart: No
infrastructure            facilitator                  Cows/plow: Yes

Does the asset increase   He keeps maize in the silo and sells approximately 25 percent of
productivity or lead to   what he grows, consuming the rest. Previously he kept maize in
increased income for      his house and it would go bad or become infested with insects.
beneficiary (ies)?        He still has some issues with insects and has to buy an additive
                          for the maize to prevent insect infestation (a bottle costs Mt 150).
                          The benefits from the silo are that he has a better-quality maize
                          and is able to store maize after the harvest and get a better price
                          after the market price increases. He would like a bigger silo, but
                          the one he has is functioning well.


Other Notes               This beneficiary reported that he received these three assets
                          through working with the technician. He is the community
                          facilitator and works with his neighbors. He received the silo in
                          2010 and the rest of the assets in 2011.
                          He received the cart and used it to take his goods to the market —
                          this proved very beneficial to him (and the neighbors he rented
                          the cart to) because he previously was able to take a lesser
                          quantity on the back of a bicycle. The cart no longer works
                          because both of the tires ruptured and he cannot afford to fix
                          them. He still has the cows and the plow and reports that they are
                          functioning well and contributing to improvements in income.
                                                            43                    ANNEX F



Region           Morrumbala
Locality         Pinda - Sede

CAEIF asset      Animal traction
type             (including plow, cart,
                 and seeding
                 mechanism)

Individual or    Individual (male)         Asset functional?
community        Also community            Cart: No
infrastructure   facilitator               Cows/plow: No (cows died)




Does the asset   The beneficiary was part of a group that received fishing
increase         nets and a water pump to use the river water to irrigate
productivity     fields; he still benefits from these assets. In addition, from
or lead to       the project he received two cows, a plow, a tool for
increased        seeding the fields, and a cart. He made no contribution to
income for       the assets. He received all of the assets in 2009, and none
beneficiary      is currently functional. One of the cows died right away,
(ies)?           and only recently was he able to breed the remaining cow;
                 he is waiting for the offspring to grow enough to use the
                 plow.


Other Notes      One wheel of the cart is broken; it is now unusable, but
                 previously he was getting some income (Mt 50–100 /day)
                 renting the cart out to neighbors. He served as a farmer for
                 a demonstration plot and indicated that this is why he
                 received the assets. He also benefited from a loan from his
                 rural savings and lending group; he used this loan for
                 commercial trading in fish.
ANNEX F                                                                44

Region                 Morrumbala
Locality               Ries
CAEIF asset type       Silo

Individual or          Individual (unknown         Asset functional?
community              gender)                     No
infrastructure
Does the asset         Didn’t interview owner
increase
productivity or
lead to increased
income for
beneficiary (ies)?
Other Notes            Silo doesn’t have a complete covering; outer sand layer is
                       washing away with the rain.




Region               Morrumbala
                                                          45                        ANNEX F


Locality          Boroma

CAEIF asset       Small bridge
type
Individual or     Community                 Asset functional?
community         infrastructure            Yes – but poorly maintained
infrastructure
Does the asset    This small bridge was rehabilitated by the project in 2012.
increase          According to the community, the bridge has improved their
productivity or   connectivity to marketplaces. However, the IEG team inspected
lead to           the bridge and found it to be poorly constructed and maintained
increased
income for
beneficiary
(ies)?

Other Notes
ANNEX F                                                            46

Region           Morrumbala
Locality         Chirre

CAEIF asset      Threshing mill
type

Individual or    Individual (male)         Asset functional?
community                                  Partial
infrastructure

Does the asset   According to the beneficiary, the asset does lead to increased
increase         income. During the harvest season, up to 50–70 individuals
productivity     rent his machine per day, although he is responsible for
or lead to       providing the diesel to run the machine. On a good day, he can
increased        expect to earn Mt 2,000 (minus diesel costs) from renting out
income for       the machine. There is immense demand for using his machine
beneficiary      and he faces little competition from other mills. He reinvests
(ies)?           the rental income in his farm, mostly for hiring labor and
                 buying new seeds. He farms 2 hectares of land and has two
                 houses. He is the village chief.

Other Notes      The only condition for the owner to obtain the asset was that he
                 was responsible for building a shelter for the machine. Ever
                 since obtaining the asset in 2012, the machine has broken down
                 three times, and the technician has to come all the way from
                 Malawi to fix it. He has to pay approximately Mt 9,000 to
                 repair it each time. The machine is currently broken, and the
                 owner is waiting to receive money from his son (who runs a
                 small shop) to fix the machine. He hopes to get it fixed by
                 December.
                                                           47                        ANNEX F


Region           Morrumbala
Locality         Chare

CAEIF asset      45 boxes + kit for
type             producing honey

Individual or    Individual (male)          Asset functional?
community                                   Yes
infrastructure

Does the asset   The beneficiary was producing honey before the World Bank
increase         project, but was using traditional methods that were not
productivity     efficient. So the assets did improve his productivity. Similar to
or lead to       what the Association (of which he is the president) earns, the
increased        owner sells 0.5 liters of honey for Mt 100. This honey is well
income for       processed and packaged. The beneficiary was first trained by
beneficiary      the technicians and was then provided with the boxes, without
(ies)?           having to submit any proposal. The beneficiary reinvests the
                 additional income from the honey production in his farm,
                 house, and savings and lending group. He sends the boxes to
                 the local carpenter whenever they need repairs.
Other Notes      The beneficiary owns 4 hectares of land and cultivates sesame,
                 peanuts, cotton, maize, sorghum, and beans. He also does work
                 at other people’s farms. According to the beneficiary, receiving
                 cattle would have been more beneficial to him, but all cattle
                 were already distributed by the time the association was set up.
ANNEX F                                                              48

Region           Morrumbala
Locality         Chare
CAEIF asset      Community forest
type
Individual or    Individual and             Asset functional?
community        community                  Yes
infrastructure   infrastructure

Does the asset   According to the owner of the land on which the community
increase         forest is established, this forest provides a good source of
productivity     firewood to the community and also a place for cattle to graze.
or lead to       The project only provided a few honey boxes (to be erected in
increased        the forest) and related kits to the land owner as an incentive for
income for       him to maintain the forest.
beneficiary
(ies)?

Other Notes      According to the owner, this forest existed prior to the project,
                 so the project itself didn’t contribute to establishing the green
                 cover.
                                                           49                                         ANNEX F


Region                 Mutarara
Locality               Villa Nova
CAEIF asset type       Silos (4)
Individual or          Individual asset     Asset functional?
community                                   2 were functional, 2 were not
infrastructure
Does the asset         Overall, he found the silo to be the most beneficial thing for improving
increase               income because of the high returns he gets from selling his cereal crops.
productivity or lead
to increased income    The president of the CBO also benefitted from a loan from the savings and
for beneficiary        lending association formed by his group.
(ies)?
                       Previously he kept his grain inside of the house; he increased income from
                       the silo and from savings and lending.
Other Notes            IEG visited three of four silos awarded to members of a CBO in Villa
                       Nova. The beneficiaries interviewed reported that only two of the four
                       silos were currently working, the other two had completely eroded
                       because they were left uncovered. The recipients of the silos included the
                       CBO president (and community facilitator), treasurer, secretary, and a
                       general member. The president indicated that the four people who
                       received the silos were those that raised their hand when the community
                       technician asked who wanted a silo. He said the other community
                       members were afraid, but now that they see the benefit of his silo
                       (increased income because of his ability to store cereals), they also want a
                       silo.

                       The top picture is the community facilitator with his functioning silo and
                       protective shelter, the bottom is the remains of the silo that was left
                       exposed to the rain.
ANNEX F                                                            50

Region                 Mutarara
Locality               Villa Nova
CAEIF asset type       Market
Individual or          Individual asset     Asset functional?
community                                   Building was intact, most sellers were outside
infrastructure
Does the asset         The woman inside selling thought it was better because it was shaded; no
increase               increase in income noted.
productivity or lead
to increased income
for beneficiary
(ies)?



Other Notes            IEG visited on market day. There were many people at the market (very
                       close to the border with Malawi), but most people were selling outside the
                       market, with the exception of one woman. IEG learned that only vendors
                       selling produce or fish were allowed inside the market. Most vendors at
                       the market were selling clothing or ready-made foods, therefore they were
                       not allowed inside.
                                                           51                     ANNEX F


Region               Mutarara
Locality             Jardim
CAEIF asset type     Grinding
                     machine
Individual or        Individual       Asset functional?
community            asset (male)     Yes
infrastructure
Does the asset       The owner saw increased income both from milling his
increase             own crops and from charging neighbors to mill their crops.
productivity or      With the profits he has purchased cows and goats, and he
lead to increased    also uses the money for his children. He was able to open
income for           a bank account with his profits.
beneficiary (ies)?
                     The mill was functioning and there were multiple people
                     waiting in line when IEG visited the asset.
Other Notes          This mill was originally intended to be a group asset, but
                     when the group was asked to provide an in-kind donation
                     of a shelter, they did not want to contribute so the
                     individual took the mill and built the shelter. Previously
                     the milling machine was 5 kilometers away.

                     The owner’s issue now is connectivity—it is very difficult
                     and expensive for him to transport his milled grains.




Region                 Mutarara
ANNEX F                                                             52

Locality               Sinjal
CAEIF asset type       Animal traction

Individual or          Individual asset (male)         Asset functional?
community                                              Cows: No
infrastructure                                         Cart: Yes
Does the asset         The farmer received two cows, a plow, and a cart. One
increase               cow died, so he cannot use the plow. The plow still
productivity or lead   works, and sometimes he pushes it by hand.
to increased income
for beneficiary        He is part of a group that also received four cows, but
(ies)?                 they no longer have those cows. It was too expensive to
                       hire someone to mind the cows; they went to the house
                       of a group member and were stolen by thieves. One of
                       two carts given to the group is still functional, but they
                       have no cows.
Other Notes            All the animal traction equipment was reportedly free.
                       He says he was not given an option about which asset he
                       received.
                                                           53                                                   ANNEX F


Region               Mutarara
Locality             Chembue Mapolano
                     Inhangoma                                                    Didn’t see asset – far away from village
CAEIF asset type     Hammer mill (water
                     powered)
Individual or        Individual asset (male)     Asset functional?
community                                        No
infrastructure
Does the asset       The farmer received a water-powered mill from the
increase             project; it lasted for four months. He had money to fix it
productivity or      but did not, because the mill was not of high quality, and
lead to increased    therefore the quality of the meal it produced was poor.
income for
beneficiary (ies)?
Other Notes          He says he was chosen to receive the asset because he
                     would help others in the community.
ANNEX F                                                              54


Region               Mutarara
Locality             Chembue
                     Mapolano
                     Inhangoma
CAEIF asset type     Silo and animal
                     traction

Individual or        Individual asset     Asset functional?
community            (female)             Yes
infrastructure
Does the asset       Farmer received two cows, cart, plow, and seeding
increase             equipment, as well as a silo. She said that because of
productivity or      the assets she has enough to eat and she also makes a
lead to increased    profit. She saves the money that she makes and was
income for           able to open up an account at a commercial bank in the
beneficiary (ies)?   local town (she is the only woman in town that has a
                     bank account, some of the men do as well). She also
                     invests the money back into her 3-hectare farm.


Other Notes          She is a community facilitator, and a member of a group
                     that participated in savings and lending. She thinks that
                     women follow instructions (especially those of the
                     technicians) better than men. She also said that because
                     men typically own assets, when women are given an
                     asset they take good care of it because if they don’t, they
                     may be beaten by their husbands.




Region               Mopeia
                                                             55                     ANNEX F


Locality             Sambala
                     (Zero)
CAEIF asset type     Market
Individual or        Community          Asset functional?
community            market             Yes – damaged roof
infrastructure
Does the asset       The community market led to a decrease in income for
increase             fish sellers compared with their location before
productivity or      construction of the market. Previously they were located
lead to increased    next to a bus station, and now they are in a market that
income for           is difficult to see from the main intersection/transit area.
beneficiary (ies)?   They estimated that because they are selling in the new
                     marketplace, they make approximately Mt 100 less a
                     day than they did when they were outside the market.

Other Notes          Only fish are sold at the market, and it was all men
                     except for one woman. The community leaders decided
                     that this market would be for fish, and now this is where
                     they must sell. The structure is relatively new—built in
                     2012—but the roof was partially destroyed by a storm,
                     and has been for the past year. The government charges
                     Mt 10/day to rent a stall, and there are approximately 40
                     stalls.
ANNEX F                                                             56

Region               Mopeia
Locality             24 de Julio
                     (Mopeia-Sede)
CAEIF asset type     Silo

Individual or        Individual (male)   Asset functional?
community                                No
infrastructure
Does the asset       Helped him earn more income when it was functional.
increase
productivity or
lead to increased
income for
beneficiary (ies)?
Other Notes          He reported that he received the silo because he is a
                     community facilitator and one of the best producers in the
                     community. He received the silo along with three other
                     members of his farmers’ association. He originally had a
                     covering for the silo, but it blew away and he didn’t have time
                     to make another; therefore, the silo fell apart.
                                                          57                                          ANNEX F


Region                    Mopeia
Locality                  Conho
CAEIF asset type          Silo and animal
                          traction
Individual or             Individual          Asset functional?
community                 (Male)              Animal traction: No
infrastructure                                Silo: Yes
Does the asset increase   The animal traction never helped the farmer earn more income—the
productivity or lead to   beneficiary reported that the cows died shortly after they were received,
increased income for      only one remains, and the equipment (plow and cart) were of inferior
beneficiary (ies)?        quality and never worked properly. The silo helps him store his grain
                          and earn more income.
Other Notes               He reported that he received the assets because he is a community
                          leader. From the project he received three cows, two plows, two carts,
                          and one silo. The cows had a calf, but now, because only one cow
                          remains (the others died), he is unable to use them for anything. Both
                          carts and plows are broken; the beneficiary thought they were possibly
                          secondhand and noted that they were of inferior quality. He neither
                          requested the assets nor paid for them, but was grateful to receive them.
                          He did contribute bricks for the silo, and constructed a shelter for the
                          silo (excellent quality) and an enclosure for the cows.
ANNEX F                                                         58

Region                    Mopeia
Locality                  Rovuma (Conho)
CAEIF asset type          Market
Individual or community   Community            Asset functional?
infrastructure            infrastructure       No
Does the asset increase   N/A – market never completed
productivity or lead to
increased income for
beneficiary (ies)?
Other Notes               Construction began in 2013; market is
                          unfinished and the existing construction has
                          significant damage (six major cracks in the
                          walls, cracks along the foundation/floor). There
                          are no steps and the wall is unfinished, lacks
                          bathrooms as well. The market was requested
                          by the community and was intended for use not
                          only for this community, but by local
                          communities as well, and potentially as a place
                          where local sellers could connect with wholesale
                          buyers. Beneficiaries were told that the
                          government is still looking for budget to finish.




Region                    Mopeia
                                                      59       ANNEX F


Locality                  Mopeia Sede
CAEIF asset type          Market
Individual or community   Community        Asset functional?
infrastructure            infrastructure   No
Does the asset increase
productivity or lead to
increased income for
beneficiary (ies)?
Other Notes
ANNEX F                                                  60

Region                 Mopeia
Locality               Mopeia - Sede
CAEIF asset type       Bridge
Individual or          Community               Asset
community              infrastructure          functio
infrastructure                                 nal?
                                               Yes
Does the asset         Unknown
increase
productivity or lead
to increased income
for beneficiary
(ies)?
Other Notes            Bridges were in
                       workable condition;
                       no railings but
                       currently in use.
                       Located between
                       large fields formerly
                       used for rice.
                                                         61                     ANNEX F


Region                    Mopeia
Locality                  Campo Sede
CAEIF asset type          Animal traction
Individual or             Individual          Asset functional?
community                                     No
infrastructure
Does the asset increase   N/A – Was never able to use cows for plowing
productivity or lead to   (reported that they were not properly trained to
increased income for      plow), nor were they able to use the cart, as it
beneficiary (ies)?        broke shortly after they acquired it.
Other Notes               Farmer received the assets because he was
                          identified by the project coordinator (from
                          Mopeia) after a visit as one of the highest
                          producers in the area. He has never owned
                          animals (or animal traction equipment) before and
                          did not receive training. Even though he was
                          unable to use the animals he has taken good care
                          of them and hopes to grow the herd. If he cannot
                          train them for plowing, he will sell them later. He
                          reported receiving help on planting techniques, sun
                          protection, and pesticides from technician. He does
                          not belong to any associations.
ANNEX F                                                            62

Region                    Mopeia
Locality                  Campo Sede
CAEIF asset type          Market

Individual or             Community            Asset functional?
community                 infrastructure       Yes, but not being used
infrastructure

Does the asset increase   N/A – not in use, hasn’t been since January
productivity or lead to
increased income for
beneficiary (ies)?

Other Notes               This market, constructed in 2013, was the best
                          equipped market seen during the IEG field
                          mission. There was a water pump, a rainwater
                          catchment system, and functioning bathrooms, as
                          well as a security booth. The market had
                          minimal cracks/damages in foundation but was
                          still markedly better than other markets seen in
                          the same district. The market management
                          committee reported that the market was not in use
                          because there were floods that washed all the
                          produce away so there was nothing to sell. They
                          do not charge for stalls, and when in use, the
                          market is used for mostly fish and produce.
                                                         63                    ANNEX F


Region                    Mopeia
Locality                  Lua
CAEIF asset type          Silo
Individual or             Individual          Asset functional?
community                                     Yes
infrastructure
Does the asset increase   Farmer has seen an increase in income from her
productivity or lead to   silo, with the profits from the silo and animal
increased income for      traction (using cows to plow and using/renting
beneficiary (ies)?        cart) she has made enough money to send her kids
                          to school and hired people to work her large (20-
                          hectare) farm. Silo is well maintained.
Other Notes               She is a community coordinator and group leader
                          for a group that received animal traction. She
                          reported that 12 of the group’s 28 cows were
                          stolen, but the remaining cows are alive and
                          helping to generate profit for her majority female
                          group. She is a widow, and has the largest farm
                          that IEG encountered in the fieldwork; she farms
                          20 hectares (other farmers indicate they farm
                          around 2–3, on average).
                                 64


Annex G. Map of the Project and IEG Assessment Areas
