Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 4177-PAK 
 
Program Agreement 
 
(North West Frontier Province Development Policy Credit) 
 
between 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
and 
 
NORTH WEST FRONTIER PROVINCE 
 
Dated June 1, 2006  
 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 4177-PAK 
 
PROGRAM AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT dated June 1, 2006, entered into between INTERNATIONAL 
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (
“Association”) and NORTH WEST FRONTIER 
PROVINCE acting by its Governor (“NWFP” or the “Program Implementing Entity”) 
(the “Program Agreement”) in connection with the Financing Agreement of same date 
between Islamic Republic of Pakistan (the “Recipient) and the Association (the 
“Financing Agreement”). The Association and the Program Implementing Entity hereby 
agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I - GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to the Financing 
Agreement) constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in the Program 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the Financing Agreement or the 
General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE II - PROGRAM
 
2.01. 
NWFP declares its commitment to the objectives of the Program.  To this end, 
NWFP shall carry out the Program in accordance with the provisions of Article IV of the 
General Conditions, and shall provide promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services 
and other resources required for the Program. 
 
2.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 2.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Association and the NWFP shall otherwise agree, NWFP shall carry out the 
Program in accordance with the provisions of the Schedule to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III 
–
TERMINATION 
 
3.01. 
For purposes of Section 8.05(c) of the General Conditions, the date on which the 
provisions of this Agreement shall terminate is twenty years after the date of this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV – REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
 
4.01. NWFP
’s Representative is the Secretary, Finance Department, NWFP.  
 
Page  3
-
2
-
4.02. The 
Association
’s Address is: 
 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) 
or 
1-202-477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145(MCI) 
 
4.03. 
NWFP’s Address is: 
 
Planning and Development Department 
Government of North West Frontier Province 
Peshawar, Pakistan 
 
Cable Address: 
 
 
 
 
Facsimile: 
 
 
DEVELOPMENT 
    091-9210354 
 Peshawar, 
Pakistan 
 
AGREED in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day 
and year first above written. 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ John W. Wall 
 
Country Director 
Pakistan 
 
NORTH WEST FRONTIER PROVINCE 
 
By /s/ Mushtaq Malik 
 
Authorized Representative 
Page  4
-
3
-
SCHEDULE 
 
Actions Taken by NWFP under the Program 
 
I. Economic 
Growth 
1. 
The Investment Facilitation Council and the Investment Facilitation Committee 
have been established. 
 
2. 
In furtherance of a demand driven approach to the operation of technical and 
vocational training institutes, representatives of the private sector have been included in, 
and appointed chairpersons of, the management committees of such institutions. 
 
3. 
With a view to promoting investment, the Sarhad Development Authority has:  
(a) been restructured to include an investment facilitation center; (b) become the 
secretariat to the Investment Facilitation Council and the Investment Facilitation 
Committee; and (c) created management committees for industrial estates consisting of, 
and led by, private sector representatives. 
 
4.  
NWFP
’s shareholding in the Bank of Khyber has been reduced to 65%. 
 
5. 
With a view to strengthening the agricultural sector: (a) public expenditures for 
agriculture have been realigned with the priorities set out in the Agricultural Policy;  
(b) steps have been initiated to establish an autonomous agricultural research system 
consistent with said priorities; (c) at least 75 Farm Services Centers have been 
established; and (d) District Agricultural Coordination Forums have been established in 
all districts. 
 
II. Fiscal 
Reforms
6. 
With a view to achieving fiscal sustainability and sound expenditure 
composition, the FY2005/06 budget outcome has been aligned with the medium term 
budget framework so as to: (a) contain the overall fiscal deficit within the target level of 
0.8% of PGDP or Rs.4.3 billion; (b) maintain the throw-forward ratio of development 
projects at or below the FY2004/05 level of 3.0 years; and (c) contain the establishment 
cost within the FY2004/05 level of 3.6% of PGDP. 
 
7. 
With a view to improving tax administration and strengthening the revenue base: 
(a) a system of bonus payments to excise and taxation staff linked to revenue collection 
performance has been introduced; and (b) tax facilitation centers with support from the 
private sector for the collection of selected taxes have been opened.  
 
Page  5
-
4
-
III.  
Human Development and Social Service Delivery
8. 
Free textbooks have been distributed to all primary school students, and all girl 
middle and high school students, in government schools. 
 
9. 
With a view to improving the quality of education: (a) it has been ensured that 
functional PTAs with authority to monitor teacher attendance and utilize IM&R funds 
will continue to exist in all primary schools; (b) PTAs have been made fully functional 
with similar authority in twenty percent (20%) of middle and high schools; and (c) IM&R 
funds have been released by the districts to all existing PTAs.  
 
10. 
The coverage of TB (tuberculosis) daily observation therapy sessions (DOTS) 
has been extended from 17 to 24 districts, and 2500 new lady health workers have been 
deployed to district hospitals.  
 
11. 
Contracts have been entered into between NWFP and at least three (3)
 
NGOs/private sector organizations, for the provision of HIV/AIDS preventive services. 
 
IV. Governance 
Reforms
12. 
The NWFP provincial budget for FY2005 has been published in a format based 
on the new chart of accounts.  
 
13. 
A road map has been prepared satisfactory to the Association for procurement 
reform, including the revision of the Procurement Law to better align it with international 
best practice, specifying the time-frame, resources and responsible staff needed for such 
reform. 
 
14. 
A computerized human resource management database has been developed and 
put into operation for the provision of reliable and timely data for personnel management 
and planning. 
 
15. 
Inconsistencies in the designation of the appointing authority for different levels 
of officers and staff of the departments devolved to the districts have been removed.
 
