                                              Document of
                                            TheWorld Bank

                                      FOR OFFICIAL USEONLY



                                                                          ReportNo. 35479-PK




                      INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION

                                      PROGRAMDOCUMENT

                                                   FOR

              A PROPOSEDCREDIT INTHE AMOUNT OF SDR 62.7 MIL                            or

                                  (US$90 MILLIONEQUIVALENT)

                                                    TO

                            THE ISLAMICREPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN

                                                 FOR A

                          FIRSTNORTHWEST FRONTIER PROVINCE
                                DEVELOPMENT POLICY CREDIT



                                              April 4,2006



    Poverty Reduction and Economic Management
    SouthAsia Region

r
This document hasarestricted distribution andmay be usedbyrecipients only inthe performance o ftheir
official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without BankAuthorization.

                  PAKISTAN-GOVERNMENTFISCAL             YEAR
                                July 1-June 30

                          CURRENCYEQUIVALENTS
                 (Exchange Rate Effective as o f Aprl4,2006)
                              US$1 = 60.25 PKRs
                     ABBREVIATIONS         AND ACRONYMS

AAA            Analytical and Advisory Activities
ADP            Annual Development Program
A W B          Area Water Board
CAS            Country Assistance Strategy
COA            Chart o f Accounts
CWIQ           Core Welfare Indicators Questionnaire
D A C          DepartmentalAccounts Committee
DFID           Department for International Development
DPC            Development Policy Credit
EMIS           Education Management Information System
FBS            Federal Bureau o f Statistics
GDP            Gross Domestic Product
GoNWFP         Government o fNorthWest Frontier Province
HD             HumanDevelopment
HRM            HumanResource Management
IDA            International Development Association
M D G          MillenniumDevelopment Goals
M O E          MinistryofEducation
M O H          MinistryofHealth
MTBF           Medium-TermBudget Framework
MVT            Motor Vehicle Tax
NAM            New Accounting Model
NFC            NationalFinance Commission
NWFP           NorthWest Frontier Province
PAC            Public Accounts Committee
PFAA           ProvincialFinancial Accountability Assessment
PGDP           Provincial Gross Domestic Product
PHC            Provincial Irrigation Department
PID            Primary Health Care
PIDA           Provincial Irrigation and Drainage Authority
PIFRA          Project to Improve Financial Reporting and Accountability
PIHS           PakistanIntegratedHousehold Survey
PPSC           ProvincialPublic Service Commission
PRP            ProvincialReformProgram
PRSP           Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
PSD            Private Sector Development
PSLSMS         Pakistan Social and Living Standards Measurement Survey
SAC            Structural Adjustment Credit
SDA            Sarhad Development Authority
SIDB           Small IndustriesDevelopment Board
TB-DOTS        Tuberculosis - Daily Observation Therapy Sessions
            Vice President:    Prahl Patel, SARVP
         Country Director:     JohnW. Wall, SACPK
           Sector Director:    Sadiq Ahmed, SASPR
           Sector Manager:     Ijaz Nabi, SASPR
        Task Team Leaders:     PaulWade and HanidMukhtar. SASPR

                                                            PAKISTAN
                        FIRST NORTHWEST FRONTIERPROVINCE
                                   DEVELOPMENT POLICY CREDIT

                                                TABLE OF CONTENTS



I INTRODUCTION                                                                                                                                            1
I1 COUNTRYAND PROVINCIAL CONTEXT
 ..                          .....................................................................................................................
                                                                               ......................................................................     2
  A.    Recent Developments inPakistan.....................................................................................................               2
  B.    Recent Developments inNWFP .......................................................................................................                4

I11 NWFPGOVERNMENT'SPOVERTYREDUCTIONAND DEVELOPMENT
  .
STRATEGY       ...................................................................................................................................        7
  A.    The NWFP Government's ReformProgram - PhaseI(2001 2006) ...............................................
                                                                                                 -                                                        7
  B.    The Government's ReformProgram- PhaseI1(2006 - 2010)........................................................                                      16
I V BANKSUPPORTTO THE GOVERNMENT'S PROGRAM
  .                                                                                                          .........................................   26
  A.
  B.    Overview......................................................................................................................................... 26

  c. Analytic andAdvisory Services......................................................................................................
        Bank Support .................................................................................................................................. 26
                                                                                                                                                          27
  D.                                                                                                                                                      27
  E. The Proposed DevelopmentPolicy Credit......................................................................................
        Lessons from PreviousPolicy Based Lending Operations (SACS).................................................

  F.    Benefits o f the Operation................................................................................................................ 35     28


V OPERATIONIMPLEMENTATION
  .                                                             ..................................................................................       36
  A.    Poverty and Social Impacts.............................................................................................................           36
  B.                                                                                                                                                      37
         Fiduciary Aspects............................................................................................................................
         Implementation, Monitoring and Evaluation..................................................................................
   C.                                                                                                                                                     38
  D.     Credit Administration, Disbursements, andFiduciary Assurance ..................................................                                  39
   E.                                                                                                                                                     39
         Environmental Aspects ...................................................................................................................
         Coordination with Other Donors.....................................................................................................
   F.                                                                                                                                                     40
   G.    Risks and Risk Mitigation...............................................................................................................         41


                                                        LIST OF TABLES


Table 1:Pakistan .Recent Macroeconomic Trends........................................................................................ 3
Table 2: NWFP Selected Economic Indicators, 2004105 - 2007/08 .............................................................                               17

Table 4: NWFP Medium-Term Budget Framework (percent ofprovincial GDP) ".....................................
Table 3: Estimated Revenue Transfers to NWFP under Original and Amended 1997NFC Awards ...........21
                                                                                                                                                          22
Table 5: SelectedMonitoring Indicators for NWFPDPC.............................................................................                           38

                                    LIST OFANNEXES

ANNEX 1: Letter ofDevelopment Policy and Government ReformProgram
ANNEX 2: Policy Matrix
ANNEX 3: Poverty and Employment inNWFP
ANNEX 4: HumanDevelopment inNWFP: Challenges, ProgressandFutureProspects
ANNEX 5: Public FinanceManagement
ANNEX 6: Modernization inthe Civil Service andAdministration ofMulti-tiered Government
ANNEX 7: Accelerating Economic Growth
ANNEX 8: NWFP-Fiscal, Economic and Social Indicators
ANNEX 9: Pakistan-Fiscal, Economic and Social Indicators
ANNEX 10: Status o fBank Group Operations
ANNEX 11: Relationswith the IMF


Map: IBRD34635




                                               ..
                                               11

          TheNWFPDPC 1was prepared by an IDA team consistingof:

MartynAmbury              Consultant (SASPR)
Shahnaz Arshad            Senior Urban Specialist (SASEI)
Harsha Aturupane          Senior Economist (SASHD)
Ismaila Ceesay            Senior Financial Management Specialist (SARFM)
Agnes Couffnhal           Senior Health Economist (SASHD)
Tekola Dejene             Lead Operations Officer (SASAR)
InaamHaq                  Senior Health Specialist (SASHD)
Isfandyar Zaman Khan      Private Sector Development Specialist (SASFP)
Tahseen Sayed Khan        Lead Education Specialist (SASHD)
Benjamin Loevinsohn       LeadPublic Health Specialist (SASHD)
Ambreen Iqbal Malik       ETConsultant (SASAR)
Shaheen Malik             Research Analyst (SASPR)
Eric DavidManes            Senior Private Sector Development Specialist (SASFP)
Ranjana Mukherjee          Senior Public Sector Specialist (SASPR)
HanidMukhtar               Senior Economist (SASPR)
Naveed Hassan Naqvi        EducationEconomist (SASHD)
Arlene Reyes               ProgramAssistant (SASPR)
Uzma Sadaf                 Procurement Specialist (SARPS)
IrumTouqeer                Team Assistant (SASPR)
Paul Wade                  Senior Economist, Task Team Leader (SASPR)

                           Peer Reviewers
Shahnaz Wazir Ali          Consultant
Parvez Hasan               Consultant
David Rosenblatt           LeadEconomist and Sector Leader (LCSPR)




                                ...
                                111


                      CREDIT AND PROGRAM SUMMARY

                                    PAKISTAN
               FIRST NWFPDEVELOPMENT POLICY CREDIT

Recipient:               Government o f Pakistan

ImplementingAgency:      Government of the NorthWest Frontier Province (GoNWFP)

Amount:                  SDR 62.7 million (US$90 million equivalent)

Terms:                   StandardIDA terms; 35-year maturity with 10-year grace period
OnLendingTerms:          IDA terms
ObjectiveandDescription: The proposed NWFP DPC 1 i s a transition operation that will
                         complete the series o f three IDA credits that assisted the
                         government's fiscal reform agenda, and will also commence a new
                         series o f IDA support for the government's medium-term reform
                         program with a strong emphasis on human development and
                         inclusive growth. The reform program launched by DPC 1 will
                         support the following pillars of the government program:
                         (i) development(forprogressineducationandhealth); (ii)
                            human
                         fiscal reform; (iii)governance reform (focused on financial
                         management,      procurement,     civil service and administrative
                         devolution);    and (iv) continued support for private sector
                         development to create sustainable employment opportunities.

Benefits:                The DPC program will support and help finance the reform
                         program o f NWFP.Beneficial outcomes are expected to include (i)
                         improved education and health status for broader parts o f the
                         population in the province, that will help increasing the poor's
                         participation ineconomic growth; (ii)     reduced incidence o f poverty
                         as a result o f broad based, inclusive growth; (iii)  restoration o f the
                         province's financial health: a sustainable fiscal position with more
                         resources for poverty reductionexpenditures; and (iv) strengthened
                         governance, accountability and          transparency in government
                         operations. In addition, NWFP's reforms could strengthen reform
                         competition andencourage learning across provinces inPakistan.

Risks:                   Risks include: (i)  political risks; (ii) o f limitations on reform
                                                                  risks
                         implementation capacity; (iii)   fiscal risks; and (iv) external shocks.
                         Important risk mitigating factors are: cumulative progress in key
                         areas that will strengthen the constituencies for reform, making
                         reversal difficult, and the Bank sustaining and deepening its policy
                         dialogue and disbursing against a set o f prior actions. Fiscal risks
                         have been addressed with measures to increase fiscal space:
                         increasing own revenue collection, interest savings stemming fi-om
                         prudent debt management, buildup o f assets in pensions fund to
                         meet future liabilities, and containingthe civil service wage bill.

Disbursement:            The full amount o f US$90 million equivalent will be disbursed ina
                         single tranche upon effectiveness.

ProjectIDNumber:         PO90689



                                          1v


                              PROGRAM DOCUMENT FOR A
          PROPOSEDFIRSTNWFPDEVELOPMENT POLICY CREDIT
                     TO THE ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN

                                     I.INTRODUCTION

1.      After a decade o f severe macro-economic problems, anemic growth and stagnation in
poverty reduction and social indicators, in 1999 Pakistan embarked on a new course with
comprehensive economic and governance reforms aimed at restoring macroeconomic stability,
raising growth grates and reducing poverty. The federal reform programs have been
supplemented by reforms in several provinces. Since the bulk o f public expenditure on service
delivery is incurred at the provincial level, the provincial reforms are key not only to improving
country-wide social outcomes but also moving to a higher growth trajectory.

2.      The government o f the North West Frontier Province (NWFP) launched its broad based
reform program in 2001 focused on strengthening the provincial budget, realizing the potential o f
the private sector to spur rapid economic growth and promoting human development. The Bank,
guided by the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) has supported the reform program with two
Structural Adjustment Credits (NWFP SAC 1 and 2, presented to the Board, respectively, inJuly
2002 and June 2004), analytical work (the NWFP Economic Report "Accelerating Growth and
Improving Public Service Delivery: The Way Forward", 2005), prepared jointly with the
Government o f the NWFP (GoNWFP), and technical assistance (workshops/training). This
reform program has achieved positive outcomes. The government has taken charge o f the broad-
based reform program and reform has gathered momentum. Reform efforts are being supported
by several donors, andthe first Development Forumfor NWFPis plannedfor May2006.

3.      Going forward, a consensus has emerged in the Bank`s dialogue with the NWFP
government that to tackle poverty effectively, economic growth has to be inclusive and must
create better job opportunities. The provincial development strategy thus i s sharpening the focus
on structural changes that substantially improve social indicators and the quality o f the work
force. This has required setting out a vision for human development and social protection and
aligning reform and budget priorities to realize the vision. A strategy document summarizing the
Government's program "Provincial Development Program, 2005/06 - 2007/08" i s expected to be
approvedby Cabinet inApril 2006.

4.      Consistent with this objective, the proposed operation supports the transition o f the
government's development strategy from broad-based structural reform to one that is focused on
human development, social protection and inclusive growth. This transition operation i s the first
ina series ofthree proposed DevelopmentPolicy Credits to support the Government ofNWFP's
strategy for human development and inclusive growth. It will include selected reforms on the
economic and governance fronts that will ensure the human development program's sustainability
and transparency, and accelerate the pace o fjob creation inNWFP.

5.      The President's memorandum in support o f the operation assesses progress on the broad-
based reform program and sets out the more focused human development agenda going forward.
The government's commitment to the broad reform agenda remains undiminished and the Bank
will continue to support it via analyticalwork, technical assistance and possibly a separate policy
basedlending operation.

6.       The program document for SAC 2 identified key areas where satisfactory progress could
lay the basis for a follow-on operation, i.e., the third SAC. The government has implemented
reforms in line with the program content outlined for the third credit and thus has met all prior
actions for the proposedtransition operation DPC 1.

7.       This program document presents the country and province context and recent
developments in Pakistan and the NWFP (Section 11). The government's poverty reduction and
development strategy and reform program are presented in Section 111. Section lV presents the
Bank's support to the NWFP, describes the proposed operation and lists prior actions for DPC 1
and triggers for DPC 2. Section V describes implementationo fthe operation and risks.


                         11. COUNTRY AND PROVINCIAL CONTEXT

A.       RecentDevelopmentsinPakistan

A.l      PoliticalDevelopments

8.       Notwithstanding the fall out from the Afghan war and the war on terrorism, Pakistan i s
benefiting from a period o f relative stability that has contributed to deepening of reform at the
federal level and, following the second local government election in 2005 (the first was held in
2001), has led to the institutionalization o f the new local government system. The
decentralization initiative has started the process o f transferring responsibility and resources for
public service delivery to local governments. Elections in 2002 restored the National and
Provincial Assemblies and the reform program has been carried forward under the elected
government. General elections are due in 2007, and the prospects are good for maintenance o f the
government's pro-reform orientation. There have been increased tensions in Balochistan and
along the border with Afghanistan. On the other hand, Pakistan's relations with the international
community have continuedto improve over the past two years, inparticular with India, which has
contributed to the country's stability.

A.2      EconomicDevelopments

9.       Economic growth has remained strong and broad based. The domestic fiscal
situation remains sustainable, despite earthquake-related expenditure pressures. The
economy i s projected to grow by 6.3 percent inFY06 in spite o f the impact o f the October 2005.
Growth in recent years has been broad-based with all key sectors o f the economy making a
significant contribution. Prospects for rapid growth to be sustained over the next 3 years are good,
provided that political and macroeconomic stability are maintained, that the momentum o f
structural reforms and investments to reduce the cost o f doing business i s sustained, and that
domestic savings and public and private investment continue to increase. The FY06 Budget
projectedan increase inthe fiscal deficit from 3.3 percent o f GDP inFY05 to 3.8 percent o f GDP
inFY06, reflecting an increaseinsalaries o f government employees and a significant increase in
the development budget. Additional expenditure related to earthquake assistance is projected to
increase the fiscal deficit to 4.4 percent o f GDP. Nonetheless, the fiscal deficit remains consistent
with a stable macroeconomic framework and the Fiscal Responsibility and Debt Limitation Law,
and i s projected to remain so inthe coming years.

 10.     Inflationary pressures remain and the trade and current account deficits have
widened significantly. Inflationary pressures have persisted over the past 18 months and
inflation i s projected to be between 8-8.5% inFY06. Imports have been growing rapidly, and the


                                                  2

trade deficit has risen sharply -to US$4.4 billion inFY05 and projectedto increase further to $7
billion inFY06.The mainreason for this has been strong import demand, fueledpartly byhealthy
growth but also by relatively loose monetary policy pursued by the authorities during the last
three years; real appreciation of the rupee o f about 6 percent over the past year has also
contributed. The Government and the central bank plan to take additional steps on the monetary,
exchange rate and fiscal fronts to reduce demand pressures and curb the current account deficit.

11.        The IMF-supported Poverty Reduction Growth Facility (PRGF) was concluded in
December 2004, and the Government of Pakistan did not request a successor IMF program. IMF
Post-program Monitoring was deemed unnecessary by the IMF's Board. Pakistan is now on a
standard Article IV surveillance schedule. An IMF Article IV Consultation missiontook place in
August 2005, and the Staff Report was discussion on November 2, 2005 (see Annex 11for the
IMF's November 2005 Public Information note). Debt sustainability analysis has been carried
out by the IMF and by the World Bank, and indicates that the government's debt reduction path
(which is prescribed in the Fiscal Responsibility and Debt Limitation Law) is consistent with a
sustainable debt outlook.

                                Table 1: Pakistan Recent lacroeconomic Trends
                                                        -
                                                                       2001/02    2002103    2003104     2004/05   2005106
                                                                                                        PreLActual Projection
                                                                                    (Annual percentagechanges)
    Real GDP at factor costs                                             3.1         4.8        6.4        8.4       6.3
    Consumer prices (period average)                                     2.5         3.1        4.6        9.3       8.7
                                                                                         (In percent of GDP)
    Gross national savings                                               19.0       22.0       19.3       15.6       15.6
    Total Investment                                                     16.8        16.9      17.3       16.8       19.0
      o/w Government                                                     2.9         2.1        2.9        3.5       3.I
    Budget balance (excluding grants)                                    -5.5        -3.8       -2.3      -3.3       -4.4
     Net o f Earthquake Impact                                                                                       -3.6
    Total government debt                                                80.2        74.3      67.9       61.1       56.5
  Source: GOP, IMFand Staff estimates.
  Note: FBSinvestment figures for 2004105 are likely to underestimate investmentlevels.

 12.       Provinces' and especially NWFP's, fiscal position i s strengthened by the January 19,
2006 Amendment to the NFC Award. Provincial public finances are expected to strengthen
following the recent decision to increase o f provinces in federal divisible taxes. The amended
NFC Award not only provides a greater share (45 percent vs 42.5 percent inthe original Award)
in divisible revenue, the share will increase by 1percentage point each year to reach 50 percent
by 2010/11. Inaddition NWFP and Balochistan, inparticular, benefit fkom a substantial increase
in subventions. NWFP tends to gain the most as its share o f total NFC transfers to provinces is
expected to increase fkom 14percent to 15 percent.

A.3        Developments in Education and Health Sector Policies

 13.       A number o f policy and other initiatives have been launchedby the Federal Ministry o f
Education (MOE) which will have an impact on provinces' education programs. Inthe education
 sector these initiativesrange from a review o f the 1998National Education Policy to establishing
 a National Curriculum Council to review (and possibly reform) the present curricula. The MOE
has also commissioned a National Education Census which could potentially be used by the
NWFP EMIS as a baseline to integrate private sector data. Similarly, the Federal Ministry o f
Health (MOH) has initiated new programmatic initiatives in a number of major federal programs.
With regard to NWFP, the provincial government has taken some important steps under its



                                                                 3


B.3      The 2005 Earthquake

17.      NWFPalongwith Azad Jammu and Kashmir were hitby a powerful earthquake on
October 8, 2005 that devastated about a quarter of the geographical area o f NWFP, affecting
about 3% millionpeople or one-sixth o f the province's population. More than 22,500 people died
from the earthquake and twice this number was injured, many o f them permanently disabled. A
very large number o f casualties were school children. Nearly 4000 schools, mainly public,
collapsed or were damaged and thousands o f school children died as they were attending school
when the quake hit. While most schools were restarted in temporary shelters, the reconstruction
o f these schools i s part o fthe agenda being pursued by the Government o fNWFP and the Federal
Government as part o f the wider reconstruction effort in the earthquake effected areas. The
earthquake also caused extensive damage to other public infrastructure and to private property.
The loss in employment and output in the affected districts o f the province is estimated to be as
high as 25 percent and the overall impact on provincial GDP (PGDP) in 2005/06 about 3.6
percent.


estimated to be about Rs 90 billion (US$1.5 billion) or 12 % - 13 percent o f PGDP. A part o f this
18.      The replacement cost o f the damage caused by the earthquake in NWFP alone i s

reconstructioncost will fall on the private sector and households. Yet a major portion o f this has
to be borne by the Government. Inaddition, the cost o f rehabilitation and providing relief to the
people o f the affected areas adds to the public expenditure. Given the frailty o f provincial
finances and the weak capacity o f the provincial (and districts') administration, the burden o f the
damage caused by the earthquake i s too large for the provincial government to bear. Realizing
this, the federal government has decided to assume the responsibility o f funding most o f the
reconstruction expenditure. Nonetheless, the impact o f the overhead cost o f relief, rehabilitation
and reconstruction efforts on the provincial budget would be significant. With the loss in
provincial revenue estimated to Rs 0.5 billion and provincial expenditure increasing by about Rs
3.5 billion the provincial deficit is projectedto increaseby 0.5 percent o f PGDP inFY06.

B.4      Development Challengesand Opportunitiesfor NWFP

19.      MillenniumDevelopment Goals (MDGs). Although NWFP has made progress towards
the MDGs much remains to be done to achieve several MDG targets. Based on 2001/02 data,
NWFP i s on track to meet the infant mortality target and also - if the preliminary 2004/05
PSLSMS headline results are verified - the target for the proportion o f immunized children aged
12-23 months and for access to safe water. However, it i s not on track to meet other important
MDGs such as poverty reduction, school enrollment, and ratio o f female-to-male literacy. It is
expected that as new data become available these indicators will show improvements as a result
o f recent years' reform efforts. However, it i s clear that if Pakistan i s to meet its MDGs, special
attention to provinces like the NWFP i s essential; hence the shift in the focus o f the provincial
development strategy to human development and inclusive growth (For additional information on
the status o freaching the MDGs and other HDindicators, see Annex 4).

20.      Challenges. The overarching challenge for the province is to promote rapid andinclusive
economic growth. This involves the challenge o f promoting human development and the
challenge to reduce rural vulnerability while tapping the potential o f the private sector to sustain
higheconomic growthand employment generation.




                                                   5

(i)     The challenge to accelerate human development

21.     Education and health indicators for NWFP, mainly from the Pakistan Integrated
Household Survey (PMS) 2001/02 and preliminary results from the PSLSMS 2004/05, show that
the overall education and health status inthe province is below the country average. Inthe case o f
education the difference i s driven entirely by the indicators for females, which are worse in the
NWFP than in the country as a whole. The GoNWFP recognizes three main challenges in
improving education sector performance inthe province - increasing equitable access, improving
education quality and strengthening governance and service delivery. Also health outcomes inthe
NWFP are generally lower than the national average. The health sector continues to face
significant challenges in terms o f quality o f health services and performance o f the sector. These
include: l o w levels o f health expenditure, underperformance o f the Primary Health Care (PHC)
system, uneven and poor quality of hospital services, weak public sector management, motivation
and measurement o f results, and unregulated and low quality o f services inthe private sector. For
more details on health and education, see Annex 4.

(ii)     The challenge to reduce rural vulnerability

22.     InNWFP 4 out of every 5 people derive their livelihoods from the rural areas, and the
widespread vulnerability-in      particular among farmers in rainfed areas-has      been highlighted
with recurring droughts affecting large part o f the population. Accelerating agricultural growth
and rural employment creation i s hence a central development challenge. However, agricultural
growth i s limited by a number o f constraints in factor inputs - land, water and credit - and in
supporting institutions and regulations, choice o f outputs and production technology. Reducing
rural vulnerability would depend critically on addressing these constraints.

(iii)    The challenge to strengthen theprivate sector topromote rapid economic growth

23.      Poverty reduction requires more rapid pro-poor, broad based inclusive growth with
substantial employment generation. Sustained rapid growth will require strengthening the weak
investment climate in the province and giving greater room to the private sector in decisions that
affect the provincial economy.

24.      Economic potential. The province has substantial economic potential. Historically, the
provincial economy has been dependent on relatively low value-added agnculture as the largest
production sector, services, and public employment (especially in the armed forces). The
manufacturing sector is quite limited but has potential for growth through use o f local inputs.
There i s substantial mineral wealth in the province such as precious and semi-precious stones,
marble, and granite that can be exploited with improvements in infrastructure, a better policy
environment, and opportunities for training on advanced techniques. There is also considerable
potential to further develop NWFP's rich hydel resources, in particular by encouragmg small
hydel generation plants and developing off-grid localized energy distribution from these plants to
local industry.The province can attract manufacturing industry, e.g., agro-processing using local
raw materials, by offering them localized and inexpensive sources o f energy above long-run
marginal cost. Similarly, availability o f better infrastructure related to tourism and a better image
ofthe province can help develop inthe longrunthe potential that exists for tourism. There is also
considerable potential for economic growth inurban centers.




                                                    6

 111. NWFP GOVERNMENT'S POVERTY REDUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                                           STRATEGY

25.      NWFP was the first province to embark on a comprehensive reform program in 2001.
Faced with slow growth, rising poverty, and poor human development outcomes, the provincial
government developed a reform program to address the root causes o f these poor outcomes:
inadequate service delivery, poor governance, and an investment climate that translated into a
highcost of doingbusiness inthe province. The provincial government laid out its development
objectives and the strategy to achieve them inthe Provincial Reform Program (PRP) 2001-20042.
The PRP also formed the core o f the provincial PRSP developed as part o f the full national PRSP
in 2003. Inline with the national PRSP and the specific challenges of NWFP, the overarching
development objectives o f the provincial government's reform program are poverty reduction,
acceleratingbroad-based inclusive growth and improving human development.

26.      As discussed in the previous section o f this Program Document, the first phase o f the
NFWP Government's reform programhas achieved important outcomes. The Bank supported the
government's efforts via policy-based lending (NWFP SAC 1and 2), analytical work (the NWFP
Economic Report "Accelerating Growth and Improving Public Service Delivery: The Way
Forward"), and technical assistance. The reform momentum has been maintained, and the
program i s being supported by several donors. A Development Forumi s planned for M a y 2006.

27.      The 2005 NWFP Economic Report highlighted the need to accelerate progress inhuman
development, while continuing to improve the province's prospects for more rapid, inclusive
growth. A consensus has emerged in the Bank's dialogue with the NWFP Government that to
tackle poverty effectively, economic growth has to be inclusive and must create better job
opportunities. The provincial development strategy thus i s sharpening the focus on structural
changes that substantially improve education and health indicators and the quality o f the work
force. This has required setting out a vision for human development and social protection and
aligning reform and budget priorities to realize this vision. A strategy document summarizing the
Government's program, "Provincial Development Program, 2005/06 - 2007/08", i s expected to
be approved by Cabinet inApril 2006.

A.       TheNWFPGovernment's ReformProgram PhaseI(2001 2006)  -                 -
28.      The government's reform program 2001 - 06 has consisted o f the followingpillars:
   a.    Accelerating economic growth by establishing an effective and transparent enabling
         environment for private sector development both inthe urban and rural economy;
   b.    Fiscal reforms to ensure fiscal sustainability, adopt and follow a medium-term budget
         fkamework, enhance effectiveness and accountability o f expenditures, and strengthen
         resource mobilization;

   C.    Reforms to accelerate human development and improve service delivery in basic social
         services. A key element o f the strategy is improving the education and health status of
         girls and women, andreducingthe province's highfertility rate; and
   d.    Governance reforms in public financial management, procurement, civil service and
         administrationo f multi-tiered government (province/district/tehsil).




  The ProvincialReformProgramformedthe basis for the Bank's first and secondStructuralAdjustment Creditsto the
 province(2002 and2004).


                                                     7

29.      Both the provincial and federal governments have shown strong ownership o f the
provincial reform program. At the provincial level, the government has shown strong
commitment through steady reform implementation, even through changes of government. The
federal government has fully supported the reform program, namely through the transfer o f
additional fiscal space to the province, and has seen it as a useful instrument for implementingthe
PRSPat the provincial level, thus contributingtowards reachingthe nationalMDGs.

A.l      Reforms to Accelerate Economic Growth

A.1.a Private Sector Development
30.      The provincial government has been pursuing a three-pronged strategy for private sector
development:

   (i) Institutionalizingpublic-privatedialoguetopromotedemand-responsiveness ofpublic
         sector agencies and policy-making bodies;
   (ii) Creatinganenablingandcompetitiveenvironment;and
   (iii)Expandingtheroleoftheprivatesector.

(i)      Institutionalizingpublic-private dialogue

31.      Inthepastthe provincial government has tendedto make importantpolicy andregulatory
decisions affecting the business environment without consultations with the private sector. The
private sector had very limited means o f raising their concerns with government officials; in
particular, there was no mechanism for public-private sector policy dialogue. In the recent past
the government has started to develop the private sector's role and the public sector's capacity in
policy malung, problem solving and investment facilitation. It has created venues for public-
private dialogue by including private sector representatives in a number o f key policy making,
problem solving, and managing bodies. These include an Investment Facilitation Council headed
by the Chief Minister and an Investment Facilitation Committee headed by the Chief Secretary
supported by a restructured Sarhad Development Authority (SDA) (into an "NWFP Industrial
Facilitation Authority"). The objective o f such institutionalizedinteractionwith the private sector
i s to recognize its importance as a key stakeholder in the administration o f the province. This i s
expected to elevate private sector development and economic growth as key elements in the
provincial priorities.

(ii)      Creating an enabling and competitive environment

32.      Investors have been facing high transaction costs for new investments and high
regulatory costs and administrative barriers. This reflects lengthy and costly regulatory and
approval processes that have involved many government agencies. Weaknesses in governance
structures and shlls deficiencies in the local labor market have also reduced the attraction o f
investinginthe province. The government has initiated steps to reduce administrative barriers and
improve the functioning o f markets for skilled labor.

33.      Administrative barriers. The government has streamlined and reduced the number o f
annual industrial inspections from 23 to 13, and has introduced exemption based labor inspection
for companies with proven track record o f compliance with labor laws. However, there is still
considerable scope for lowering administrative barriers and the resultant high transaction costs
facing new investors through more streamlined and cost-effective implementation o fregulations.




                                                  8

34.     Access to skilled personnel. The technical and vocational training provided by the public
sector has suffered from poor quality, low effectiveness and limited relevance to potential
employers. This reflects, among other things, inadequate management systems, inappropriate
incentive structures and no linkto employers and the skills needs o f industries inthe province. On
the supply side, a good start has been made with the recent inclusion o f private sector majority
(and chairperson) on governing boards o f government-run training institutes, including the
advisory board for technical education and manpower at the provincial level and Central
Management Committees for technical training institutes at the district level. An Advanced
Technical Training Center has been established with the chair person coming from the private
sector but further capacity strengthening i s needed.

(iii)    Expanding the role of theprivate sector

35.      The provincial government has traditionally been having ownership interests ina number
of economic activities in the province. It has in the recent past started a process o f repositioning
the state's role away from roles that are in direct competition with the private sector to provision
of effective regulation. It has divested public sector production units established by SDA in
industrial estates, and has announced (May 2005) its decision to set up Industrial Estate
management committees consisting o f and led by private sector representatives. It has also leased
out or completed bidding process for lease o f all remaining small hydel projects to the private
sector; leased out a large number o f government mineral exploration and industrial development
units; dissolved four autonomous bodies; and retrenched staff o f autonomous bodies.
Notwithstanding some progress in divestment, the government i s still involved inmany activities
that have long been privatized in other developing countries, spanning financial services,
industrial estates, transport, construction, and tourism.

A.1.b Agriculture

36.      Growth in agriculture plays a central part in the NWFP's growth and poverty reduction
strategy, in light o f its large share o f the provincial economy and employment, its economic
potential and the fact that the majority o f the poor live o f f apculture. The sector has in recent
years been facing key challenges that have neededto be addressed in order to realize the potential
of the agricultural sector within a framework o f sustainable natural resource use. There has been
progress in some o f the areas below but this i s expected to accelerate now that the government
has announced its Agricultural Sector Strategy. The key issues include:

37.      Public expenditures: The sector has been receiving the lowest per capita allocations, even
though it has a higher proportion o f poor people depending on agriculture for their livelihoods. It
therefore needs to re-align public expenditures within the sector in line with priorities identified
inthe Agriculture Strategy. There hasbeeninitialprogressinthis area overthe lastyear.

38.      Making government research and extension services more effective: There are weak
linkages between agricultural research, extension and farmers to ensure that research and
extension priorities correspond with farmers' needs and market trends. Both agricultural extension
and research fail to deliver relevant up-to-date services and science based knowledge outcomes,
respectively. Institutional arrangements have resulted in ambiguity in terms o f overall
responsibility for research between the research institutes and the universities. Furthermore,
incentive structures are not aligned between the institutions which leads to suboptimal outcomes.




                                                  9

39.      Facilitating and strengthening private sector participation and improving the regulatory
environment: Small farmers (the overwhelming majority o f farmers in the province) have weak
capacity and suffer from limited market information and poor access to modem and high-
productivity technologies. Farmedproducer organizations, marketing groups (of producers,
processors and traders) and multi-stakeholder District Agncultural CoordinationForums can help
farmers overcome these problems. While there has been a lacuna o f such organizations and
forums in the province, the government has in recent years enabled the formation o f farmer
groups such as commodity associations for horticulture and livestock, cooperatives and service
associations. A total of 75 Farm Services Centers have also been established (on average 3 in
each district). They need to gradually be made self-financed and self-managed and their coverage
expanded. In agriculture and livestock, the provincial government departments need to be
restructured and made more responsive to private sector needs. Certain features o f a number o f
laws and regulations currently undermine economic incentives for producers andneedrevisions.

40.      Improving market infrastructure and information systems: Market infrastructure is weak
especially in the areas o f cold chains, collection points and storage. This results in considerable
post-harvest losses o f highlyperishable products. Market information (on price, quality, and new
varietieshtandards that meet consumer preferences) and analysis i s not provided. This can be
improved through partnership with farmer organizations and the private sector, using media and
extension services. Provision of such information could facilitate diversification o f export
markets beyond the presentnarrow range o fproducts and small number o f destinations

41.      Improving water management: Since the late 1990s with the start of the National
Drainage Program the provincial government has identified weaknesses in the institutional
structures in the irrigation sector that have an important bearing on water management. It has
therefore gradually pursued reforms towards decentralization o f the Provincial Irrigation
Department (PID). While much remains, some progress has been made towards having, (i)              an
autonomous Provincial Irrigation and Drainage Authority (PIDA) that control, own and have
responsibility for constructing, operating and maintaining part o f the intra-provincial irrigation
and drainage infrastructure; (ii)a financially self-accounting quasi-autonomous Area Water
Board (AWB) that control, own or lease the parts o f irrigation and drainage infrastructure, and
(iii)autonomous farmer organizations (FOs) established at the distributary or minor level owned
and controlled by farmers. Government has established and has trained 24 autonomous farmer
organizations for water management. 19 o f them have signed Irrigation and Drainage
Management Transfer Agreement with the local Area Water Board. Six farmer organizations
have now taken over the management o f four distributaries and been authorized to assess, collect
and retain40 percent o f the abiana (water charges) collected.

A.2       FiscalReforms

42.       The objective o f fiscal reforms to date has been to restore fiscal sustainability and
increase the fiscal space for improving public services such as infrastructure, law and order, and
 social services. Inorder to improve delivery o f social services, increased expenditures have also
needed to be complemented with corresponding measures in fiscal decentralization, so as to give
 service providers (local governments) additional resources to deliver.

43.       The need to restore fiscal sustainability and increase fiscal space had become urgent by
the start o f the Provincial Reform Program in 2001. In the preceding decade the provincial
 finances had become increasingly unsustainable. Highdebt service costs and fixed establishment
 costs had forced successive cuts in development spending and led to an acute infrastructure
 deficit, including o f schools, health care facilities and roads. Key elements in the fiscal strategy


                                                    10

have been reducing the heavy debt service burden through early retirement of high cost debt (to
the federal government) financed by parts o f the proceeds from IDA financing, and improving the
composition of spending with a shift towards social spending and investment. The latter has
included rationalization o f the project portfolio inthe Annual Development Program (ADP), so as
to accelerate the completion o f projects inthe portfolio. These elements have been supplemented
with cost control in the civil service by containing growth in the number o f staff positions (the
federal government determines wages and pay scales o f federal civil servants. There i s a very
strong political compulsion for the provincial governments to follow these pay scales) and efforts
to mobilize a higher share o f revenues locally. The whole set o f fiscal measures neededto be put
in a medium-term budget context to ensure that fiscal sustainability would be achieved over the
medium term; hence the government adopted a Medium-Term Budget Framework (MTBF) in
2002 which forms the basis for the annual budgets.

44.     This strategy has been successfully implemented during four years o f reforms. The
government has increased fiscal space through early retirement o f some o f its more expensive
debt, which has halved the debt service burden from 1.8 percent o f provincial GDP (PGDP) in
FYOl to 0.9 percent in FY05. The composition o f spending has also improved which, together
with the increased fiscal space on highpriority social spending, has enabled an increase in such
spending from 2.6 percent of PGDP in FY02 to 3.3 percent in FY04 - FY05 while overall
spending levels fell slightly in percent o f PGDP. The share o f social sector expenditures reached
39 percent of total expenditures inFY05 - 10 percentage points higher than inFY02 -with heavy
emphasis on education and health sector development expenditure. The level o f locally-financed
development spending increased more than 3 folds between FYOl and FY05 to Rs 11.6 billion.
Rationalization o f the ADP portfolio in FY04 and greater emphasis on allocating more funds to
the on-going investment schemes in FY05 more than halved the "throw-forward ratio" o f the
ADP portfolio. This indicates sharply improved effectiveness o f investment spending. Despite the
increase ingovernment salaries, the wage bill was contained through only selective recruitments.
This along with reduction in interest payments helped inreducingnon-development expenditure
from 7.9 percent o f PGDP in FYOl to 6.1 percent in FY05. The fiscal deficit was contained to
less than 1percent o f PGDP (on average) which i s at a sustainable level.

45.     Fiscal decentralization has also been strengthened, albeit less than desired and less than in
other provinces, to give greater role to the local governments in delivery o f public services.
NWFP was one o f the first provinces to use a needs-based formula (based on population and
indicators o f social development and backwardness) for budgetary transfers to the districts
starting in FY02. All non-salary recurrent expenditures and district development spending were
devolved to the districts in FY03. The PFC Awards o f FY04, FY05 and FY06 have continued to
strengthen fiscal devolution with a range o f measures. The most important ones are: matching
incentive grants to Districts for additional revenue mobilization; allowing districts to retain user
charges in health and education with matching grants for collecting revenues over the targeted
amounts; matching grants for O&M in the road sector; and enhanced non-salary allocation o f
Districts by 10 percent inFY04 and by 25 percent in FY053.Nevertheless, continued reforms in
fiscal decentralization are necessary in the near and medium term; starting with devolving the
salary budgets to the districts.

46.     Substantial progress has been made in recent years towards a sustainable fiscal
position while meeting the higher demands for service delivery and public investments. Good
progress has very recently been made with the President's amendment to the 1997 NFC Award in
the interim period until the next, revised NFC Award. It will take effect in FY07. Nevertheless,


  The FY06PFC Award projects increases of 25% pa. in O&M allocation for the next 3 years.


                                                     11

more needs to be done by the provincial government in raising own revenues, and by the federal
government in devisinglfacilitating mechanisms and supporting measures to reduce provinces'
fiscal dependence on the federal government.

A.3      Reformsto Accelerate HumanDevelopment

A.3.a    Education

47.      Inthe first phase of reforms in the education sector, the focus has been on improving
access to education. The NWFP introduced a range o f policy initiatives to expand school
enrolment and attendance, especially among girls, and to reduce regional disparities. The key
demand side policies introduced to raise school attendance were providing tuition free public
primary and secondary education, and free textbooks, first for girls and then for all children from
grades 1-10inall government primary schools.

48.      Demand for schooling (and quality o f schooling) had also been negatively affected by the
highincidence o fteacher absenteeism. The government addressed this by implementing a system
of monitoring and reducing teacher absenteeism where Executive District Officers (Education)
could take disciplinary action based on timely reports. However, continued progress on
monitoring is needed. This could include closer involvement in teacher monitoring by
stakeholders inthe local community (parents o f school children) which can lead to lower teacher
absenteeism. To that effect, the government introduced measures to empower PTAs, including
the establishment and training o f PTAs for all primary schools and some authority to monitor
teacher attendance. (Success o fthe latter has however been limited).

49.      Inaddition, the NWFPimplemented a phasedprogramto reduce supply side constraints
to education expansion, especially for children inrural areas, by: (a) increasing essential school
facilities such as classrooms, sanitation, water, and boundary walls for security which required a
substantial increase indevelopment spending on schools; and (b) increasing the number o f school
teachers with special efforts to recruit more female teachers to address concerns by parents o f
female students; and (c) giving PTAs authority to spend finds on Instruction Materials and
Repairs (IMR).

50.      The combination o f demand and supply side initiatives enabled the NWFP to make
promising progress in increasing enrolment, especially among girls, in recent years. Total
enrolment in primary and secondary education rose from 2.9 million students in 2002/03 to 3.2
million students in 2004/05. During this period girls' enrolment increased from 0.8 million to
over 1.0 million students. The rise in total enrolment was most marked in the primary cycle,
where enrolment increased from 2.1 million to 2.3 million during this period, with girls
accounting for more than half the increase in enrolment. In terms o f enrollment ratios,
preliminary results from the Pakistan Social and Living Standards Measurement Survey
(PSLSMS), conducted in 2004/05, suggest that the overall gross primary enrollment ratio rose
from 77 percent in2001/02 to 80 percent in2004/054, and from 56 to 65 percent for girls.

A.3.b Health

access to health services - a key challenge facing the sector - but also on addressing causes o f
51.      During the last four years, health sector reforms have mainly focused on improving

poor access such as inadequate financing, especially for development spending, and poor

  The PSLSMS data are preliminary and only indicative since only headline results have been released by the FBS.The
micro data need to be released and assessedby the Bank to verify the headlineresults.


                                                        12

management and inefficiency in service delivery. Reforms to improve access have in particular
focused on access to key preventive services including Tuberculosis (TB) Daily Observation
Therapy Sessions (DOTS) and Mother-Child Health/ Family Planning. NWFP has made good
progress inall of these areas except managementreforms where progress has been slow.

52.      Access to key preventive services - Programmatic Reforms to strengthen Communicable
Disease Control and Maternal Health Programs. NWFPhas done well in the implementation o f
programmatic reforms including expansion o f TB DOTS services, expanding access to family
planning and primary health services through the Lady Health Worker (LHW) program and
implementing steps to enhance access to HIV/AIDS services for vulnerable population sub-
groups. Steady implementation since the start ofreforms (2001/02) has expanded the TB DOTS
program from 10 to all 24 districts in NWFP. Just in the last two years this has increased
population coverage from 60 percent to 100 percent. To improve access to Mother-Child Health/
Family Planning services, the number o f LHWs has increased by close to 50 percent since
2001/02, increasing coverage in the last two years from 50 percent to about 60 percent. The
Government has also taken steps to enhance access to HIV/AIDS services for vulnerable
populations and five contracts with NGOs have been signed for provision o f services in different
areas o f the province targeting sex workers and intravenous drug users. These reforms appear to
have led to significant improvements in health indicators. Preliminary results from the 2004/05
PSLSMS survey indicate that the immunization rate for children 12-23 months has increased
from 57 percent in 2001/02 to 76 percent in 2004/05, and the antenatal coverage o f pregnant
women by health professionals from 34 percent to 39 percent. Nevertheless, considerable
challenges remain: Under the TB DOTS program case detection rate i s still l o w at 58 percent.
The program needs to strengthen district supervision, introduce DOTS strategy in teaching
hospitals and expand the program in the private/NGO sector. Needed improvements in maternal
health services require greater efforts to increase contraceptive use and access to slulled birth
attendants .
53.      Management and Organizational Reforms.          Management and organizational reforms
undertaken to facilitate public access to health services include strengthening o f management
structure; rationalization and standardization o f district health services; autonomy to tertiary
hospitals; and promoting public private partnerships. A Health Sector Reform unit has been
strengthened to provide leadership and cover all aspects o f reforms and to monitor the reform
process. In order to strengthen the management structure, separate male and female cadres o f
doctors have been merged, a new career structure o f paramedics has been approved and a
management cadre has been notified. Implementationo f the latter i s awaiting resolution, which i s
being sought, o fprocedural bottlenecks and legal issues involving seniority o f staff.

54.      Rationalization and standardization o f District Headquarters Hospitals has been initiated
in 17 districts hospitals with a focus on ensuring capability in a prioritized range of medical
specialties i s making steady progressing.. The Government has ensured adequate financing.
However, it i s too early to assess its impact on quality and utilization o f services. All tertiary
hospitals have been given financial and administrative autonomy with the aim to improve quality
o f services. A third party assessment o f the autonomy has been commissioned to learn lessons
andplan its expansion to the district headquarters.
55.       Increased allocationsfor the health sector. Duringthe last four years the health sector
allocations have been adequate and have increased in line with the MTBF. The health
expenditures have risen at an annual growth rate o f 13 percent, mainly due to increased
development expenditures with a rising share in total development spending. Challenges ahead
reflect existing capacity constraints and procedural bottlenecks that limit the use o f additional
 allocated resources and thereby undermine their potential benefit.       In addition lack of an



                                                 13

institutional mechanism to track health expenditures at the district level limits evidence-based
decision making. The Health Department needs to further prioritize expenditures, focusing on
services which are cost effective and have larger impact on health outcomes.

A.4      GovernanceReforms

56.      The GoNWFPrecognizes that problems o fweak governance have been at the heart ofthe
province's poverty and development challenges and has made improving governance and public
sector performance a central element inthe PRP since its inception. To address these challenges,
the government launched a wide range o f reforms in (i)public financial management; (ii)
procurement; (iii) service reform; and (iv) carrying the devolution process forward; the latter
                    civil
with the goal of improvingthe administration o fmulti-tiered government (province/district/tehsil)
and making local governments more accountable for improved service delivery.

A.4.a    PublicFinancialManagement

57.      The province's reforms in public financial management aim at (i)improving the
reliability and accuracy o f financial data, (ii)
                                               institutionalreform to strengthen internal audits, and
(iii) improving accountability and legislative oversight. These reforms are in accordance with a
comprehensive financial management reform action plan prepared and agreed between the Bank
and the GoNWFP as part o f the Provincial Financial Accountability Assessment (PFAA, 2003).
Inthe first phase ofreformsto date the mainemphasis ofpublic financial managementreforms in
the province has been on establishing an integrated, automated accounting system that connects
all provincial level and district accounting offices to provide real time information. While work
has also been ongoing in institutional reform and improving accountability and legislative
oversight, the emphasis will shift increasingly to these areas infuture operations.

58.      Improving the reliability and accuracy of financial data. The thrust o f the province's
financial management reforms relies on the implementationat the province and district level o f an
automated accounting system (under the Bank-supported Pakistan-wide project for strengthening
 accounting and financial reporting (PIFRA)). As part o f PIFRA execution, the province has
computerized its accounting system and as a first in the country, prepared and executed in FY05
its provincial government budget on the basis o f the new Chart o f Accounts (COA), using the
principles o f the New Accounting Model (NAh4) consistent with international best practice. In
FY06 this was expanded to all 24 district governments o fNWFP. This will improve the reliability
 and timeliness of consolidated provincial accounts. The province has also progressed ahead o f
 schedule in computerizing the district government accounting system and has established full
 connectivity between the provincial government and many District Accounting Offices.
Reflecting this progress, the achieved reconciliation levels and timeliness in financial reporting
 far exceed the targeted milestone levels inthe medium-term reformplan. For the first 4 months o f
FY06, actual reconciliation levels achieved for expenditures, receipts,               suspense and
 intergovernmental accounts, on average, were 96 percent, 97 percent, 95 percent, and 100percent
respectively. Timeliness o freporting has now improved from a lag o f 8 weeks to 6 weeks.

 59.     Institutional reforms. Institutionalizing the internal audit function has been a major
 challenge in all governments in Pakistan. GoNWFP has initiated the process ahead of other
provinces by notifying the establishment o f internal audit function in 19 provincial departments
but considerable work remains for future operations to ensure that implementation has any
 significant effect.




                                                 14

60.     Improving Accountability and Legislative Oversight. The Public Accounts Committees
(PAC) and Departmental Accounts Committees (DAC) have reduced the number of unsettled
audit observations for provincial and district government accounts but a substantial backlog still
remains. This reflects to some extent the many years of backlog that the government inherited at
the start of reforms in 2001/02 but also inadequate frequency o f DAC meetings to clear unsettled
audit observations.

61.      Overall, NWFP has achieved substantial progress in public financial management
reforms - unparalleled among Palustan's provinces -towards achieving reliable, comprehensive,
accurate, and timely information pertaining to provincial and district governments' financial
transactions. Reforms ahead will continue as outlined inthe PFAA actionplan.

A.4.b Procurement

62.      N W F P has since the start of the Provincial Reform Program been the country's
leading province with regard to procurement reforms although recently implementation has
been falling short. The provincial government has implemented reforms inphases. Marlung the
end o f the first phase, GoNWFP passed the Procurement Ordinance in 2002 as the first
government (federal and provincial) in the country. Continuing with its lead on procurement
reforms, in 2003 it passed a new Procurement Law for goods, works and services, again a first in
the country, and the main achievement inphase 2. However, while being a major improvement
the Law does not fully meet international best practice. GoNWFP also adopted standard bidding
documents for goods, works and services based on the model o f the Pakistan EngineeringCouncil
and notified by the Department o f Planning.

63.      The vision o f procurement reform seems to have blurred after the adoption o f the 2003
Procurement L a w and subsequent implementation has not been satisfactory. Most implementing
agencies have not fully adopted it intheir operations with the result that most procurement i s still
being done using the old set o f directives, notifications and manuals. The reason for inaction in
implementation seems to be lack o f awareness and ownership o f the law, slack enforcement and
limited capacity to implement the law. Hence, notwithstanding progress made further work is
neededto bringthe Procurement Law up to international standard, make it effective and ensure its
implementation. This will be the central part o fprocurement reforms infuture operations.

A.4.c    Civil service and administrationof multi-tieredgovernment

64.      By the time the PRP started in 2001/02, decades o f neglect had taken its toll on
governance in the province, as in the rest o f the country. The result was excessive staff, poor
compensation at higher levels, declining quality o f civil servants, over-centralization o f decision-
making, complaints o f widespread corruption and malfeasance, poor management systems,
frequent transfers o f staff, including o f high-level staff with resultant little time and experience in
the post, and cumbersome and costly procedures. To address these challenges and with the
overarching objective o f improving service delivery the government has been pursuingreforms in
the areas o f personnel management and devolution. These reforms aim at increasing levels o f
efficiency, effectiveness and ethical standards in the civil service, malung civil servants more
accountable to users through administrative decentralization, and raising their levels o f
 competence and integrity.

 65.     The government i s implementing its strategy in phases. Since 2001/02 to date it has
 focused on containing the size of the civil service, increasing posts and/or hiringmainly in high
priority areas (education, health and police); maintaining merit and transparency in new



                                                    15

recruitment, postings and transfers;               and developing a computerized Human Resource
Management (HRM) database that will enable marked improvement in personnel planning and
management. It has also taken initial steps towards administrative decentralization.

66.       Progress to date i s as follows: The government has laid the groundwork for improved
professionalism and accountability in state institutions, and has successfully contained growth in
staffing   levels, limiting growth in sanctioned posts to 1-2percent per annum after rationalization
and restructuring in2001. It has streamlined recruitment processes whilst maintaining their merit-
based integnty and has established an independent Provincial Public Service Commission for
recruitment for mid- and upper level staff.5 The average length o f tenure o f Department
Secretaries has increased markedly over the last three years (from 7 to 17 months) but is still too
short to assure optimum levels o fjob performance and greater accountability in these key policy
and management roles. The government has changed its human resources management systems to
remove inconsistencies with devolution, and has developed and put inplace a computerized civil
service Human Resource (HR) database. The computerized HR database will allow the
government to monitor compliance with human resources management policies and the size o f
the civil service establishment. This will help eliminate "ghost" workers from payrolls and yield a
more accurate estimate o f the government pension liabilities. Less positive i s the new contract
employment legislation (approved in2005) that has not fully addressed the issues of performance
and wage cost flexibility or o freducing levels o f unfundedpension liability.

67.       NWFP also has moved towards a more decentralized administration with greater
administrative autonomy at the district level albeit less so than in other provinces with better
political alignment between provincial and district governments. Still, the province has issued
amendments to the Local Government Ordinance with the goal o f establishing new district
services with district and tehsil cadres in2006 and seeks Bank technical assistance inthis area.

B.         The Government'sReformProgram PhaseII(2006 2010)-                    -
68.        The NWFP government's reform program has now evolved from the broad-based
program summarized above to one that, going forward, focuses on inclusive growth and human
development. The government recognizes that sustained inclusive growth in the province will
require not only a favorable investment climate but, as importantly, a healthy and educated labor
force. Investing in human capital, particularly in children, i s therefore critical to meeting this
objective. Accomplishing the twin objectives o f human development and inclusive growth will
also require continued fiscal and expenditure reforms, as well as governance reforms.

69.        The government i s deepening its human development reform agenda to accelerate
progress on education and health. Itplans to enhance health and education programs significantly,
 so as to enable greater access to quality health services i s vitally important for improving life
expectancy and productivity. In addition, the government i s developing a social protection
 strategy that would include targeted measures to help the poor cope with chronic poverty and
vulnerability. Social protectionprograms will help ensure equity, and promote access by the poor
to essential services.



   InNWFP, the Provincial Public Service Commission has authority to recruit staffingrades 17to 21 andingrades 11
to 16 innon-devolved departments. The autonomy and areas o f authority o f the PPSC were eroded to some extent with
 the authority for selecting candidates for grades BPS 11-16 in devolved departments transferred to new district
 recruitment committees where senior district officers continue to spend a disproportionate amount o f their time dealing
 with irregular requeststo appoint, promote andtransfer staff.




                                                            16

70.      While the core of the PRP going forward is the program for improvement in human
capital, the government will support it with continued fiscal and governance reforms to ensure
that HD continues to get the importance it deserves from a fiscal and governance perspective.
Improvement in HD indicators as envisaged in the PRP is expected to improve the quality o f the
work force. An improved supply o f workers will be met by increased demand for workers via
continued focus on the growth agenda. The Government o f the NWFP is fully committed to the
growth agenda as seen in the thrust o f the new provincial development strategy (2006 - 08) that
will be presented at the provincial donor forum in May 2006. A critical sub-set o f that reform
program i s to further strengthen the private sector for sustainable growth and i s supported by the
proposed DPC.

71.      Reforms leading to improved service delivery would improve human development
outcomes. GoNWFP aims at raising the primary school net enrollment rate from 41 percent in
FY02 to 55 percent in FYO8, and the secondary school net enrollment rate from 12 percent in
FY02 to 20 percent in FY08. It targets raising the immunization rate (full immunization) for
children between 12 and 23 months from 60.5 percent in FY02 to 80 percent by FY08 and 85
percent by FY10. It also aims at raising the contraceptive prevalence rate from 22.5 percent in
FYOl to 35 percent by FY08 and 38 percent by FY10. Reform-led improvements in the
investment climate would induce an increase in private investment from 11.7 percent o f
provincial GDP in FY04 to about 15 percent o f provincial GDP by FY08 and subsequent years.
This would contribute to raising total investment in the province from about 15 % percent o f
provincial GDP inFY04 to about 19 1/4percent over the medium term. With improvement inHD
indicators, particularly improved secondary, technical and vocational education, NWFP will have
a better skilled work force in the medium term. Along with fiscal and governance reform, the
government i s implementing a strategy to invigorate the private sector to generate employment
opportunities. The annual rate of growth inprovincial real GDP i s expected to increase from 5.6
percent in FY05 (and from the average over the last decade o f 4 % percent) to 7.2 percent in
FY08 and 7.5 percent inFY10. Consistent with this path o f inclusive growth, 600,000 additional
jobs (net) would be created by FY08, bringingthe unemployment rate down from 13 percent in
FY04 to 11percent inFY08 and further to 9 % percent inFY10. Inthe outer years, highgrowth
and labor s h l l formation will reinforce each other.

                    Table 2: NWFP SelectedEconomic Indicators, 2004105 - 2007108
                                              2004105     2005106      2006107      2007108
        Real GDP, % change                      6.3          3.0         6.9           7.2
        Unemploymentrate (%)                    12.8        16.1        12.4          11.2
        Real GDPper capita, % change            4.I          0.9         4.8          5.1
        Investment, % o f PGDP                  16.6        I7.1        18.7          19.2
        Fiscal balance, YOof PGDP               -0.5        -1.4        -0.7          -0.4


72.      Government's reform strategy going forward strengthens the reform pillars o f the
strategy to date and prioritizesinterventions as follows:

Pillar One: Accelerating HumanDevelopment and Improving Service Delivery

73.      While there have been improvements in human development outcomes yielded by the
implementation o f the reform program, the GoNWFP is also cognizant that significant challenges
remain requiring a deepening of the HD reform agenda within the overall fiscal and fiduciary
 framework.     Specifically, the objective of the HD reform program i s to improve the access and
 quality o f service delivery while significantly reducing gender and regional disparities. Going



                                                   17

forward, the reform program focuses on the following three key themes: (i)further improving
access, coverage and utilization o f social services including social protection services (covering
both public and private services); (ii)  improving quality o f service delivery; and (iii)  enhancing
stewardship functions of the government including financing, monitoring & evaluation and
promoting public-private partnerships.

74.     In education, while the focus on access in primary education remains, the reforms are
being expanded to cover elementary and secondary education. Inaccess, a differentiated policy i s
being introducedto address regional and gender disparities. To make education more meaningful,
critical reforms are being introduced to improve the quality of education, supported by the
development of a strong monitoring and evaluation fiamework. In health, preventive health care
remains a priority. Moreover, there i s now an intensive focus on improving utilization and quality
o f primary and secondary health care through innovative partnerships with the private and NGO
sector. Inaddition, the health reforms seek to enhance stewardship functions o f the government
for enhancing monitoring and evaluation, strengthening partnership with private sector, including
NGOs, and financing o f the sector as a whole. The specific sectoral reforms are presented below.
Financingfor HD sectors will be enhanced within the medium-term development framework, and
the level and composition o f health, education and social protection budgets will be aligned with
sectoral priorities. See also Annex 4 for more detail on human development.

a.       EducationSector

75.      The education sector reforms will be broadened and deepened in several ways. First, as
primary enrolment and completion rates rise, the demand for places in middle schools, secondary
schools and colleges will increase over time; inresponse, the NWFP government plans to expand
the middle, secondary and college education sector to increase participation beyond primary
education. In the near term the government will mainly expand middle school education by
increasing school facilities at that level, according to expansion targets set by districts and agreed
between the provincial government and district governments. Over the medium term it will
expand secondary and college education, again in the context o f targets established by districts
and agreed between the provincial and district governments.              To improve access, it will
strengthen public-private partnerships through the Education Foundations. Over the next two
years it will restructure the Elementary Education Foundation to enable it to implement
innovative programsto support the private sector.

76.      Second, demand side interventions will be introduced with a focus on regional and
gender equity. Inthe near term the government will commence a program o f stipends for girls to
attend middle and secondary schools in poor districts where female middle and secondary
enrolment i s particularly low. This demand side initiative will complement the supply side
measures to expand middle and secondary education for girls. Further, the initiative will be
poverty focused, as the districts where female enrolment i s lowest are also the regions where
poverty rates are the highest. The emphasis on poverty focused demand side initiatives will be
strengthened in coming years, and the GoNWFP will introduce a program of incentives for
teachers to work inremote, rural schools.

77.      Third, the quality of education, at all levels, will be a key focus o fthe education program.
Policies to improve education quality will emphasize measures to raise the competencies and
performance o f teachers, and the cognitive achievement levels o f students. In the near term the
GoNWFP will establish an institutional framework for teacher development. This will cover the
service conditions for teachers, such as entry criteria into the profession and career progression,
pre-service teacher education, and professional development through both on-site and off-site


                                                   18

teacher training and support. In coming years it will institute a program o f special support for
schools with low learning outcomes. This will include regular monitoring o f learning levels, and
the implementation o f special measures to assist the weakest schools, including providing extra
financial resources, directed additional management attention, special incentives for good
teachers to locate in such schools, and appointing good head teachers to these schools, as needed.

78.      Fourth, the NWFP education programwill place strong emphasis on objective monitoring
and evaluation. Inthe near t m the government will establish a specialized technical unit in the
Department o f Education to undertake monitoring activities. This unit will be staffed with the
right s h l l mix to manage ongoing monitoring, establish linkages withthe EMIS data, and develop
linkages with district governments and to use the data analysis for policy development. Incoming
years the government will introduce a system o f external Third Party Validation (TPV). The
TPVs will be a useful external accountability instrument, assessing the quality o f the internal
monitoring systems by confirming the results with ongoing departmental monitoring. Annual
TPVs would be conducted through independent and external agencies to assess various reform
inputs including stipends, textbooks, provision o f facilities, availability o f teachers, and
functioning of PTAs.

b.       Health Sector

79.      In health the reforms will be broadened by: (i)testing innovative approaches to
strengthen the management and organization o f primary and secondary health services;
(ii) building partnerships with the non-state sector; (iii)  increasing managerial autonomy; and
(iv) enhancing accountability inthe public sector through significantly strengthening monitoring
and evaluation.

80.      The first key reform i s to improve the utilization and quality o f Primary Health Care
(PHC) services by testing of managerial and organizational innovationsusinga controlled, before
and after, evaluation targeting the worst performing districts in the province. The three
approaches that will be tested in the near term include: (a) contracting out management o f
responsibility for delivering a package o f PHC services to NGOs, inkeeping with the President's
PHC Initiative; (b) providing increased administrative and financial autonomy (and requisite
powers) to district managers so they can effectively manage the District; and (c) providing, along
with administrative and financial autonomy, performance based incentives to district managers
and key staff. This i s the first time that any provincial government will implementing focused
reforms which could have far reachingimpact on health sector management and quality o f service
delivery.

 81.     The second area o f reform i s to improve quality, equity, and utilization o f secondary care
by introducing hospital refom and develop models o f autonomy. This would explicitly address
issues o f human resource management, governance, and financing for district hospital
governance, management, and autonomy. In the medium term, it is expected that improved
models o f autonomy will be implemented in district hospitals. NWFP i s taking the leading in
 introducing hospital reforms at the secondary level. This reform measure will be supported
through DPC 2.

 82.     Third, a series of reforms measures are envisaged to be implemented to strengthen the
Department's stewardship over the sector. A key measure over the medium term will focus on
significantly strengthening monitoring and evaluation through the establishment o f an
 independent monitoring and evaluation cell inthe Department o f Health. The unit will undertake
performance assessment, coordinate inter district dialogue, and enhance accountability by


                                                 19

disseminating disaggregated district performance indicators to the public through the media and
the Department o f Health's website.

83.     The government will also strengthen partnerships with the private and NGO sector. To
that effect it will restructure the NWFP Health Foundationby re-orienting its role, functions, and
scope o f work. Measures would be taken to enhance its autonomy. In addition, the recently-
established Health Regulatory Authority (HRA) would develop a clear strategy in order to
improve the quality o f care provided inthe private sector.

C.       Social Protection

84.     The provincial government has recently added social protection as the fifth pillar to its
reform program as reflected in its PRSP. However, while the provincial PRSP highlights the
importance of social protection in combating poverty, fostering human development and
achievingthe Millennium Development Goals, little has been done to implement planned actions.
The province relies on federal spending and key programs are federally mandated and financed.
The province spends very little from its own resources. As elsewhere in Pakistan, public-private
partnership i s an important pillar o f assisting the vulnerable, and a number o f NGOs provide a
variety o f services to the vulnerable groups. Although significant, both formal and informal safety
nets interventions are far from sufficient to alleviate poverty, and deep and widespread poverty
remains one o f the main features o fNWFP's social and economic reality.

85.      The government i s committed to developing a comprehensive social protection reform
strategy that would strengthen targeted programs to address chronic poverty and vulnerability
through financially sustainable programs, coordinated at the federal level, that facilitate
participation o f the poor and vulnerable in basic social services. The Government o f NWFP i s
currently taking stock o f social protection programs and their outcomes. The stock-takmg will
form a base for social protectionreform strategy and an action plan for its implementation, which
will be developed in tandem with ongoing work on a national social protection strategy and
decided based on the results o f the stock-taking and related consultations. Likely areas o f initial
engagement would focus on social protection administration and implementation improvements,
including (i)organization and coordination at the provincial and districts levels; (ii)         human
resource capacity building; (iii)   introduction o f MIS and provision o f other up to date equipment;
and (iv) physical infrastructure. Subsequently, existing programs would be audited and tightened
up inorder to increase their effectiveness and efficiency. New programs, including scaling up o f
demand side incentives (and perhaps expanding these to participation in health programs, e.g.,
nutrition), workfare and community-based service delivery for vulnerable groups o f the
population will be gradually introduced, inclose coordination withnational policy developments.

Pillar Two: Fiscal and Expenditure Reforms

 86.     The medium-term fiscal reform strategy is being closely integrated with the government S
strategy for human development and inclusive growth. In order to improve delivery o f social
 services, increased expenditures, combined with sector-specific measures in education, health,
 and water and sanitation, are being complemented with corresponding measures in fiscal
 decentralization, so as to give service providers (local governments) additional resources to
 deliver. Additional critical public investment will be needed to crowd-in private investment in
 order to provide employment to the better educated work force.




                                                    20

87.          The high-investment/high-growth strategy envisaged in the medium-term reform program
will have important development rewards but it will also require additional fiscal resources for
its implementation. The recent, temporary amendment in the 1997 NFC (National Finance
Commission) Award (amended by the President in January 2006) that devotes ahigher share o f
the divisible pool to the provinces is a step inthe right direction but needs to be made permanent
through a new NFC Award.

88.         The NWFP's finances will get a strong boost from the amendedNFC Award (see Table 3
for comparison o f the estimated revenue transfers to the province under the terms o f the original
and the amended 1997 NFC Awards).6 Under the new arrangement, NWFP will get an increase
of about Rs 5.6 billion (12.7 percent) in FY07 compared to the terms of the original 1997 NFC
Award. Overall, the province i s likely to get an additional Rs 52 billion during the next 5 year if
the amended Award stays inplace.



                                            OriginalNFC Award                              Amended NFC Award                 5-Year
                                                                                                                           Additional
                              2006/07 2007108  2008109  2009/10 2010111 Total 2006107 2007108 2008109 2009110 2010111 Total Transfer
Divisible Pool (Net of 2.5%
 GeneralSales Tax Transfers     35.0    39.6      44.8    50.6    57.3  227.2    34.6   40.3    47.1     55.0    64.2 241.2      14.0
 Revenuefrom2.5 GST              4.5      5.2      5.9     6.8      7.8  30.1     5.0     5.7     6.6     7.5     8.6  33.4       3.3
  OnPopulationbmis                2.6     3.0      3.4      3.9     4.5  17.4     3.5     4.0     4.6     5.2     6.0  23.2       5.8
  On OZT Collectionsbasis         1.9     2.2      2.5     2.9      3.3  12.7     1.5     1.7     2.0     2.3     2.6  10.2      -2.5
 Grants and Subventions           4.3     4.9      5.5      6.3     7.1  28.0     9.7    11.0    12.5    14.1    16.0  63.3      35.2
 Total Resource                  43.8    49.6     5 . 2    63.7    72.2 2.35.4   49.3    57.0    66.1    76.6    88.8 337.8      52.5
 Rovinces                      14.0%   13.9%     13.9%   13.9%   13.9% 13.9Yq  15.0%   15.0%   14.9%   14.9%   14.9% 14.9%     24.6%,


89.          The NWFP government plans to strengthen own finances and i s committed to a full
implementation of the fiscal reform program that started in 2001. Increasing own resource
mobilization will be a major challenge given the existing federal                            -provincial assignment o f tax
instruments that leaves NWFP with a non-buoyant and narrow tax base.' There i s some potential
to generate higher own revenues over the medium term from revenue sources such as the Motor
Vehicle Tax (MVT), Stamp Duty, Professional Tax, Urban Immovable Property Tax,
Agricultural Income Tax and taxing services. However, the growth strategy also requires
increasedresource transfers from the federal government and external development assistance.

90.           To strengthen own revenue mobilization, the government will address corruption in tax
administration, make it more effective, strengthen collection of broad based taxes and user
charges. Besides improving tax administration through improved incentives, training and
computerization o f tax records,' the provincial government plans to focus more intensely on
relatively broad-based provincial taxes. Collection o f MVT, which i s far below potential, i s being
streamlined through a more automated collection o f the tax. To improve the structure and revenue
potential o f the property tax, the provincial government i s inthe process o f finalizing a survey o f
properties. Key measures for rationalizing and improving the yield o f user charges include:
improving the water rate formula with the aim o f making it self financing and a review o f higher
education fees and user charges for health services, with adequate safety nets for the poor.
Because o f these measures, the provincially collected revenue is projected to increase at an



  The recent amendment is likely to be continued untilsuch time that the NFC announces a new Award.
  Federal laws also exempt 7 out of 24 districts inthe province from paying taxes to the provincial government.
   Other tax administration measures include: a clearly defined and streamlined role of the Board ofRevenue (BoR) and
the Excise and Taxation (E&T) Department; modernizing the mode of application of laws and administration of
agricultural and land-based taxes; and improving coordination between the BoR and E&T Departments. The GoNWFP
has initiateda new study to improve revenue administration inthe key revenue collecting Departments.


                                                                    21

average rate of 16percent p.a. from FY05 to FY10. With federal transfers expected to increase by
15 percent p.a. overall provincial revenue i s projected to increase by 15 percent p.a.

91.         The government will also continue to create fiscal space by following its strategic debt
management policy to save interest payments through better debt management (in particular by
retiring loans fkom the Federal Government at high (16-17 percent p.a.) interest rates).

              Table 4: NWFPMedium-T
                                                   WO1-03    FY04    FYO5      FY06     FY06   FY07   FYO8   FY09    FYI0
                                                                     Prelim.   Budget
                                                    4verage Actuals Actuals WB format Proj.    Proj.  Proj.  Proj.    Proj.
  ~



  rota1Revenuesand Grants                                9.1    7.7       8.2      9.0    8.1    8.7    8.9     9.1       9.3
   FederalTax Assignments (NFC)                          5.1    4.7       5.2      5.3    5.3    5.3    5.5     5.7       6.0
   Provincially collected revenues                       0.8    0.8       0.8      0.7    0.8    0.8    0.8     0.8       0.9
        Tax Revenues                                     0.3    0.3       0.3      0.3    0.4    0.4    0.4     0.4       0.4
         Non-tax Revenues                                0.5    0.4       0.4      0.4    0.4    0.4    0.4     0.4       0.4
   Net Hydel Profits from WAPDA                          1.5    1.2        1.o      0.9    0.9   0.8    0.7     0.6       0.6
   FederalandForeigngrants                               1.5    1.0        1.o      1.9    1.o    1.7    1.7     1.7      1.7
     oiw Federalgrants                                   1.3    0.9        1.0      1.8    0.9    1.6    1.6     1.6      1.6

  rota1Expenditures                                      9.5    8.9       8.7      10.2    9.5    9.4    9 3     9.4      9.6
   Current Expenditures                                  7.9    6.9        6.4      7.7    6.7    6.6    6.3     6.4      6.4
        Wages                                            3.7    3.8        3.6      4.4    3.9    3.6    3.7     3.7      3.7
        Pensions                                         0.7    0.5        0.5      0.6    0.6    0.5    0.5     0.5       0.5
        Non-Wage Operations& Maintenance                 1.3    0.9        0.7      I.4    0.9    0.9    1.o     1.1       1.2
        InterestPayments                                 1.7     1.1       1.0      0.9    0.9    0.8    0.6     0.6       0.5
         Subsidies 21                                    0.3    0.1        0.2      0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1     0.1       0.1
         Transfer paymentsto local governments           0.2    0.4        0.4      0.4    0.6    0.4    0.4     0.4       0.6
   Development Expenditures                              1.7    2.0        2.2      2.4    2.7    2.9    2.9     3.0       3.1

  FiscalBalance (including earthquakeeffects)           -0.4    -1.1      -0.5     -1.2   -1.4   -0.7   -0.4    -0.3      -0.2
  FiscalBalance (excluding earthquake effects)          -0.4   -1.1       -0.5     -1.2   -0.8   -0.6   -0.3    -0.3     -0.2
  Drimary Fiscal Balance (incl. earthquake effects,      1.2    0.0       0.5      -0.3   -0.5    0.I    0.2     0.2       0.3

  Financing (Net)                                        0.8     1.1       0.5       1.2   1.4    0.7    0.4      0.3      0.2
   Domestic Debt                                         0.2    -0.2       0.2     -0.6    0.4   -0.1   -0.1    -0.1      -0.1
   FederalDebt (CDL)                                    -0.7    -0.6      -0.6      0.0   -0.7   -0.2   -0.2    -0.2      -0.2
    State Bank Overdrafts                               -0.4     0.0       0.0      0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0      0.0      0.2
   ForeignDebt, Net (incl. SAC)                          0.4     1.1       0.1       0.8   1.3     1.1    1.5     0.7      0.4
        ForeignProject Assistance                        0.0     0.1       0.1       0.2   0.0    0.1    0.2      0.2      0.2
        Budget support                                   0.6     1.0       0.0       0.8   1.3    0.8     1.1     0.2      0.2
   Change in cashbalancesand Other Financing             1.2     0.9       0.9       0.9   0.3    0.0   -0.8      0.0     -0.1

   Wemorandum Items
   RealGDP growth rates%                                 2.7     5.6       6.3       6.6   3.0     6.9    7.2     7.5      7.5
   Zurrent spendingin% oftotal spending                 82.6    77.3      74.1     75.9   71.1   69.6   68.3    67.9      67.3
   Developmentspending in% of total spending            11.4    22.7      25.9     24.1   28.9   30.4   31.7    32.1      32.7

   Social sector share oftotal spending(%)              34.0    39.4      38.6     34.1   39.4   39.7   40.1    40.5      41.1
      o/w Education                                     26.9    30.6      30.3     25.9   30.6   30.7   30.9    31.3      31.7
          Health                                         6.5     7.8       7.5       6.8   7.7     7.9    8.0     8.1      8.2

   Debt servicing (in % of PGDP) 3/                      2.71    1.41      2.01      1.4    1.3    1.3    1.1     1.o       1.o
   PublicDebt (in% ofPGDP)
   Source:GoNWFPFiscaltablesandBank staffprojections

  2/ Wheat subsidy.
  3/ Interestandnormalrepaymentofprincipal.


 92.         Accelerating growth and facilitating access to service delivery will require not only
 increasing the overall level of public expenditures, but also improving the composition and
 effectiveness of these expenditures, with relatively more emphasis on investment and operations
 and maintenance, less on consumption, and better management of investment projects. In its
 medium-term budget framework (FY06 FYlO) the government plans to reduce overall current
                                                          -



                                                                  22

expenditure in terms o fprovincial GDP (from 6.7 percent inFY06 to 6.4 percent inFY10)9 while
significantly     enhancing spending on high-priority sectors, like education and health. A large
increase (of 24 percent p.a.) is projected in Operations and Maintenance (O&M) expenditure to
maintain the value o f public capital stock. Sustained retirement o f expensive federal debt will
continue to lower interest payments. Regarding public investment, the government plans to
increase development spending by 20 percent p.a. and raise its level from 2 percent o f PGDP in
FY04 - FY05 to 3.1 percent o f PGDP over the medium term. It will invest more inpriority areas
that include roads, irrigation networks, education, health and water supply and sanitation while
containing the "throw-forward" o f the Annual Development Program at its current level in real
terms. Reforms will also aim at raising the effectiveness of public investment spending through
specific measures to improve the selection o f projects, avoid post-approval escalation o f costs and
improve monitoring and supervision o f projects (in addition to procurement reforms described
below).

93.        Thefiscal framework also envisages measures tofully meetfuture liabilities and making
the budgetprocess more effective and transparent. It will continue to buildup the Pension Fund,
the General Provident Fund and the Frontier Highway Authority Funds. Drawing on the newly
established Human Resource database for the civil service it will explore pension reform options
by projecting pension liabilities under different reform options and scenarios. With regard to the
budgetary process the government will continue to improve budget preparation through phased
roll-out o f Performance Budgeting to other districts. In order to improve budget execution, it
plans to launch a system in the coming fiscal year that will enable timely reporting o f the
consolidated fiscal deficit (province and districts) and other key fiscal aggregates on a quarterly
basis. It will attain accurate and timely information on the fiscal accounts o f district governments
and TMAs on a monthly basis, and disseminate it to provincial departments and to the public.

94.        By continuing fiscal decentralization reforms the Government will enable local
governments tofunction more effectively and hence improve the delivery of social services." As a
key step towards further fiscal decentralization the government has initiated the process o f
devolving the payment o f district staff salaries through (district) Account N, and it i s possible
that this can take effect from July 2006. This would provide proper incentives to districts for
efficiency gains in staffing. In addition, it also intends to increase the share o f district
development budgets executed through (district) Account N. It has also made headway in
 formulating a transparent formuldsystem o f incentive grants to Districts for good performance in
 service delivery, and i s considering institutingconditional grants. Inthis mechanism development
 funds could be transferred to the district governments (through Account N) as part o f
performance agreements between the provincial and district governments. Also, over the medium
term the Provincial Finance Commission should be made permanent to institutionalize fiscal
 decentralization and review on an ongoing basis fiscal performance o f the districts.

 95.       The combined effect o f the provincial government's fiscal policies and reforms over the
 medium term are summarized in its MTBF (see Table 4 and Annex 8, Table 4). The broad
 outcomes include: (i)        the provincially collected revenue will remain at 0.7 percent o f PGDP in
 2006107 but would increase to 0.8 percent o f PGDP in 2007108, and in hture years would
 increase at the same rate as nominal PGDP; (ii)               the provincial government's current expenditure
 will increase to 6.7 percent o f PGDP, mainly due to earthquake-related expenditures, but would
 decline to 6.3 percent within the next two years, and then would remain at that level; (iii)


  The increase inrecurrent expenditure in2005/06 (to 6.7% o f GDP) i s because o f the one-time expenditure (or Rs 3.3
 billion) to be incurred by the province to restore the services in earthquake affected areas.
 loThis also requires progress in administrative and functional devolution (see pillar IV).


                                                              23

provincial development expenditure will continue to increase as percent o f PGDP; (iv) the
2005/06 fiscal deficit will increase to 1.4 percent o f GDP due to the impact o f earthquake (on
provincial income and public finances), reduction in federal grants and increase in provincial
development expenditure. The fiscal deficit would drop sharply in2006/07 and would continue to
decline as a percent o f PGDP infuture years; (v) the stock o f public debt will decline as a percent
o f PGDP; and (vi) interest payments will on average decline by 0.1 percent o f PGDPeach year.

Pillar Three: GovernanceReforms

96.      Weak governance has been at the heart of the province's development challenges and
going forward the focus on human development will require continued improvements in(i)         public
financial management, (ii)   procurement; (iii) service reform; and (iv) carrying the devolution
                                               civil
process forward; the latter with the goal o f improving the administration o f multi-tiered
government (province/district/tehsil) and making local governments more accountable for
improved service delivery. The main components o f governance reforms are discussed inAnnex
D. Briefly, the thrust ofgovernance refoms is as follows:

a.       Publicfinancialmanagement

97.      The government will continue to implement its medium-term strategy for public financial
management reforms as outlined in the PFAA action plan. These reforms aim at improving the
reliability and accuracy of financial data, institutionalizing the internal audit function and
improving accountability and legislative oversight. See Annex 5 for more information on public
financial management reforms.

b.       Procurement reforms

98.      While the province has made substantial progress in procurement reforms, including
promulgating a new Procurement Law, further work i s neededto actually make the Law effective
and ensure its implementation. The government i s refining phase 3 and onwards o f its
Procurement Reform Action Plan to bring procurement practices to international standard over
the medium term. It will implement phase 3 o f the action plan in the near term. Among other
things, this will include specifying the needed amendments in the procurement law and the
Standard Bidding Documents, and putting in place a system for posting and updating market
prices for use incost estimates inbiddingcontracts.

C.       Modernizationofthe civilservice andadministrationofmulti-tieredgovernment

99.      Over the near and medium term the government will continue its current policies o f civil
service cost control throughjudicious and limitedincreases inthe size of the civil service with the
vast majority being hired inhighpriority areas (health and education). It will continue to increase
the average time in post o f senior staff and make the monitoring results publicly known. The
PPSC will continue to regulate and monitor selection, appointment, promotion and transfer o f all
staff in BPS 15-21at local government and provincial levels and for professionals and technical
specialists ingrades BPS 11-15 at the provincial level. Contract employment policies can be used
judiciously to provide more attractive terms and conditions o f employment to fill posts in less
attractive areas that often lack competent civil service staffi in particular women teachers and
qualified health workers. In addition, in the near term a priority for the government i s to design
and establish district services, including district and tehsil cadres.




                                                   24

100.     The HRMdatabase will continue to be fully operational and be integrated with PIFRA. It
will be in regular use, with reliable and timely data provided for HRMplanning and monitoring
of establishment levels, appointments, promotions and transfers at provincial, district and tehsil
levels. It can also be used, for instance, to monitor at provincial and district levels the success o f
policies to recruit and retain female teachers at girls' schools and health workers at basic health
units indisadvantaged districts.

101.     Over the medium term the organizational review processes will be rolledout to all sectors
after the initial reviews in health and education. The reviews will cover the functions o f all
provincial, district and tehsil units with a focus on service delivery outcomes. The reviews will
form the basis for an action plan for staffing, organizational structure, business process and
capacity buildingand for producing results-oriented job descriptions for all posts. The action plan
will be implemented over the medium term, supported by necessary amendments to laws, rules
and regulations. (See also Annex 6 for further detail on civil service and administrative reform.)

Pillar Four: AcceleratingEconomicGrowth

102.     With the overarching goal o f reducing poverty inthe province the NWFP government's
medium-term strategy also sets out to increase employment opportunities through accelerated,
inclusive growth. The government, supported by the Bank's analytical work and the ground work
in,recentyears, has developed an overall strategy for economic growth that will be presented at
the forthcoming NWFP development forum (May 2006). The growth strategy i s supported by
complementary reforms to ensure sustained human development and improved quality o f the
work force. The main elements o f the NWFP government's forward-looking growth strategy are
presented inAnnex 7.

 103.    Inbrief, the strategy for inclusive growth aims to deepen the earlier reformto strengthen
the private sector, enhance the role o f the urban centers in generating growth and modernize
agriculture. The component for agriculture i s drawn from government's recently announced
Agricultural Policy (2005) that seeks to encourage the movement towards high value products
(horticulture, livestock and others) for both domestic and international markets and thereby
exploit the province's considerable growth potential in these products. Though expansion o f the
livestock sector will need to remain within the carrying capacity o f the rangelands in order to
maximize the earning potential o f the sector and assure longterm sustainability.

 104.    The next phase o f the growth strategy aims to (i)        strengthen the private sector by
promoting demand-responsiveness o f public sector agencies; (ii)        improve the functioning of
industrial estates; and (iii)  strengthen the legal framework for modernizing agnculture and
enhance the capacity o f small farmers and livestock holders. This will include: ensuring that the
new one-window investor facilitation center coordinated by the private sector and the
corresponding line agencies i s operational (i.e., that it has been staffed and has started serving
potential investors); transferring management o f industrial estates to the private sector; revising
the Agricultural Produce Act; and establishing Milk Producers Associations. This phase of the
growth strategy will be completed in2006.

 105.    The government will implement a subsequent phase o f its growth acceleration strategy by
2007. This will include merging SDA and Small Industries Development Board (SIDB),
transferring management control o f Bank o f Khyber to the private sector, setting up the Mines
Magistrate to strengthen enforcement o f mining property rights and address labor concerns,
 developing an enabling framework for private provision o f power and o f municipal services, and




                                                 25

restructuring the technical and vocational training system consistent with principles of being
private sector led and responsive to labor market demands.

106.    The medium-term growth strategy will also promote development o f urban centers. This
will involve better functioning o f urban land markets and better planning for urban development
including better provision o f public services and infkastructure. The most important requirement
to make the land markets function optimally i s a system that abolishes the current title
ambiguities and determines title conclusively. Urban development will be improved by
strengthening the capacity o f city governments to develop credible plans for improving city
infrastructure, bringingBuildingByelaws and Regulations at par with international standards and
integrating these with cities' integrated strategic plans and promoting public-private partnerships
inmunicipal service delivery.

               IV. BANKSUPPORT TO THE GOVERNMENT'SPROGRAM

A.       Overview

107.     The Bank's current assistance strategy in NWFP i s guided by the Pakistan CAS and
reaffirmed by the CAS Progress Report, discussed by the Board in June 2002 and April 2004,
respectively. The assistance strategy i s fully consistent with the national PRSP which sets out a
program to strengthen macroeconomic stability and government effectiveness at all levels,
improve the business environment (both at the federal and provincial level) for growth, and
improve equity through pro-poor and pro-gender equity policies and programs, also at both the
federal and provincial level.

108.     Recognizing that the provinces and local governments in Palustan bear most o f the
responsibility for delivering public services including education and health, but have very limited
"fiscal space" to provide these services, the CAS and the CAS progress report lay out three
strategic principles for which provinces will get assistance through development policy lending:
(i) "pull" andselectivity; (ii)
    client                             adoption o f a programmatic approach; and (iii)  reliance on
partnerships. Highlightingthese principles the CAS emphasizes assisting those provinces which
have embarked upon a comprehensive fiscal and economic reform program, have built credible
track records on implementation and have sought the Bank's assistance. All three strategic
principles are applicable to the proposed operation. NWFP has a comprehensive medium-term
reform program that includes fiscal, governance and economic reform components. Consistent
with the CAS objectives the overarching goal o f the NWFP provincial reform program i s to
reduce poverty by promoting growth and accelerating human development, and the reform
program i s fully aligned with achieving PRSP objectives at the provincial and local level. The
government has high ownership o f and strong commitment to continued reforms. The Senior
Minister i s the key champion o freform and there i s a core group of capable reform leaders within
the administration. Together with donors such as DFID, the Bank has a strong partnership with
NWFP.

B.       Bank Support

 109.    The Bank`s wider program o f support to NWFP covers both lending and non-lending
activities. The Bank initiated in 2002 a program o f three single-tranche Structural Adjustment
Credits over the period FY03-05 to provide performance-based budget support to enable the
province to restore financial equilibrium while undertaking its Provincial Reform Program. The
second o f these credits for NWFP was approved inJune 2004 for the amount of US$90 million.
The following are ongoing Bank projects inNWFP: (i)        the NWFP On FarmWater Management



                                                  26

Project (US$28 million IDA), which i s helping to reduce water losses and implement farmer
managed irrigations system; and (ii)   NWFP Community Infrastructure Project I1(US$42 million
IDA), which supports community driven small infrastructure schemes. InNovember 2005 these
projects were restructured with financial reallocations in response to unusual natural disasters in
2005 (floods and earthquake). The NWFP On Farm Water Management Project also received
additional financing o f US$10million. The province also receives support from the Bank through
several nationwide or multi-province operations: these include (iii) Palustan Poverty Alleviation
Fund 11, (iv) HIV/AIDS Prevention Project, (v) Second Project to Improve Financial Reporting
and Accountability (PIFRA II),     (vi) Protected Areas Management Project (GEF), (vii)National
Highways Rehabilitation project; and (viii) Pakistan Earthquake Emergency Recovery Credit.
The proposedDPC 1i s complementary to the Bank's PRSC credits.

C.      Analytic and Advisory Services

110.    Knowledge partnership i s a key element o f the Bank's assistance to the NWFP. Since
SAC 2 the analytical base has been strengthened further with the NWFP Economic Report and
related Bank ESW with a bearing on provincial policies. These include the nationwide rural
factor markets study (ZOOS), the national Growth and Competitiveness Study (2006), the Country
Gender Assessment (2006) and the nationwide Administrative Barriers study (2005). Previous
studies that have had considerable influence on formulation o f the medium-term policy
framework include the Provincial Financial and Accountability Assessment (PFAA, 2004), the
Country Procurement Assessment Review (CPAR), the Devolution Study (2004) and the Palustan
Public ExpenditureReview (PER, 2003).

111.    The Bank has in recent years been assisting the Government o f NWFP in developing a
core set o f phase I1 analytical activities with the objective o f expanding the reform agenda
through knowledge partnerships with the Bank and with a network of academic and donor
supported initiatives. The NWFP Economic Report that lays out a medium- and long-term
development strategy for the province was prepared through such a knowledge partnership. Its
joint preparation has enhanced ownership o f the strategy presented in the report, and the
Government i s usingthe report as a basis for its new Provincial Development Program for FY06
-FY08, andforthedesignofthisandfollow-onoperations.Itwillalso'usetheEconomicReport
as the analyticalbasis for the first NWFP Development Forum scheduled for M a y 2006.

 112.   The Bank foresees possible technical assistance in cooperation with donors in the
following areas: in public expenditure management and budgeting where DFID i s likely to
continue its technical assistance in performance budgeting and improved human resource
management with particular focus on education and health, and in .the area of administrative
devolution with assistance to district governments to buildhuman resource management capacity
as they establish separate district services; and in teacher and school management training
(NORAD and GTZ).

D.      Lessons from PreviousPolicy BasedLending Operations(SACS)

 113.   Many of the lessons inthe Implementation Completion Reports for NWFP SAC 1 and 2
remain valid for the DPCprogram. These include:

  (i)   A strong dialogue between the Bank and the provincial government at the technical as
        well as the cabinet level is a key to success for a reformprogram. The increasingly strong
        policy dialogue, including through analytical work jointly with the Government, has also
        strengthened government ownership o f the reformprogram further.



                                                  27

        The DPC needs to show sensitivity to local political conditions.              Sequencing and
        prioritization of reforms, pace o f progress and achievement of outcomes can be
        significantly affected by changing political and social realities.

        The interface o f federal and provincial policies must be given more attention in
        subnational Bank operations in Palustan since issues o f provincial share in total revenue
        collections and industrial and trade policy implications are crucial for regional
        development.

        Factor in higher revenue transfers from changes inNFC Awards into the fiscal program
        only when an agreement on the NFC materializes. This lesson also emphasizes the need
        for provincial governments to explore all revenue raising measures provided for in the
        Constitution o f Pakistan.

        For programs that fund facility improvements, a maintenance program must be in place.
         A large part o f SAC 2 funds were spent on educational andhealthfacilities. Maintenance
         i s critical to preserving the gains and the districts are currently weak inthis regard.

        Timely and reliable M&E depends on regular updating o f performance indicators.
         Several indicators identified to monitor SAC 2 were long-term in nature, in particular
        poverty data. Real wage data can be used as monitoring indicators for poverty trends.

  (vii) Capacity building efforts need to track changes in levels of responsibility as a result o f
         decentralization. With greater responsibilities in the districts comes the need for
         additional capacity. For example, the large investments inschool rehabilitation need to be
         matched with resources to facility inspections to monitor school condition as well as
         teacher attendance. Another example i s the capacity in the Provincial Public Service
         Commission, which has taken on greater recruitment responsibilities, especially in 2004,
         buthas not increasedits staffcommensurately.

E.       The ProposedDevelopmentPolicy Credit

114.     As stated earlier, the proposed DPC 1i s a transition operation that assesses progress o f
the broad-based reform program o f the Government o f NWFP pursued in 2002-06 (prior actions
for this operation) and then going forward, lays out the framework (triggers for the next proposed
operation) for development policy lending that i s focused on human development and inclusive
growth.

Prior actionsfor the proposedDPC 1

115.     The broad reform program supported by two SACS and the agreed prior actions of the
proposed DPC 1 focused on the following: (a) Accelerating economic growth by establishing an
effective and transparent enabling environment for private sector development both in the urban
and rural economy; (b) Fiscal reforms to ensure fiscal sustainability and create fiscal space, adopt
and follow a medium-term budget framework, enhance effectiveness and accountability o f
expenditures,      and strengthen resource mobilization; (c) Reforms to accelerate human
development and improve service delivery in key sectors (especially basic social services),
focusing on access to and quality o f services; and (d) Governance reforms in public financial
management, procurement, civil service and administration o f multi-tiered government
(province/distict/tehsil).


                                                    28

a.      Accelerating economic growth

116.    While the success o fthe growth-related reform program will depend on a comprehensive
range o f measures included inthe government's overall strategy for inclusive growthdiscussed in
the previous section, the following have been deemed particularly important, and are being
supported by DPC 1, to enable the private sector to realize its full growth potential: (i)   institu-
tionalizing public-private dialogue to ensure that government decisions affecting private business
are consistent with the private sector's investment and growth objectives, (ii)    improving private
sector's access to skilled manpower and (iii)     allowing the private sector to expand into sectors
previous dominatedby state owned enterprises.

117.    Furthermore, agnculture i s central to economic growth in NWFP. The government
recognizes this and has made agriculture a key plank in its growth strategy. The main elements
supported by DPC 1 for strengthening agnculture are: (i)     aligning public expenditure allocations
in the sector with Agricultural Policy priorities, (ii)    ensuring that agricultural research in the
province is tuned to the needs o f farmers as they move to higher value added crops and (iii)
strengthening extension services through Farm Services Centers to assist farmers in adapting
modem technologies intheir cultivation practices.

118.     The specific prior actions in the growth pillar for DPC 1, previously agreed with the
government, and their current status, are as follows:

    0    Establish Investment Facilitation Council headed by the Chief Minister and Investment
         Facilitation Committee headed by the Chief Secretary. Status: Done. "Investment
         Facilitation Council", Notification No. AEA (IND) 10-342, November 11, 2005 and
         "Investment FacilitationCommittee", Notification AEA (IND) 10-342, Nov.12,2005.

    0    I n order to adopt a demand driven approach to the operation of technical and vocational
         training institutes to meet the skills needs of theprivate sector: include representatives of
         theprivate sector in the management committees of such institutions and appointprivate
         sector    representatives    as     chairpersons.     Status:  Done.     Notification    No.
         DTE&MT/PTB/227-Vol-111/1768, 11" May 2005.

    0    Restructure Sarhad Development Authority (SDA) to include an investment facilitation
         center; make SDA the secretariat for the Investment Facilitation Council and the
         Investment Facilitation Committee; and create management committees for industrial
         estates consisting of; and led by, private sector representatives. Status: Done.
         "Restructuring o f SDA & SIDB", Notification No. SDA/D (P71)/IFA-96/3492,                18th
         November, 2005.         "Industrial Estate Management Committee",          Notification No.
         SDA/PS-CH: 866, 18" M a y 2005.

    0    Reduce government shareholding of Bank of Khyber to 65 percent. Status: Done. The
         government increased total capital through a new emission to the public inFebruary 2006
         that reduced its share to 65 percent.

    0    Re-alignpublic expenditures with thepriorities set out in the Agriculture Policy. Status:
         Done. Fiscal budget FY05/06 shows increasing share o f expenditures in the identified
         priority areas.




                                                   29

   0   Initiate steps to establish an autonomous agrialtural research system consistent with
       thepriorities set out in the Agriculture Policy; establish 75 Farm Services Centers; and
       establish Multi-stakeholder District Agricultural Coordination Forums in all (24)
       districts. Status: Done. A total of 75 Farm Services Centers have been established and are
       in operation. The NWFP Agricultural Research System (Handing over) (Repeal) Act ,
       2005 (NWFP Act No. XV o f 2005) removed ambiguity and duplication by transferring
       research responsibilities to the Department o f Agnculture and Livestock under which an
       autonomous research body will be established. Following notification of the GoNWFP,
       24 District Agricultural CoordinationForums have been established and are operational.

b.     Fiscal reforms

119.   The government's fiscal reforms are comprehensive. The critical fiscal objectives are: (i)
ensuring a sustainable fiscal position; (iii)continuing to improve effectiveness o f public
investment spending; (iii)containing public consumption to maintain proper expenditure
composition and balance between public investment and consumption; and (iv) raising own
revenue mobilization to create fiscal space.

120.   The specific prior actions inthe fiscal area inDPC 1, agreed with the government during
SAC 2 preparation, and their current status, are as follows:

    e   The FY05 Budget outcome, including overall deficit, to be in line with the medium-term
       budgetframework (MTBF). Maintain FY05 throw-fonuard ratio of development projects
        at or reduce it below the FY04 level of 3.0 years, and contain the establishment budget to
        the FY04 level in terms of percent of provincial GDP (3.6 percent). Status: This prior
        action has been met. June (Final) fiscal accounts show that:
        o The fiscal deficit was Rs 3 billion (0.5 percent o f PGDP), significantly less than the
             MTBFtarget ofRs4.1 billion.
        o The throw-forward ratio of development projectswas reducedto 2.7 years, below the
             target of 3.0 years.
        o The overall establishment cost was also contained at the target of Rs 21 billion (3.6
             percent o f PGDP) set inthe MTBF.

    0   Implement thefollowing tax administration and tax policy measures in the FY05 budget
        in light of policy-based studies: (i) introduce a system of bonus payments to excise and
        taxation staf linked to revenue collection per$ormance; and (ii) open Tax Facilitation
        Centers with supportfrom private sector for collection of selected taxes. Status: Done.
        Cash bonus incentives to tax collectors for good performance were established with
        Finance Departmentreleasing Rs 1.5 million to the Excise and Taxation Department. Tax
        facilitation centers have started operating inurban centers for collection o f Motor Vehicle
        Tax and other revenue items.

c.      Acceleratinghuman developmentthrough improved service delivery

c.1     Education

 121.   Inthe first phase of reforms limited access to education services was deemed the most
binding constraint for education in the province. Key demand side constraints were the cost o f
education that effectively reduced demand for education by the poor and in particular for girls,
and the highincidence o f teacher absenteeism that reflects poor monitoring of teacher attendance.
Enhanced involvement by PTAs in monitoring and running operations in the schools could


                                                 30

effectively limit teacher absenteeism. The specific prior actions inthe education sector for DPC 1,
agreed with the government during SAC 2 preparation, and their current status, are as follows:

    e   Distribute free textbooks to all primary school students, and all girl middle and high
        school students, in government schools. Status: Done. Source: NWFP Textbook Board,
        District Governments.

    e   Ensure that functional PTAs with authority to monitor teacher attendance and utilize
        instructional material and repair (IMM)funds will continue to exist in all primary
        schools; train and make PTAs fulb functional with similar authority in twenty percent
        (20percent) of middle and high schools; and ensure that districts release IMMfunds to
        all existing PTAs. Status: Done. Funds released by March 2006. Notification gives PTAs
        said authority. Training has been providedwith donor assistance.

c.2     Health

122.    Limited access to key preventive services, such as TB (tuberculosis) daily observation
therapy sessions (DOTS), family planning and primary health services (through the Lady Health
Worker program) and HIV/AIDS services, has been critical constraints on the health status o f the
population in the province. The specific prior action in the health sector for DPC 1, agreed with
the government during SAC 2 preparation, and its current status, is:

    e   Extend the coverage of the TB DOTSprogram from 17 to all (24) districts; deploy 2,500
        new Lady Health Workers to district hospitals to reach target of 13,000; and enter into at
        least three contracts with NGOshrivate sector organizations for the provision of
        HIV/AIDSpreventive sewices for vulnerablepopulations. Status: Targets for TB DOTS
        coverage and Lady Health Workers have been met. Three contracts with NGOs have
        been signed for provision o f HIV/AIDS preventive services.

d.      Governancereforms
d.1     Publicfinancial management
123.    Improving the reliability, accuracy and timeliness o f financial data has been the most
important challenge in public financial management. The old chart o f accounts was lacking
breakdown in a number o f categories that were needed for proper reporting and cost attribution.
The agreedprior action for DPC 1and its current status i s as follows:

        Publish the provincial budget in aformat based on the New Chart of Accounts. Status.
        Done. Source: Published budget documents. Both the FY05 and FY06budgets have been
        publishedbasedon the New Chart o f Accounts (as the first province inthe country).

d.2     Procurement

124.    The key challenge regarding procurement i s ensuring that the new Procurement L a w i s
aligned with international best practice and that it i s applied across all government agencies. The
agreed prior action for DPC 1and its current status is as follows:

    e   Prepare a road map satisfactory to the World Bank,for the revision of the Procurement
        Law to better align it with international best practice, specifying the resources, point
        person and timeframe neededfor such revision. Status: Done. The provincial government
        has presented the road map for procurement reforms in a funding request (February 21,
        2006), and a subsequent letter issued by the provincial government declares that it will



                                                 31

        take all necessary steps to implement the road map, including providing own financing if
        other funding i s not available.

d.3     Civil service and administrative devolution reforms

125.    The effectiveness and integnty o f the civil service has been undermined by poor human
resource planning and management systems. This has led to prevalence o f ghost workers and
ghost retirees and has made accurate estimation o fthe province's pensionliabilities impossible. A
key obstacle to improving service delivery through devolution to district governments has been
inconsistencies between various pieces o f legislation and regulation. The agreed prior actions for
DPC 1and their current status are as follows:

        Develop, computerize and put into operation a Human Resource Management database
        for the provision of reliable and timely data for personnel management and planning.
         Status: Done. The core HR database was established in November 2005. 97 percent o f
         personnel records (out o f 284,000) have been completed and loaded to the system. Since
         November 2005, the database has been in use for the initial preparation o f the salary
         budget for FY07.

         Remove inconsistencies in the designation of the appointing authority for different levels
         of officers and staff of the departments devolved to the districts. Status: Done. Local
         Government, Elections and Rural Development Department Notification 7, October
         2005, amended the NWFP District Government Rules o f Business to firther delegate the
         power o f appointing authority for officers and staff inBPS-1 to BPS-10 to the Executive
         District Officer. This removed the previous inconsistency between various regulations
         regardingthe appointing authority.

Triggers for the follow-on operation, DPC2:

 126.    IDA will continue in DPC 2 to support the Governments' twin strategy of human
development and accelerated economic growth. Accomplishing these objectives will require
continued fiscal and expenditure reforms, as well as governance reforms. Therefore, DPC 2 will
have two additional pillars to the HD and economic growth pillars: fiscal and expenditure
reforms; and governance reforms. The proposed follow-on operation, DPC 2, will be triggered by
 specific actions that the government has committed to put in place to shift the focus o f the
 development strategy from broad-based reforms to more focused human development and
 inclusive growth. The priorities and central pillars o fthe new strategy are as follows:

Pillar One: Accelerating HumanDevelopment and Improving Service Delivery


 a.      Education Sector

 127.    While a wide range o f measures are necessary for substantial progress and are includedin
 the government's comprehensive education sector reform program, the following have been
 deemed particularly important and will be supported by DPC 2: (i)expand demand side
 interventions with a focus on regional and gender equity, (ii)   improve education quality through
 professional development o f teachers to raise their competencies, (iii) align objectives for service
 delivery and outcomes through contracts between the provincial and district governments; (iv)
 enhance cost effectiveness in spending on facilities and enhance monitoring by involving PTAs
 more closely; and (iv) improve objective monitoring and evaluation to ensure accountability and



                                                  32

proper performance incentives in service delivery. The specific tnggers inthe education sector for
DPC 2, agreed with the government, are as follows:

Access trigger. Stipendsfor girls enrolled in grades 6-10 introduced in 7 districts where girls
middle and secondary enrolment rates are less than 12percent.
Quality trigger. Institutionalframework for teacher development notifed.
Governance trigger. Partnership agreements signed betweenprovincial and at least SOpercent
of the district governments, including monitoring targets and indicatorsfor the education sector.
Service delivery trigger. Therevised guidelinesfor increased budgetary authorityfor PTAs to use
both recurrent and development budgets issued and capacity building activities outlined.
Monitoring and evaluation trigger. Education sector reform unit in the Department of Education
strengthened with monitoring andplanningfunctions andfully staffed.

b.       Health Sector

128.     The government strategy for improving health outcomes i s comprehensive and several
initiatives are being taken, the most critical actions at this stage are deemed as follows: (i)
improving the utilization and quality o f PHC services by testing o f managerial and organizational
innovations. This will include contracting out management to NGOs in agreement with the
affected district governments. (ii)As a first step in testing the innovations the provincial
government needs to establish baseline assessments of quality in thePHC facilities o f selected
districts to be contracted out. The specific healthtriggers for DPC 2 are as follows:

Partnership agreementssigned with District Governmentsfor implementation of management
innovations (contracting with NGOs).

Baseline assessments of quality of care in PHCfacilities of selected districts contracted out.


Pillar Two: Fiscal and ExpenditureReforms
129.     Consistent with maintaining a sustainable fiscal position and sustaining the process o f
moving towards fiscal decentralization, the trigger for DPC 2 is:

TheFY07Jiscal budget to be in line with the MTBF and devolution principles. This includes that
the announcedbudget shows key FY07 budgetary indicators to be inline with the MTBF agreed
with the Bank and transfers o f district governments' salary budgets to district Account I V inline
with the provisions of the PFC Award. Key budgetary indicators will be the overall deficit
(adjusted for operational shortfall), the revenue deficit and the level and detailed composition of
education and health sector budgets.


Pillar Three: Governance Reforms
a.       Public financialmanagement
 130.    After the creation o f districts as new political units it has been virtually impossible for the
provincial government to compile consolidated, reconciled and accurate financial reports for the
province as a whole in a timely manner. The key reason i s the absence o f an integrated
computerized accounting system with a uniform set of accounts for all district accounts offices.
The agreed trigger for DPC2 is:




                                                   33

Achieve operational IT connectivity and productivity for 20 District Finance and District
Accounts Ofice sites using uniform chart of accounts under the new accounting modeel.

b.       Procurement

131.     The key procurement goal to be reached over the medium term i s ensuring that the new
Procurement L a w and Standard Bidding Documents are aligned with international best practice
and are applied across all government agencies.

132.     Continued progress towards meeting this goal i s the expected outcome of the following
trigger for DPC 2:

SpeciJj, amendments in the procurement law and the Standard Bidding Documents, as agreed
with the Bank, and put in place a system for using market based cost estimates in bidding
contracts.

Pillar Four: Accelerating Economic Growth

133.     The growth trigger for DPC 2 focuses sharply on talung forward government's program
for strengthening private sector's role in generating employment opportunities for the NWFP
work force. As discussed in section 111, government has a developed a broad based strategy for
strengthening the private sector. The most critical area within the purview o f the provincial
government to induce more private investment i s to lower the transaction costs faced by
investors. Investors have been facing high transaction costs for new investments and high
regulatory costs and administrative barriers. This reflects lengthy and costly regulatory and
approval processes that have involved many government agencies. Streamlining these processes
to lower transactions costs i s a critical action inthis regard. To that effect, the following
agreed for DPC 2.


Ensure that the new one-window investmentfacilitation center coordinated by the private sector
and the corresponding line agencies is operational.




                                                    34

                                          Box 1. Triggers for DPC 2

 Accelerating Human Developmentand ImprovingSocialServiceDelivery
     Education
          Access trigger. Stipendsfor girls enrolledin grades 6-10 introducedin 7 districtswhere girlsmiddle
           and secondaryenrolment rates are less than 12%.
           Quality trigger. Institutionalframework for teacher developmentnotified.
           Governance trigger. Partnership agreements signedbetweenprovincial and at least 50% of the district
           governments, includingmonitoringtargetsand indicatorsfor the educationsector.
           Servicedelivery trigger. The revisedguidelinesfor increasedbudgetaryauthority for PTAs to useboth
           recurrentanddevelopmentbudgetsissuedandcapacitybuilding activities outlined.
           Monitoring and evaluation trigger. Educationsector reformunit inthe Departmentof Education
           strengthenedwith monitoringandplanningfunctionsand fully staffed.

     Health
           Partnershipagreementssignedwith District Governmentsfor implementationofmanagement
           innovations(contractingwith NGOs).
           Baseline assessmentsofquality of care inPHCfacilities of selecteddistricts contractedout.

 Fiscaland Expenditure Reforms
           The announcedFY07 fiscalbudgetto be inline with MTBF anddevolutionprinciples.

 Public FinancialManagement and GovernanceReforms
           Achieve operationalITconnectivityandproductivity for 20 District FinanceandDistrict Accounts
           Office sitesusinguniform chart of accounts.
           Specifyamendments inthe procurementlaw andthe StandardBidding Documents, as agreedwith the
           Bank, andput inplace asystemfor usingmarketbasedcost estimatesinbidding contracts.

 Accelerating EconomicGrowth and Promoting Private Sector Development
           Ensurethat the new one-windowinvestorfacilitation centercoordinatedby the privatesector andthe
I          correspondingline agencies is operational.

  1/ Detailson monitoringof these triggersandtheir linkwith outcomesare providedinAnnex 2 (policy Matrix)



F.      Benefitsofthe Operation

134.    Support for reform.Establishinga programmatic series of Development Policy Credits
to continue Bank support for NWFP's reform program i s an appropriate response to the progress
made by GoNWFP across the reform spectrum. These reforms have consolidated gains achieved
under SAC 1 and SAC 2 but the reform process needs to be sustained over the mediumterm to
substantially improve outcomes. The DPC can help further strengthen the ongoing reformprocess
inthe province. The government has a determinedstrategy to reduce poverty, improveprovision
of social and other public services, improve social indicators and public sector governance, and
provide better employment prospects through broad-based inclusive growth. Progress in these
areas would be very valuable in pulling the province towards moderate social leanings. If the
government can remain engagedwith the Bank and be provided the resources neededfor service
delivery and development - important issues for the local electorate -that would help reduce the
risk of policy reversal. Reform progress in the province could also induce more reform
competition and learning across provinces inPalustan.




                                                         35

135.     Impact on poverty and human development. GoNWFP's reform program supported by
DPCswill help the province inachieving better socioeconomic outcomes andreduce poverty: the
reforms are expected to accelerate human development by improving access to social services,
aiming at reducing gender and regional disparities, and by improving quality o f services. The
reforms are also expected to facilitate and sustain broad-based inclusive growth with rapid
increase inper capita real incomes.

136.     Debt restructuring. The proceeds from the DPC credit are currently transferred by the
Government o f Paktstan to the province on IDA terms and with the federal government carrying
the exchange rate risk. Thus, the DPC provides the GoNWFP with relatively less expensive and
long-term funds which it can substitute for more expensive types o f debt. The DPC proceeds thus
benefit NWFP by improving its debt profile, lowering its interest burden, and thereby creating
more fiscal space for priority spending.

                             V. OPERATIONIMPLEMENTATION

A.       Poverty and SocialImpacts

137.     The key objectives o f the proposed operation are to reduce the incidence o f poverty and
improve health and education outcomes. GoNWFP's reformprogram i s designed to achieve these
goals. The reforms supported by the DPC 1 are expected to have a substantial, beneficial impact
on poverty reductionand social outcomes inthe province:

(i)The credit would directly go for measures aimed at povertyreduction. This includes
continuing recent years' rapid expansion in real spending on social services and boosting the
delivery systems. This will provide greater access and better quality education, especially for
girls, aiming at narrowing rapidly the gender gap, and higher coverage o f immunization and
health programs that contribute to reduced child and maternal mortality rates as well as improved
equity inaccess to better quality health services.

(ii)Accelerationofeconomicgrowthledbytheprivatesectorremainsfundamentaltopoverty
reduction through employment growth and higher incomes. The reform strategy aims at
revitalizing the private sector and increasing trade, broad-based inclusive growth and the private
 sector's role in service delivery. Streamlining business regulations and improving infrastructure
will improve the investment climate for private sector development, benefiting in particular
medium and small enterprises where the bulk o f employment growth i s expected to come.
Agriculture sector reforms are expected to contribute to raising household incomes inrural areas
where poverty i s most widespread and thereby directly reduce poverty.

 (iii)Thefiscalrestructuringfreesupmoreresourcesforpovertyreductionexpenditures. The
medium-term framework i s sustainable and ensures adequate resources for social spending in a
 well-balanced expenditure pattern. The fiscal reforms do not require retrenchment o f staff inthe
provincial administrationnor inpublic enterprises.

 (iv) Governance reforms o f institutions, policies and processes will improve accountability and
 effectiveness ofpublic expenditures, transparency and rule o f law. Improving governance inthese
 areas will positively affect the poor and disempowered.




                                                 36

B.       Implementation,Monitoring and Evaluation

138.     The Finance Department i s responsible for overall implementation o f DPC 1. The DPC
Reforms Unit in the Finance Department coordinates actions among the concerned departments
and agencies. Continuing the practice from SAC 2 implementation the Senior Minister chairs
quarterly inter-ministerial meetings reviewing progress in reforms implementation and ensuring
coordination under the DPC. The Finance Secretary chairs monthly meetings with Secretaries
from the key implementing departments.

139.     The Bank team's supervision plan will monitor actions and review implementation
progress o f the proposed DPC. The Policy Matrix (Annex 2) o f the proposed operation provides a
results framework that describes expected medium-term outcomes, as well as indicators to
measure progress during the annual operations. During the supervision phase o f this first DPC,
these benchmarks will be regularly evaluated and interim steps taken by the GoNWFP will be
monitored. As the operation evolves, circumstances might change which could require flexibility
in decision-making for achieving the intended development goals. While maintaining a clear
focus on the desired impact outcomes o f the program, the Bank team also recognizes the
importance o f linking ongoing monitoring to decision-mahng on appropriate adjustments to
reflect these realities.

140.     Monitoring will draw on data and findings from a range o f sources to monitor progress
on social indicators, public service delivery and fiscal implementation. Poverty and human
development outcomes will be tracked by the triannual P M S surveys which mainly help to track
outcomes like net enrolment and drop out rates. The new round o f PIHS (which i s now called the
PSLSMS), fielded in 2004-05, has just been released to the Bank which will serve to benchmark
these indicators. Real wages will be tracked on an annual basis (based on daily nominal wage
data) and used as interimmonitoring indicators for poverty trends. Service delivery can be tracked
by the Core Welfare Indicators Questionnaire (CWIQ) component in the Pakistan Social and
Living Standards Measurement Survey (PSLSMS) with intermediate indicators assessing access,
satisfaction and use o f key services measured at the district level. The CWIQ will complement
the PSLSMS and i s intended to be fielded annually. Since the CWIQ is a first time experiment in
Pakistan its quality and sustainability in an annual fashion i s yet to be explored with the Federal
Bureau o f Statistics, where the dialogue i s still ongoing. The first rounddata on CWIQ have also
just been made available to the Bank. Information on education and health service delivery will
also be provided through annual Third Party Validation surveys. It will be essential to design
content o f the third party validation to ensure the direct link with prescribed indicators. In
addition annual monitoring reports prepared by the Health and EducationReforms Units, monthly
reports on teacher absenteeism provided by Education District Officers and other data from the
government's administrative databases such as the Education Management Information System
and Health Management Information System will be used. Progress infiscal implementation will
be tracked using quarterly fiscal reports and annual budgets.




                                                    37

I                             Table 5: Selected Monitoring Indicators for NWFPDPC
                         Indicator                       Prior to 2001       Most Recent        Planned by
                                                         and start of        Observation        end of DPC 3
                                                            SAC 1                               (End FY08)
 Provincial GDP growthrate                                    4%                 6.9%a            7-7.5%
 Poverty Head Count (caloric)                                 44                46.3%b               ....
 Provincial Tax Revenue Growth                               15%                21.4%`             18.3%
 Pro-poor PRSP expenditures (share)                          56.9%              57.6%d              62.0
 Development expenditures (share)                            26%                25.9%               31.7
 Reconciled fiscal data usingthe                              0%           97% o freceipts and      100%
 N e w Accounting Model                                                    96% o f expenditures
 Gross primary enrollment rate                               70%  e              77% e              83%
 Gross primary enrollment rate female                        54%e                56%e               70%
 Primary school dropout rates                                24%  e              24% e              16%
 Girls schools with essential facilities                     50%                  85%               100%
 Fullimmunization, % o fchildren                             54%e                  76%'             80%
   12-23months
 % of populationwith access to TB Control (DOTS)             20%                100 %                100
 Antenatal coverage o f pregnant women by health             34%                   39%              50%
   professionals
,Contraceptive Prevalence Rate                               22%                 22.5%'             35%




     C.       Fiduciary Aspects

      141.    Financial Accountability Environment. NWFP is ahead o f other provinces and the
     federal government with regard to reforms in public financial management. The Provincial
     Financial Accountability Assessment provides an in-depth analysis o f the strengths and
     weaknesses o f the financial control environment in the Provincial Government. Its assessment i s
     that the system inplace does provide reasonable safeguards for reliance on government financial
     accountability systems to ensure that funds are used for the purposes intended. This assessment i s
     plannedto be updated during FY 2006, usingthe PEFA PFMMeasurement Framework, inorder
     to provide baseline performance indicators and their trajectory o f change over time. The notable
     progress also beingmade inthe province inimplementing PIFRA reforms i s demonstrative of the
     province's firm commitment towards the enhancement of public sector financial accountability.

      142.     An IMF Safeguards Assessment o f the SBP was conducted in 2001. It highlighted
      significant vulnerabilities at the SBP particularly as relating to its financial statements and
      disclosure policies which fell short o f acceptable Central Bank standards. However, since a
      program of reform had since been agreed with the IMF and was being implemented, the risks
      associated with foreign exchange management and control have been mitigated. The State Bank
      o f Pakistan has transitioned to producing financial statements which accord with international



                                                         38

accounting standards and formats. An independent review o f the SBP's internal audit function, as
recommendedby the Safeguards Assessment, has since been completed and the recommendations
implemented. The SBP has also established a formal process o f reconciling data reported to the
Fundas well as implemented guidelines to prohibit operations that pledge or encumber reserves,
or place restrictions on, or otherwise impair the availability of, foreign exchange reserves outside
an authorized framework. Equally, the SBP's Act has been accordingly amended to strengthen
and guarantee its independence and autonomy in the management o f reserves as required under
the Safeguards Assessment.         The financial management risk associated with the Program i s
therefore rated `low'.

D.       CreditAdministration, Disbursements,and FiduciaryAssurance

143.     Funds flow arrangements for the Credit are as follows: The Government o f Palustan
shall identify a Foreign Exchange Deposit Account with the State Bank o f Pakistan (SBP) into
which the proceeds o f the Credit will be disbursed on a single tranche basis upon Credit
effectiveness. The Rupees equivalent o f the funds in the Account will, within two working days,
be transferred into the Consolidated Fund o f the Government o f NWFP (Account No. 1- Non-
Food) held with the SBP.

 144.    Disbursementsfrom the Consolidated Account No.1 (Non-food) by the Government o f
NWFP shall not be tied to any specific purchases and no special procurement requirement shall
be needed. The proceeds of the Credit shall, however, not be applied to finance expenditures in
the negative list as defined in the Schedule o f the Financing Agreement. If any portion o f the
Credit i s used to finance ineligible expenditures as so defined in the Schedule o f the Financing
Agreement, IDA shall require the Government to promptly, upon notice from IDA, refund an
amount equal to the amount of the said payment to IDA. Amounts refknded to IDA upon such
request shall be cancelled from the Credit.

 145.    Accounting and Assurance Requirements for the Credit. The SBP, on behalf o f the
 Government, shall maintain an appropriate accounting system in accordance with generally
 acceptable accounting principles. For this Credit, no additional assurance requirements in the
 form o f a formal audit i s required, inthe light of the fiduciary environment as established with the
 management o f foreign exchange reserves by the SBP. However, within 45 days o f disbursement
 o f the Credit by IDA, the Finance Secretary o f the Province shall provide a certificate to IDA
 confirming the receipt of the Rupees equivalent o f the Credit into the Consolidated FundAccount
 o f the Government o fNWFP, the date o f the receipt and the exchange rate applied to translate the
 Credit currency into Rupees.

 E.       Coordinationwith Other Donors

 146.     Achieving the reform objectives will be supported by IDA'Sclose collaboration with
 donors, in particular DFID, during the preparation and implementation of this series o f DPCs.
 DFIDhas been collaborating with the Bank inproviding AAA and technical assistance and in
 program-related areas such as providing funding towards the NWFP Economic Report and
 technical assistance inperformance budgeting. It i s expected that technical assistance fromDFID
 will continue. The Bank also foresees possible technical assistance from other donors inthe area
 o f administrative devolution with assistance to district governments to build Human Resource
 management capacity. NORAD and GTZ provide assistance to build capacity and facilitate
 reform implementation in the education sector; GTZ also to the health sector. The EU is
 considering providing budget support to GoNWFP aligned with the DPCs. The GoNWFP plans




                                                    39

to host its first development forum in 2006 and gather additional assistance from development
partners for its medium-term reformprogram as laid out inthe series o f DPCs.

F.      EnvironmentalAspects

147.     The Bank's Draft Country Environmental Assessment (CEA) provides a broad overview
of Palustan's environmental policies and institutions. The CEA concludes that the legislative
framework for environmental management i s largely in place and the country has made progress
inestablishing regulatoryinstitutions for environmental management. However, implementation
o f policies remains uneven with the binding constraints being insufficient resources and
inadequate compliance incentives. Recognizingthese problems the Medium Term Development
Framework 2005-2010 (MTDF), which was adopted in mid-2005, recommends a significant
increase in the budget allocated for environmental management to support implementation o f the
legislative framework.

148.     With its immense altitudinalvariationNWFPis richinnaturalresources, biodiversity and
cultural heritage.    The Provinces natural assets have played a crucial role in providing the
platform for economic development. The rangelands which cover the bulk o f the landmass,
sustain a growing livestock industry, while the Province's forests play an important role in
protecting watersheds, preventing the siltation o f dams and reducing the incidence o f landslides
and soil erosion. However, the resource base i s under stress owing to population pressures, the
influx o frefugees andpoverty.

 149.    There i s a highlevel o f environmental awareness inthe Province and the government has
responded to these pressures by introducing the Sarhad Provincial Conservation Strategy (SPCS)
which aims to promote conservation and sustainable development.             Unmatched elsewhere in
Palustan three districts in NWFP have integrated the SPCS into their development agenda.
Environmental management within the province i s guided by the Pakistan Environmental
Protection Act 1997, which requires EPA approval for the execution o f large public and private
projects. NWFP EPA has three zonal offices inthe province and has established an Environment
Impact Assessment (EN) training center in Peshawar.              The National Environment Policy
provides the framework for addressing resource management issues relating to water, air quality
 and forests.

 150.    The proposed NWFP Development Policy Credit (DPC), as the first in a series o f 3
 annual credits, prescribes a series o f policies and reforms to support three overarching objectives:
 (i)economic growth and macroeconomic stability; (ii)improvements inhuman capital; and (iii)
 growth enabling fiscal and governance reforms.             The staffs rapid assessment o f the
 environmental impact o f the policyreforms proposed inthe DPCprior actions and triggers is:

Pillar I: Accelerating economic growth through (i) increased private sector investment and
productivity and (ii) improvements in agriculturalproductivity.

 151.    Private sector activity i s to be stimulated by lowering administrative barriers and the
 transactions costs o f investment. The administrative reforms are not likely to have any direct
 environmental impact. Given the structure o f the Province's industry it i s anticipated that the
 bulk o f industrial development will entail broad based growth of light industries, with a modest
 environmental footprint and low pollution intensity.




                                                   40

152.     Agnculture i s the backbone o f the NWFP economy and plays a crucial role in shaping
development outcomes. The DPC envisages reforms that improve agricultural infrastructure to
reduce post-harvest losses; a shift to higher value products and improvements in agncultural
research and extension. The DPC also recognizes the need to protect the growth potential o f the
natural resource base. Accordingly, it promotes research and extension for the protection o f
common property natural resources, and calls for growth o f livestock to be limited to the carrying
capacity o f common property pastures.

Pillar 2: Fiscal and expenditure reforms through (i) improvements in sustainability and
expenditure compositionand (ii) strengtheningthe revenue base.

153.     Pillar 2 promotes fiscal discipline and stability which can be expected to raise
government revenues for priority spending programs. The fiscal reforms do not recommend a
reductioninresources allocated to environmental agencies.

Pillar 3:    Accelerating human development and improving social service delivery by (i)
improving access and quality of education and (ii) improving health service delivery.

154.     Pillar 3 will have no direct and identifiable environmental impact. Though there may be
tenuous long run gains. Improvements in human capital should reduce poverty and lower the
current over-dependence on "depletable" natural resources (e.g., biomass for fuelwood).

Pillar 4: Governancereforms.

155.     Pillar 4 seeks to improve the accountability and efficiency o f the public sector. To the
extent that these reforms encompass the environmental agencies there will be improvements in
environmentalcompliance.

156.     The overall conclusion o f this assessment i s that the DPC will have no negative
environmental effect and may have beneficial consequences by improving the sustainability o f
common property management and promoting public sector efficiency.

G.       RisksandRiskMitigation

 157.    Risks associated with the government's medium-term reform program include: (i)
political risks; (ii) stemming fi-om limited government capacity to implement reforms; (iii)
                    risks
fiscal risks; and (iv) external shocks. These risks remain relevant but some have diminished inthe
last few years.

(i) Political risks. The main opposition to reforms inNWFP i s likely to come fi-om government
employees. Reforms will challenge privileges and lack o f accountability for certain employee
groups (e.g., teachers and health personnel, revenue collectors, provincial senior civil servants
etc). These groups are not regarded as a strong political force that can delay reforms that the
provincial government i s determined to implement.




                                                  41

158.       The elected government has a very high degree o f ownership o f the reform program. Its
commitment to these reforms stems from the need to make a real change in the provincial
economy and improve delivery o f social and economic services in order to stay in office. Overall
it i s the staffs assessment that the reformpackage ispolitically viable.

159.       Inaddition, there is the potential riskof spillover ofthe regional security situation, i.e.,
the continuing conflict in Afghanistan and the border area that could result in a serious
deterioration of law and order and suspension o f reforms. The assessment i s that this risk i s small.
The conflict inthe border areas is contained and the religious coalition governingNWFP i s firmly
incontrol and engaged withdonors onreforms.

(ii) Risks of limitations on reform implementation capacity exist. Experience so far shows that
weak implementation capacity has at times delayed but importantly, not derailed, reform
implementation. While implementation capacity i s weak, the Bank i s taking this into account by
appropriately pacing and consolidating reforms in one operation. The need for capacity
strengthening is also being addressed with technical assistance from donors. The government i s
planning to use the occasion o f the FirstNWFP Development Forum this coming springto seek
additional technical assistance and capacity buildingby donors ina wide range o f areas.

(iii) Fiscal risks. Inlight o f the recent interim amendment to the NFC award that will provide
additional fiscal space to the province the prospective fiscal risk over the medium term has to
some extent shifted from being a risk to overall fiscal sustainability more towards a risk o f not
maintaining the appropriate spending composition for achievingthe goals o f human development,
facilitating growth and poverty reduction. Less judicious use o f public resources could lead to
higher spending on lower priority areas - both in the composition o f the civil service through
rapidrecruitment across the board as well as the spending composition on goods and services and
choice o f development projects. While this could sow the seed in the near term, it would most
likely only threaten overall fiscal sustainability in the outer years (after 4-5 years) if also own
provincial revenue collection or the unpredictable flows o f hydel profits from WAPDA fall short
o f MTBFtargets. At that time the fiscal adjustment would more likely be a squeeze on spending-
ADP spending and O&M, inparticular-than a ballooning deficit since the financing o f the latter
would be limited. Continuedcommitment to the MTBF and its path for high-priority expenditures
and overall deficits will be required to mitigate this risk. Fiscal risks have been addressed with a
comprehensive set o f measures to increase fiscal space, including increasing own revenue
collection, interest savings stemming from prudent debt management, buildup o f assets in
pensions fundto meet future liabilities, and containingthe civil service wage bill.

(iv) External shocks. Another major risk i s possible external shocks, either in the national
economy (impacting on resource transfers from the center and on own revenues), droughts that
affect the majority o f the populationwhose livelihood i s linked to agriculture, or the possibility o f
tensions along the borders disrupting normal commerce and possibly affecting the political
environment as described above. To a limited extent increased emphasis on improved irrigation
networks and water use arrangements could mitigate the effect of droughts but overall these are
real risks with limited potential for risk mitigation. These risks must be recognized and weighed
in the context of potential benefits. The impact on the provincial fiscal budget of lower than
projected growth - national and provincial -would mainly be felt on the revenue side. The larger
effect would be through lower transfers from the center. Temporary shocks to revenue could be
offset by increased lending from the federal government subject to a sustainable fiscal path.
Permanent shocks would need a corresponding expenditure adjustment.




                                                  42

                                                                   Anne,y I
                                                                Page I of 15

                          ANNEX 1
            LETTER OFDEVELOPMENTPOLICY
          AND GOVERNMENTREFORMPROGRAM




R~f:OMPRES-vVB(   WFP-IDA)X1406/07               Dated: April 4,2006

Dear Mr-Wotfowitz.


            1 am enclosing a letter of the Government of North West
Frontier Pro\rinca (NWFP), addressed to the Ministry of Finance,
Government of Pakistan, dated 2gt" March, 2006, delineating a broad
and comprehensiverefarm agenda, through which the Government of
N W P proposes to strengthen and cansatidate its economic program.
The Government of N W hassought assistancefrm the International
Development Association of SDR 62.7 rnilljon (US$ 90 rnifllan
equlvatent)

            The Government of Pakistan supports this continued
initiative and recommends the proposal for consideration of the
InternationalDevelopmentAssociation.

            Wdh regards,

                                                 n         Sincerely,




Mt. PaulWotfowitz,
President,
TheWarld Bank,
Washington D.C.20433,
 U S A .

                                                                                             Annex 1
                                                                                          Page 2 of 15




                                                           GOVERNMENT OF NWFP
                                                           FINANCE DEPARTMENT
                                                          SAC ReformsMonitoringUnit
                                                 NO.FD/SAC-IIYDFID-SU~~O~~/~OO~-O~NO~-II
                                                          DatedPeshawarMarch 29,2006

To
                 Dr.SalmanShah,
                 Advisor to Prime Minister,
                 on Finance and Planning,
                 Government o f Pakistan.

Subject:         GOVERNMENT OF ZWP-LETTER OF DEVELOPMENTPOLICY

1.      The North West Frontier Province i s faced with huge challenges because of its
geographical location, repercussions of situation on its western border, low investment inhuman
capital and a weak private sector, factors that all contribute to malung it one o f Pakistan's poorest
provinces. Poverty inNWFP i s widespread, especially in rural areas. Estimated Provincial GDP
per capita in 2002/03 was only 60 percent of the average for the country. NWFP has a weaker
resource base than other provinces. The Provincial economy is mostly based on relatively low
value-added agriculture, services, public employment and low slulled workers' remittances from
inside and outside the country.

2.      It is the present elected government's tacit resolve ever since coming into power and
commencement o f this program to improve the standard of living of citizens of the province.
Despite encouraging progress on the broad reform program, analysis shows that without
deepening and broadening human development reforms, several key MDGs will not be met by
2015. The recently completed NWFP Economic Report highlights the critical role of human
development inreducingpoverty inthe province. Sustainedimprovement inhuman development
indicators i s also critical for upgrading the skills of the labor force required for more rapid
economic growth in the future. For these reasons, the principal focus o f the reform program in
2006-2008 will be on human development (HD) while undertaking other reforms to facilitate
more rapid, inclusive growth.

3.      While the core of DPCs going forward i s the program for HD improvement, it will need
to be supported by continued fiscal and governance reforms to ensure that HD continues to get
the importance it deserves froma fiscal andgovernance perspective.

4.      Improvement inHD indicators as envisaged inthe DPC program i s expected to improve
the quality of the work force. An improved supply of workers will be met by increased demand
for workers via continued focus on the growth agenda. A vision document hghlighting
government's program, "Provincial Development Program, 2005-08" will be approved by the
Provincial Cabinet inApril 2006. The government o f the NWFP is fully committed to the growth
agenda as seen in the thrust of the new provincial development strategy (2006-08) that will be
presented at the provincial donor forum inMay 2006.

                                                                                            Annex I
                                                                                        Page 3 of 15

5.      The DPC will support the following pillars o f the Government o f NWFP's reform
program:

    1.      reform to accelerate human development and improve service delivery in social
             sectors, to improve education and health status particularly of girls and women, and
            reduction inhighfertility rate;

    ii. fiscal reformsinorder to ensure fiscal sustainability and follow amedium-term
            budget framework, enhance effectiveness accountability o f expenditures, and
             strengthen resource mobilization;
    ...
    111.     governance reforms in public financial management, procurement, civil service and
             administrationo fmulti-tier government (province/district/tehsil); and

    iv.      accelerating economic growth by providing an effective and transparent environment
             for private sector development both inthe urban and rural economy.

6.      NWFP and Azad Jammu & Kashmir were badly affected by a devastating earthquake on
October 8, 2005. It created havoc in many districts and affected 3.5 million people of the
province. Over 22,000 died and more than 40,000 were injured as a result o f this earthquake.
Around 4,000 schools, mostly government schools, collapsed and thousands o f children present
inthe schools died. Though most ofthe schools haverestarted functioningby malungtemporary
arrangements, the reconstruction o f the schools i s a top priority for the government o f NWFP and
the federal government as part o f rehabilitation strategy in the earthquake affected areas. Public
infrastructure and private property crumbled down as a result o f earthquake.

7.       Rs. 90 billion (US$ 1.5 billion) are required for reconstructiodrehabilitation in the
earthquake affected areas. The cost o f relief, rehabilitation and reconstruction will add to public
expenditure and will have significant effects on the provincial budget.

The ProvincialReformProgram

EducationReforms

8.       Our government is increasing the emphasis on education sector reforms. We seek to
improve access and quality o f education and are strongly committed to achieving universal
enrolment and completion o f primary education, and to eliminating gender and regional
disparities in education attainment. Our education policy framework also has the important
objective o f increasing participation in quality middle and secondary education, particularly
among girls. The policy framework i s designed to increase equitable access to primary and
secondary education, basedon a combination o f demand and supply side policies.

9.       W e have started with elementary education but also intend to expand it to secondary
education. Our government has introduced a range o f policy initiatives to expand school
enrolment and attendance and to address regional and gender disparities. The key demand side
policies to raise school attendance are providing tuition free education and free textbooks. We
have distributed free textbooks to all primary school students, and to all girl middle and high
school students, in government schools. In addition, we are implementing a phased program to
reduce the supply side constraints, especially for children in rural areas, by increasing essential
school facilities such as classrooms, sanitation, water, and boundary walls for security; increasing
the number of primary school teachers; and seeking to promote private-public partnerships in

                                                                                          Annex I
                                                                                       Page 4 of 15

education to enhance access. The combination o f demand and supply side initiatives have enabled
the NWFP to make promising progress in increasing enrolment, especially among girls, in recent
years. Total enrolment inprimary and secondary education has risen from 2.9 million students in
2002/03 to 3.2 million students in2004/05.Duringthis period, girls enrolment has increased from
0.8 million to over 1.0 million students. The rise in total enrolment has been most marked inthe
primary cycle, where enrolment has increased from 2.1 million to 2.3 million during this period,
with girls accountingfor morethan halfthe increaseinenrolment.

10.       To make education more meaningful, critical reforms are being introducedto improve the
quality o f education, supported by the development o f a strong monitoring and evaluation
framework. In the coming years our government will expand middle school education by
increasing school facilities at the middle school level, according to expansion targets set by
districts and agreed between the provincial government and district governments.

11.       The NWFP plans to introduce further policy initiatives to increase equitable access to
quality education, such as upgrading schools, and launching a phased expansion to middle and
secondary schools. The government also plans to introduce a policy o f providing incentives for
female teachers postedinremote and rural areas. The package o f incentives that will be tried out
could include a financial allowance and malung transport arrangements for teachers to attend
schools where access i s a critical constraint.

12.        Second, demand side interventions will be introduced with a focus on regional and
gender equity. Our government will commence a program o f stipends for girls in grades 6-10
from FY07 in seven districts to attend middle and secondary schools in poor districts where
female middle and secondary enrolment i s particularly low. Further, the initiative will be poverty
focused, as the districts where female enrolment i s lowest are also the regions where poverty rates
are highest. The emphasis on poverty focused demand side initiatives will be strengthened inthe
subsequent years by introducing a program of incentives for teachers to work in remote, rural
schools.

 13.       Third, the NWFPeducation program will place strong emphasis on objective monitoring
and evaluation. Inthe near future we will establish a specialized technical unit inthe Department
of Education to undertake monitoring activities. This unit will be staffed with the right slull mix
to manage ongoing monitoring, establish linkages with the EMISdata, and develop linkages with
district governments and to use the data analysis for policy development. W e will use Third Party
Validations (TPVs) for independent monitoring and a useful external accountability instrument,
assessing the quality o f the internal monitoring systems by confirming the results with ongoing
departmental monitoring.

 14.       Free education i s now provided in government schools up to class 10. InFY03, Rs 230
million were expended on provision o f free textbooks to all primary students in government
 schools. InFY04, Rs 300 million were spent on free textbooks for all primary students, and girls
upto the    lo* class ingovernment schools. InFY06, Rs 100million are being provided for supply
 o f free textbooks to 300,000 students from katchi grade to 10* grade. The program will gradually
be expanded to provide free textbooks to all students ingovernment schools.

 15.       The quality o f education has among other factors suffered from frequent absenteeism by
teachers. A major reason for teacher absenteeism has been the low teacher interest inteaching in
 schools that are away from their homes, at current salaries. The Government has decided to
 amend the rules for primary teachers' recruitment to address this difficulty. Under the new rules
primary school teachers (PST) are recruited on merit, 75 percent o f whom are recruited at the

                                                                                            Annex 1
                                                                                       Page 5 of 15

union council level and the remaining 25 percent at the distnct level. Moreover, a schedule of
preference in descending order o f qualification for recruitments has been made, to ensure teacher
appointments and availability (particularly o f females inremote areas). This means that for urban
area based recruitment, the standards o f pre-service training and qualification will be the most
stringent, and will be increasingly less for recruitment from increasingly underdeveloped areas. In
an effort to improve quality, entry qualification o f the teachers was enhanced from matric to
F M S C during the last 3 years. Hence, for instance, the qualification rules for female teachers
from backward areas have been relaxed considerably to encourage educated females to take up
teaching as a profession.

16.     Programs for teacher training and to improve the quality o f textbooks are underway. At
present, one teacher from every primary school i s being trained annually around the new
textbooks being developed, through funding and technical support from bilateral donors. The
province also participatedin the National Student Assessment inLanguage and Math through the
Provincial Education Assessment Center (PEACE) established at Abbottabad.

17.     There has been a continuing shortage o f middle and secondary level teachers, partly due
to recruitmentproblems andpartly due to existing rules whereby teachers inthis cadre were being
promoted as a routine to high schools without having the competence to teach at that level. To
address this, the Provincial Cabinet has approved rules for district based recruitment o f secondary
and middle school teachers and the rules are in the process o f administrative approval. The
Government also intends to introduce new legislation in the Provincial Assembly so that for
promotion purposes, educational service can be treated differently from other services.

18.     The government will further strengthen the teachers' training program to improve the
quality o f service. Twenty elementary colleges for teacher training have been restored to offer
both pre-service and in-service training for male and female teachers separately. At present
training i s imparted in teaching methodology and textbooks, but the government i s considering
extending the training to character buildingo f the teachers as well. Over 4,000 teachers have been
imparted training in the use o f internet for educational purposes. Another 4,000 teachers at the
highschool level were trained. Inaddition, 27,000 headteachers andheadmasters willbe trained
in school management and computer usage. At present, about 100 high and higher secondary
schools have computer laboratories set up under public-private partnerships, and another 169 are
being set up inall districts under a 50/50 shared project with the Federal Government. About 122
computer laboratories are already functional and have newlyrecruited staff.

 19.    Education in the province has suffered in the past from poor management. The
government is addressing this problem in two ways. The district education managerial staff has
been given needs based training in planning and management. The government also intends to
provide managerial training on a continuing basis at the Provincial Institute for Teachers'
Education. Detailed job descriptions, users' manuals, and compendiums o f rules and policies
have been prepared and distributed to the district governments. The government intends to select
suitable staff f?om the present staff as well as fresh recruits, and provide training. Both the
teaching and management cadres will be supported by strategic professional development plans
and training. A strategy for professional development o f the two cadres will be developed and
notified inthe current year, and implemented inthe next fiscal year.

20.     Parent-Teacher Associations (PTAs) are formed in most schools. While ensuring that
PTAs remain fully functional (i.e., with authority to monitor teacher attendance and utilize funds
for instruction materials and repairs (IM&R) received from government) in all primary schools,
we have also established and made PTAs fully functional in twenty percent (20 percent) o f

                                                                                           Annex 1
                                                                                      Pclge 6 of 15

middle and high schools. The PTAs have been trained in the past and continue to be trained by
using donor funding. We will in the near future issue revised guidelines for increasedbudgetary
authority for PTAs to use both current and development budgets, and outline capacity building
activities.

21.      Our government has taken steps to commence the long-term development o f the college
sector. A Frontier Education Foundation was established in the early 1990's to stimulate private
sector investment in college education. A Regulatory Authority was instituted in 2001 to accredit
private colleges and ensure minimum quality standards in the private sector. The Department o f
College Education has been supporting the expansion o f public colleges, especially for girls, to
future policies and actions.

22.      Inorder to ensure propermonitoringandevaluation aneducationsector reformunitinthe
Schools & Literacy Department will be established. Partnership agreements will be signed
between provincial and at least 50 percent o f the district governments, including monitoring
targets and indicators for the education sector.

Health

23.      Our objective inthe health sector remains to significantly improve healthindicators inthe
province over the medium term. Over the last year we have refined our health sector strategy
further. We aim at improving the management structure, reorganizing the healthcare system and
having a multi-level referral system, focusing on preventive and primary health care, removing
obvious gaps infacilities, increasing budgetary allocations as well as user charges, and increasing
reliance on the private sector with adequate regulation. Towards this end, we have already taken a
number o f steps and several more are planned. Reforms to improve access have in particular
focused on access to key preventive services including TB DOTS and Mother-Child
Healtmamily Planning.

24.      The health sector reforms have implemented a number o f programs such as expanding
TB DOTS, increasing neonatal tetanus coverage, and improving access to family planning and
primary health care services by increasing substantially the number o f Lady Health Workers to
district hospitals. The TB DOTS program has expanded fkom 10 to all 24 districts inNWFP, as
targeted. By September 2005, the population coverage had increased from 20 to 100 percent. The
immunization rate o f children under two has increased from 57 percent to 73 percent. Hepatitis B
vaccination has been introduced across the province with a reported coverage o f 73 percent;
neonatal tetanus campaigns have been completed in all highrisk districts increasing coverage o f
pregnant women from 39 percent to 45 percent. The polio campaign i s on track with 42 percent
reduction inthe number o f new cases inthe last three years and only 3 established cases o f polio
have been reported by September 2005. The EPI program was approved which has made
functional 15 new centers in FY03 and will fill gaps in manpower, cold chain, enhancing
managerial support to the districts, and expanding social mobilization activities and opening new
EPIcenters.

25.      In additionto a plannedbroadening of healthsector reforms outlinedbelowwe will
continue our reformefforts in a number of areas: The government intends to continue its
emphasis on family planning. The most recent estimate o f the Contraceptive Prevalence Rate
(CPR) inthe province i s 33 percent. The previous target inour Provincial ReformProgramwas to
increase the CPR from 30 percent inFY03 to 40 percent by FY10 and to 48 percent byFY15. A s
fertility rates remain high in the NWFP and unmet contraceptive need i s 35 percent the
government will reinforce its efforts to raise the CPR to meet a revised target o f 40 percent by

                                                                                          Annex 1
                                                                                      Page 7 of 15

FY06 and 50 percent by FY15.         To improve district management and implementation, the
government will appoint a focal person at the ED0 level to coordinate family planning supplies
inPopulationWelfare with the Reproductive HealthProject.

26.     The Roll Back Malaria Program will continue to expand and improve service delivery
by ensuring prompt treatment within 24 hours, increasing preventive measures, promotion of
treated bed nets and selective indoor residual spraying. A Provincial Laboratory i s proposed in
the Peshawar EDO's office for the next phase o f the program. Malaria officers were made
redundant during downsizing in2001 but a revival plan has been submitted for this cadre.

27.     InimplementingstepstoenhanceaccesstoHIV/AIDS services for vulnerable subgroups
o f the population. Three contracts with NGOs have been signed for provision o f services in
different areas o f the province targetingsex workers and intravenous drug users. The MV/AIDS
Programwill expand coverage and continue working with the NWFP A I D S consortium. Monthly
and quarterly surveillance reports are to be collected and submitted regularly. Registration o f
blood banks, safe blood banking and scrutiny o f blood banks is to be strengthened. Mapping for
high-risk groups is to be continued, and treatment for patients at the centre established in the
Hayatabad Medical Complex i s to be consolidated and improved. Technical evaluation of BCC
services will be undertaken. The draft monitoring and supervision plan prepared for all activities
undertaken at the provincial and district level has to be approved and implemented. Technical
capacity buildingo fpathologists and blood bank offices as well as quality assurance standards for
safe blood transfusions will continue.

28.      Public-Private Partnership:Workmg with NGOs and the private sector i s to be further
enhanced especially for TB Control, HIV/AIDS, Roll Back Malaria, immunization coverage,
Family Planning and RH during FY05-08. PP Partnership will be monitored and evaluated;
Standard Operating Procedures have been prepared by the Health Foundation and approved by
the ChiefMinister, NWFP for public private partnership. The government will assure economic
access to health care for the poor.

29.      The government intends to organize workshops for community mobilization, creating
awareness and skills development of district community committees and other stakeholders to
increase the community's role in accountability and better service delivery. In other programs,
the government i s committed to provide access to safe water, sanitation, universalprimary female
education and gender equity to enhance progress o f health outcomes over the medium and long
term.

30.      Capacity building: The government recognizes that the overall health management
capacity i s limited in the province to make decentralization effective in improving service
delivery. To address this limitation, the government has planned to develop skills and
communication at the appropriate level. Workshops and short training sessions to ensure strong
commitment at all levels o f government will be conducted to make and maintain effective
changes inthe health system. The government will also make a training need assessment for the
relevant staff. Training for planning and budgeting will be undertaken for EDOs in 8 districts. In
addition, induction o f CME/CPD and in-service training is planned at the district level.

31.      The government is committed to Standardization of DHQ hospitals. Standardization
implementation in the first 8 districts i s to be initiated and a Planning Commission-I (PC 1) will
be processed in FY05-06. 25 percent o f the total construction work for Standardization in 8
districts has been completed till 30th June 2005. The remaining work will be completed by FY06.

                                                                                              Annex 1
                                                                                          Page 8 of I 5

Indicators for monitoring and evaluation have been developed and baseline data collected from
all the DHQhospitals o fNWFP will be analyzed.

32.      The Department o f Health was restructured in line with the Devolution initiative with a
substantive shift o f staff and resources, and significant delegation o f administrative and financial
powers to the districts. Good progress was made to build capacity o f District Managers with
training in planning and budget formulation. A management cadre i s in the process o f being
created, and the separate male/female cadres o f doctors were merged. A Health Sector Research
and Reform unit was established to strengthen capacity for planning and monitoring the reform
process. Four tertiary hospitals have been given financial and administrative autonomy with the
aim o f achieving financial self-sufficiency inthree years, and a study has been initiated to protect
access o f the poor through safety nets. To ease the critical shortage o fnurses and improve quality
o f care at the district and sub-district hospitals, posts were created as part o f the rationalization
program and 318 trained nurses have already been recruited. Rationalization and standardization
o f District Headquarters Hospitals have been initiated in 22 districts. The institutional reforms to
improve district health care are underway so that district health facilities can treat more non-
serious or non-urgent cases. This has resultedinseven district hospitals being upgradedto A level
with capability in 24 medical specialities. Facility specific contracts have been introduced to
reduce absenteeism.

33.      Our government has developed and approved a long-term plan for health sector reform.
We will broaden reforms in this next phase o f health sector reforms. W e will: i)test innovative
approaches to strengthen the management and organization o f primary and secondary health
services; ii)build partnerships with the non-state sector; iii)increase managerial autonomy; and
iv) enhance accountability inthe public sector through significantly strengthening monitoring and
evaluation.

34.      Our strategy for improving health outcomes is comprehensive and several initiatives are
being taken. The most critical actions at this stage are deemed as: i)improvingthe utilization and
quality o f Primary Health Care (PHC) services by testing o f managerial and organizational
innovations. This will include contracting out management to NGOs in agreement with the
affected district governments. ii)As a first step in testing the innovations our government will
establish baseline assessments o f quality o f care in the PHC facilities o f selected districts. Inthe
near future we will sign partnership agreements with District Governments for implementation o f
management innovations (contracting with NGOs). Baseline assessments o f quality o f care in
PHC facilities o f selected districts will be contracted out.

Fiscal Reforms

35.      The central strategy for fiscal reforms till now has been to restore fiscal sustainability and
to create fiscal space for highpriority spending areas like infrastructure and law & order. These
steps coupled with measures in fiscal decentralization are aimed to provide additional resources
to local governments for better performance.

36.       The main thrust o f the fiscal strategy i s to reduce heavy debt burden by premature
retirement o f expensive debts and by improving the composition and effectiveness o f spending.
This strategy has been successfully implemented during these reforms. The debt service burden
declined from 2.2 percent o f PGDP inFY02 to 1.3 percent inFY05. Public debt ratio declined to
 12 percent o f PGDP in FY05, and is likely to decline to 9 percent over the medium term.
Premature retirement o f expensive debt helped in creating fiscal space for spending in social
 sector. The share o f social sector spending was 39 percent in FY05, 10 percentage points higher

                                                                                              Annex I
                                                                                           Page 9 of 15

than in FY02 with full focus on education and health sector development expenditure. A three
fold increase was noticed in the development expenditure from FYOl to FY05 while
rationalization of the development portfolio in recent years has increased the effectiveness o f
development spending, and as a result, the Throw Forward ratio o f the Annual Development
Program was reducedto 2.8 years, below the target o f 3 years.

37.      The federal government recently made an amendment in the National Finance
Commission Award o f 1997 as a result o f which the provinces will get higher share from the
Federal Divisible Pool. NWFP will get an increase o f Rs. 5.6 billion in FY07 while it i s likely to
get Rs.52 billion in the next 5 years compared to the trajectory without the recent change in the
award.

38.      The Government o f NWFP has tried to mobilize additional revenues to meet its major
objectives o f improving public services. Additional revenues have been mobilized through further
tax reforms, accelerating and rationalizing user chargers, and improving tax administration. Tax
reformmeasures includedrestructuring and reducingthe number o fprovincial taxes; imposing an
income-based Agricultural Income Tax (AIT) to complement the province's land-based tax; and
harmonization o f AIT and Motor Vehicle Tax rates with other provinces. User charges have been
raised for tertiary-level social services and irrigationwater. Collection o fprovincial own revenues
will be 0.7 percent o fthe PGDPinFY07 butwould increaseto 0.8 percent o fPGDPinFY08

39.      W e have ensured a sustainable fiscal outcome for FY05 in line with the medium-term
budget framework (MTBF). The fiscal deficit was 3 billion (0.5 percent o f PGDP) against the
MTBFtarget o f Rs4.1 billion. Overall establishment cost o f Rs 21billion (3.5 percent o fPGDP)
also remained within the limit set in the MTBF. In order to mobilize more own provincial
revenue cash rewards to the tune o f Rs 1.5 million were paid to the employees o f Excise &
Taxation Department for good revenue collection performance while Tax Facilitation Centers for
Motor Vehicle Tax and other revenue items have started operating in Peshawar, Mardan and
Abbottabad. Our government will continue to ensure fiscal sustainability in coming budgets.
Budgetary indicators for FY07 will also be inline with the MTBFand devolution principles.

40.      The Government of NWFP has also instituted several reforms in the preparation,
processing, and execution o f the budget, such as posting fiscal data on the web economic
classification   o f expenditures in budget documents; piloted preparation o f program and
performance budgeting; initiated computerization o f updated land records on a pilot basis; online
linking o f the Provincial and District Budgets; and establishing a professionally staffed Budget
Analysis Unit, which i s now fully functional and playing an important role in tracking and
reporting on the consolidated fiscal deficit andkey fiscal indicators on a quarterly basis.

41,      Substantial progress has been achieved inthe area o f fiscal decentralization. NWFP was
the first province to use a needs-based formula (based on population and indicators o f social
 development and backwardness) for budgetary transfers to the districts starting FY02. All non-
 salary recurrent expenditures and district development spending were devolved to the districts
 during FY03 and FY04. The PFC Awards o f FY04 strengthened fiscal devolution by providing
matching incentive grants to Districts for additional revenue mobilization and enhancing non-
 salary allocation o f Districts by 10 percent; directly transferred Octroi grants to Tehsils (instead
 o f the Districts) to ensure timely transfer o f funds; and piloted devolving the Urban Immovable
Property Tax (UIPT) in two districts. Another key step in this direction i s that from this coming
 fiscal year, FY07, the salary budget o f district staff will be disbursed through district Account-IV.
 We will also pilot conditional grants to increase development budget for districts in line with

                                                                                                Annex 1
                                                                                           Page 10of 15

assessed service delivery needs, and pilot a performance contract based system for staff inat least
two districts.

GovernanceReforms

42.      Our government recognizes that weak governance has been a main obstacle to reducing
poverty in the province and engender social development. The government has therefore
launched a wide range o f reforms in (i)      civil service and administrative devolution; (ii)   public
financial management; and (iii)      public procurement. ;(iii) latter with the goal o f and making
                                                                the
local governments more accountable for improved service delivery.

(i) Civil service reform and administrative devolution

43.      By the time PRP started in 2001/02, decades o f neglect had taken its toll on governance
inthe province, as inthe rest ofthe country. The resultwas excessive staff, poor compensation at
higher levels, declining quality o f civil servants, over-centralization o f decision-malung,
complaints o f widespread corruption and malfeasance, poor management systems, frequent
transfers o f staff, including o f high-level staff with resultant little time and experience inthe post,
and cumbersome and costly procedures. To address these challenges reforms have been initiated
inthe area o fpersonnelmanagementanddevolution.

44.       The provincial government wants to improve the efficiency, effectiveness and ethical
standards o f the civil service in order to raise levels o f public service delivery. Our reforms also
aim at making civil servants more accountable to users through administrative decentralization
and raise their levels o f competence and integrity

45.       Our vision on maintaining merit inpublic sector employment is visible inpractice. Initial
steps have been taken to lessen recruitment delays, increase tenure, and respond to actuarial
liabilities. Complaints o f excessive and out-of-turn postings and transfers within the bureaucracy
have been addressed. We have reduced the level o f `churning' amongst the Secretary cadre and
have successfully contained growth instaffing levels.

46.       The province initially took the lead in implementing administrative and operational
aspects o f devolution o f power including hlly devolving 12 Provincial Departments to the
districts, and placing 200,000 out o f 280,000 provincial employees in districts. Other measures
have also been taken to institute administrative devolution.

47.       As many as 24 Departments o f the Provincial Government were identified either for staff
reduction, amalgamation or closure. A s a result o f their re-organization the number o f
Departments was reduced from 46 to 23, and a surplus pool o f 6000 staff members created, most
o f whom have now been absorbed in new vacancies in the Districts. The pool has now been
reduced to just over 1500 employees. At least 90 percent o f new sanctioned posts have been in
Health, Education or Police and in Basic Pay Scale 5 or above. The remaining sanctioned posts
 are increasing by no more than 3 percent (new sanctioned posts increased at the ratio o f 1.7
percent inbudget for FY2005/06) per annum. This policy will be continuedinthe coming years.

48.       The rules governing the management o f civil servants have been revised and simplified.
The Annual Confidential Report Form (staff performance assessment) has also been simplified to
make reporting easier, and the procedure prescribed to make these timely and definite. An
 amendment in the administrative rules was made to strengthen the Public Service Commission
 and make it autonomous.

                                                                                            Annex I
                                                                                      Page I1 of 15



49.     The government has changed its human resources management systems to respond to the
requirements of the Local Government Ordinance (LGO) and devolution and has put into
operation a computerized HR database that will allow it to monitor compliance with human
resources management polices and with the size o f the civil service establishment. The core HR
Database was established in November 2005 and has since then been in use for the initial
preparation for the salary budget for FY07. 97 percent o f the personnel records (out o f 284,000)
have been completed and loaded to the system. The records o f 77,000 out o f 99,000 civil
pensioners are ready for periodic updating.

50.     The Finance Department has already initiated a performance based budgeting process
covering 201 service delivery units in health, education and agriculture within Peshawar and
Kohat districts. Tight budgetary targets will however make this challenging. Ifour civil service is
to be more effective, the levels o f efficiency must also rise; it will no longer be a question o f
maintaining within affordable limits the current staff doing their work in the same way. Policy,
management and service deliveryjobs will have to be redesigned and staff will have to learn new
ways o f workmg in more effective organizational structures. These new ways o f working and
organizational structures will include responding to the needs o f devolution and in particular to
the requirements of the LGO to create district services. Our government must also delegate the
appropriate levels o f fiscal authority to local governments so that the managers are empowered to
do their newjobs.

51.      Inconsistencies with regard to the devolution o f appointing authority has been addressed.
Specifically, the inconsistency between the NWFP Civil Servant Act o f 1973 and other
regulations has been removed to make them consistent with the District Service Rules. NWFP
district rules o f business have been notified while District Coordination Officers have been
declared as the appointing authority for the staff in Basic Pay Scale 11-15 and the Executive
District Officers have been declared as the appointing authority for the staff inBasic Pay Scale 1-
10.

(ii)-Public Financial Management

52.      Our province has since 2001 been implementing reforms in Public Financial
Management. It has satisfactorily implemented the key elements according to the medium term
action plan: i)improving the reliability and accuracy of financial data, ii)institutional reforms to
strengthen internal audits, and iii)improving accountability and legislative supremacy. The main
emphasis o f public financial management reforms in the province has been on establishing an
integrated, automated accounting system that connects all provincial level and district accounting
offices to provide real time information. While work has also been ongoing in institutional
reforms and improving accountability and legislative watch, the emphasis will shift increasingly
to these areas infuture operations.

53.      Reliability of financial reporting has improved markedly. The reconciliation levels o f
fiscal accounts achieved by the NWFP continue to exceed those reported for all other provinces.
As on June 30, 2005, reconciliation levels for expenditures, revenues, suspense accounts and
intergovernmental accounts had reached 97 percent, 95 percent, 100 percent and 100 percent,
respectively. This achievement would be further enhanced with the operation o f a uniform chart
o f accounts that started this year, FY06, for the entire province. Fiscal and financial data
distortion and unreliability, hitherto a common feature within the province, would now be
reversed and province-wide data aggregation according to functions, major and minor heads will
more reliably be generated with timeliness.

                                                                                            Annex I
                                                                                       Page 12of I 5



54.      Our province remains fully committed to embracing financial management reforms as
reflected in the performance under our medium-term program of actions and has made very
substantial progress - unparalleled in Pakistan - towards achieving reliable, comprehensive,
accurate, and timely information pertaining to provincial and district governments' financial
transactions. The provincial government has supported the 24 district governments inthe key area
o f converting the district governments' budget for FY06 from the legacy chart o f classification to
the New Accounting Model (NAM)-based new chart o f accounts. The budget computerization
unit o f the Department of Finance, supported by PIFR4, has enabled this successful conversion
and the implementation rollout o f the provincial government's adopted new chart o f accounts to
the 24 districts inthe province. The province o f Punjab i s the only other province that has also, in
FY06, achieved this transition to a uniform chart o f accounts for the provincial and district
governments but has a lower number o f integrated FMIS productive sites. We aim at achieving
operational IT connectivity and productivity for 20 District Finance and District Accounts office
sights usinguniform chart o f accounts under the New Accounting Model.

(iii) Procurement reform

55.       NWFP has since the start o f the Provincial Reform Program been the country's leading
province with regard to procurement reforms. Government o f NWFP passed Procurement
Ordinance in 2002 as the first government (federal and provincial) in the country. Continuing
with its lead on procurement reforms, in2003 our government passed a new Procurement Law for
goods, works and services, again a first inthe country.

56.       W e have prepared a road map to revise the procurement law and relevant regulations in
order to bringthem to international standard and ensure their implementation over the next two
years. This includes amendments in the procurement law and the standard bidding document as
well as their implementation, andputtinginplace a system for posting and updatingmarket prices
as a basis for cost estimates in bidding contracts. The provincial government has requested the
World Bank to provide an IDF grant inorder to revamp the procurement reforms.

Private Sector Development and Growth Oriented Reforms

57.       Our government intends to reduce poverty through accelerated broad based economic
growth led by the private sector. Hence improving the investment climate for private investment
i s pivotal in the provincial government's growth strategy. The provincial government recognizes
that federal policies in this area will have a strong bearing on the success o f provincial efforts.
The provincial government has developed strategies to improve the investment climate, enhance
productivity in agriculture and water use efficiency, reduce the role o f the public sector in
commercial and industrial activities, and promote public-private partnerships.

58.       Government o f NWFP continues to realize the significance o f private sector led growth.
Early outcomes from the March 2005 investor conference demonstrate good resonance with the
private sector regarding the measures taken. These efforts undertaken under the championship o f
the Department o f Industries were widely recognized, and there i s a need to spread them across
other departments; in particular those that have a direct bearing on sectors where NWFP has a
comparative advantage. As part o f the NWFP Economic Report a number o f sector studies were
carried out. Based on specific recommendations in these studies our government will
 operationalize the broad strategy into action plans to be implemented immediately and over the
medium term. We also intend to seek technical assistance from the Bank group and other donors
to strengthen the capacity o frelevant agencies to implement reformmeasures.

                                                                                              Annex I
                                                                                        Page 13 of 15



59.      Our strategy for Private Sector Development i sbased on the following initiatives:

     1.      Institutionalizing public-private dialogue to promote demand-responsiveness of
             public sector agencies and policy-making bodies;
     ii. Creatinganenablingandcompetitiveenvironment;and
     iii. Expandingtheroleoftheprivatesector.


60.          Furthermore, our government introduced a new Industrial Policy in 2005. Key
features o f the new policy are: (a) exempting industrial units in the industrial estates o f NWFP
from the imposition o fproperty tax for a period o f 5 years. (b) Similarly, all new units that will be
set up in the NWFP will also be exempted from payment o f property tax for a period o f 5 years.
(c) The provincial government has decided to do away with the unnecessary labor inspections.
Any industrial unit which ensures compliance of labor laws (by filling a Performa to be provided
by the Directorate of Labor) will be exempted from labor inspections for a period o f three years.
Further exemptions can also be obtained in the same manner. The units will, however, provide
their production data and other details to the Directorate o f Industries and Labor every year. (d) In
order to reduce the number o f taxes that industry has to pay, the provincial government has
decided to exempt the industrial units in NWFP from the payment o f Education Cess, which i s
recovered by the Workers' Children EducationBoard.

61.      With regard to institutionalizing public-private dialogue our government has established
an IndustrialFacilitation Council to be headedby the Chief Minister, having members from both
the public and the private sectors. It will work as the apex body for facilitating investment in
NWFP and will take high-level decisions to address the problems faced by the industrialists in
NWFP.The IndustrialFacilitation Committee headedby Chief Secretary NWFP will meet more
frequently to settle the problems o f the industrial sector inthe province.

62.      In order to ensure growth it is imperative that the province creates the enabling
environment to position itselfto take advantage o f its natural endowments and Hydel power i s an
obvious candidate. W e have leased out 7 o f 9 hydel plants to the private sector and will lease out
the remaining two which are currently undergoing refkbishing. Leasing out these plants should
be seen as just one step o f an overall effort to involve the private sector more deeply in this
sector.

63.      To adopt a demand driven approach for technical and vocational training institutes
whereby labor skills needs o f the private sector are met, our government is planning private sector
representation on the boards o f such institutions with the boards beingheaded by a chairman from
the private sector. The government has restructured Sarhad Development Authority to act as
secretariat and investment facilitator for both bodies. Aiming at fostering an enabling
environment for transfer o fmanagement o f industrial estatesto the private sector, our government
has set up Management Committees for Industrial Estates that include, and are headedby, private
sector representatives.

64.      Privatization initiatives are also progressing in order to expand the role o f the private
sector. A Provincial Privatization Board has been constituted with the Secretary Industries inthe
chair. It utilizes the services o f private sector professionals such as Chartered Accountants and
Lawyers on needbasis. The privatizationnotification authorizes the privatization boardto dispose
o f loss malung government owned entities. Our government has startedreducing its share holding
inthe Bank of Khyber, the first phase of which has been successfully done after the recent P O

                                                                                               Annex I
                                                                                         Pnge 14 of 15

for 41 million shares. This has reduced the government's share holding to 65 percent. We plan to
o f f load a further 14 percent to institutional investors by September 2006 which will reduce the
government's shareholding to 51percent.

65.      In addition to policy reforms cutting across sectors we have also undertaken sector
specific reforms.

Mining

66.       In accordance with the National Mineral Policy 1995, the Government of NWFP
established the Directorate General Mines and Minerals (DGMM) in August 2001 by integrating
three existing mineral related departments, Mineral Wing o f DICMD, Mineral Wing o f SDA and
Inspectorate o f Mines. The aim i s to provide a one window facility to attract as well as facilitate
national and overseas investment in the mineral sector o f the province. Currently there are more
than 1200 mining concessions for different minerals in the private sector, earning about Rs.140
million per year for the government. Investment friendly regulatory and fiscal regimes are being
introduced by modifying mining concession rules to facilitate and promote investment in the
mineral sector of NWFP.

67.       In April 2005 the Government of NWFP through Gazette notification announced the
North West Frontier Province Mining Concession Rules. These rules cover and address wide
range o f issues pertaining to various types o f licenses and issuance o f licenses for both large scale
and small scale miningpurposes. The notification has laid down comprehensive list o f rules and
regulations encompassing reconnaissance license, exploration license, mineral deposit retention
license or mininglease, and financial matters includingroyalties.

Agriculture

68.       Agricultural growth is probably the most effective mechanism for poverty reduction, and
a main propeller o f growth in NWFP. Inview o f the importance for future growth, Government
o f NWFP has constituted a committee under the Minister for Agriculture, Livestock, and
Cooperatives Department with the Chief Secretary NWFP, Secretary Agriculture, and private
sector stakeholders as members. The vision o f the government is to achieve food security with
exportable surpluses to generate employment and income opportunities inthe province.

69.       The aim of Agriculture Policy i s to uplift the economy and reduce poverty in the
province. The goals o f the policy will be achieved by pursuinga number o f objectives:
          0   Poverty reduction
          0   Food security and self sufficiency
          0   Integration and improvement o f service delivery system
          0   Capitalizing on the comparative advantages
          0    Strengthening public-private partnership
          0   Farming community participation indecision making
          0   Conservation o f water resources

                                                                                    Annex I
                                                                               Page 15 of I S



          * Tax reliefmeasures
          0   Gender mainstreaming

  70.     The agriculture sector has been receiving the lowest per capita allocations wen
  though it has a higher proportion o f poor people depending on agriculture for their
  livelihoods. The provincial government has realigned public expenditure towards
  priorities identified  in the agriculture policy. The budget for FY06 shows increase in
  share of expendituresinthe identifiedpriority areas.

  71.     Our government has initiated steps to establish an autonomous agricultural
                em consistentwith the priorities set out inour Agriculture Policy announced
                   have demerged the university and research institutes with a view to
- removing ambiguity and duplications that hindered progress in the area for many years.
  We will strengthen the linkages betweenagriculture research& extension and the farmers
  to align research and extension priorities with farmer needs and market trends. We will
  also help develop further varities of certain high value horticulture tailored to specific
  backward areas and districts andpromote private milkprocessingplants. Our government
  will continue to build the capacity of small farmers through the development of f m e r
  organizations. We will inthe near future help th        ate sector establish milk producers
  associations, and horticultural co-group of pr           s, processors and traders at the
  provincial level. 75 farm services centers have beenestablishedand are fully operational.
  Apart from this, 24 district agricultural coordination forums have been established and
   are operational.


   72.     Our government is l l l y committed to the reforms program outlined above. We
   are determined to implement this program. We believe that the program is strong and
   focused. It is built around an integrated monitoring framework. It presents a new,
   ambitious, and holistic vision o f our medium term economic development based on a
   strategic prioritization o f key actions agreed upon after extensive consultations and
   intensive lesson learning. It      within the overall PRSP framework for Pakistan. We
   submit this program to seek support for it by International Devel             Association,
   starting with a US$90 million credit as the first in a series o f three       pment Policy
   Credits to support our Medium-TermReformProgram for FY06-F


           With warm regards,

                                                                         Yours Sincerely,




                                                                     Go ernrnen
                                                                       f   pG2?*py

I


I.


. .




       .9ah


I

               a:
               E.
               0
               Q
      I
      8
      3
      a
       K
       E




                  1




c -
0 .2`5 li ki



I


D
x
          -
          >
          E
          3

          W
          0
          N
          .-S




     ?

     E
     C
     i         B
               *
     c

     !
     i
     L
     i
     r

     I
     L


i




     0
     U

I




I




I

e   0

                                                                                                           Annex 3
                                                                                                         Page 1 of 9

                                                    ANNEX 3
                             POVERTYAND EMPLOYMENT INNWFP

Poverty trends in NWFP

1.       NWFP is Pakistan's poorest province, both in terms of the aggregate level of economic
activity generated within the province vis-&vis its population and the household income and
consumption levels. Poverty in the province has remained high and has increased since the late
1990s. Poverty estimates show that more than 44 percent of NWFP's population lived below the
poverty line in 1998199, which by 2001/02 had increased to 46 percent (see Figure l)."                     Poverty
in rural areas of the province exceeded that in the urban areas by considerable margin. In
2001/02, about 48 percent of the population in rural areas belonged to households below the
poverty line, compared with 35 percent in urban areas. Moreover, this gap between the rural and
urban poverty has been widening. The share of the poor population in rural areas increased by
seven percentage points between 1990/91 and 2001/02, while in urban areas it shrank by two
percentage points duringthe same period.


              Figure 1: PovertytrendsinNWFPandPakistan(WorldBankpovertylines)
                            Percent of population consuming below the poverty line
                                        _  _              I"-
                           NWFP                                                          Pakistan




                  L
                2o
                10    90-91    93-94     98-99   2001-02
                                                                   90-91     93-94      98-99     2001-02

                                                                    ..     Urban -Rural    -Overall


            Source: HIESiPIHSfor relevant years


2.       Notwithstanding the level of poverty, a significant number of the NWFP's population has
remained vulnerable to even small changes in income. In 2001/02, about 57 percent of the
province's population was concentrated close to the poverty line (i.e. having consumption in the
range of plus or minus 25 percent of the poverty line). This implies that a relatively small
reduction inincome can pusha significant number ofpeople below the poverty line.




I'The estimate o f poverty reported in this annex are World Bank staff estimates derived by using different Household
Income and Expenditure Surveys (HIESs) for most o f the 199Os, and Pakistan Integrated Household Survey (PIHS) for
1998/99 and 2001/02. These poverty estimates are based on the poverty lines that are held constant in real terms from
the early 1990s to 2001/02 to assure proper inter-temporal comparisons. The Basic Needs poverty lines used in the
annex are Rs 680 and Rs 767 per adult equivalent per month for rural and urban areas, respectively. These are
somewhat different from the poverty line adopted by the government o f Pakistan (Rs 674 per month per equivalent
adult male in 1998/99 Rs.) i s arrived at by estimating an expenditure level that is required to attain a minimum
threshold o f calorie consumption (2350 calories per equivalent adult per day). However, a few methodological issues
surrounding the measurement o f poverty using this line remain to be settled, and there is no consensus yet on the
provincial poverty estimates (the government's recently published PRSP contains no province level estimates o f
poverty incidence).5

                                                                                                                                                            Annex 3
                                                                                                                                                          Page 2 of 9

3.          Extreme poverty accounted for a relatively small share o f the poor in the NWFP, as only
13 percent o f NWFP's population in 2001102 has consumption below 75 percent o f the poverty
line 2001102.

ProJiIing thepoor

4.           Examining other characteristics (than consumptiodincome) o f the poor helps not only to
better understand the multi-dimensional nature o f poverty, but also identify the characteristics
that keep the poor inthe cycle o f low earning potential and low capability.

5.           Land ownership: Estimates show
that in rural NWFP, like other rural areas                                                      Figure 2: Distributionof rural population in NWFP
inPalustan, ownership ofagnculturalland                                                         by land ownership
i s  closely                 associated                 with poverty.                            I

Households owning no land constituted
almost 70 percent o f the rural poor
population                    in                 2001/02,              whereas
households with more than 1 hectare
constituted less than 10 percent o f the
ruralpoor population (Figure 2).

6.           Land                    distribution                  in NWFP
appears to have marginally deteriorated                                                                         no !and in O<ha<=l     l<ha<=2    2<hac=4    4cha
                                                                                                                  hhold
between         1998199 and 2001/02.                                              The                      0All ruralMNFP   Bottomquintiie (per capitaconsn.)
proportion o f rural landless and marginal                                                      Source: PIHS (2001/02)
landowners has increased,                                            while the
proportion of landowners with more than 1 hectare o f land had increased by about 4 percentage
points.



education level o f household heads and

povertyHouseholdsattended schoolincidencewhoseconstituted(seehead 62Figurehadpercentnever3).o f
                                                                                                  -
 the population o f NWFP, but comprise 71                                                              40

 percent       o f            the            lowest               consumption                     s
                                                                                                       20                        - -                  z 2     ,~
 quintile; whereas households with head                                                                                  = g                2 3               m ,

 having an education o f matric level or                                                                   0                      ii                   i a
                                                                                                       ~~~~
                                                                                                                    2     F        a
 above constituted 16 percent o f the                                                                       2b& 0Jc.c%    1
                                                                                                                          h                  f         jg zo g 8:
 population, but only 11 percent o f the
 lowest quintile.                                                                                           0All NWFP     Bottomquintiie(percapita consn.)

                                                                                                        Annex 3
                                                                                                    Page 3 of 9

quality public schooling and to increase access to it to improve education attainment among poor
children.




           2                  72.1              6.4                     31.9                      2.7
           3                  77.1              8.3                     42.5                      4.9
           4                  84.0             23.0                     53.9                      14.4
           5                  96.1             43.5                     69.9                      33.4
         Total                73.1             13.6                     38.3                      11.8




critical health services and poor health outcomes.                      Pre-natal         Births assisted by
Table 2 shows two key indicators o f maternal health                   consultation       skilled attendant'
for NWFP using PIHS 2001/02 data, while keeping          NWFP                22                      17
inmindthe limitation ofPMS survey for producing            ~ - ~ a l         20                      15
such health indicators. It shows that women inricher       u%an              36                      29
households had much better access to pre-natal Selectedper capita expenditure quintiles
consultation and assistance from skilled attendants         is` 15                                   15
than those in poorer households. Also, women in            3rd                19                     16
urban areas had much better access to maternal             5h                43                      31




the top quintile; and 20 percent in rural areas
compared to 36 percent inurban areas.              Figure4: Immunizationcoverage inNWFP

10.      Similarly, immunization coverage
(as measured from PMS) was limited
among the poor in NWFP except for Polio
(see   Figure 4).      Polio immunization
coverage exceeded 90 percent in all groups,
rich and poor, rural and urban, and boys and
girls. Other vaccinations had low coverage,
especially for the poor. Full coverage was
below 50 percent for the poor.                  Source: staffcalculations using PIHS 2001/02. Terciles contain an
                                                equal number of individualsand are specific to NWFP.
11.      Access to water and sanitation:
Access to safe drinkingwater and sanitation
are important determinants o f health, and
strongly   associated    with consumption                 Drinking water:    Drainage:No          Toiler:
                                                           Opensource             drain        Outside home
poverty. Table 3 shows that in 2001/02, 51        1             51.2              68.1             33.5
percent of households in the poorest 20
percent o f population relied on potentially
unsafe open sources for drinking water, 68
percent had no access to drains and 34
percent did not have toilet facilities inside
their homes. These proportionsdeclined progressively for richer groups o fpopulation.

                                                                                              Annex 3
                                                                                            Page 4 of 9

12.    Access to electricity, gas, and telephone:          Table 4: Connectivity to electricity, gas
Access to electricity, piped gas and telephones enables    and phone inNWFP( percent of
households to       gain access to    information and        o ulal on)
opportunities   related   to   education,   health    and           Electricity PipedGas    Telephone
employment. Table 4 shows that the poor tended to have      1998'99
less access to electricity, piped gas and telephones                  66 3         3 4         4 9

although the access to piped gas was still limited                    76 0         2 9         4.4
                                                                      72.4         3.6         116
irrespective of economic status of households inNWFP.        4         81.8        3 0         19.7
The access had expanded slightly between 1998/99 and         5         89.4        4 5         36 1
2001/02; the rich-poor gap in access to electricity          Total     74.5                     1.4
shrank but that o f pipedgas and telephone widened.         2001/02
                                                                       74.0        1.8         2.2

TheEmployment Challenge in NWFP                                        73.7        2.1         4.3
                                                                       79.1        4.3         9.9
                                                                       85.4        5.8         19.9
13.     This section attempts to identify the issues         5         94.8        9.9         32.9
regarding employment in NWFP. No doubt economic              Total
growth     a major factor o f poverty alleviation. To make economic growth more pro-poor, the
conditions in the labor market are critical. Growth i s likely to reduce poverty significantly if it
expands employment opportunities and increases wages in the sector where most of the poor are
working.




 15.    Labor force       participation and         L D -

unemployment:          The     labor     force     -                                 /? ;/',
                                                                                        h
                                                                                    I \
participation rates have been declining in                                         / \      "\  /&I/9
NWFP. As a result, these rates in 2001/02          2
were substantially lower than in the rest o f              t--------
Pakistan. Even with low participation rates,       55
NWFP's unemployment rate was the highest                 dJ

 among major four provinces in Palustan;
                                                    0 -

                                                                                          Annex 3
                                                                                        Page 5 of 9




earnings in NWFP for male workers were lower than in         -
all other provinces o f Pakistan (see Table 6).'*                            Male   Female Total

Research show that earnings inthe N"WFPare lower for           punjab        41051  21758  37408
                                                               Sin&,         55609  47234   55115
most o f professions, suggesting productivity in the           NWFP          40849  31351  40325
NWFP in a given profession was below the national              Balochistan   42172  40834  42134
average. It is likely that the poor educational attainment     Total         45039  25064   42316
o f the workforce in the NWFP contributed to low             , Source:LFSp2001'02.




17.     Employment in the public sector:              Figure6: Public andprivateearnings (average,
Government constituted by far the largest share       inRsperyear)
o f formal sector employment. Government
employed 40 percent o f women and 19 percent
o f men in the formal sector; in rural areas, an
even larger share o f formal employment was
public.      The    high reliance      on    public
employment in female and rural employment
could be a reflection o f the public sector's
dominant role in service delivery in education
and health. It could also be a reflection o f the
lack   o f   development      o f  other,    formal   Source: LFsy2o01'02.
employment opportunities, especially for females and inrural areas.

18.     InNWFP, like elsewhere inPalustan, earnings inthepublic sector were well above those
inthe private sector, even after controlling for educational attainment o f employees (Figure 6).
Earnings inthe public sector o fNWFPdidnot rise very steeply with the level o f education except
for workers with a degree o f higher education. The wage premium to public sector employment
was even larger than shown by these numbers since non-wage benefits such as pension and job
security tended to be substantially better inthe public sector as compared to the private.

Remittances

19.      Given the relative low level o f domestic economic activity in the province and the
corresponding lack o f job opportunities, international and internal migration has been a viable
option for people in NWFP province.           Many people from NWFP migrate to other parts o f
Pakistan (especially Karachi) or overseas to findjobs. Remittances from the migrants, therefore,
constitute a significant portion o f overall householdincome and an important source ofhousehold
consumptionand investment.




l2 No information is available from LFS on the earnings o f the self-employed.

                                                                                                          Annex 3
                                                                                                       Page 6 of 9

20.           According to P M S 2001/02, almost 30 percent and 8 percent of households in NWFP
received remittances from within the country and overseas, respectively. Both figures are more
than double those inthe rest of Pakistan (see Table 7).

21.           The size of remittances was substantial. Average annual transfers (for those that receive
them) were Rs 30,000 for domestic and Rs 71,000 for international remittances. This implies each
household in NWFP received Rs 15,000 in 2001/02 on average, corresponding to 18 percent o f
annual household consumption.

                       Table 7: Remittances in NWFP and Pakistan (InRupees and YO)
                                                                                 NWFP         All Pakistan
 Av. domestic remittance (all HHs)                                                     9,039            3,989
 Av. int'lremittance (all HHs)                                                         6,015            2,998
 Av. domestic remittance conditional on receiving                                    30,410            29,135
 Av. int'l remittance conditional on receiving                                       71,215            72,859
 %receiving domestic remittances                                                         29.7            13.7
 %receiving remittances from abroad                                                       8.4             4.1
 Av. domestic remittance (all HHs) as % of HHexpenditures                                11.2             4.6
 Av. int'lremittance (all HHs)as % of HHexpenditures                                      7.4             3.4
 Av. domestic remittance conditional on receiving as %ofHHexpenditures                   37.7            33.3
 Av. int'lremittance conditional on receivingas % ofHHexpenditures                       88.2            83.3
 Source: PIHS 2001/02


22.           Remittances were more important among rural households than among urban households
(see Figure 7 and Figure 8), indicating perhaps the even further lack o fjob opportunities inrural
areas, but also indicates the rural tradition for migrating out o f the province. Households in the
upper quintiles were normally more likely to receive remittances, and on average receive larger
amounts, than poorer households. This. does not necessarily mean that remittances made
households better-off since counterfactual wage levels o f migrants were unhown. However, it i s
worth emphasizing that remittances made the income distribution more, not less, unequal.


Figure 7: Share receiving remittances (NWFP                  Figure 8: Average amount received inremittances
2001/02, by region and quintile)
      .,"qn%,"                                                    25000
                                                               a                                                 .
                                                               L                                               ^^ ^^


   Be
   8 45%
      40%                                                       ln
      35%                                                      ga 20000


                                                               f 15000
      30%
   .-g25%
      20%
   2
   E  15%
      10%                                                       5  5000
       5%                                                       2n
       0%                                                             0
                1     2      3          4     5  Total                       1        2      Qufhtile (NWP)     5   Total
                          Quintlle (for NWFP)                Source: PIHS2001/02.
Source: PIHS 2001/02.                                        Notes: NWFP 2001/02, by region and quintile. Average is for all
                                                             households,including both receiversandnon-receivers.


23.           Educational investment and migration: Remittances seem to have some positive
impacts on school enrollment rates for children.             School enrollment rates for children fi-om
households inNWFP that received remittances were larger than for those households that did not
receive them (by some 5 percentage-points). This positive difference in schooling investments,

                                                                                         Annex 3
                                                                                      Page 7 of 9

which was larger inrural than inurban areas, is found also when comparison i s made quintile-for-
quintile and thus does not merely reflect an income effect. This suggests remittances contributed
to higher human capital among recipients, possibly encouraged by the relatively stable nature o f
remittance income or by the closer contact with out-of-province labor markets inwhich returns to
schoolingmay well be higher than inNWFP itself.

Post 2001/02 developments

24.     The NWFP economy seems to have accelerated since 2001/02, which i s likely to lead to
some important structural changes inthe provincial economy and will impact the level o f poverty
inthe province. However, since no additional survey data are available since the 2001/02 PIHS
to analyze household income and consumption, it i s not possible to update the entire analysis
provided above, especially linkage between poverty and other socio-economic indicators. This
section therefore will update some employment related information using the latest available
LFS, 2003104.

Laborforce participation


expanded marginally (by 0.8 percent)                                                   Change
between     2001/02    and   2003104.      % of Labor Force        2001102   2003104  (percentage
Nonetheless, this expansion was the                                                     points)
highest among all four provinces          MaleNWFP                      65.2    65.7           0.5
(Table 8). The expansion o f the labor    FemaleNWFP                     7.2     10.2          3.0
force mainly reflects increased female    NWFP overall                  36.4    37.2           0.8
labor force participation that rose by    Pakistan                      43.3    43.7           0.4




 Unemployment

26.      The female unemployment          Table 9: Unemploymentrateby sex andyear
                                                                                                   I
rate declined significantly, by 12           Unemployment                               Change
percent (or 3.9 percentage points),             rate(YO)            2001102  2003104  (percentage
while the overall unemployment rate                                                     points)
in     NWFP      province     declined    Male, NWFP                     11       10           -0.9
marginally (Table 9).       With the      Female, NWFP                   33       29           -3.9
expanded     labor  force,  the   total   NWFP overall                    13       13          -0.4
number o f emdoved individuals in
                I .                       Pakistan                         8        8          -0.6
NWFp increased; especially so for         Source: LFS2001/02 and 2003104
 females.

27.      Despite some signs o f declining unemployment rates, the gender difference in
unemployment rate is still large-females    are 3 times more likely to be unemployed than males.
Also, the overall unemployment rate inNWFP is 60 percenthigher than that o f overall Pakistan.

                                                                                                     Annex 3
                                                                                                  Page 8 of9




however, the adult literacy rate o f           Adult literacy rate                                 Change
females improved more than 25                                          2001/02       2003/04     (percentage

percent     between       2001/02      and            P o )                                        points)

2003/04, which was much faster than           Male                          58.4        61.8              3.4

that o f males, only around 5 percent                                       19.9        25.2              5.3

(Table 10). The overall adult literacy        NWFP                          39.3        43.0              3.7
                                              Pakistan                      50.0         51.6             1.6




labor     force    participation,                                      Unemployment
unemployment, and literacy                      % o fLabor Force           rate (%)         Literacy Rate ("h)
rate in comparison to the rest        2003104 NWFP        Pakistan NWFP          Pakistan   NWFP     Pakistan
of Pakistan. It also confirms         Male        65.7     70.6        10.0         6.6       61.8     63.7
that gender gaps, despite of          Female      10.2      15.9       29.0        12.8       25.2     39.2
narrowing somewhat between            Total      43.7      43.7        13.0         7.7       43.0     51.6




30.       m i l e labor force and employment had           Table 12: Real annual wage earnings (only
expanded in NWFP between 2001/02 and                       forwa eem loees
2003/04, real annual earnings also grew, butmore                        2001102       2003104     % increase
slowly than the rest o f Pakistan (Table 12).
However, this does not necessarily mean all                Pakistan      42,317        46,172
employees benefitedthe same.                               Source: LFS 01/02 and 03/04




o f yearly wage earnings declined 8 percent
duringthe same period.                                       10.0

 32.      Figure 10 indicates the variation o f                5.0

changes in yearly earnings i s much larger for                0.0
females than for males.            The bottom 10
percentile o f male employees earned 7 percent               -5.0

less in 2003/04 than in 2001/02, while the top              -10.0
 10 percentile o f male employees earned around                                   Wage quintiles
 10 percent more in 2003/04 than in 2001/02.




 ''The literacy rates analyzed are those from LFSs and should not be compared with those obtained from
 PIHs as the two surveys use different sampling frames.

                                                                                         Annex 3
                                                                                      Page 9 of 9




                       Male                                      Female
      40                                           40

      30                                           30

      20                                           20

      10                                           10

       0                                            0

     -10                                          -10
     -20                                          .20

     -30                                          -30
     -40                                          -40




  Conclusions

  34.     NWFP province has been struggling with persistent poverty incidence, stagnant growth
' opportunities, high unemployment rates, and large gender gaps in various socio-economic
  outcomes. The studies above revealed that the poor face limited access to health, education, and
  infrastructure services and also limited employment opportunities. There are also large gender
  gaps inaccess to health, education, and other services and employment opportunities.

  35.     Recent data suggests some signs of improvement in growth prospects, employment, and
  gender gaps since 2001102. World Bank estimates (2005) indicate that the provincial real GDP
  growth rate rose to 6.3 percent by 2004/05. According to Labor Force Survey 2003/04, labor
  force participation and employment have been expanding, while gender gaps in adult literacy,
  labor force participation and unemployment rates have shrunk substantially.           Also, the
  comparison between previous PIHS data and the preliminary PSLM data suggests significant
  improvements in education, health and other infrastructure services, although comparability
  between the PIHS and PSLM i s yet to be examined.

  36.     There are, however, some worrying signs too. Recent expansion of employment involves
  a significant increase in low wage income earners, which might limit the impact o f expanded
  employment on poverty reduction.         The PSLM 2004105 will provide a more complete
  understanding of recent development in poverty and other socio-economic indictors in the
  NWFP.

                                                                                          Annex 4
                                                                                       Page I of 6

                                             ANNEX 4
     HUMANDEVELOPMENTINTHE NWFP: CHALLENGES,PROGRESSAND
                                     FUTURE PROSPECTS

Introduction

1.      The Government of the NWFPrecognizes the importance o f human development and is
strongly committed to improving education, health and social protection outcomes in the
province. Historically, human development indicators in the NWFP have generally been below
the national average for Palustan. For instance, in 2001/02 (when the last survey with verified
data was undertaken), the overall literacy rate was 38 percent compared to the national average o f
45 percent; and the pre-natal consultation rate for women was 22 percent relative to the Pakistan
average o f 35 percent. The human development component o f the NWFP Government's overall
reform program initiated in2001 and supported through IDA credits included specific reforms to
bring about quantitative and quality improvements in education and health. The reforms took
advantage o f two key developments: the devolution reforms initiated by the Federal government
to help increase accountability in the system; and the increased fiscal space created through
macro-economic reforms, which allowed the government to significantly increase the financing
available for the social sectors.

2.      The human development reforms aimed to increase access and to improve the quality o f
services delivered, and were initially focused on basic education and primary health care services.
Key reforms included enhanced education and health sector financing, in both allocations and
expenditures. The increased resources went towards essential improvements in infrastructure,
especially improving school infrastructure and upgrading secondary health care facilities, and
increasing the supply of service providers, particularly recruitment o f teachers and nurses.
Resources were also allocated to improving the quality of services; for instance providing budgets
for school recurrent expenditures and preventive health care. Efforts were made to improve
quality through better accountability in the system; for example by increasing community
involvement in the schools management. Targeted programs were launched to increase
participation in social services through for example, the introduction o f incentives like free
textbooks. These actions focused, as a priority, on reducing gender disparities in the human
development sectors. Organizational restructuring at both provincial and district levels were also
initiated inline with the national devolution program.

Progress during the past five years and future challenges

3.       Between 1998-2002 there was progress in education and health outcomes, with primary
school enrolment rates improving more than the national average, particularly inrural areas, and
immunization rates in the province exceeding the average for Palustan. While the 2004/05
PSLSMS results are only indicative at this stage, they suggest continued improvement in these
areas after the 2001/02 P M S survey. For example, the NWFP showed a consistent increase innet
enrolment rates from 41 percent in2001/02 to 47 percent in2004/05, while net enrolment rates in
the rest of Palustan except Punjab have either stagnated or decreased. Outcomes towards the
health MDGs are also better compared to Palustan as a whole, with the province registering a
lower infant mortality rate and higher immunization rate o f children aged 12-23 months.

4.       However, the l o w initial conditions o f human development levels in Pakistan mean that
considerable challenges remain. According to the P M S 2001/02 and the latest P S L M 2004/05,
literacy rates inNWFP (38 percent and 45 percent respectively) are persistently and significantly
below the Pakistan average (45 percent and 53 percent respectively).        This difference in the

                                                                                                          Annex 4
                                                                                                      Page 2 of6

overall literacy rate can be traced to lagging female literacy inboth urban and rural NWFP. At 26
percent, female literacy in NWFP is well behind the country average for female literacy at 40
percent. In addition there is a wide regional variation in net primary enrolment rates across the
districts in NWFP, ranging from 16percent (10 percent for girls) in rural district of Kohistan, to
81 percent (80 percent for girls) in the urban district o f Abb~tabad'~. health, too, challenges
                                                                                    In
remain: including the low use o f contraceptive methods, 22 percent o f currently married women
aged 15-49; and the very low post-natal consultation rate for women, just 4 percent within 6
weeks after delivery.


 Province                      1998/99PIHS                       2001/02 PIHS           2004/05 PSLM (prelim.)
                         Male    I Female I   Both        Male      IFemale I   Both      Male    1 Female 1     Both
 Literacy Rate (population 10 years and older)
   Pakistan                  59        31          45          58        32        45        65          40          53
   NWFP                      56        20          37          57        20        38        64          26          45
   Punjab                    57        34          46          57        36        47        65          44          55
   Sindh                     65        35          51          60        31        46         68         41          56
   Balochistan                54        16         36          53        15         36        52          19         37
  GER at PrimaryLevel(Age 5-9)
   Pakistan                   80       61          71          83        61         72        94          77         86
   NWFP                       84       54          70          97        56         77        93          65         80
   Punjab                     82       68          75          84        69         76       100          89         95
    Sindh                     75       54           64         76        51         63        84          65         75
   Balochistan                79       46          64          77        44         62        83          49         67
  NERat Primary Level(Age 5-9)
   Pakistan                   47        37         42          46        38         42        56          48         52
   NWFP                       41       30           39         48        33         41        53          40         47
   Punjab                     47       40          44          47        43         45        60          55         58
    Sindh                     47        35         41          46        34         40        53          42         48
    Balochistan               44        28          36          39       24         32        44          29         37
  NERat Matric Level(Age 14-15)
    Pakistan                  21        13          17          20       14         17        21          16          19
    NWFP                      21         6          13          21       10         15        23          11         17
    Punjab                    20        14          17          22       16         19        20          18          19
    Sindh                     25        18          22          18       14         16        23          18          2c
    Balochistan               17         4          11           9         4         7         12           6          s
I
 Sources: PIHS 1998/99 and2001/02, PreliminaryFBSdata for 2004/05 from PSLMsurvey(basedon CWIQmethodology)

5.        The NWFP government i s fully aware that higher human development outcomes are
critically important for future economic growth, social development and poverty reduction. To
achieve the required progress on human development education, health and social protection
programs need to be significantly expanded and strengthened. Improvements in education and
skills are a necessary foundation for sustained development. Enabling greater access to quality
health services is vitally important for improving life expectancy and productivity. In addition,


 l4 FigureA.2 for details. While thispaperfocusesprimarily onpoliciesfor theprovinceingeneral,the wide
   See
variation in enrolment and literacyrates across the 24 districts of NWFP requiresthat government strategy to improve
indicators need to be focused on the districts that lag behind. In addition to tackling generic problems like poor
retention rates that pervade he province, the incentive structure and interventions need to be tailored to relieve the
varieddistrict-specificbinding constraintson development inthe most underdevelopeddistricts.

                                                                                            Annex 4
                                                                                         Page 3 of 6

targeted measures are required to help the poor cope with chronic poverty and vulnerability.
Effective social protectionprograms are neededto help address equity, and promote access by the
poor to essential services. Given the importance o f these sectors, the government i s deepening its
human development reform agenda to accelerate progress on education, health and social
protection.

Recent policy developments: National programs in Human Development

6.       The Federal Government o f Pakistan has launched a series of national policy measures in
education, health and social protection to improve human development levels inthe country. The
measures, described below, have the potential to complement and benefit the HDpolicy program
o f the NWFP.

7.       Education. Recent initiatives and policies launchedby the Federal Ministryo f Education
(MOE) will have an impact on the NWFP education reform program. The Federal MOE is
undertaking a review o f the 1998 National Education Policy aimed at refining and strengthening
the current policy framework and establishing consistency between the Federal and Provincial
education sector development programs. The National Curriculum Council, comprising members
from the public and private sector, including academics and researchers, i s currently reviewing
the technical content, norms and goals of the school curriculum. The improved curriculum that i s
expected to result from this review should enable the NWFP education authorities to strength the
quality o f education within the province. The MOE has commissioned a National Education
Census through the Federal Bureau o f Statistics to gather information on all schools - public,
private, and madrassahs. This Census could be used by the NWFP as a baseline to integrate data
on the private education sector into the EducationManagement Information System (EMIS). The
MOE is also undertaking a review o f the National EMIS to align it with the EMIS in the
provinces. In addition, the MOE is strengthening school census data to assess progress on key
indicators for the MDG and Education for All initiatives, such as the analysis o f primary
completion rates. The MOE has also commenced a National Assessment o f Education Systems
W A S ) to measure learning outcomes. The NEAS will be a key tool to measure education
quality in the provinces and the country as a whole, over time. The Punjab is implementing an
education sector reform program that IDA i s supporting through a series o f education sector
development policy credits. In addition, Sindh has commenced the preparation o f an education
sector development program. Lessons from these provincial programs will cross-fertilize each
other.

 8.      Health. The Federal Ministry o f Health (MOH) has initiated new programmatic
initiatives, including expanding TB DOTS through public-private partnerships, a program to train
community midwives, and hepatitis prevention and control programs. Inaddition, work is also in
progress to strengthen the Lady Health Worker program by introducing programmatic and
management reforms, and a new MCH strategy i s being developed to address maternal health
challenges. All o f the above initiatives are likely to help all provinces in Palustan, including the
NWFP, to make progress on key outcomes and are likely to be implemented with federal
 financing through provincial and district systems. The new initiatives are likely to increase work
load on the provincial and district systems and would necessitate capacity buildingo f provincial
 and district systems for effective program implementation. The Ministry o f Health in
 collaboration with JICA has developed a modified Health Management Information System
 (HMIS) to strengthen regular monitoring and reporting o f health services. This i s an important
 area and the leadership o f the federal government would facilitate the development and
 implementation o f the H M I S at the provincial and district level.

                                                                                          Annex 4
                                                                                       Pclge 4 of 6

9.       ThePresident's Initiative on Primary Health Care: The continuing underperformance o f
the primary health care (PHC) system has been an area o f key concern in the health sector. The
President's Initiative on PHC i s based on promising results of contracting out management o f
PHC in Punjab to an NGO the Punjab Rural Support Program. It outlines an ambitious reform
plan to contract out management o f PHC system in phased manner to rural support programs
across Palustan. NWFP's reform program to be supported by DPCs includes the management
reforms to implement the proposedPresident's initiative inthe province.

FutureHDreformsby the NWFPunderthe DPCseries

10.      The NWFP government has been encouraged by the progress shown by its reforms in
health and education. However, the NWFP i s also aware that significant challenges remain,
requiring the reform agenda to be broadened and deepened. There i s high level political
recognition o f the challenges and a commitment to tackle these issues through the formulation of
a wider and deeper human development reform program, which builds on the efforts o f the
previous SACS and the ongoing reform efforts in other provinces. The GoNWFP i s also aware
that the proposed human development reform agenda needs to fit within the overall fiscal and
fiduciary framework o f the province. The central objectives o f the human development reform
program are to improve the access and quality o f services while significantly reducing gender and
regional disparities. Going forward, the reform program focuses on the following three key
themes:      (i)improving access, coverage and utilization o f social services including social
protection services (covering both public and private services); (ii)  improving quality o f service
delivery; and (iii)enhancing stewardship functions o f the government including financing,
monitoring & evaluation and promoting public-private partnerships.

Education Sector

 11.      The education sector reforms will be broadened and deepened in several ways. First, as
primary enrolment and completion rates rise, the demand for places inmiddle schools, secondary
schools and colleges will increase over time. The NWFP government plans to expand the middle,
secondary and college education sector to increase participation beyond primary education. The
proposed DPC 2 will mainly support the expansion o f middle school education by assisting the
 government to increase school facilities at the middle school level, according to expansion targets
 set by districts and agreed between the provincial government and district governments. The
proposed DPC 3 will provide support for the expansion o f secondary and college education, again
 in the context of targets established by districts and agreed between the provincial and district
 governments. T o improve access, public-private partnerships will be strengthened through the
 Education Foundations. By DPC 3 the Elementary Education Foundation will be restructured to
 enable it to implement innovative programs to support the private sector.

 12.      Second, demand side interventions will be introduced with a focus on regional and
 gender equity. The proposed DPC 2 will assist the NWFP to commence a program o f stipends for
 girls to attend middle and secondary schools inpoor districts where female middle and secondary
 enrolment i s particularly low. This demand side initiative will complement the supply side
 measures to expand middle and secondary education. Further, the initiative will be poverty
 focused, as the districts where female enrolment is lowest are also the regions where poverty rates
 are highest. The emphasis on poverty focused demand side initiatives will be strengthened inthe
 proposed DPC 3, which will assist the NWFP to introduce a program o f incentives for teachers to
 work inremote, rural schools.

                                                                                           Annex 4
                                                                                        Page 5 of 6

13.     Third, the quality of education, at levels, will be a key focus o f the education program.
Policies to improve education quality will emphasize measures to raise the competencies and
performance o f teachers, and the cognitive achievement levels o f students. The proposed DPC 2
will support the NWFPto establish an institutionalframework for teacher development. This will
cover the service conditions for teachers, such as entry criteria into the profession and career
progression, pre-service teacher education, and professional development through both on-site
and off-site teacher training and support. The proposed DPC 3 will assist the government to
institute a program o f special support for schools with low learning outcomes. This will include
regular monitoring of learning levels, and the implementation o f special measures to assist the
weakest schools, including providing extra financial resources, directed additional management
attention, special incentives for good teachers to locate in such schools, and appointing good head
teachers to these schools, as needed.

14.     Fourth, the NWFP education programwill place strong emphasis on objective monitoring
and evaluation. The proposed DPC 2 will support the establishment of a specialized technical
unit inthe Department o f Educationto undertake monitoring activities. This unit will be staffed
with the right slull mix to manage ongoing monitoring, establish linkages with the EMIS data,
and develop linkages with district governments and to use the data analysis for policy
development. The proposedDPC 3 would assist the government to introduce a system o f external
thirdparty validation. The TPVs will be a useful external accountability instrument, assessing the
quality o f the internal monitoring systems by confirming the results with ongoing departmental
monitoring. Annual TPVs would be conducted through independent and external agencies to
assess various reform inputs including stipends, textbooks, provision o f facilities, availability o f
teachers, and functioning o fPTAs.

Health Sector

15.     Inhealththe reformswillbe broadenedby: (i) innovativeapproaches to strengthen
                                                         testing
the management and organization o f primary and secondary health services; (ii)building
partnerships with the non-state sector; (iii)increasing managerial autonomy; and (iv)
accountability inthe public sector through significantly strengtheningmonitoring and evaluation.

16.     The first key reform i s to improve the utilization and quality o f PHC services. This will
entail testing o f managerial and organizational innovations using a controlled, before and after,
evaluation targeting the worst performing districts inthe province. The three approaches that will
be tested include: (a) contracting out management o f responsibility for delivering a package of
Primary Health Care services to NGOs, in keeping with the President's PHC Initiative; (b)
providing increased administrative and financial autonomy (and requisite powers) to district
managers so they can effectively         manage the District; and (c) providing, along with
administrative and financial autonomy, performance based incentives to district managers and
key staff. This is the first time that any provincial government will be implementing focused
reforms which could have far reaching impact on health sector management and quality o f service
delivery. This reform measure will be supported through DPC2.

 17.     Second area of reform i s to improve quality, equity, and utilization o f secondary care by
introducing hospital reform and develop models o f autonomy. This would explicitly address
issues o f human resource management, governance, and financing for district hospital
governance, management, and autonomy. In the medium term, it is expected that improved
models o f autonomy will be implemented in district hospitals. NWFP i s taking the lead in
introducing hospital reforms at the secondary level. This reform measure will be supported
through DPC 2.

                                                                                           Annex 4
                                                                                        Page 6 of 6



18.     Third, a series of reform measures is envisaged to be implemented to strengthen the
Department's stewardship over the sector. A key measure to be supported under DPC 3 will focus
on significantly strengthening monitoring and evaluation through the establishment o f an
independent monitoring and evaluation cell in the Department of Health. The unit will undertake
performance assessment, coordinate inter district dialogue, and enhance accountability by
disseminating disaggregated district performance indicators to the public through the media and
the Department o f Health's website

19.     The DPC will support reforms to strengthenpartnerships with the private and NGO sector
by restructuring the NWFP Health Foundation. The Health Foundation's role, functions, and
scope o f work will be reoriented and measures taken to enhance its autonomy. In addition, the
recently-established Health Regulatory Authority (HRA) will develop a clear strategy in order to
improve the quality o f care provided inthe private sector.

Social Protection

20.     While the provincial PRSP highlights the importance o f social protection (SP) in
combating poverty, fostering human development and achieving the Millennium Development
Goals, little has been done to implement planned actions. The province relies on federal spending
and key programs are federally mandated and financed. The province spends very little from its
own resources. As elsewhere in Pakistan, public-private partnership is an important pillar o f
assisting the vulnerable, and a number o f NGOs provide a variety o f services to the vulnerable
groups. Although significant, both formal and informal safety nets interventions are far from
sufficient to alleviate poverty, and deep and widespread poverty remains one o f the main features
o fNWFP's social and economic reality.

21.      The Government is committed to developing a comprehensive SP strategy that would
strengthen targeted programs to address chronic poverty and vulnerability through financially
sustainable programs, coordinated at the federal level, and thereby facilitates participation o f the
poor and vulnerable into basic social services. As part o f DPC 2, the Government o f NWFP i s
currently tahng stock o f social protection programs and their outcomes. The stock taking would
form a basis for a social protection reform strategy and an action plan for its implementation,
which would be developed intandem with ongoing work on a national social protection strategy
and decided, based on the results o f the stock taking and related consultations. Likely areas o f
initial engagement would         focus  on improving social protection administration and
implementation, including (i)   organization and coordination at the provincial and districts levels;
(ii) resourcecapacitybuilding; (iii)
     human                                     introduction o f M I S and provision o f up to date
equipment, and (iv) physical infrastructure. Subsequently, existing programs would be audited
and tightened up in order to increase their effectiveness and efficiency. New programs, including
 scaling up o f demand side incentives (and perhaps expanding these to participation in health
programs, e.g., nutrition), workfare and community-based service delivery for vulnerable groups
o f the population will be gradually introduced, in close coordination with national policy
developments.

                                                                                           Annex 5
                                                                                         Page I of3

                                            ANNEX 5
                            PUBLICFINANCIAL MANAGEMENT

Summary and background

1.      Compared with other provinces, financial management inNWFP for a long time always
been significantly better than in the other provinces and the federal government. The Provincial
Financial Accountability Assessment (2004) provides an in-depth analysis of the strengths and
weaknesses o f the financial control environment in the provincial government. Its assessment i s
that the system in place does provide reasonable safeguards for reliance on government's
financial accountability systems to ensure that funds are used for the purposes intended. This
assessment i s planned to be updated during FY 2006, using the PEFA PFM Performance
Measurement Framework, in order to provide more qualitative baseline performance indicators
and their trajectory o f change over time. The tremendous progress also being made in the
province in implementing PIFRA reforms i s demonstrative o f the province's firm commitment
towards the enhancement o f public sector financial accountability.

Progress on financial management reforms

2.      The NWFP government's commitment to reformthe financial management system inthe
province continued, and indeed strengthened, under the program o f structural and economic
reforms initiated in 2001/02. This i s adequately reflectedinthe province's financial management
performance under the SAC 2 program, which shows unparalleled progress among provinces
towards achieving reliable, comprehensive, accurate, and timely information pertaining to
provincial and district governments' financial transactions. As part o f PIFRA execution, the
province has computerized its accounting system and as a first in the country, prepared and
executed in FY05 its provincial government budget on the basis o f the new Chart o f Accounts
(COA), usingthe principles o f the New Accounting Model (NAM)consistent with international
best practice. Budget execution and accounting are also being camed out on the same coding
structure. Since SAC 2, the provincial government has also supported all 24 district governments
in the key area of converting the district governments' budgets for from the legacy chart of
classification to the new Chart o f Accounts based on the New Accounting Model.                 Full
conversion for all districts was achieved with the FY 2005/06 budget as the first province in the
country. The budget computerization unit o f the Department of Finance, supported by PIFRA, has
enabled this successful conversion and the implementation roll-out o f the provincial
government's adopted new chart o f accounts to all districts as the first province in the country
The Province o f Punjab i s the only other province that has also, in FY 2005/06, achieved this
transition to a uniform chart o f accounts for the provincial and district governments but with a
lower number o f integrated FMIS productive sites.

3.       As o f June 30, 2005, the level o f accounts reconciliation in NWFP (at 97 percent, 95
percent, 100 percent and 100 percent respectively for expenditures, receipts, suspense accounts
and intergovernmental accounts) exceeded those inother provinces. On October 31,2005, actual
reconciliation levels reported were 96 percent, 97 percent, 95 percent and 100 percent
respectively. With the province and district governments adopting the uniform chart o f accounts
under NAMin FY06, this achievement would be further enhanced, towards the end o f the fiscal
year. In addition, as this will facilitate consolidation o f fiscal and financial data (by major and
minor heads o frevenue and expenditures), the reliability and timeliness o f these data are expected
to improve substantially. For sustained progress on improved accounting in NWFP, continued
financial and technical support from PIFRA would be important.              PIFRA I1 has adequate
resources to support the finance departments to carry out some of these PIFRA related activities

                                                                                          Annex 5
                                                                                       Page 2 of 3

specific to the provinces and the NWFP finance department i s encouraged to utilize some o f the
funds available to finance eligible activities under the project. What i s encouraging is that all
DDOs of the devolved as well as the provincial departments have beenprovidedbasic training on
the new chart of accounts and refresher training programs are being programmed to be held
before the budget for the next fiscal year (FY 2006107) i s finally prepared.

4.       Interms of achieving the SAC 2 medium-term outcomes, the NWFPhas scored beyond
expectations in all areas except: (a) in the area o f progressive clearance o f backlogs o f audit
reports and accounts by the Public Accounts Committee (PAC); (b) the systematic and coherent
implementation of functional internal audit functions in government departments; and (c)
improving the frequency and regularity in conducting Departmental Accounts Committee (DAC)
meetings to settle departmental audit observations (draft and advance paragraphs) with a view to
reducing the residual number o f final advance audit paragraphs submitted to the parliamentary
public accounts committee for review.

Implementation of PIFRA in theprovince
5 .      Eighteen accounting and budgeting sites in NWFP have now become productive in the
use o f PIFRA SAP systems inprocessing o f financial transactions. This leaves a total o f 16 sites
(excluding the 24 District Finance Offices). The plan remains that the remaining budgeting and
accounting sites under the responsibility o f the provincial government shall achieve full
connectivity inFY 2006107 (September 30,2006).

Departmental Accounts Committees (DACs)
6.       The number o f unsettled audit observations for the fiscal years 2001/02 and 2002103 has
been declining due to periodic DAC meetings. There still remains a backlog o f unsettled audit
paragraphs up to 2002103 since the regularity and fiequency o f D A C meetings were never
adequate to clear backlogs on departmentallagency accounts. D A C meetings should be
institutionalized and held at least twice a month.

Backlog of Review of Audit Reports and Accounts by PAC
7.        The Public Accounts Committee (PAC) o f the NWFP has been established and has
completed deliberations on the reports and accounts for fiscal year 1997198. Its final report on
that year has been presented to, and approved by, the Provincial Assembly.        As at date, the
reports and accounts of the following 12 fiscal years remain unreviewed by the PAC: 1985186-
 1988189, 1990191, 1992193-1993194, 1996197, 1998199 -2001/02. Inaddition, the 2002103 fiscal
year report and accounts (with 377 paragraphs) have yet to be delivered to the PAC from the
Provincial Governor. At the rate at which PAC deliberations are taking, the PAC will notbe able
to clear the backlogs even over the next 10 years unless specific actions are taken by the
 concerned departments' DACs to further eliminate, through thoroughreview, all those paragraphs
which are frivolous, and hence avail to the PAC only those paragraphs o f significant
 accountability issues. Some action has been initiated in this direction by the PAC's formal
request to departments to carry out the exercise o fprior review for the accounts and report of FY
 2001/02. Out of a total o f over 1400 PAC paragraphs for FY 2001/02, the prior review of the
 DAC has enabled the reduction o f these paragraphs to 463. These remaining paragraphs have
been scheduled for completion o f PAC reviews in25 PAC working days. Overall, there are 5126
 audit paragraphs yet to be reviewed by the PAC over the 12 year period. The PAC Secretariat
 has opined that the PAC members and their secretariat staff require exposure to modem practices
 o f legislative oversight in order to enhance their effectiveness.     Capacity building has been
 sighted as a way to mitigate the knowledge gap in financial management. The Bank and other
 donors have been requestedto support the Committee inthis direction and there are signs that this

                                                                                            Annex 5
                                                                                         Page 3 of 3

support would be forthcoming after conducting a follow-up PFAA using the PEFA Public
Financial Management Performance Measurement framework indicators for the province.

Challenges ahead

8.       Going forward, the province's most critical challenges relate to: (a) achieving province-
wide operational IT connectivity through the PIFRA system, connecting all province and district
finance and accounts office sites; (b) the provincial government's ability to strengthen the PAC
and its Secretariat to build up the capacity to clear the 12 years' backlog o f unreviewed audit
reports and accounts; and (c) adoption o f the use o f the new Internal Audit Manual, produced
under PIFRA and being piloted at the federal level, by all the internal audit officials nominated
for each o f the 19 notified departments at the provincial government. Inanother vein, it i s critical
that the audited finance and appropriation accounts o f the province and the districts are submitted
timely to the Provincial Assembly and the District Council. The office o f the Auditor General o f
Pakistan needs to address this. It i s also critical that PIFRA provide more proactive support to a
most reforming province to benefit fiom the needed functionalities and report generation
supported under the SAP/R3 system.          The pre-requisite to addressing these challenges i s the
desired improvement in accuracy and timeliness o f provincial financial data, which, in turn,
requires that key government offices involved in financial management should be connected to
the new IT based system at the earliest.

9.       The progress achieved towards providing comprehensive and reliable financial and fiscal
data has, apart from the commitment and drive o f the provincial government in embracing
reforms, been a product o f the pace o f implementation o f the PIFRA project inthe province. In
the absence o f a complete roll-out o f the PIFRA systems in the entire province (provincial and
district governments), the required level o f comprehensiveness, reliability, and timeliness o f data
cannot be achieved. For this reason, PIFRA connectivity, province-wide, is a most urgent need
that could foster and promote accountability in the province.         The government i s therefore
committed to achieving operational IT connectivity and productivity o f all 20 District Finance
and District Accounts Office sites using uniform chart o f accounts under the new accounting
model by June 30,2006 (supported under DPC 2).

10.      Noting that the provincial and all district governments o f the NWFP would, during FY
2006/07 be fully connected to the PIFRA system and with a view to providing increased
assurance that financial and fiscal data are reliable, accurate, comprehensive and timely, it i s o f
vital importance that the province provides the output data inan acceptable format and allows the
data to be fully accessible to users on a timely basis. The government is committed to making
budget execution statements available for all provincial and district governments of NWFP
according to function, major, and minor heads, and posting them to the website o f the Department
o f Finance and the Accountant General within three weeks o f the end o f each calendar month by
January 2007 (supported under DPC 3).

 11.     In achieving this, the provincial and district governments would be improvingon their
civil accounts information that i s produced, largely unreconciled at that stage, by the 15th o f the
month following the month to which the accounts relate. It would also assure the transparent
provision o f reliable, uniform, and comprehensively validated financial and fiscal information for
better decision malung.

                                                                                            Annex 6
                                                                                          Page 1of 2

                                              ANNEX 6
  MODERNIZATIONINTHE CIVIL SERVICEAND ADMINISTRATIONOFMULTI-
                                     TIEREDGOVERNMENT

1.       The Government i s committed to service delivery improvement by increasing levels o f
efficiency, effectiveness and ethical standards in the civil service, malung civil servants more
accountable to users through administrative decentralization, and raising their levels o f
competence and integrity. Government realizes that although service delivery improvements are
to be driven from the sectors, in particular from education and health, human resource (HR)
policies at the provincial, district and tehsil levels must support and not inhibit service delivery
improvements. This will require decentralized and merit-based HRpolicies for the provincial and
local governments to have effective HR policy monitoring and evaluation systems in place,
including for establishment control.

2.       The government will continue implementing its strategy for civil service and
administrative reform in coming years. It sets out to improve the quality o f provincial civil
service outputs through a program o f restructuringfocused on policy and regulatory functions at
the provincial level and effectively devolving service delivery functions to local government at
the district and tehsil levels. Over the near and medium term the government will continue its
current policies o f civil service cost control throughjudicious and limited increases inthe size o f
the civil service with the vast majority being hiredinhighpriority areas (health and education). It
will continue to increase the average time inpost o f senior staff and make the monitoring results
publicly known. The PPSC will continue to regulate and monitor selection, appointment,
promotion and transfer o f all staff inBPS 15-21 at local government and provincial levels and for
professionals and technical specialists in grades BPS 11-15 at the provincial level. Contract
employment policies can be usedjudiciously to provide more attractive terms and conditions o f
employment to fill posts in less attractive areas that often lack competent civil service staff; in
particular women teachers and qualified health workers.

3.       In addition, in the near term a priority for the government is to design and establish
district services, including district and tehsil cadres. These cadres will include a new education
management cadre, which government has recently approved. The government will need to
reallocate posts and HR management functions to districts and tehsils, and promulgate new laws,
rules and regulations to enable the effective operation o f local government services. It also needs
to decide where the responsibility lies for merit-based selection, appointment, promotion and
transfer o f senior officers, professional and technical staffs transferred to local government. One
option it i s considering is that the PPSC becomes legally and institutionally enabled to carry out
monitoring and reporting on processes and outcomes for appointment, promotion and transfer o f
senior staff inthe districts andtehsils inrelation to adherence with merit-based principles.

4.       Further restructuring will be required within local government (and in provincial
departments) to increase the efficiency and effectiveness o f service delivery. In the near term
government will develop a methodology and carry out an organizational review o f one service
delivery function and prepare a `blueprint' for further reviews in the longer term. An early
priority will be to carry out a functional review o f the health sector focused on service delivery.
Partnership agreements for delivery o f education services will be developed between the province
and the districts. These will establish role clarity in education service delivery to underscore
 service delivery improvements.

                                                                                              Annex 6
                                                                                          Page 2 of2

5.      Government has already initiated a performance based budgeting process covering 201
service delivery units in health, education and agnculture within Peshawar and Kohat districts.
Annual results agreements, as part o f new job descriptions, now need to be put in place for unit
heads, DOs, DDO and EDOs for those districts and departments where performance based
budgeting has been piloted. This will ensure role clarity and accountability in the management
and delivery o f the targeted services.

6.      The Human Resource Management (HRM) database will continue to be fully operational
and be integratedwith PIFRA. The latter will constitute a powerful tool for financial and human
resource management inthe province. The HRMdatabase will be inregular use, with reliable and
timely data provided for HRM planning and monitoring o f establishment levels, appointments,
promotions and transfers at provincial, district and tehsil levels. It can also be used, for instance,
to monitor at provincial and district levels the success o f policies to recruit and retain female
teachers at girls' schools and health workers at basic health units in disadvantaged districts.
Government will now need to expand the user base o f the system, including additional networked
terminals for key units at the district and tehsil level, in order to underscore compliance with
plannednew requirements to update payroll and budget data from the HRMdatabase only.

7.      The Government will make an actuarial assessment o f pension liabilities based on the
HRMdatabase and on that basis develop new pension policies within total compensation costs
that are fiscally sustainable and compatible with maintaining planned levels o f PRSP spending.
Ghost employees and ghost pensioners will be identified and removed from the payrolls.

8.      Over the medium term the organizational review processes will be rolled out to all sectors
after the initial reviews in health and education. The reviews will cover the functions o f all
provincial, district and tehsil unitswith a focus on service delivery outcomes. They will form the
basis for an action plan for staffing, organizational structure, business process and capacity
buildingand for producing results-oriented job descriptions for all posts. The action plan will be
implemented over the medium term, supported by necessary amendments to laws, rules and
regulations. The roll-out o f the annual results agreements process will be completed in line with
performance based budgeting. The Government could need technical assistance to carry out the
actuarial review o f pension liabilities and options; to make more effective and ensure the roll-out
of its pilot performance based budgeting system; and to migrate its HR database over to the
PIFRA supported accounting and enterprise system.

                                                                                             Annex 7
                                                                                          Page I of 4

                                             ANNEX 7
                          ACCELERATINGECONOMIC GROWTH

1.       With a per capita income which i s only about two-thirds o fthat o f Pakistan, the NWFPi s
one o f the poorest provinces in Pakistan. The province also has a population growth rate that is
higher than inthe rest o f the country.

2.       The province contributes only about 10 percent to Pakistan's economy. It has a narrow
economic structure but substantial economic potential. Historically, the provincial economy has
been mostly dependent on relatively low value-added agriculture as the largest production sector,
services, and public employment (especially in the armed forces). The manufacturing sector i s
quite limited but has potential for growth through use o f local inputs.There i s substantial mineral
wealth inthe province such as precious and semi-precious stones, marble, and granite that can be
exploited with improvements in infrastructure, a better policy environment, and opportunities for
training on advanced techniques. There is also considerable potential to hrther develop NWFP's
rich hydel resources, in particular by encouraging small hydel generation plants and developing
off-grid localized energy distribution from these plants to local industry, e.g., agro-processing
using local raw materials. Similarly, availability o f better infrastructure related to tourism and a
better image o f the province can help develop inthe long runthe potential that exists for tourism.
There i s also considerable potential for economic growth inurban centers.

3.       Persistent poverty reduction requires more rapid pro-poor, broad-based growth with
substantial employment generation. Sustaining rapid growth will require strengthening the weak
investment climate in the province considerably; better infrastructure for not only industry and
services, but also agriculture; and over the medium and long term, raising the education and skills
level considerably of the largely illiterate and unskilled workforce. However, there is also a need
for well-targeted poverty alleviation programs for vulnerable groups.

4.       The provincial government's vision is to achieve sustained poverty reduction not only
through accelerating broad-based economic growth but also with the private sector as the engine
of this growth. Inorder to achieve its objectives for poverty reduction and employment growth
the government's medium-term strategy aims at raising the annual rate of growth in provincial
real GDP from the average over the last decade o f 4 `/z percent to 7.2 percent in FY08 and 7.5
percent in FY10. This requires increased private investment and therefore improving the
investment climate, including for agriculture, and strengthening the government's role as
investment facilitator. The province's strategy to improve the investment climate is aligned with
that o f the federal government. While federal policies remain o f paramount importance for the
investment climate for all provinces in Pakistan, provincial governments have considerable
impact on the investment climate through discretionary implementation o f federal policies and
through their own provincial regulatory framework.

a.       Private Sector Development

5.       Incoming years the provincial government will continue to implement its three-pronged
strategy for private sector development where the main thrust remains institutionalizing public-
private dialogue to promote demand-responsiveness o f public sector agencies and policy-making
bodies, creating an enabling and competitive environment for private sector development, and
expanding the role o f the private sector.

6.       Institutionalizing public-private dialogue to promote demand-responsiveness of public
sector agencies and policy-making bodies: The GoNWFP has recently created venues for public-
private dialogue by including private sector representatives in a number of key policy making,

                                                                                                           Annex 7
                                                                                                       Page 2 of 4

problem solving, and managing bodies. It i s important that these initiatives be complemented
with mechanisms to ensure active implementation. Over time, this structure for public-private
dialogue will facilitate removing policy- and regulatory-induced barriers to investment and more
detailed actions will be identifiedby the partners inthis dialogue.

7.         Creating an enabling and competitive environment: The government will continue its
efforts to strengthen governance, reduce administrative barriers, and improve the functioning o f
markets for skilled labor inthe province while also aiming at improving the management o f urban
areas and enhancing enforcement o f property rights, particularly for activities in autonomous
areas. In that regard it will charge the Sarhad Development Authority with facilitating new
private investments and coordinating a one-window investor facilitation center to be established
inthe nearterm (part oftrigger for DPC2). Withregardto improving accessto skilledpersonnel,
the reform strategy over the medium term would need to expand the pool o f trainable workers
through the reforms inbasic education; improve the quality and market-orientation o f provincial
colleges and increase their supply o f well-qualified students; set up mechanisms to assist firms in
developing firm-specific skills; and restructure the Technical Education and Vocational Training
System (the latter by DPC 3) consistent with principles of close private sector involvement and a
demand-driven approach for training. With regard to mining- a sector with considerable growth
potential - weak enforcement o f property and leasing rights as well as other constraints have
restricted its growth. Given the large number o f court cases and hence long lags the government
i s considering the establishment o f a special Mines Magistrate inthe mediumterm responsible for
all casesrelated to mining.

8.         Expanding the role of theprivate sector: Notwithstanding some progress indivestment,
the government i s still involved in many activities that have long been privatized in other
developing countries, spanning financial services, industrial estates, transport, construction, and
tourism.       Continuing reforms related to industrial estates, the government intends to have
transferred management o f industrial estates to the private sector by DPC 2. Medium-term
reforms include merging SDA and the SIDB and transferring management control o f Bank o f
Khyber to the private sector (by DPC 3). The provincial government will also develop the private
sector's role and its own capacity in executing public-private partnerships (for instance in
infrastructure and energy investments). This will also require formalizing the supporting
framework to execute well-designed, competitive partnership transactions. The government has
requested World Bank assistance for capacity building in this area. It will also develop an
enabling framework for provision o f municipal services.

9.         A new but still important element in the province's development strategy is the use of
urban centers to stimulate the growth process since much o f the economic growth and
employment generation will need to come inurban areas. Urban centers in the province have the
potential to be a driver o f growth but tapping this economic potential requires that the urban
investment climate i s improved. This would involve better functioning o f urban land markets and
better planning for urban development including better provision o f public services and
infrastructure. The most important requirement to make the land markets fimction optimally is a
system that abolishes the current title ambiguities and determines title conclusively. Based on this
long-term goal, a series of steps are required to consolidate title determining responsibility with
one department with no overlapping jurisdictions and parallel records o f ~wnership,'~and
introduce compulsory registration of property transactions. The supply or utilization o f urban land


    There i s a need to (a) update existing records of departments involved in administeringurbanland; (b) ensure that
future transactions take place through registered documents; (c) computerizethe Registrar's Department to enable an
electronic propertyregister and (d) lower stamp duties to encourageregistration, leadingto compulsoryregistrationof
all propertytransactions.

                                                                                                       Annex 7
                                                                                                    Page 3 of4

can be improved by addressing biases in laws and differential policy treatment between different
market segments, owners and tenants; by raising land non-utilization fees; and by disposing
provincially owned land inprime commercial locations.

10.      Urban development has not been guided by a clear government strategy. There i s no
integrated strategic planning for urban development projects, and investments are not aligned to a
strategic plan. No particular ministry or departmental agency has a clear mandate for Local
Economic Development, and multiple agencies undertake developmental activities in the cities
with no coordination between the agencies. Starting with Peshawar, the economic center in the
province, the government would first need to settle on a strategy for how to unleash its economic
potential. It intends to establish an apex bodyhteering committee that would formulate the vision,
develop the overall strategy and policy framework, and coordinate investment planning across
agencies. The apex bodylsteering committee would be headed by the Chief Minister, include all
stakeholder groups as members, and be supported by a capable and effective unit inthe provincial
government as secretariat.

11.      The government also intends to fundamentally restructure the City Development and
Municipal Department of Peshawar and provide it with a clear mandate for local economic
development, developingintegrated strategic and action plans. It will bringBuildingByelaws and
Regulations at par with international standards and base them on the city's integrated strategic
plan; and ensure that all development funds to be invested in the city district are based on the
strategic plan. It will need to strengthen the technical capacity o f the different agencies to plan
and manage development projects. It will also develop an enabling environment for private sector
participation inmunicipal service delivery through Public-Private Partnerships.

b.       Agriculture

 12.     Growth in agriculture will continue to play a central part in the NWFP's growth and
poverty reduction strategy, inlight of its large share o f the provincial economy and employment,
its economic potential and the fact that the majority o f the poor live o f f agriculture. The
government has recently developed an apcultural sector strategy that it presented in its
Agricultural Policy 2005 document. The Apcultural Policy addresses the critical challenges and
constraints facing the sector and incorporates a number o f the key recommendations from the
joint Government/Bank NWFP Economic Report. It formulates the set o f reforms over the
medium term o f which parts will be covered by the DPCs.

 13.     The main objective in the new agricultural strategy i s to encourage the movement
towards high value products (horticulture, livestock and others) for both domestic and
international markets and thereby exploit the province's considerable growth potential in these
products.16 Under this strategic priority, the government will carry out policy and institutional
reforms, as well as investment programs, inthe following areas:

 14.     Making research and extension more efective to stimulate new sources of growth in
high-value products. The government will strengthen the linkages between agricultural research,
 extension and the farmers to align research and extension priorities with farmers' needs and
market trends, and help introduce new varieties o f sheep and goats suitable for differing regions.
 It will also develop further varieties o f certain high-value horticulture tailored to specific
backward areas and districts and promote private milkprocessing plants.



 l6Expansion of the livestock sector will need to remain within the carrying capacity of the rangelands in order to
maximize the earning potential o f the sector and assure longterm sustainability

                                                                                            Annex 7
                                                                                         Page 4 of 4

 15.     FaciEitatingprivate sector participation by creating the right institutional and legdative
framework for the agricultural sector: The government will continue to build the capacity o f
small farmers by developing farmer organizations. It will, in the near term, establish Milk
Producers Associations (supported under DPC 2) and a horticultural core group o f producers,
processors and traders at the provincial level. It will also review the strategy for Farm Service
Center so that they can be converted into self-financing and farmer-operated organizations in
coming years. Over the medium term, the government will establish horticulture and
1ivestocWmilk marketing groups at the district level; restructure the provincial departments for
agnculture and livestock to make them more responsive to private sector needs and demands; and
 start efforts to address the institutional weaknesses in research and extension services with a
thorough diagnosis o f existing institutional arrangements. It will then restructure and strengthen
the research institutes, and inthe medium term put inplace a participatory extension service.

 16.      The government will need to strengthen the legal framework to achieve the goals o f the
new Agricultural Policy. New acts and legislations need to be prepared and issued to support the
new government initiatives and existing Acts amended as appropriate. These include revising the
 Agricultural Produce Act inthe near term (part o f DPC 2 trigger) and the Seed Act, Pesticide Act
 and Livestock Act over the medium term. There i s also a need to initiate the process for
 establishing Sanitary and Phytosanitary measures and rules.

 17.      Improving market infrastructure and information systems to broaden and deepen input
 and output markets. Inthe near and medium term the government intends to work inpartnership
 with farmers and the private sector to improve input and output market information through the
 use o f media and extension services, and explore ways to reduce the transaction costs in the
 marketing o f outputs, particularly for small farmers. This will include developing a fruit and
 vegetable marketing strategy that would strengthen the public-private partnership. It will develop
 key infrastructure in partnership with the private sector, such as primary collection centers and
 grading, sorting and packaging facilities for horticulture crops and vegetables as well as cold
 storage facilities, and provide market intelligence and information on new varietieshtandards in
 order to facilitate diversification o f export markets.

 c.       Implementationof the overallgrowth strategyfor PSD and agriculture

 18.      The government will implement its growth strategy inphases over the mediumterm. The
 first phase will include the following steps: ensure that the new one-window investment
 facilitation center coordinated by the private sector and the corresponding line agencies, has been
 staffed and has started servingpotential investors; transfer management o f industrial estates to the
 private sector; revise the Agricultural Produce Act; and establish Milk Producers Associations.
 This will be supportedunder DPC2.

 19.      The government will implement the second phase o f its growth acceleration strategy by
 DPC 3. This will include merging SDA and SIDB, transferring management control o f Bank o f
 Khyber to the private sector, setting up the Mines Magistrate to strengthen enforcement o f mining
 property rights and address labor concerns, developing an enabling framework for private
 provision o f power and o f municipal services, and restructuring the technical and vocational
 training system consistent with principles o f being private sector led and responsive to labor
 market demands.

                                                                                                                                    Annex 8
                                                                                                                               Page I of4

                                                                 ANNEX 8
                         NWFP-FISCAL, ECONOMICAND SOCIALINDICATORS

                                                    Table 1: NWFPat a Glance

SOCIALINDICATORS                                                              ALL-
                                                                     NWFPa/ PAKISTAN
Population, 2004105(million) a!                                           21       155
PGDPlGDPper capita, 2005(US$) b/                                         484       714
                                                                                                           5
Average annual growth, 1981-05
Population (%)                                                           2.7       2.6                      4


Most recent estimate (latest year availablesince 1990) c/
Poverty:% of populationbelowpovertyline dl                                48        37
Urbanpopulation(% of total population)e/                                  17        32
Infantmortality (per 1,000live births)                                    56        82
Accessto safe water (% of households)e/                                   58        61
Accessto toiletfacilities(% of households)e/                              58        54
Literate population (% of population10yrs &older)                         38        45
Proportionattending primaryschool (aged4 to 9)                            77        72
   Male                                                                   97        83
   Female                                                                 56        61



STRUCTUREOF THE NWFPPROVINCIALECONOMYfl
                                                             199Ol91 1998199 2004105
(%of Provincial GrossDomesticProduct(PGDP)                    100.0     100.0     100.0                            Per Capha Incorm (RI)
Agriculture                                                     23.2     23.8      19.4
Industry                                                        27.3     26.3      25.7                    41wO
   Manufacturing                                                15.5     13.3      16.2                    360W
Services                                                        49.4     50.1      55.0
                                                                                                           31wO ............_..____.._

(annual realgrowth)                                                                                        26wO

Agriculture                                                     ma.       1.5       2.7                    21wO
Industry                                                        n.a.     10.0      10.9                    16000
   Manufacturing                                                ma.       4.1      14.1                    11wO
Services                                                        n.a.      3.2       6.1
                                                                                                             6w0
                                                                                                                 1991-95     199w99       2004105
NominalPGDP, Rs Billion                                         106      328       599
NominalPGDPper capita (Rs)                                     7,045   17,913    28,697



PROVINCIALFINANCES gl
                                                             1991-95 1996-00 2002103 2003l04 2004/05
(Yo Of PGDP)                                                                                                     FiscalM a n u and Public Debt     1
Total Revenue& Grants
   Province'sOwn Revenue
   FederalTransfersind. Grants


Total Expenditure                                                8.6     12.0       9.4     8.8     8.7
   CurrentExpenditure                                            5.5     10.0       7.5     6.8     6.4
     Interestpayment& debt servicing                             1.5      2.5        1.3    1.1     1.0
   CapitalExpenditure(net)                                       3.1      2.0        1.9    2.0     2.3


FiscalBalance incl. Grants                                       0.9      0.8        1.4    0.9
FiscalBalance                                                    (2.2)    (1.2)     (0.5)  (1.1)    (0.6)
Total OutstandingDebt                                           17.2     17.3      15.4    13.8    11.9


Source: a) Populationfigures are basedon the NationallnstltuteofPopulationStudiesand WorldBankStaffestimates.
         b) NWFPGDPpercapita estimatesarepreliminaryesfimafes.
         c) PakjstanIntegratedHouseholdSurvey (PIHS) 2001/02, orotherwiseindicated
         d) WorldBankStaffEstimatesbasedonPIHS2001/02
         e) PakistanIntegratedHouseholdSurvey (PIHS) 199W99
         0 WorldBankStaffEstimates
         g) Medium TermBudgetFramework

                                                                                          Annex 8
                                                                                        Page 2 of 4

                          Table 2: NWFPDistribution of Provincial GDP bv Sector




   Crops                                                 14.1   12.8   11.8   7.5    10.5      6.1
       Major crops                                        9.5    8.0    8.4   5.0    8.1       4.6
       Minor crops   .                                    4.6   4.8    3.4    2.4    2.4        1.6
   Livestock, Fishery, & Forestry                        11.0   10.5   12.6   14.9   11.1      13.4

Industry                                                 24.5   27.3   23.1   24.0   25.1      25.7
   Mining and quarrying                                   1.6    0.0    1.5    0.1    2.0       0.1
   Manufacturing                                         16.4   15.5   15.7   13.8   18.2      16.2
       Large scale                                       10.8    9.6   10.6    8.3   12.9      10.7
       Small scale                                        5.6    5.9    5.1    5.5    5.4       5.5
   Construction                                           3.1    4.7    2.4    4.2    2.3       4.0
   Utilities                                              3.4    7.1    3.4    5.9    2.5        5.3

Services                                                 50.4   49.4   52.5   53.5   52.4      55.0
   Transport, storage, and communication                  9.1    7.2   13.2   13.0   11.1      15.2
   Wholesale and retail trade                            19.3   18.9   17.8   16.2   19.1      16.2
   Finance and insurance                                  5.4    3.7    3.0    2.3    3.7        2.4
   Ownership and dwellings                                2.9    2.8    3.2    2.3    2.9        1.9
   Public administration and defense                      6.1    8.2    6.1    9.0    6.0        9.8
    Other services                                        7.5    8.7    9.1   10.7    9.6        9.6


Source:NWFP: World Bank StaffEstimatesat currentprices.

                                                                                           Annex 8
                                                                                         Page 3 of 4

              Table 3: Sectoral Growth Rates of NWFP GDP at Constant 2000/01 Prices
                                          1999100   2000101   2001/02   2002/03  2003/04  2004105
,griculture                                     5.4      -4.2      3.2       7.2      3.3       2.7
   Crops                                       -8.4    -15.5       4.4       3.8      4.3       4.3
       Major crops                             -5.8    -17.5       7.0       4.7       6.1      6.2
       Minor crops                           -13.7     -11.2       -1.1       1.8      0.0      -0.2
   Livestock, Fishery, & Forestry              15.5       2.4       2.6      8.9       2.8       1.9

ndustry                                        -1.5      -6.4       2.1      4.9      17.0     10.9
   Mininingandquarrying                         9.1       8.3       2.8     49.2       6.3      14.0
   Manufacturing                                1.9       1.6       6.0       6.9     17.2      14.1
       Large scale                             -0.3      -1.5       5.7       7.4     25.1      19.0
       Small scale                              5.3       6.2       6.3       6.3      6.3       6.1
   Construction                                16.9      -2.8      -6.0      16.8     -6.9       6.2
   Utilities                                  -14.5     -23.5      -1.4      -9.4     37.9       5.2

'eITices                                        2.8       1.4       9.1       8.5      6.6       6.1
   Transport, storage, and communication       -1.9       5.5       4.7       5.3     11.4       5.8
   Wholesale and retail trade                  -1.5       0.3       5.2       7.9      9.7       9.7
   Finance and insurance                       -6.7     -16.5      17.4      -4.4      4.5      21.8
   Ownership and dwellings                      7.3       4.5       1.8       8.2      3.5        3.5
   Public administration and defense           17.2      -0.8      23.4      16.7      4.3      -0.7
   Other services                               5.4       4.9       7.3       7.9      0.7        5.4

WFP GDPat factor cost                           2.3      -1.9       6.1       7.4      8.2        6.6

'akistan GDP at factor cost                     3.8       1.8       3.1       4.8      6.4        8.4

Source:NWFP: WorldBank StaffEstimates.

12 e.-
7


I$  i
    .-

l i E
    .-

                                                                                                                               Annex 9
                                                                                                                           Page I of 6

                                                            ANNEX 9
                 PAKISTAN-FISCAL, ECONOMIC AND SOCIALINDICATORS

                                                Table 1: Pakistan at a Glance

POVERTY and SOCIAL                                                 South        LOW-
                                                      Pakistan      Asia     income       Developmentdiamond'
2005
Population, mid-year(millions)                           155.8      1,447       2,343
GNI per capita (Atlas method, US$)                         690       590         510                   Life
GNI (Atlas method, US$billions)                          107.3       859        1,188

Average annual growth, 1999-05                                                                               1
Population (%)                                             2.4        1.7         1.9
Laborforce (%)                                             3.0        2.1         2.2      GNI                                 Gross
                                                                                           per                                primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1999-05)                                      capita                          enrollment
Poverty(% ofpopulation below nationalpovertyline)           33
Urban population (% oftotalpopulation)                      34         29          31
Life expectancyat birth (years)                             64         63          50                        L
Infant mortality(per 1,000 live births)                     74         66          79
Child malnutrition(% ofchildrenunder 5)                     35         49          43           Access to improvedwater source
Accessto an improvedwater source (% ofpopulation)           90         84          75
Literacy (% ofpopulation age 15+)                           47         61          61
Gross primaryenrollment (% of school-agepopulation)         68        103         100            -Pakistan
   Male                                                     80        108         105            ....__  Low-income wouD
   Female                                                   57         97          94

KEY ECONOMICRATIOSand LONG-TERM TRENDS
                                                 1985     1995      2004         2005       Economic ratios.
GDP (US$ billions)                               31.1      60.6      96.1       110 7
Gross capital formationlGDP                       18.3     18.5      17.3         16.8
Exportsof goods and serviceslGDP                  10.4     16.7      16.0         15.3                      Trade
Gross domestic savings/GDP                        5.9      21.o
                                                           15.8      18.4         12.2
Gross national savingdGDP                        22.7                23.0         18.0                        T



Currentaccount balance/GDP                        -4.1     -4.0       2.0         -1.3
Interestpayments/GDP                               1.7      2.0       0.8         0.7
Total debtlGDP                                   43.2      49.9      37.1         31.8
Total debt servicelexports                        24.5     27.6      22 3         12.3
Presentvalue of debtlGDP
Presentvalue of debtlexports
                                                                                                         Indebtedness
                                       1985-95 1995-05    2004       2005    2005-09
(average annual growth)
GDP                                       5.2      3 7      6.4        7.0         6.5                    Pakistan
GDP per capita                            2 6      1 2      3.9        5.2         4.6
Exportsof goods and sewices               9 8      6.5     -1.5        7.6        15.5


STRUCTUREof the ECONOMY                                                                                                                II
                                                 lgE5lgg5                        2005     IGrowth of capitaland GDP (X)
(% of GDP)                                                                                                                             I
Agriculture                                       28.5     26.1       22.3        21.6      ':
Industry                                          22.5     23.8       24.9        25.1
   Manufacturing                                  15.9     16.3       17.6        18.2
Services                                          49.0     50.1       52.7        53.3
Householdfinal consumptionexpenditure             82.0     72.4       73.3        80.0     -151
Generalgov't final consumptionexpenditure         12.1     11.7        8.4         7.8
 importsof goods and services                     22.8     19.4       14.9        19.9               -GCF           -GDP



                                               1985-95 1995-05       2004        2005     1 Growth of
 (average annualgrowth)                                                                              exports and imports (x)           I
Agriculture                                        4.1      2.7        2.2         7.5      50

 Industry                                          6.3      4.4       12.0        10.2      40
                                                                                            30
   Manufacturing                                   5.7      5.9       14.1        12.5      20
Services                                           5.2      4.3        6.0         7.9      10
                                                                                             0
 Householdfinal consumptionexpenditure             4.3      3.5        8.2        16.8     -10
 Generalgov't final consumptionexpenditure         3.9      2.4        2.1         2.3     -201
 Grosscapital formation                            4.3      0.8       -3.2         1.7             -Exports         -O'lrnports
 Importsof goods and services                      3.4       1.4      -8.6        44.1

 Note:2005 data are preliminaryestimates.Group data are to 2004.
  The diamondsshow four key indicatorsinthe country (in bold) comparedwith its income-groupaverage. Ifdata are missing, the diamond will
   be incomplete.

                                                                                                                    Annex 9
                                                                                                               Page2 of 6



                                                                                                               Pakistan

PRICESand GOVERNMENT FINANCE
                                           1985      1995    2004   2005
Domesticprices                                                              Inflation(%)
(% change)                                                                  30

Consumerprices                                 ..    13.0      4.6    9.3
Implicit GDP deflator                        4.5     13.9      7.8    9.8
Government finance
(% of GDP, includes currentgrants)
Current revenue                            16.4      17.1    15.1   14.3             00    01     02      03      04    05
Current budget balance                      -1.3      -2.5     1.1   -0.1           -
Overall sumluddeficit                       -7.8      -6.7    -1.8   -3.0                 GDPdellator    *CPI


TRADE
                                           1985      1995    2004   2005
(US$ millions)                                                              Export and import levels (US$mill.)
Total exports (fob)                       2,460     7,759  12,395  14,371                                                 I
                                                                            20,wo T
 cotton                                     279        62      48     111
 Rice                                       222       454     634    933    15,WO
 Manufactures                             1,922     4,627   7.568   8,288
Total imports (cif)                       6,009     10,296 13,607  18,724   10,wo

 Food                                          _.    1,627    659    706
 Fueland enemy                            1.398      1.722  3,066   4,534    5.WO

                                                                          I
 Capital goods                                                                   0

Export price index (2000=100)                  ..      117     115    124           99   00    01    02     03    04

Import price index (2000=100)                          107     118    131               llExports         llImports
Terms of trade (2000=100~                      ....    110      98     94

BALANCEof PAYMENTS
                                           1985      1995    2004   2005
(US$ millions)                                                               Current account balanceto GDP(%)
Exportsof goods and services              3,247      9,628  15,123 17,725                                                 I
Imports of goods and services              7,106    13,023  17,714 25,557    5
Resourcebalance                           -3.859    -3,396  -2.591 -7,832    4
                                                                             3
Net income                                 -506     -1,729  -2,207 -2.394    2
Net currenttransfers                      3,090      2,709   6,684  8,819    1
                                                                             0
Current account balance                   -1,275    -2,416   1.886 -1,407    i

Financingitems (net)                         227     2,647   -809   2,019    2
                                                                             3
Changesin net reserves                     1,048     -231   -1,077   -612   4

Memo:
Reservesincludinggold (US$miilions)        1,190     3,534  11,395 10,722
Conversionrate (DEC, locaVUS$)              15.2      30.8    57.6   59.1

EXTERNAL DEBTand RESOURCEFLOWS                                                                                             I
                                           1985      1995    2004   2005
(US$ miilions)                                                                :omposition of 2005 debt (US$mill.)
Total debt outstandingand disbursed       13,465    30,229  35,687 35,208
  iBRD                                       352     3,581   2,601  2,464
  IDA                                      1,312     3,340   6,020  6.651
Total debt service                         1,435     3,216   4,285  2,736
  IBRD                                        58       413     386    400                                          6,651

  IDA                                         19        55     141    161
Compositionof net resourceflows
  Officialgrants                             257       312     574    379                                          C 1,621
  OWcial creditors                           443       932    -685    905
  Private creditors                         -169       318     152   -389
  Foreigndirect investment(net inflows)      131       442     152  1,162
  PorLfolio equity (net inflows)               0                                                                           I
                                                     1.280     156    465                                 D 7.367

World Bank program
  Commitments                                678       706     781    847     4- iBRD                         E Biiateml
  Disbursements                              152       691     304    984     B IDA
                                                                                -       D Other multilateral
                                                                                          .                   F Private
  Principalrepayments                         37       235     385    431     C-IMF                           G Short-term
                                                                                                               ---
  Net flows                                  115       456     -81    554
  Interest payments                           40       233     143    130
  Nettransfers                                75       222    -224    424


DevelopmentEconomics                                                                                                  4/4/06

                                                                                                                            Annex 9
                                                                                                                        Pnge 3 of 6

                                              Table 2: Pakistan Social Indicators

                                                                  Latest single year                    Same regionlincomegroup


                                                                                                                South          Low-
                                                          1975-80        1985-90           1999-05                Asia       income
POPULATION
Total population, mid-year (millions)                         82.7           108.0            155.8            1,447.7       2,338.1
  Growth rate (% annual averageforperiod)                      3.0             2.6              2.4                1.7           1.8
Urban population ("A ofpopulation)                            28.1            30.6             34.5               28.3          30.7
Total fertility rate (births per woman)                        7.0             5.8              4.5                3.0           3.6

POVERTY
("Aofpopulation)
National headcountindex                                                                        32.6
  Urbanheadcount index                                                                         24.2
  Rural headcountindex                                                                         35.9

INCOME
GNI per capita (US$)                                          330              420              670                590           510
Consumer price index (1995=100)                                                                 185
Food price index (1995=100)

INCOMElCONSUMPTlONDISTRIBUTION
Gini index                                                                                     33.0
Lowestquintile (% of income or consumption)                                                      8.8
Highestquintile (% of incomeor consumption)                                                    42.3
SOCIAL INDICATORS
Public expenditure
  Health ("A of GDP)                                                                             1.1                1.3           1.5
  Education (% of GNl)                                          2.0             2.7                                 3.1           3.2
  Social security and welfare (% of GDP)                        0.2                              0.2
Net primary school enrollment rate
(% of age group)
  Total                                                                                           59                87             78
      Male                                                                                        68                 89            82
      Female                                                                                      50                 85            76
Access to an improvedwater source
(% ofpopulation)
  Total                                                                           83              90                 84            75
      Urban                                                                       95              95                 93            89
      Rural                                                                       78              87                 80            69
Immunization rate
(% of childrenages 12-23months)
   Measles                                                        1               50              61                 67            66
   DPT                                                            2               54              67                 71            67
Child malnutrition(% under 5 years)                              53               49              35                 48            44
Life expectancy at birth
(years)
   Total                                                         53               59              64                 63            58
      Male                                                       53               58              63                 62            57
      Female                                                     54               60              65                 64            59
Mortality
   Infant(per 1,000 live births)                                105               96              74                 66             79
   Under 5 (per 1,000)                                          156              138              98                 92            122
   Adult (15-59)
      Male (per 1,000 population)                               283             232              221                249           317
      Female(per 1,000population)                               291             230              198                199           266
   Maternal(per 100,000live births)                                                              500                534            538
Birthsattended by skilled health staff (%)                                                        23                 36             3a

This table was producedfrom the CMU LDB system.                                                                                04/04/06
 Note: 0 or 0.0 means zero or less than half the unit shown. Net enrollment rate: break in series between1997 and 1998 due to
change from ISCED76 to ISCED97.Immunization:refersto children ages 12-23 monthswho receivedvaccinationsbefore one
year of age.

                                                                                                             Annex 9
                                                                                                          Page 4 of 6

                                       Table 3: Pakistan -Key Economic Indicators

                                                         Actual                 Estimate             Projected
                Indicator                      2001    2002     2003    2004     2005     2006    2007      2008    2009
National accounts (as D/n of GDP)
Gross domestic producta                         100.0   100.0    100.0   100.0     100.0   100.0    100.0    100.0   100.0
 Agriculture                                     24.4    23.6      23.6   22.3      21.6    21.0     20.5     20.0    19.4
 Industry                                        23.1    22.9      23.0   24.9      25.1    25.8     26.8     27.7    28.3
 Services                                        52.5    53.4      53.4   52.7      53.3    53.2     52.8     52.3    52.3

Total Consumption                                83.9    83.3      82.5   81.6      87.8    91.5     90.7     89.5    88.7
Gross domestic fixed investment                  15.8    15.5      15.3   15.6      15.3    16.5     17.8     18.9    19.4
 Government investment                            5.7      4.2      4.0     4.8       4.4     2.7      3.4     3.6     3.8
 Private investment                              10.2    11.3      11.3    10.8     10.9    13.8     14.4     15.3    15.6

~xp01-t~(GNFS)~                                  14.8    15.4      16.9    16.0     15.3    16.5     17.9     19.5    21.7
Imports (GNFS)                                   15.9    15.5      16.3    14.9     19.9    26.1     27.9     29.5    31.3
Gross domestic savings                           16.1    16.7      17.5    18.4     12.2      8.5      9.3    10.5    11.3
Gross national savings'                          17.7    19.7      23.1   23.0      18.0    14.1     15.0     16.1    16.8
Memorandum items
Gross domestic product                         71,496  71,485   82,592   96,217  110,976 125,514 134,880 145,209 156,626
(US$million at current prices)
GNI per capita (US$,Atlas method)                 480     490      520      600      670     740      810      870     920
Real annual growth rates (%, calculated fiom 2000 prices)
 Gross domestic product at market prices           1.9     3.2      5.0     6.4       7.8     6.3      6.5      6.6     6.8
 Gross domestic income                            0.8      3.1      2.8     6.0       7.2     4.0      6.3      6.1     6.0
Real annual per capita growthrates (%, calculated fiom 2000 prices)
 Gross domestic product at market prices         -0.6      0.8    ' 2.5     3.9       5.2     4.3      4.5      4.6     4.8
 Total consumption                               -2.8      0.4     -1.2     4.9      12.5     5.2      3.9      3.5     4.1
 Private consumption                              -2.2    -0.9     -1.9     5.6      14.0     5.0      3.8      3.4     3.7
Balance of Payments (US%millions)
 ~xports(GNFS)~                                10,284  11,056    13,686  15,123   17,725   20,755  24,094    28,381  33,935
   Merchandise FOB                              8,934   9,140    10,889  12,395   14,371   16,764   19,846   23,857  29,116
 Imports (GNFS)~                               12,535  11,646    14,047  17,714   25,557   32,713   37,570   42,768  49,054
   Merchandise FOB                             10,202   9,432    11,333  13,607   18,724   23,967  28,255    32,735  38,223
 Resource balance                              -2,251    -590      -361  -2,591    -7,832 -11,958  -13,475  -14,386 -15,119
 Netcurrent transfers                           3,299   4,500     6,775   6,684     8,819   9,623   10,182   10,508  10,904
 Current account balance                       -1,112    1,591    4,204   1,886    -1,407  -4,918   -5,800   -6,237  -6,396
 Net private foreign direct investment            322      368      612     752     1,162   3,080    5,019    4,081   4,780
 Long-term loans (net)                           -489   -1,490     -868  -1,531    -1,885   1,983    1,788    2,504   2,013
  Official                                        747      781     -147    -685       905   1,185    1,235    1,458   1,620
  Private                                      -1,236   -2,271     -721    -846    -2,790     798      553    1,046     393
 Other capita1(net, incl. errors & omissions)   2,560   2,248     1,963    -680     1,623     619      670      770     770
 Change inreservesd                            -1,282   -2,717   -5,911    -427       507    -764   -1,677   -1,118  -1,167
Memorandum items
Resource balance (% o f GDP)                      -3.1     -0.8     -0.4    -2.7      -7.1    -9.5   -10.0      -9.9    -9.7
Realannual growth rates ( YROO prices)
 Merchandise exports (FOB)                        11.9      5.6      8.1     2.7       7.9    13.2     16.1     19.0    21.1
 Merchandise imports (CIF)                         7.3     -5.1      8.0     9.3     23.6     18.6     17.3     16.1    16.6

                                                                                                           Annex 9
                                                                                                        Page 5 of 6

                                   Table 3: Pakistan -Key Economic Indicators
                                                        (continued)

                                                         Actual                 Estimate           Projected
                Indicator                   2001      2002       2003     2004   2005     2006   2007     2008   2009

Public finance (as YOof GDP at market prices)e
 Current revenues                             14.3       16.3        17.5   15.1    14.3    14.0   14.7     14.8   15.1
 Current expenditures                         15.5       15.9        16.6   14.0    14.4    14.1   14.0     13.6   13.5
 Current account surplus (+) or deficit (-)   -1.3         0.3        0.8    1.1     -0.1   -0.1    0.6      1.2    1.6
 Capital expenditure                            1.7        2.9        1.8    3.3      3.9    3.8    4.5      4.7    4.9
 Foreign financing                              1.9        1.2       -0.5   -0.7      1.7    1.8    1.5      1.9    1.4

Monetary indicators
 M2/GDP                                       36.7       40.0        43.1   44.9    45.3    46.1   46.8     48.0   49.3
 Growth o fM2 (%)                               9.0      15.4        18.0   19.6    19.3    17.0   15.1     15.3   15.2

Priceindices( YROO  =loo)
 Merchandise export price index               91.9       89.0        98.1  108.8    116.8  120.4  122.7    124.0  125.0
 Merchandise import price index               96.4       93.9      104.4   114.7    127.8  137.9  138.6    138.3  138.5
 Merchandise terms of trade index             95.3       94.8        93.9   94.8    91.4    87.3   88.5     89.6   90.2
 Consumer price index ("A change)               4.4        2.7        3.1    4.6      9.3    8.2    6.5      5.5    5.0
 GDP deflator (% change)                        7.7        2.4        4.4    7.8      9.8    8.2    6.5      5.5    5.0


a. GDP at factor cost
b. "GNFS" denotes "goods and nonfactor services."
c. Includesnet unrequited transfers exchding official capital grants.
d. Includesuse o fIMFresources.
e. Consolidated central government.
f. "LCU" denotes"local currency units." AnincreaseinUS$/LCU denotesappreciation.

                                                                                                                              Annex 9
                                                                                                                         Page 6 of 6

                                       Table 4: Pakistan - Key Exposure Indicators

                                                          Actual                      Estimate                 Projected
                Indicator                     2001     2002       2003       2004     2005        2006      2007      2008     2009

Total debt outstandingand                   31,706     33,675      35,885     35,687   35,208      37,032   38,668    10,991   42,777
disbursed(TDO) (US$m)a


Net disbursements(US$m)a                         554       341          43       230        261      1871     1636      2324      1786


Total debt service (TDS) (USSm)a             2,996      2,850       2,936      2,907     2,780      2,438    2,703     2,900    3,651


Debt anddebt service indicators (%)
  TDOIXGS~                                    276.1      248.4       198.3      186.1     158.4      144.5    132.3     121.3    107.9
  TDOIGDP                                       44.3      47.1        43.6       37.1      31.8       29.5     28.7      28.2     27.3
  TDSIXGS                                       26.1      21.0        16.2       15.2      12.5        9.5      9.2        8.6      9.2
  ConcessionaliTDO                              61.9       64.5       67.2


IBRDexposureindicators(?Yo)
  IBRDDSlpublic DS                              17.6       15.8        14.5      10.4       17.7      19.9      16.5      15.1     11.6
  PreferredcreditorDS/public DS(%)'             61.9       61.9       69.2       70.7      61.3       60.4      57.1      52.7     42.8
  IBRD DSiXGS                                    3.5        2.8         2.0       2.0        1.8        1.6      1.3       1.2      1.o
  IBRD TDO vs$m)d                            3,043      2,943       2,813      2,601     2,464      2,149    2,192      2,571    2,835
  Share ofIBRDportfolio (?Yo)                    2.5        2.4         2.4       2.4        2.3       2.1       2.2       2.5      2.7
  IDA TDO (US$TI)~                           4,123       5,097      5,604      6,020     6,651      7,309     8,013     8,674    9,583


IFC (US$m)
  Loans                                       332.2      305.4       252.9      193.0      168.0      136.0
  Equity andquasi-equitye                       76.2       84.5        71.8      62.0       57.0      46.0
  Guarantees                                    64.5       88.4        75.9     116.0      105.0      135.0


MIGA
  MIGA guarantees(VSSm)                         97.0     154.0       128.0       142.0     129.6      129.6



a. Includespublic andpublicly guaranteeddebt,privatenonguaranteed, use ofIMFcredits andnet short-
   term capital.
b. "XGS" denotes exportsofgoodsand services, includingworkers' remittances.
c. Preferredcreditors are definedas IBRD, IDA, the regionalmultilateral developmentbanks, the IMF, andthe
   Bank for InternationalSettlements.
d. Includespresentvalue of guarantees.
e. Includesequity andquasi-equitytypes o f both loan andequity instruments.

                                   9:
                                   m



                          F.
                          4             9
                                        m




                      m r n - w m w - m b w P u w w w - v l m
                      o o o o o o o o m o o o o o o o o o
                      o o o o o o o o m o o o o o o o o o
                      N N N N N N N N - N N N N N N N N N




r o w - 0 - - 0 -




                 h

        I




      1




      P




       1




gP

                                                                     Anne.x I1
                                                                   Page 1of 5



                               ANNEX 11
                     RELATIONSWITH THE IMF




Public infomMnNoke (PIN)Na. 051157         TW I@'
                                            InternationalMonetaryFund
FOR IMMEDIATERELEASE                                 Street,NW
W e m k r 17,2005                           Washington, D.C.20431 USA


  IMF ExecutiveBoardConcIudEH;2005Article IVConsultationwith
                                Paklstan

                                                                                          Annex II
                                                                                         Pnge 2 of 5




                                        - 2 -
Concernedwith dauble digit inflationandhighcapacityulition,the StateBankof
Pakebn{SBP)hastightwed monetarypolicy. Sincethe beginningof 2005, theSBPtms
Faisadthe six-nontht~%ssusyEllrate by mre Man4 percentagep            to 8 percentinMay,
but     keptitbrwdly u n c h a m since then; key inkerfstrates rernsinslightly negativein
real tern. Despitethe tightenlw. reservemoneygrwrRfi hasnot sleddownbecausethe
SBP proorkfedsubstantialbudgetfinanc.ingduringthe year asthe government%gross
financing needscouMnotbefcllly metfrom the marketat prevailing rates.

Degpiteh i rworker's remittances,the currentaccount mved inb@dicitk 2OWO5.
Exports,andinparUcukartextileexportsWdcwringthe enduf the textilequotasysbrs.have
pt3rfairmedwelt inthe firstsix months of2005.Butimportgrw evenM e r , reflectinghigher
ai!primandshngdemand,indudingfix mMne9. Grossreserves.Fellsomewhatin
x104&5, notwithstanding a contin&     increaseinnon-ciebt-creatinginflows andsubstantial
mw*naf finanang. Themateffectivelexeh;angeratehasappreciatedmDdsSalymerthe
lastfew monahs@!#enthe stable U.S. ddlar-PaMstsnl:wpee exchangerateand th-ra
substantialinAarbndiffer9nUarl.

                                                                                     Annex II
                                                                                    Page 3 of 5




                                      - 3 -
Pakistan.TheywlmW the PI&$&%        of suppwt that havebwonmade by the international
clsmmunitytoaddress urgent needsandassistwith the remnshnrc;tbn,and calledfor
substantial additionalassistance,especiallygrants, tohelpthe governmentwermrnethe
cristswihmf adverselyaffecting impfernentationof broader eeoncrmicpolicbs,Inthis
regard.sweral Directmnotedthattheywwld support a requestfor Emergency Natural
DisasterAssistsrncefromthe Fund,if the Pakistaniaulhwitiesw e to makesuch a request.

        Annex I1
       Page 4 of 5



-4-

                                  Annex I I
                               Page 5 of 5




  1.8    3'9    4.8    8-4      8.4
  4.4    2.5    3.1    4.6      9.3
  2.5  1s.o
         36     1.9    6 5      8.7
 lS.B          22.0   19.3    16.6
 172    iLi,8  1&9    17.3    18.8
4,163  4,402  4823   5533     8,548


 14.3   16.1   17.4   $4.9     14.0
 17.6   19.7   18-7   16.7     l?.?
  -4.3  -5.5   -3.8   -23      -3.3
  -3.3  -3.6   -1A     -1.B     -3.0
  2.3    2.0    2.9     1.a     0.2
 88.8   810.2  79.3   878      81-1



   5.1  613.4  18.9     2.I      2.2

  3.Q    20    .o,d   17.5     17.1
  9.0   65.4   18.3   i S b    lB.3
 10.4    8.1     4.1    1.7      4.1


 124    12.7   13,2    12.B    13.0
 14.3   83,l   13.7    14.1    17.0
  -2.7
  -1.e   0,1     3.8    1.4     -1.B
         2.2     5.1    20      - 1 3

309.4  285.8  238.0   zts.2   191.8
.I
 879   4 m    10.251 1O.arZI  9,985
   1.7   3.7     6.9    5.0      4.1
 58.3   61.3   58.4    51.5     59.3
  -2s    4.1    -3 b    3 , P   4.1

MAP SECTIOK


                                                 60                                           65                                            70                       TAJIKISTAN                 75


                                                                                                                                                                                                                               C H I N A
                                                                       P A K I S T A N
                                     NORTH WEST FRONTIER PROVINCE                                                                                                                 R.

                               DEVELOPMENT POLICY CREDIT 1
                                                                                                                                                                  Kunar                                        Gilgit
                                                                                                                                                                 Chitral                                             Indus
                                                                      PROJECT PROVINCE                                                                                                                                        R.

                                                                      SELECTED CITIES

                                                                      NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                               N.W.F.P.N.W.F.P.

                                                                      MAIN ROADS

                                                                      RAILROADS
          35
                                                                      RIVERS                                                                                            Mardan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Approximate                   35
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Line of Control
                                                                      PROVINCE BOUNDARIES                                                      TRIBAL AREAS
                                                                                                                                               TRIBAL AREAS    Peshawar                   ISLAMABAD

                                                                      INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                                                                                                JAMMU
                                                                                                                                                                                        FED. CAPITAL
                                                                                                                                                                                        FED. CAPITAL
                                                                                                                                                        Kahat          Rawalpindi         TERRITORYTERRITORY              and KASHMIR
                                                                                                                                                                                         ISLAMABADISLAMABAD
                                                                                                                                                      Bannu
                                                                                                                                                                                        Jhelum

                                                0               100          200       300 KILOMETERS                                                  Mianwali
                                                                                                                                                                 Khushab            R.        Gujrat
                                                                                                                                                                                                               Sialkot
                                                0               50          100      150        200 MILES
                                                                                                                                                                                    Sargodha
                                                                                                                                                 D.I.Khan                                                      Gujranwala

                                                                                                                                                           Bhakkar    JhelumP U N J A B           Lahore
                                                                                                                                                                 Jhana
                                                                 AFGHANISTAN                                                                                                             Faisalabad
                                                                                                                                                                                            R.                      Kasur

                                                                                                                   Zhob
                                                                                                                                 R.                                                    Ravi
                                                                                                                                                                                Sahiwal


          30                                                                                             Quetta                                 D.G.
                                                                                                                                                 Khan          Multan                  R.                                                            30


                                                                                                                                                                            Sutlej         Bahawalnagar

                                                                                                                   Sibi

                                                                                                                                                                 Bahawalpur

                                                                                                    Kalat

                                                                                  B A L O C H I S T A N                                                                                                         I N D I A

                                                                                                                                                   Rahimyar Khan


               I S L A M I C R E P .                                                                                                  R.
                                                                                                   Khuzdar
                                                                                                                     Sukkur
                                                                                                                                                                                                              75
                    O F I R A N                                                                                                       Rohri
                                                                                                            Larkana     Indus
                                                                                           R.                                    Canal                                                  65     UZBEK.             70      TAJIKISTAN         75
                                                                         Panjgur                                                                                                                              TAJIK.                               CHINA
                                                                                        Nal                                                                                 TURKMENISTAN
                                                                                                           Dokri                a

                                                                                                                             Nar
                                                                                                                                                                  35
           25                                                                                 Bela                      Nawabshah                                                                                                                    35
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           N.W.F.P.       

                                                                                                                                                            25                                                                                Approx. Line
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           of Control
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
                                                                                                                                                                                  A F G H A N I S T A N                                        JAMMU
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Islamabad         
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               AND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             KASHMIR
                                                                                                                             S I N D H                                                                                                        

                                                                                                                                                                                                                              FED. CAPITAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               TERRITORY
                                                                                                            Hyderabad                                                                                                         ISLAMABAD
                                           Gwadar
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PUNJAB
                                                                                                                                                                  30                                                                                 30

                                                                                                Karachi            Thatta                                                                            PAKISTANPAKISTAN
                                                                                                                                 Badin
                                                     A R A B I A N         S E A                                                                                                    BALOCHISTAN
                                                                                                                                                                  ISLAMIC
                                                                                                                                                                  REP. OF                                                         I N D I A
                                                                                                                                                                   IRAN

              This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
              The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information shown
MARCH                                                                                                                                                                                                       SINDH
              on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank Group, any                         Mouths of                                                                                                                                             IBRD
                                                                                                                                                                  25                                                                                 25
              judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any endorsement or                       the Indus

              acceptance of such boundaries.                                                                                                                                                                                                                       34635
     2006                                                                                                                                                                   Arabian    Sea
                               60                                                       65                                                 70                                       65                          70                             75

                      Pakistan-Assessment Letterfor the World Bank
                                         May 22,2006

 This note providesthe IMF staffs assessment ofPakistan's macroeconomic developments
 and prospectsas background forthe three development policy loans being consideredby the
 Executive Board ofthe World Bank onJune l. The assessment is based on IMFstaff
 discussionswith the Pakistani authoritiesduring a staffvisitto Islamabad in March 2006,
 follow-updiscussionsat the April 2006 SpringMeetingsin Washington,and at the sidelines
 of the 2006 Pakistan Development Forum held in Islamabad on May10-1 1.

 Economic developmentsin Pakistan since the 2005 Article consultation have been
                                                               IV
 broadly favorable.

     e  Real GDP growthin 2005/06 (July/June)is likelyto end at a solid6-6% percent,
        somewhatlowerthan anticipated,mainly owing to shortfalls inagricultural
        production.

     e  Inflation is startingto decline.The 12-month change inthe headline CPIfell from
        8-8% percent in the second halfof 2005 to 6.1percent in April 2006.Average
        inflationin 2005/06 is likelyto be around8 percent, down from9.3 percent oneyear
        earlier.
. "
     e  The nominal exchangerate has remained inthe range of 59-60 rupees perU.S. dollar
        since late2004; the real effectiveexchangerate appreciatedby about 11percentfrom       '
        December2004 to February2006.

     e  The October 2005 earthquake lefta heavy tollin terms of human lives and physical
        and social infrastructure,but had limitedeffectson inflation, output growth, andthe
        external currentaccount.Demands for government spending, however,have
        increased.Earthquakerelief and reconstruction spendingin 2005/06 could amountto
        up to 0.9 percentof GDP, whilethe overallbudget deficit (excluding grants) will be
        around 4%percentof GDP-compared with anoriginalbudget target
        (pre-earthquake)of 3.8 percent.

     e  The trade and currentaccount deficitshave beensignificantlylarger than envisaged at
        the time of the 2005 Article IV consultation,and are projected to reach 51/2 and
        4 percent of GDP, respectively,by end-June 2006.The continued rapid growthof
        non-oil imports(representingabout 80 percent of total imports) is not being matched
        by the performance of exportsand remittances.Net international reserves declined by
        closeto US$1 billion duringthe first half of 2005/06, butare expected to more than
        fully recover in the second half on accountof strong capital inflows, including from
        privatization and government bond issues. By end-June 2006,officialreserves are
        expectedto exceed US$10 billion(3%months of imports), comparedto
        US$9.9 billionone year earlier.

     e  Governmentreliance on State Bankof Pakistan (SBP)financinghas complicatedthe
        conductof monetary policy. Duringthe second halfof 2005, the bulk of the
        government's borrowing needs was satisfiedby resortingto SBP financing, partly
        becausethe cut-offrate set at treasury billauctionswas not sufficientlyattractiveto

                                          - 2 -


      commercialbanks, which continued to facea strong demand forcredit from private
      firms and households. While financing pressures fromthe budget mayease somewhat
      in the last quarterof fiscal year 2005/06 (owingto the global bondissue and large
      privatizationreceipts),broad money and privatesectorcredit growth are expected to
      remain high through end-June 2006.

  0   The privatizationprogram is gaining momentum.The sale of the Karachi Electric
      SupplyCompanyand the sale of management controlof PakistanTelecommunication
      CompanyLimited and PakistanSteelMills during 2005/06 constitutesignificant
      landmarksin the privatization processthat generated proceedsin excess of
      US$2 billion.The authoritiesintend to build onthis momentum throughthe offer of
      GlobalDepositoryReceipts of the Oil and Gas Development Company before
      end-July 2006. Prospectsfor privatization inthe energy sector,however, remain
      contingenton settingregional electricitytariffs at levels thatgive potential investors
      assurancesof a reliable revenue base.

  0   Market perceptionsof Pakistan have improved. Standard& Poor'supgraded its
      outlook on Pakistan'sforeign currency debt fromstableto positive in
      December2005, while Moody's upgradedPakistan'scredit ratingto "B2-positive" in
      mid-March.Pakistan's stockmarket index roseby over 60 percentin the 12 months
      to April2006, more than fullyrecovering fromthe large correctionof early 2005. On
      March 23,2006 the government raisedUS$800 million in a two-part 10-year
      (US$500million) and 30-year(US$300 million) global bond dealat very favorable
      terms; this was Pakistan'sthird and largest international bondofferingsincethe 1999
      debt restructuring,and the first with maturities longerthan five years. The abilityto
      place 30-yearpaper is an important indicationof the markets' positive outlook on
      Pakistan.


Key challengesand policy issues


0     Thekeynear-termchallenge is to containthedeterioration in the current
     accountdeficitand keep externalvulnerabilitiesin check.The high ratesof import
      growth might deceleratesharply in the coming monthsas the effectsof transitory,
     non-recurrentfactorsthat influencedthe level of imports in2005 (e.g., oil price spike,
     unforeseenagriculturalimports) unwind.If this happens, the currentaccount deficit
     could stabilizeduring the next oneor two years at levelsin the order of U$5-6 billion,
     broadly similarto the one currently projectedfor 2005/06. Underthese
      circumstances,the expected increasein non-debt-creating capitalinflowswould help
     financethe bulk ofthe currentaccount deficit and significant lossesof international
     reserveswould be avoided. However,if the declinein import growthturns out to be
     more gradual,or if there are negative shocks,external vulnerabilities could rise inthe
     months ahead.A tighteningof monetary policyto bring about a faster reductionof
     credit and domesticdemand growth would help reducethis risk byhelpingto narrow
     the current account deficit and facilitating the accumulation of international reserves.
     This strategy will be moreeffectiveif supplemented by fiscal measuresthat ensure
     the decline in the public debt-to-GDP ratio mandated bythe 2005 Fiscal

                                             - 3 -


        ResponsibilityLaw (2%percentage points per year), andby greaterexchange rate
        flexibility.

e       The overallbudget envelopefor the yearsaheadneeds to createfiscal spaceto
        accommodate theadditionaldemands on governmentspendingstemming from
        the October2005 earthquake.Six monthsafterthe disaster,government estimates
        of the size, profile, and meansof financingof prospective reconstruction expenditures
        remain highlytentative.Fiscal policy formulationin the years ahead needsto include
        explicitlythe additionaldemands on governmentspendingcreated bythe earthquake,
        and reconcilethose demands withthe requirements ofthe Fiscal ResponsibilityLaw
        referredto above, and, more generally, withothermacroeconomic stabilityand
        poverty-reduction considerations.

e       Effortsto raisethe revenue to GDP rationeed to be reinvigorated.Recent
        reforms in the revenue areahave focused on taxpayerfacilitationto strengthenthe
        investment climate.The focus in the years ahead should be on broadeningthe revenue
        base through continuedtax administration reform, andtax policy measures aimed at
        bringinguntaxed sectorsinto the net. Effortsto increasethe provinces' contribution
        to overall revenue collection shouldalso continue. Much needed increases in social
        and developmentspending hingecriticallyon raisingthe revenueto GDP ratio by
        3-5 percentagepoints over the mediumterm. Concretestepsto attain this goal should
        be laidout at the earliest.

Statusof IMF Relations

The 2005 Article IV consultation was concluded on November2,2005.' A mid-term staff
visit took place in March 2006.The 2006 ArticleIV consultation discussionsare expected to
be conducted inAugust 2006; it is anticipated thatthe IMF's ExecutiveBoard will complete
the 2006 Article IVconsultationin,November2006.




 See http:llwww.imf.orglextemal/np/secl~d2OO5/pnO5
                                                157.htm for the Public InformationNotice.

