Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB2180 
Operation Name 
First NWFP Development Policy Credit 
Region 
SOUTH ASIA 
Sector 
General industry and trade sector (25%);General agriculture, 
fishing and forestry sector (20%);General education sector 
(20%);Health (20%);General public administration sector (15%) 
Project ID 
P090689 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF PAKISTAN 
Implementing Agency 
MINISTRY OF FINANCE, GOVERNMENT OF NWFP 
Date PID Prepared 
February 16, 2006 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
February 14, 2006 
Date of Board Approval 
April 27, 2006 
1.  Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
After a decade of worsening macroeconomic problems, stagnation in poverty reduction and 
social indicators and political instability, in 1999 Pakistan embarked on a new course with 
comprehensive economic and governance reforms, aiming at restoring macroeconomic stability, 
raising growth rates and reducing poverty.  The federal reform policies have been supplemented 
by reforms in several provinces, including the North West Frontier Province (NWFP) starting in 
2001, to further the efforts in poverty reduction. 
 
2. Proposed objective(s) 
 
The overarching development objectives of the operation is to contribute to poverty reduction, 
improving human development and accelerating broad-based, inclusive economic growth 
through support to the provincial government’s medium-term reform program. These 
overarching objectives will be reached through achieving intermediate objectives which are:  
(i) 
improving service delivery in health and education, focusing on access to and quality 
of services;  
(ii) 
fiscal sustainability and enhanced effectiveness and accountability of expenditures, 
and improved resource mobilization;  
(iii) 
improved governance with transparency and enhanced accountability in the civil 
service, public financial management and procurement; 
(iv) 
improved administration of multi-tiered government and making local governments 
more accountable for improved service delivery; and 
(v) 
establishing an effective and transparent enabling environment for private sector 
development. 
 
3. Preliminary description 
 
The proposed NWFP DPC1 is a transition operation that will complete the series of three IDA 
credits that assisted the government’s fiscal reform agenda, and will also commence a new series 
Page  2
of IDA support for the government’s medium-term reform program with a strong emphasis on 
human development and inclusive growth. The DPC is broad-based, reflecting the multi-sector 
and cross-cutting nature of the provincial government’s multi-year Provincial Reform Program 
(PRP).  The DPC I supports the PRP through a disbursement to the Government of Pakistan of 
US$90 million (IDA) with the Rupee equivalent being on-lent to GoNWFP on IDA terms.     
The reform program launched by DPC1 will support the following pillars of the government 
program:  
(i) human development (for progress in education and health indicators); (ii) fiscal reform; (iii) 
governance reform (focused on financial management, procurement, civil service and 
administrative devolution); and (iv) continued support for private sector development to create 
sustainable employment opportunities.   
 
4. Environment Aspects 
 
The rapid environmental impact assessment undertaken by World Bank staff is that the DPC will 
have no negative environmental effect and may have beneficial consequences by improving the 
sustainability of common property management and promoting public sector efficiency.   
 
5. Tentative financing 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 0 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
90 
 Total 
90 
 
6. Contact point 
 
Contact: Paul Wade 
Title: Sr. Country Economist 
Tel: (202) 458-2270 
Fax:  (202) 522-0356 
Email: pwade@worldbank.org 
 
For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-4500 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Email: pic@worldbank.org 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
