Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB1848 
Operation Name 
NWFP First Development Policy Credit 
Region 
SOUTH ASIA 
Sector 
General industry and trade sector (25%);General agriculture, 
fishing and forestry sector (20%);General education sector 
(20%);Health (20%);General public administration sector (15%) 
Project ID 
P090689 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF PAKISTAN 
Implementing Agency 
MINISTRY OF FINANCE, GOVERNMENT OF NWFP 
Date PID Prepared 
September 15, 2005 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
February 14, 2006 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
May 2, 2006 
1.  Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
After a decade of worsening macroeconomic problems, stagnation in poverty reduction and social 
indicators and political instability, in 1999 Pakistan embarked on a new course with comprehensive 
economic and governance reforms, aiming at restoring macroeconomic stability, raising growth rates 
and reducing poverty.  The federal reform policies have been supplemented by reforms in several 
provinces, including the North West Frontier Province (NWFP), to further the efforts in poverty 
reduction. 
 
2. Proposed objective(s) 
 
The overarching development objectives of the operation is to contribute to poverty reduction, 
accelerating broad-based economic growth and improving human development through support to the 
provincial government’s medium-term reform program. These overarching objectives will be reached 
through achieving intermediate objectives which are:  
(i) 
improve service delivery in health and education, focusing on access to and quality of 
services;  
(ii) 
establish an effective and transparent enabling environment for private sector development;  
(iii) 
fiscal sustainability and enhanced effectiveness and accountability of expenditures, and 
improved resource mobilization;  
(iv) 
improved governance with transparency and enhanced accountability in the civil service, 
public financial management and procurement; and  
(v) 
improved administration of multi-tiered government and local governments more 
accountable for improved service delivery. 
 
3. Preliminary description 
 
The proposed NWFP Development Policy Credit (DPC) I replaces the third operation in a series of three 
planned Structural Adjustment Credits (SACs) to NWFP and starts a series of three Development Policy 
Credits.  The choice of instrument is based on the multi-sector and cross-cutting nature of the multi-year 
Provincial Reform Program (PRP).  A large part of the reform efforts and expected outcomes is system-
Page  2
wide, cross-cutting (such as improved governance affecting service delivery in education, health and 
other areas, and fiscal reforms) and with synergy effects.  These outcomes would better be achieved 
through Development Policy Credits rather than sector specific adjustment loans.  The DPC I supports 
the PRP through a disbursement to the Government of Pakistan of US$90 million (IDA) with the Rupee 
equivalent being on-lent to GoNWFP on IDA terms.     
The proposed NWFP DPC1 supports the implementation of the government’s medium-term reform 
program and is based on four pillars:  
(i) Reforms to accelerate human development and improve basic social service delivery;  
(ii) Promoting growth and private sector development;  
(iii) Fiscal reforms; and  
(iv) Governance reforms in public financial management, procurement, civil service and administrative 
devolution. 
 
4. Environment Aspects 
The rapid environmental impact assessment undertaken by World Bank staff is that the DPC will 
have no negative environmental effect and may have beneficial consequences by improving the 
sustainability of common property management and promoting public sector efficiency.   
 
5. Tentative financing 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 0 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
90 
 Total 
90 
 
6. Contact point 
 
Contact: Paul Wade 
Title: Sr. Country Economist 
Tel: (202) 458-2270 
Fax:  (202) 522-0356 
Email: pwade@worldbank.org
 
