Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 4177-PAK 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(North West Frontier Province Development Policy Credit) 
 
between 
 
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated June 1, 2006 
 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 4177-PAK 
 
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT dated June 1, 2006, entered into between ISLAMIC REPUBLIC 
OF PAKISTAN acting by its President (the 
“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL 
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the “Association”) for the purpose of providing 
financing in support of the Program (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement). The 
Association has decided to provide this financing on the basis, inter alia, of: (a) the 
actions which the North West Frontier Province (NWFP) has already taken under the 
Program and which are described in the Schedule to the Program Agreement; and (b) 
NWFP’s maintenance of an appropriate macro-economic policy framework.  The 
Recipient and the Association therefore hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I - GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in the Financing 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II  - FINANCING 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a credit in an amount equivalent to 
sixty two million seven hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights 
 
(SDR 62,700,000) (the “Credit”). 
 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Credit in support of the 
Program in accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
 
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the 
Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per 
annum. 
 
2.04. 
The Service Charge payable by the Recipient on the Withdrawn Credit Balance 
shall be equal to three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum. 
Page  3
-
2
-
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are March 15 and September 15 in each year. 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Credit shall be repaid in accordance with repayment 
schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.  
 
2.07. 
The Payment Currency is US Dollars. 
 
ARTICLE III - PROGRAM 
 
3.01. 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.  
To this end: 
 
(a) 
the Recipient, the Association and NWFP shall from time to time, at the 
request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in 
carrying out the Program; 
 
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Recipient shall cause to be 
furnished to the Association for its review and comment a report on the 
progress achieved in carrying out the Program, in such detail as the 
Association shall reasonably request; and 
 
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this 
Section, the Recipient shall exchange views with the Association and 
NWFP on any proposed action to be taken after the disbursement of the 
Credit which would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives 
of the Program, or any action taken under the Program including any 
action specified in the Schedule to the Program Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV - EFFECTIVENESS
 
4.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
 Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE V - REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
5.01. The 
Recipient
’s Representative is the Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint 
Secretary, or Deputy Secretary to the Economic Affairs Division, Ministry of 
Economic Affairs and Statistics. 
 
Page  4
-
3
-
5.02. The 
Recipient
’s Address is: 
 
Economic Affairs Division 
 
Ministry of Economic Affairs and Statistics 
 
Government of Pakistan 
 Islamabad, 
Pakistan 
 
5.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
 
International Development Association 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS  
248423(MCI) 
or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145(MCI) 
 
AGREED in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day 
and year first above written. 
 
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN 
 
By /s/ Mushtaq Malik 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION  
 
By /s/ John W. Wall 
 
Country Director 
Pakistan 
Page  5
-
4
-
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Program Actions; Availability of Credit Proceeds 
 
Section I. 
Actions under the Program
The actions to be taken under the Program are set out in the Schedule to the 
Program Agreement. 
 
Section II. 
Availability of Credit Proceeds
A. General 
 
1. 
 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Credit in accordance with the 
provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Association may 
specify by notice to the Recipient. 
 
2. 
The Recipient shall make the rupee equivalent of the proceeds of the Credit 
available to NWFP in accordance with the Recipient’s on-lending policy. 
 
B. 
Allocation of Credit Amounts.
 The total amount of the Credit shall be 
withdrawn in a single tranche. 
 
C.   
Deposit of Credit Proceeds
 
1. 
The Recipient shall open, prior to furnishing to the Association the first request 
for withdrawal from the Credit Account, and thereafter maintain on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association a deposit account in United States Dollars (“Foreign 
Currency Deposit Account”).  
 
2. 
The Recipient shall cause NWFP to open, prior to the Recipient furnishing to the 
Association the first request for withdrawal from the Credit Account, and thereafter 
maintain on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, a deposit account in 
Rupees (“Local Currency Deposit Account”).   
 
3. 
All withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be deposited by the Association 
into the Foreign Currency Deposit Account. Upon each deposit of an amount of the 
Credit into the Foreign Currency Deposit Account, the Recipient shall deposit an 
equivalent amount into the Local Currency Deposit Account.   
 
D. Audit.
 Upon the Association’s request, the Recipient shall: 
 
Page  6
-
5
-
1. 
have both Deposit Accounts audited by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association, in accordance with consistently applied auditing standards acceptable to the 
Association; 
 
2. 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than four 
(4) months after the date of the Association
’s request for such audit, a certified copy of 
the report of such audit, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall 
reasonably request; and  
 
3. 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning the Deposit 
Accounts and their audit as the Association shall reasonably request. 
 
E. Excluded 
Expenditures
.
The Recipient undertakes that the proceeds of the 
Credit shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Association determines 
at any time that an amount of the Credit was used to make a payment for an Excluded 
Expenditure, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund an 
amount equal to the amount of such payment to the Association. Amounts refunded to the 
Association upon such request shall be cancelled.
 
F. 
Closing Date.  
The Closing Date is June 30, 2007. 
Page  7
-
6
-
SCHEDULE 2
 
Repayment Schedule 
Date Payment Due 
Principal Amount of the Credit 
repayable 
(expressed as a percentage)* 
On each March 15 and September 15: 
 
commencing September 15, 2016 to and including 
March 15, 2026 
1.25% 
commencing September 15, 2026 to and including 
March 15, 2041 
2.50% 
*The percentages represent the percentage of the principal amount of the Credit to be 
repaid, except as the Association may otherwise specify pursuant to Section 3.03(b) of 
the General Conditions. 
 
Page  8
-
7
-
APPENDIX 
 
Section I.  Definitions 
 
1. 
“Agricultural Policy” means NWFP’s Agricultural Policy of 2005. 
 
2. 
“Bank of Khyber” means the commercial Bank established and operating under 
NWFP’s Bank of Khyber Act (No. XIV of 1991).  
 
3. 
“Deposit Accounts” means both the Foreign Currency Deposit Account and the 
Local Currency Deposit Account. 
 
4. 
“District Agricultural Coordination Forums” means stakeholder groups 
consisting of private sector, civil society and public sector representatives formed 
at the district level to serve as agricultural development coordination and 
advisory bodies.  
 
5. 
“Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure: 
 
(a) 
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Association or 
the Bank has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Association or 
the Bank has financed or agreed to finance under another Financing, 
credit, grant or loan; 
 
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published 
by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 
(1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or subgroups under future 
revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Association by notice to the 
Recipient: 
 
Group
Sub-group Description 
of 
Item 
112  
Alcoholic 
beverages 
121  
Tobacco, 
un-
manufactured, tobacco 
refuse 
122  
Tobacco, 
manufactured 
(whether or not containing 
tobacco substitutes) 
525 
 
Radioactive and associated 
materials 
Page  9
-
8
-
Group
Sub-group Description 
of 
Item 
667 
 
Pearls, precious and 
semiprecious stones, 
unworked or worked 
718  
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and parts 
thereof; fuel elements 
(cartridges), non-
irradiated, for nuclear 
reactors 
728 
728.43  
Tobacco processing 
machinery 
897  
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or 
platinum group metals 
(except watches and watch 
cases) and goldsmiths’ or 
silversmiths’ wares 
(including set gems) 
971  
 
Gold, non-monetary 
(excluding gold ores and 
concentrates) 
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption; 
 
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of 
which is prohibited under the laws of the Recipient or international 
agreements to which the Recipient is a party; 
 
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United 
Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the 
United Nations; and 
 
(f) 
under a contract with respect to which the Association determines that 
corrupt, fraudulent, collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by 
representatives of the Recipient or other recipient of the Credit proceeds 
during the procurement or execution of such contract, without the 
Recipient (or other such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate 
action satisfactory to the Association to remedy the situation. 
 
6. 
“Farm Services Centers” means centers established in strategic locations within 
districts, to provide an interface among government agricultural line departments, 
civil society and farming communities for purposes of providing agricultural 
services and introducing new and improved and appropriate technologies. 
 
Page  10
-
9
-
7. 
“Fiscal Year” or “FY” means NWFP’s fiscal year beginning on July 1 of a 
calendar year and ending on June 30 of the next following calendar year. 
 
8. 
“Foreign Currency Deposit Account” means the account referred to in Part C.1 of 
Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.  
 
9. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association 
General Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005, with the 
modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix. 
 
10. 
“HIV/AIDS” means Human Immunodeficiency Virus/Acquired Immune 
Deficiency Syndrome. 
 
11. 
“IM&R” means instructional material and repairs. 
 
12. 
“Investment Facilitation Council” means the Council established and operating 
under the office of the NWFP chief minister pursuant to Notification No. AEA 
(IND) 10-342 dated November 11, 2005. 
 
13. 
“Investment Facilitation Committee” means the Committee established and 
operating under the office of the NWFP chief minister pursuant to Notification 
AEA (IND) 10-342 dated November 12, 2005. 
 
14. 
“Local Currency Deposit Account” means the account referred to in Part C. 2 of 
Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.   
 
15. 
“NGO” means a non-governmental organization registered and operating in 
accordance with the laws of NWFP and the Recipient. 
 
16. 
“NWFP” means the North West Frontier Province, a province of the Recipient.  
 
17. 
 “Procurement Law” means NWFP’s Procurement of Goods, Works, Services 
and Consulting Services Ordinance (No. XVIII of 2002), as the same may be 
amended from time to time.  
 
18. 
“Program” means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to 
promote growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty and set forth or 
referred to in the letter from the Recipient dated April 4, 2006, transmitting to the 
Association a letter from NWFP dated March 29, 2006, declaring NWFP’s 
commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting assistance from the 
Association in support of the Program during its execution. 
 
19. 
“PGDP” means the provincial (i.e., NWFP’s) gross domestic product. 
Page  11
-
10
-
20. 
“PTAs” means Parent Teacher Associations in government schools. 
 
21. 
“Rupee” or “rupees” means the currency of the Recipient. 
 
22. 
“Sarhad Development Authority” means the Authority established and operating 
under NWFP’s Sarhad Development Authority Act (No. XI of 1973). 
 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
The modifications to the “International Development Association General 
Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 are as follows:   
 
1. 
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for 
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety. 
2. 
Sections 2.04 (
Designated Accounts)
 and 2.05 (
Eligible Expenditures
)
are deleted 
in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered 
accordingly. 
 
3. 
Sections 4.01 (
Project Execution Generally
), and 4.09 (
Financial Management; 
Financial Statements; Audits
)
are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining 
Sections in Article IV are renumbered accordingly. 
4. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 4.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above 
and relating to 
Use of Goods, Works and Services
)
is deleted in its entirety. 
 
5. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 4.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 
above) is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 4.06. 
Plans; Documents; Records 
 
…
(c) 
The Recipient shall retain all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures 
under the Credit until two (2) years after the Closing Date. The Recipient 
shall enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records.” 
 
6. 
Section 4.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is modified to 
read as follows: 
 
Page  12
-
11
-
Section 4.07. 
Program Monitoring and Evaluation 
 
…
(c)  
The Recipient shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing 
Date, a report of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall 
reasonably request, on the execution of the Program, the performance by 
the Recipient and the Association of their respective obligations under 
the Legal Agreements and the accomplishment of the purposes of the 
Credit.” 
 
7. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or 
deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in 
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered 
accordingly: 
 
(a) 
The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as 
follows:   
 
“‘Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Credit is put in 
support of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded 
pursuant to the Financing Agreement.” 
 
(b) 
The term “Financial Statements” and its definition as set forth in the 
Appendix are deleted in their entirety. 
 
(c) 
The term “Project” wherever it is used in the General Conditions 
(including in the definition of “Project Implementing Entity”) is 
modified to read “Program” and the definition of “Program” is modified 
to read as follows:  
 
“‘Program’ means the program referred to in the Loan Agreement in 
support of which the Loan is made.” All references to “Project” 
throughout these General Conditions are deemed to be references to 
“Program”. 
 
