RETURN TO
REPORTS DESK                                         RESTRICTED
WITHIN                                          Report No.  PA-94a
ONE WEEK
TMis report is for ofn_a us on by the, Bank Group nd specificly authorized orpnizations
or persons. It muy not be publihod, quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The
Dank Group doos not accept responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of the reportL
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
APPRAISAL OF
A FISHERIES PROJECT
PANAMA
July 15, 1971
Agriculture Projects Department



CURENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00 - B 1.00
WRIG:ITS AND MEASURES
1in          -    2.54 ce
I ft         -    30.5 cm
1 lb         -    0.453 kg
I metric ton -    2,205 lb
1 U.S. gAl    -    3.8 liters
1 km         -    0.62 mile
1 sq mi      '    2.56 sq kiloters
I sh ton     -    2,000 lb
AB, VIATIONS
BNp - Banco Neiional d. Panama



PANAMA
FISHERIES PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS ......................   i-ii
I.  INTRODUCTION ......................., 1
II.  BACKGROUND ..........................   1
A. General ..................                            1
B.  Fishing Industry .................                   2
Development and Administration ..............   3
Fishing Port Facilities    .....................  4
Shrimp Fishery ............................. .    4
Other Fisheries .......................        6
C.  Fisheries Development Credit ..................      7
General  ..................................    7
Banco Nacional de Panama ..................    8
D.  Shrimp Trawler Construction    ......................   9
III.  THE PROJECT ...........................................   9
A.   General Description ........ ......................   9
B.  Detailed Features       ................................  10
Fishing Vessels ............................. .  10
Technical Assistance          . . .    10
Fishing Port Feasibility Study ............ .. 10
Permanent Working Capital ................... .   11
C.  Cost Estimates ........... ......................  11
D.  Financing    ........................................  12
E.  Procurement     ......................................  13
F.  Disbursement    .....................................  14
IV.  ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT ....... .................... 14
A.  Loan Policies and Procedures ......................  14
B.  Fisheries Project Committee ...................... 16
C. Accounts and Audit    .            ..... 16
V.  OPERATING RESULTS      .....................................  16
VI.   BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION ....... .....................  17
VII.  RECO11MENDATIONS       .........................         18
This report is based on the findings of a Bank mission in January/February
1971 composed of Messrs. Frank and Kada (Bank) and Svoboda (Consultant).



-2-
ANNEXES
1. Past Production, Exports and Imports of Shrimp, Fish and Fish Products
Table 1   Fish and Crustacean Landings
Table 2   Exports of Fish Products
Table 3   Imports of Fish Products by Value
Table 4   Imports of Fish Products by Volume
2. Functions and Organization of the Directorate of Marine Resources
Table 1   Personnel of the Directorate of Marine Resources
Chart 1   Organization of the Directorate of Marine Resources
3.  UNDP/FAO Regional Project for Central American Fishery DevelOpment
4.  UNDP Follow-up Project
5. Panamanian Shrimp Fishing Fleet
Table 1  Average Number of Shrimp Trawlers in Operation
Table 2   Composition of Shrimp Trawler Fleet, 1970
Table 3   Licensed Shrimp Fleet Ownership
6.  WIorld Shrimp Resources and Market Prospects
Table 1   Shrimp Catches by Countries and Regions
Table 2   Shrimp Imports intc Major Markets
Table 3   Shrimp Exports by Country
Table 4   Shrimp Wholesale Price Series Ex Chicago
Table 5   Income and Price Elasticity of Consumption for Shrimp in
Different CountriesE
Chart 1   Shrimp Price Movements - 1950-69
7.  World Fish Meal Production and Market Prospects
Table 1   Fish Meal and Solubles:  World Exports, 1955-65 - 1975
Table 2   Fish Meal and Solubles:  World Production, 1955-65 - 1975
Table 3   Fish Meal  World Imports, 1955-57 - 1968
Table 4   Prices of Fish Meal in Western Europe and United States,
1954-1969
Chart 1   Fish Meal Production and Imports in Major Net Importing
Countries, 1955-1968
Chart 2   Fish Meal Prices in, Western Europe and in U.S.A.
Chart 3   Fish Meal and Solubles Production in Major Producing
Countries, 1955-75
S.  Panamanian Fish Meal Industry
Table 1   Landings of Anchovy and Thread Herring
Table 2   Purse Seiner Fleet (1970)
Table 3   Fish Meal and Fish Oil Production
Table 4   Estimated Earnings and Costs of Purse Seiner
Table 5   Assumptions for Purse Seiner Income Statement Forecasts



- 3 -
9. Panama Banking Sector and Monetary System
Table 1   Summary Balance Sheet Figures of Panama Banks and
Savings Institutions
Table 2   A. Balances of Bank Deposits, December 31, 1966-1969,
March 31, 1971
B. Loans Granted, Years 1966-1969 and 1st Trimestre 1970
Table 3   Panama Banks and Savings Institutions, December 31, 1969
Table 4   Panama Finance Companies:  Comparative Summary Balance
Sheets, December 31, 1964 and 1968
10. Fisheries Development Credit
Table 1   Estimate of Bank Loans to the Fisheries Sector,
January 1, 1966 to September 30, 1970
Table 2   Banco Nacional de Panama: Loans for Fishing Vessels
Made in 1969 and 1970
11.  Banco Nacional de Panama
Table 1   Banco Nacional de Panama:  Comparative Balance Sheets,
December 31, Fiscal Years 1965 thru 1970
Table 2   Banco Nacional de Panama (Loans Granted in 1966 to 1969
and 1st through 3rd Quarter (1970)): Distribution of
Loans by Economic Sectors
Table 3   Personnel of the Banco Nacional de Panama (January 1971)
Table 4   Banco Nacional de Panama: Comparative Income Statements
Chart 1   Organization of the Banco Nacional de Panama
12.  Specifications 67-Foot Shrimp Trawler
Drawing   Example of Acceptable Design for 67-Foot Steel Shrimp
Double Rigger Trawl Fishing Vessel
13. Naval Architectural Services
14. Project Training Program
15. Project Cost Estimates
16. Project Time Schedule
17. Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
18. Maritime Insurance
Table 1   Maritime Insurance Rates
19. Financial Operating Results of Shrimp Trawlers
Table 1   Number of Shrimp Trawlers According to Length (1970)
Table 2   Annual Catch Estimates of Proposed Shrimp Trawlers
Table 3   Estimated Earnings and Costs of 72-Foot Shrimp Trawler
Table 4   Assumptions for Income Statement Forecasts of 72-Foot
Shrimp Trawler
Table 5   Estimated Earnings and Costs of 67-Foot Shrimp Trawler



- 4 -
Table 6   Assumptions for I[ncome Statement Foreca6ts of 67-Foot
Shrimp Trawler
Table 7   Financial Return of 72-Foot Vessel with Constant Prices
and Costs
Table 8   Financial Return of 72-Foot Vessel with Increase in
Prices and Costs
Table 9   Financial Return of 67-Foot Vessel with Constant Prices
and Costs
Table 10  Financial Return of 67-Foot Vessel with Increase in
Prices and Costs
Table 11  Sub-borrower Cash Flow
20. Projected Project Account Cash Flow
21. Financial and Economic Results of Project
Table 1   Economic Results of Project (Prices and Costs Constant)
Table 2   Economic Results of Project (With Increase in PriCes
and Costs)
Table 3   Incremental Shrimp Export Earnings
MAP
Main Shrimp Fishing Grounds



PANAMA
FISHERIES PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.         This report concerns the appraisal of a fisheries project in the
Republic of Panama to assist in the renewal of that country's obsolete shrimp
trawler fleet. New vessels are required to enable Panama to take maximum
advantage of its valuable shrimp resources. The proposed project is in line
with Government's strategy of developing all aspects of the fishing industry
and, in particular, coincides with its objective of insuring the availability
of development credit to small fishing enterprises. The proposed loan would
be the first Bank loan to support agricultture in Panama since the 1950's and
is viewed as the first of a possible series of projects to support the Pana-
manian fishing industry.
ii.        The proposed project involves the supply, over a four-year period,
of about 40 shrimp trawlers, equipped with modern fishing gear, and the pro-
vision of technical assistance in vessel design, construction supervision,
operational training and a fishing port feasibility study. Total project
costs are estimated at US$5.4 million, of which US$3.4 million, or 64%, rep-
resents the foreign exchange costs to be financed by the proposed Bank loan.
Sub-borrowers would contribute 16% towards project costs and tlle Banco
Nacional de Panama (BNP) and government would provide the remaining 20%.
iii.       The loan would be made to the Banco Nacional de Panama, which would
be the lending channel, setting up a Project Unit within its organization to
assume responsibility for coordination and execution. The Unit would be
headed by a senior BNP officer, and a naval architect and a Fisheries Project
Committee would assist in international tendering and bid evaluation. The
Directorate of Marine Resources of the Government of Panama would assist in
subloan analysis, vessel design selection, and crew training. BNP would es-
tablish a Separate Project Account through which all project ftnds managed
by BNP would flow.
iv.        The 40 replacement vessels would catch an annual average incremental
volume of about 1.8 million lb over wlhat the 40 vessels would catch if
left to fish until the end of their economic life.  The resulting earnings
would provide satisfactory financial retUtrn!; to the fishermen.  The economic
rate of return would be 15% if future prlces and costs are assumed constant and
22% under the more realistic assumption of an increzase in prices and costs.
It is expected that the coming decade will see a continued upwardl pressure on
shrimp prices due to fixed worldl supply and Increasing per capita consumption
of slhrimp.  The projected incremwental, net export e;irnings due to the project
would amount to an annual average of at least US$1.7 million.
v.         At present there are no import duties on shrimp vessels because of
a Government decree prohibiting imports.  Thle project would be exempt from the
decree, however, and the vessels would be procured through international com-
petitive bidding. A 15% preference would be allowed for locally built vessels



*-ii -
an(I it is expected tilat local shipya:rds would win the bids.  Thie estimated
foreign exchange component of tLie pro,je;Jct includes expatriate Lectinical as-
sistance and imported materials for vessel construction:  steel plate, diesel
engines, auxiliary Liqu ipment, iiavigation eqluipmen.t, and fisling, gear.
vi.        Thie project would be suitable for a Bank loan of US$3.4 million, with
a term of 12 years, including flve years of grace.  T'he borrower would be
tile Banco Nacional de Panama anid wou:ld bear the forefgig  exchange ri.sk.  BtNP       
would supplement abotit US$3.0 nmillion of the Bani  loan with its own funds
and grant subloans for replacing vessels with terms of eiglt years, inicluding
one year of grace, and an interest rate of 9-1/2%.  The remainder of the
Bank loan; about US$0.4 million, would be used by Government Lo help finance
the fishing port feasibility study and the fishing operations training.



PANAMA
FISHERIES PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Panama has requested a Bank loan of US$3.4
million to meet the foreign exchange costs of a fisheries project that would
renew a substantial part of the shrimp trawler fleet, improve its efficiency
and increase its output. The project involves the supply of about 40 vessels
and the provision of related technical assistance services. It would be an
important part of Government's plan to develop all aspects of its fishing
industry and to insure that credit is available to small fishing enter-
prises.
1.02      This would be the first Bank loan for agricultural development in
Panama since the mid-1950's when two small loans were made for farm equipment
and grain silos (PAN-86, $1.2 million, and PAN-87, US$290,000). The proposed
project is viewed as the first of a possible series to support the Panamanian
fishing industry. A second project is being prepared by the Government which
would involve the construction of a fishing port and a possible third would
provide additional fishing vessels, based on the improved shore servicing
facilities.
1.03      The project was identified and prepared by an FAO/IBRD Cooperative
Program mission in August 1969. This report is based on the findings of an
appraisal mission, consisting of Messrs. Frank and Kada (Bank) and Svoboda
(consultant), that visited Panama in January/February 1971.
II.  BACKGROUND -/
A. General
2.01      Panama, with an area of about 29,000 sq mi, has a population of
about 1.4 million, which is increasing at the rate of about 3.2% per annum.
Per capita income was about US$700 in 1970. The country has provided an open
and stable economic environment that, together with the Panama Canal, has
led to the development of a sophisticated communications, banking, and
entrepot community, and it has achieved an economic growth rate of almost 8%
against a background of price stability. Although the Canal is the major
source of foreign exchange earnings, dependence on it has been somewhat re-
duced as a result of progress made by the private sector. Since 1969, the
Government has undertaken a large public investment program to correct
1/   For further information on the Panamanian economy, see:  Current Econo-
mic Position and Prospects of Panama, IBRD Report No. CA-2 of February 19,
1970.



- 2 -
deficiencies in the economic infrastructure, such as power, water supplies,
road maintenance, airports, fishling ports, and vocatlonal and secondary edu-
cation.
2.02      Agriculture, in spite of high urban migration, still employs about
40% of the population but accounts for only 20% of the gross national
product. A wide and growing gap exists between the few advanced, export-
oriented farmers and a large group of farmers producing for domestic consump-
tion. While in 1970, the single largest source of foreign exchange earnings
was revenue from the Panama Canal Zone, bananas provided about 50% of Panama's
commodity export earnings, followed by refined petroleum (21%) and shrimp (8%).
B. Fishing Industry
2.03       "Panama" is said to be the Indian name for abundance of fish.
The territory of the Republic of Panama is situated on the isthmus separating
the Caribbean Sea from the Pacific Ocean. On the Pacific side (1,780 km of
coastline), the waters are rich in fish resources, especially in the Gulf of
Panama where many rivers deposit alluvia to form a layer of mud along the
coast and create a favorable habitat for shrimp. Seasonal water upwellings 1/
in the Gulf account for a high biological production that supports size-
able stocks of commercially important fish species. Coastal waters on the
Caribbean side (880 km of coastline) are rather poor in fish resources and
their exploitation is hampered by lack of roads and scarcity of population
along the coast.
2.04      The fisheries industry employs 4,600 people, or about 1% of the
e(onomically active population, and capital invested in all fisheries
activities is estimated to be US$20.5 million, of which a total of US$13
mfllion is invested in fishing vessels. The bulk of the Panamanian catch
is processed and exported, amouinting to about US$11.0 million in 1970, but
tinports of fish products are also considerable, especially salted cod, canned
sardines, and ttna, amounting to about US$2.1 million in 1970. Statistics
on past production imports and exports of the fishing industry appear in
Annex 1.
2.05       In spite of an active fishing industry, annual per capita consump-
tioll of fish in Panama is only about 10 lb, which is low compared with many
other nations. Since there is a reported lack of a properly nutritional diet,
especially among the inland rural population, the Government is developing
the food fish industry through specific projects in the catching, distribut-
ing, marketing and preparation of various species of fish that are not pres-
ently part of the typical diet (paras 2.06, 2.09 and 2.21).
1J   An upwelling is a stream from the ocean bottom towards the surface of
the sea that is caused by: surface wind, bottom currents, shape of
ocean floor, difference of water temperature, etc. The upwellings
bring Up nutritional elements from the ocean bed and form rich fish
feeding waters.



-3-
Development and Administration
2.06      The Government of Panama has a comprehensive program to develop the
potential of its fishing industry. To overcome the inadequacies of the pres-
ent port and fish installations, a new fishing port complex is being planned
(para 2.11). Government is also developing the food fish industry through
specific projects in the catching, distributing, marketing, and preparation
of various species of fish. UNDP/FAO is working with the Government in this
field (para 2.09), and, with the assistance of AID, the Directorate of Marine
Resources has launched a promotional campaign designed to increase local con-
sumption. As part of the campaign, fish cookbooks are distributed and fish
cooking programs are televised. The U.S. Peace Corps has been assisting in
developing a cooperative of individual fishermen in a remote area that would
catch and process food fish.
2l07      The organization holding primary responsibility for fisheries
administration and development is the Directorate of Marine Resources,
within the Ministry of Industry and Commerce. This Directorate formulates
ahd enforces fishing regulations and legislation, conducts biological
investigations, performs exploratory fishing, collects and publishes fishing
statistics, assists in fish marketing efforts, and supports the development
of small-scale fishing (Annex 2). In addition, the National Fisheries Commis-
sion, composed of representatives of public organizations and the fishing
industry, including the seamen's trade unions, reviews and makes recommenda-
tions on key fishing policies and legislative issues.
2.08      The National Association of the Panamanian Fishing Industry is an
active trade association whose membership includes nearly all processing
companies and over 75% of the vessel owners. The Association works closely
with Government officials in efforts to develop the commercial fishing
industry.
2.09      Panama is a participant in the UNDP/FAO Regional Project for Cen-
tral American Fishery Development and has contributed nearly US$500,000 to
the six-year project, which concludes this year (Annex 3). The project's
purpose is to increase the production and consumption of marine and brackish
wfter fish and fishing products in the Central American region. Activities
in Panama have included resource surveys, made through exploratory fishing,
and work to strengthen the infrastructure for the local distribution and mar-
keting of food fish. A UNDP follow-up project is being formulated that would
concentrate on further development of small-scale fishing, shark fishing,
domestic food fish marketing and distribution, and intensive offshore ex-
ploratory fishing (Annex 4).
2.10      All commercial fishing activities in Panama are licensed and are
subject to regulation by the Directorate of Marine Resources. To insure
that the intensity of fish processing and exploitation does not surpass the
levels that fishing resources can biologically and economically support, the
Directorate has set limits on the maximum fleet sizes and installed processing
capability.



-4-
Fishing Port Facilities
2.11      Although the fisheries of 'Panama have considerably developed over
the past 15 years, available fish resources and potential markets for fish
products still allow for a larger expansion of fisheries activities.  This
expansion is hampered by the lack of fishing port facilities on Panamanian
territory, and especially in the Gulf of Panama where the most important
fish resources are concentrated. Because there is no port for sheltering
or berthing fishing vessels, damage to vessels is frequent, and operating
costs are high. In areas where vessels anchor, the inner reaches are very
shallow and fish catches can be landed only at high tide. As a result,
fish processing cannot be made a continuous operation and the marketing of
fresh fish is also disrupted. In any action taken to expand Panamanian
fisheries, the construction of a fishing port must have priority.
Shrimp Fishery
2.12      Resources.  The Gulf of Panama and the Gulf of Chiriqui off the
Pacific coast of Panama are the two major shrimp fishing grounds (Map). The
shrimp grounds are within the territorial waters claimed by Panama, 200 miles
from the coastline, with the most important shrimp trawling taking place
within 12 miles of the coastline. Panama has had no difficulties over inter-
national fishing rights to its shrimp fishing grounds. Shrimp resources are
generally determined by the amount of alluvial deposits carried by the
rivers to the sea to form areas of brackish water in which infant shrimp
grow. The life cycle of shrimp is estimated at 12 to 18 months. One adult
shrimp female produces millions of eggs and the proportion surviving and
growing into adult shrimp is determined primarily by the availability of
food sources and not the intensity of the shrimp fishing. Most eggs do not
result in adult shrimp because of a lack of food sources; many are also eaten
by fish. As long as a few adult shrimps mature and lay eggs, the resource
is maintained.  It is conceivably impossible that shrimp resources would be
trawled to the extent that all adult shrimps are caught before laying eggs.
In Panama, the brackish waters are placed off limits to allow the infant
shrimp to develop.
2.13      Three main species of shrimp are found in Panama - white, pink,
and sea bob (titi). White shrimp are the most sought after because of their
large size and higher commercial value, and available data show that these
stocks are being fully exploited.  I'here are possibilities of increased
exploitation of other species, especially a type of red shrimp, Solenocera
sp., for which new fishing grounds have been recently discovered in deeper
waters. Further exploratory fishing to determine whether the new grounds
can be commercially exploited is being conducted by the Government of Panama
and the UNDP/FAO project.
2.14      Shrimp fishing statistics indicate annual catches of 6,100 to 7,800
sh tons over the past 10 years, with an annual average of about 6,600 sh
tons (Annex 1). In 1970, the shrimp fleet brought in about 7,600 sh tons.
Since these catches represent near complete annual exploitation of proven
fishing grounds, a further increase in fishing effort would not significantly



- 5 -
increase total annual catch. Providing replacement shrimp trawlers under
the proposed project would, however, prevent a decline in shrimp catch, which
would occur if the old vessels are not replaced.
2.15      Fleet.  Shrimp fishing on a commercial scale in Panama began in the
early 1950's with successful shrimp exports to the United States and the
import of second-hand trawlers from the United States, mostly old style
Mfississippi coastal single-net trawlers. By 1955, several shipyards were
building wooden shrimp trawlers and the size of the fleet grew rapidly until
it was limited by Government in 1968 to 238 licensed trawlers. Although
the new modern steel trawlers have an initial higher catch per vessel than
and old wooden trawler, the catch of the steel trawler will also decline
with age and increased maintenance time. At the projected rate of fleet
replacement, all vessels in the fleet would have an adequate catch per
vessel. During 1970, 229 shrimp trawlers were operated throughout the year,
leaving nine licenses partially inactive due to delays in replacing sunken
vessels. Of the 229, about half (115) were wooden trawlers over 10 years
old (Annex 5), which are kept in operation only with very high operating and
maintenance costs. Vessel owners must frequently replace the wooden hull,
keel, and rudder pieces, which are damaged by the shipworm that commonly
infests tropical waters. In addition, the older trawlers require frequent
caulking of the hull planks. On the majority of these boats, the main
engines, brine tanks, and auxiliary equipment have reached the point where
they can no longer be repaired but must be replaced. As a result of the
high maintenance costs, many of the old vessels are operating at a marginal
profit and sometimes at a loss. Owners of the vessels have begun to build
or purchase replacements but, due to the limited credit and stringent terms,
only 17 trawlers have been replaced in the past three years.
2.16      The largest part of the shrimp trawler fleet, 68%, is owned by
companies or individuals with three or more vessels each and comprise 16%
of the total number of companies or owners. The companies or owners with
one or two trawlers own a total of 32% of the fleet and comprise 84% of the
fishing company or owner population. The largest companies (10 to 44 vessels
each) are owned by the shrimp processing plants while the owners of one and
two vessels are usually former captains and small investors. Before the
number of licenses was fixed at 238 in 1968, the fleet was generally expanded
by the larger companies selling their older trawlers to individuals and then
building new ones. The individual owners who purchased these second-hand
vessels were not able to earn sufficient profit to purchase new vessels. It
is estimated that a subloan for a new and more efficient trawler could be
fully repaid after eight years of operation. However, present credit arrange-
ments for replacing trawlers have been limited and carry stringent terms
(three to five years for repayment). Most of the recent trawler replacements
are those made by the larger companies who often purchase the licenses of
individual owners that are not able to replace their old vessels.
2.17      Production.  Shrimp are caught by vessels dragging trawl nets on the
ocean bottom. They are hauled aboard and dumped on deck, beheaded, washed
witl sea water, and stowed in brine freezing tanks in the vessel's hold. When
a trawler arrives at a pier, the shrimp tanks are washed with fresh water



- 6 -
and defrosted on deck.  T'he shrimp are then landed on the pier, weighed, and
delivered to one of the six processing plants.  In the plants, shrimp are
kept in icy fresh-water tanks until they arc separated by hand, according
to species and then sorted by machine according to size.  Depending on markcet-
ing requirements, some are also shelled andci devefne(l.  Shrimp are usually
packed in 5-pound inner cartons, placed on metal trays, and put into a con-
tact freezer. Groups of 10 inner frozen cartons are packed into 50-pound
master cartons for shipment and kept in cold storage until loading, on a
weekly basis, into refrigerated containers.  These containers are then shipped
directly by liner service fromi Balboa to New York or other foreign ports.
2.18      Market.  Within the fishing industry, the shrimp fishery is econom-
ically the most important, witl an annual average export value of about US$9.0
million over the past five years. Nearly all the production of shrimp is ex-
ported to the United States, the largest consumer of shrimp and where per
capita consumption has doubled since 1950. Japan is the second largest con-
sumer and, like the United States, is forced to rely increasingly on imports
to satisfy local demand.  Witlh relatively fixed world shrimp resources and
increasing per capita consumption, the pressure on price is evident. The
Chicago wholesale price went from US-$0.63 per lb in 1950 to US$1.31 per lb
in 1969 - more than a 100% increase, with the sharpest rises coming between
1964 and 1969. These increases are likely to be even steeper as time passes.
The United States National Marine Fisheries Service estimates price increases
(in real terms, that is withotut allowing for inflationary increases) of 58%
from the base years 1965-67 to 1985 (Annex 6). The project financial and
economic analysis was made on the alternative assumptions of:  (a) prices
and costs remaining constant; and (b) prices and costs increasing (para 5.03).
Other Fisheries
2.19      Fish Meal.  Two main species of small pelagic fish (anchovy and
thread herring) are caught by the purse seiner fleet for processing into
1:ish meal and fish oil by the two reduction plants. The fleet has about
24) purse seiners, mostly converted shirimp trawlers.  The reduction process
produces about 18% of the raw fish weight in fish meal and about 2% in fish
oi1.  For profitability, the two plants must achieve an annual production
level of about 8,800 sh tons of meal each, which requires a total catch of
about 88,000 sh tons of fish. Total fish catches have fluctuated dramatically
in the past five years (1965-70) but the annual average was only about 56,200
sh tons, with a high of about 72,800 sh tons in 1966.
2,20      Panamanian fish meal production, averaging 7,000 sh tons annually
(1965-70), is negligible in comparison with the world production, which
increased from about 4.4 to 5.5 million sh tons during the same period. Fish
meal is used as a basic protein ingredient for animal feed formulas, but
as fish meal price rises, soybean meal is substituted as the protein source.
The world production of fish meal is projected to grow at a slower rate due
to the fixed fish resources, and soybean meal production is projected to
increase substantially. This is expected to bring about a decline in fish
meal prices in the 1970's (Annex 7). Analysis, based on Panama's limited
and variable fish resources, excess capacity in installed processing



- 7 -
capacity, and poor fish meal market prospects, indicates that additional
investment in the purse seiner fleet would not be justified (Annex 8).
2.21      Food Fish.  The average annual production of food fish in the last
three years was about 3,900 sh tons, most of it caught by shrimp trawlers
(1,600 sh tons), fish meal purse seiners (800 sh tons) and inshore fishermen
(1,500 sh ton). The inshore catch is landed by eight small inshore purse
seiners and 250 small boats and canoes, 60 of which are based in Panama
City and supply the city markets. The Government is receiving assistance
from the UNDP/FAO project (para 2.09) to increase local consumption and
develop export markets by improving fish landing facilities and the road
network and by providing equipment and organization required for fish dis-
tribution.
2.22      Tuna.  Panama lies at the geographical center of the large eastern
Pacific tropical tuna fishing grounds, whiclh extend from California to Chile.
Two tuna purse seiners, flying the U.S. flag, but owned by Panamanians,
operate out of Balboa. There are no statistics available on their catches,
which are entirely exported. Yellow fin tuna is found in sizable quantities
off the coasts of Panama, but exploitation has reached the level of maximum
sustainable yield and catch is now limited by an international agreement to
which Panama is a party. Investments in the Panamanian tuna fishing fleet
are therefore not justified.
C. Fisheries Development Credit
General
2.23      The openness of Panama's banking and monetary policies has led to
the establishment of many domestic and foreign financial institutions. Panama
provides unrestricted currency convertibility and, with the Balboa being
on par with the U. S. dollar, U. S. dollars are used as legal tender. The
establishment of both local and foreign banks is encouraged by the lack of
controls placed on their activities (Annex 9). Credit specifically for the
fishing industry is provided by various sources (Annex 10). Commercial
banks have made some loans for vessel repair and construction and processing
installations and have handled the export financing of fish products. Credit
for processing equipment has also been provided by a Panamanian private
development bank and foreign equipment suppliers. Individual vessel owners
often utilize credit from processing plants for their working capital and
to finance maintenance costs. These credits, however, almost always entail
a trade agreement whereby the fisherman is obligated to sell his catch to the
particular processing plant and usually at a price differential that results
in a high effective interest rate.
2.24      The shrimp fishermen, especially the independents with only one
or two vessels, now have a critical need for loans to replace their old
wooden trawlers.  For the most part though, the commercial banks have not
shown an active interest in extending credit for new boat construction



- 8 -
especially to individual vessel owners. The new vessels that have been
constructed in Panama during the past three years were partially financed
by the banks on terms that could be met only by the larger companies (para
2.16). Of the 115 vessels 10 years old or older, it is estimated that about
35 are owned by large companies and about 80 by individual owners. Of the
individual owners with old vessels, a number indicated they would not seek
a subloan under the proposed project at the projected terms; others who are
interested in replacing their vessels would most likely not meet the finan-
cial criteria. Therefore, credit for replacing 50% of the old trawlers is
considered to be a conservative estimate of the demand that will develop from
individual vessel owners over the next four years (40 vessels).
Banco Nacional de Panama
2.25      Of the financial institutions providing credit to individual
fishermen, the Government-owned Banco Nacional de Panama (BNP) is currently
the most active and would be the lending channel of the proposed Bank loan.
Other financial institutions in Panama are either not interested or not
structured to provide development credit to individual fishermen for vessel
replacement. BNP provides full commercial banking services, performs various
fiscal functions, and provides development financing (Annex 11). It is being
encouraged by Government to become more active as a development finance
institution and to assist sectors of the economy that previously have not
had credit available on appropriate terms.
2.26      There were some political dlisturbances in 1968 and private depositols
withdrew their funds from BNP. At the same time, Government borrowed heavily
from BNP to finance its emergency expenses. Despite past internal problems,
however, BNP has been rebuilding its deposits and Government has repaid nearly
all of its 1968 borrowings.  Altlhough BNP has been demonstrating respectable
profitability and its debt-equity ratio had improved from 7.3:1 in 1968 to
about 5.8:1 by the end of 1970, preliminary information from a Government
audit of BNP's loan portfolio shows al significant percentage in arrears.
2.27      During the period of 1968-70, BNP had frequent and disruptive
changes in its higher management, but in 1970 Government began to recruit
qualified people from foreign commercial banks in Panama and from other
Government financial institutions. A new general manager has been appointed
and several qualified professionals have been named to other key positions.
This new management team has undertaken a general organizational review,
with an emphasis on aligning the organization according to the various types
of banking functions performed by BNIP and establishing an improved management
information system. With the assistance of IDB, which has made three loans
to BNP, a U. S. consulting firm 1/ was contracted and is now working to
strengthen the procedures and personnel of the Industrial Credit Department.
1/   Peat, Marwick and Mitchell.



-9-
D. Shrimp Trawler Construction
2.28      The construction of shrimp trawlers in Panama was stimulated by
the growth of shrimp fishery and the Government regulation of 1953 prohibit-
ing the import of fishing vessels. Originally, most of the vessels were
constructed of wood because a strong preference for steel vessels did not
develop until the late 1960's. Panama has at present one large shipyard and
several smaller ones. The large shipyard constructs only steel vessels.
Several fishing companies and the small shipyards build both wooden and steel
trawlers. A ship repair yard is very active in the repair of both steel and
wooden vessels.
2.29      The large shipyard in Panama has built 12 steel shrimp trawlers in
the past three years and has the slipway capacity to build 15 to 20 vessels
annually, with a construction period of about six months each. The shipyard
has experienced personnel and basic construction equipment, and fishermen
who have had trawlers built in the yard recently have been satisfied with
the workmanship. The yard has also built several vessels for export. The
steel shrimp trawlers built by the several small shipyards have also been
of a satisfactory construction quality and according to an acceptable design.
III. THE PROJECT
A. General Description
3.01      The proposed project would provide critical assistance to Panama's
shrimp fishing industry by preventing a decline in the catch of a substantial
part of the existing fleet and by increasing the industry's efficiency. Over
a four-year investment period, the project would:
(a)  provide credit to fishermen to replace about 40 old wooden
vessels with modern steel shrimp trawlers equipped with
modern fishing gear; and
(b)  provide technical assistance services to design and assist
in procurement and construction supervision of the shrimp
trawlers and to give training to shrimp fishermen in basic
navigation and in the use of modern fishing gear; and for
a fishing port feasibility study. Panama's main fishing
port in Panama city has become overcrowded and does not
allow for any expansion of filshing operations. A study
will be conducted to determine the feasibility of a new
fishing port outside the Panama city area.



- 10 -
B. Detailed Features
Fishing Vessels
3.02      The proposed project would provide for the replacement of 40 old
wooden trawlers with 40 standard steel trawlers, having an overall length of
67 feet and powered by 240-hp diesel engines. The new vessels would have
stainless steel brine freezing tanks and compressors with the capacity to
freeze and carry the shrimp catch of a two-week trip. 'The main winch would
be configured to allow for double rigging so that two trawl nets could be
towed simultaneously.  In addition, the winch would accommodate the "try
net," which is hoisted from the water at about 15-minute intervals to check
on the richness of the shrimp beds being trawled. In addition to a magnetic
compass and short-wave radio, vessels would be equipped with echo sounders --
sonar devices that assist in gauging ocean depths -- since various varieties
of shrimp are found at different depths (Map).  The vessel hull would be
constructed of 1/4-inch welded steel plate and protected with marine paint.
The upper deck, pilot house, and sleeping quarters would be constructed of
wood. An outline drawing and specifications for the trawler appear in
Annex 12.
Technical Assistance
3.03      Naval Architect.  A naval archltect would be contracted by the
Project Unit of BNP (para 4.01) to assist in determining the detailed speci-
fications, make the vessel design, prepare the tender documents for interna-
tional competition, and assist in bid evaluation. Periodically during the
construction period, the naval architect would visit the shipyard to insure
that conistruction conforned to contract standards.  The services of the naval
architect would be required if the vessels are built in Panama or abroad. A
general work plan for this expert appears in Annex 13. That a naval archi-
tect, acceptable to the Bank, had been employed on terms and conditions ac-
ceptable to the Bank would be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed
loan .
3.04      Fishing Operations Training.  Assurances were obtained during
negotiations that all captains, before assuming command of the new vessels,
would receive a training course satisfactory to the Bank, to be provided by
the Directorate of Marine Resources and starting three months before the
delivery of the new vessels. The course would consist of theoretical
instruction and practical training in such subjects as basic navigation,
engine maintenance and echo sounding (Annex 14). Assurances were also
obtained during negotiations that if funds from the proposed Bank loan were
Used to finance a training officer, the officer would be hired on terms and
(cn0l1Li ons sat isfactory to the Bank.
FisIiung Port Feasibility Study
3.( 5     Government lhas recently signed a contract with Livesey, Henderson
and Partners (UK) to carry out a fishing port feasibility study.  The con-
stltants and the terms of reference for the study were approved by the Bank.



- 11 -
The cost of the study (56 man-months in the field and 11 man-months in the
office) is US$550,000 of which approximately US$400,000 is foreign exchange.
Retroactive financing of about US$50,000 from May 1 may be required. Ex-
pansion of the fishing industry in Panama is dependent upon a new port
facility (para 2.11).
Permanent Working Capital
3.06       The sub-borrower would provide from his own funds the permanent
working capital investment in the fuel, food, and supplies necessary for a
two-week fishing trip and in a shrimp fishing license for each new vessel.
C.  Cost Estimates
3.07       The total cost of the project is estimated at about US$5.4 million,
of which US$3.4 million, or 64%, represents the foreign exchange component.
The estimates of the cost of vessel construction are based on quotations by
the local shipyard and the cost of similar vessels recently constructed in
Panama. Cost estimates are summarized below:
---US$'000 or B'000---           %
Foreign
Local   Foreign    Total   Exchange
1. Fishing Vessels
40 Shrimp Trawlers                         1,140     2,100      3,240       65
40 Sets of Gear                              -         200        200      100
Sub-total                           1,140    2,300       3,440        67
2. Technical Assistance
Naval Architect                               10        60          70       86
Fishing Operations Training Officer           10        40          50      80
Sub-total                              20       100         120       83
Project Sub-total                   1,160    2,400        3,560       67
3. Fishing Port Feasibility Study
Consultants                                  150       400        550        75
4. Contingency
Price (13%)                                   86       370        456        81
Physical (10%)                               114       230         344       67
Project Investment Cost             1,510     3,400      4,910        70
5. Permanent Working Capital
For 40 Vessels                               440       -          440        0
Total Project Cost (100% Domestic
Awards)                                1950       300        5,350       64



- 12 -
3.08      A detailed cost breakdown for the trawlers appears in Annex 15.
rhe estimates include the CIF cost of all imported materials, equipment, and
engines; cost of local materials; and cost of construction and installation
labor. Estimates for gear are based on CIF costs. The cost of the technical
assistance component is based on saliries sufficient for recruitment of
qualified experts and local expenses associated withi their work and on the
contract price of the fishling port feasibility study (para 3.05). Price con-
tingencies have been calculated to allow for a 6% annual increase in the cost
of imported items and a 3% annual increase on local items over the four-year
investment period. A 10% plhysical contingency has been added to cover a
possible change in specifications or design of the shrimp trawler that might
result from the analysis by the naval architect and by the Fisheries Project
Committee (para 4.06). No contingency has been calculated on the technical
assistance and working capital component of project costs. The estimate for
working capital reflects local purchase prices.
3.09      Foreign costs were based on the assumptions that awards for vessel
construction would be made to the local shipyard. In the event of 100% for-
eign awards at the same vessel price, the foreign cost component of the proj-
ect would be US$4.7 million instead of US$3.4 million and Government would
have to provide the difference in foreign exchange instead of local currency.
Since the Balboa is freely convertib:Le into U.S. dollars, this would not pre-
sent a problem.
D. Financing
3.10      Proposed financing is based on Bank lending for the foreign ex-
ciange costs, with the remainder of the funds to be provided by government and
BNP's contribution to the subloans and by the sub-borrowers' equity contribution.
The financing plan is as follows:
Project FiLnancing
(US$ 000)
Sub-
borrower    Government       BNP      IBRD      Total
Fishing Vessels                360           -             780     2,300    3,440
Technical Assistance            -            10             10       100       120
Port Feasibility Study          -           150             -        400       550
Working Capital                440           -              -        -         440
Contigency                      65           -             135       600       800
Total               865          160            925     3 400    5 350
Z Financing                    16%           3%           17%        64%       100%



- 13 -
3.11      The Bank loan of US$3.4 million would be made to the Banco Nacional
de Panama for 12 years, with five years' grace, and at the prevailing Bank in-
terest rate. BNP would on-lend about US$3.0 million of the Bank loan plus
its own contribution to fishermen for eight years, with one year's grace, and
at an interest rate of 9-1/2% per annum. About US$0.4 million of the Bank
loan would be used by Government to help finance the fishing port feasibility
study and the cost of trawler captain training.
3.12      Assurances were obtained during negotiations that sub-borrowers
would be required to provide at least US$9,000 towards the purchase price of
each vessel, for a total of US$360,000, and that they would also provide,
from their own resources, working capital estimated at US$11,000 per vessel,
for a total of US$440,000. Assurances were also obtained that BNP would
supplement the Bank loan with its own funds (US$925,000) to finance the re-
maining vessel construction cost and the cost of technical assistance.
E. Procurement
3.13      The new shrimp trawlers would be procured through construction
contracts awarded according to international competitive bidding procedures.
The Project Unit of BNP would be responsible for conducting the tendering
and bid evaluation, assisted by the naval architect (para 3.03) and the
Fisheries Project Committee (para 4.06). Prequalification of shipyards
would be performed and include evaluation of each yard's construction capa-
city, technical and managerial capability, and financial position. The
shrimp trawler, complete with main engine, equipment, and fishing gear, would
be tendered as one unit and bid together. Prospective shipyards and sup-
pliers would provide a one-year warranty on hulls and engines, while poten-
tial engine and major equipment suppliers would have to assuire adequate
spare parts inventories and service facilities in Panama. Prequalified ship-
yards would be subject to Bank approval.
3.14      It is projected that the vessels would be procured in four lots
of 10 each, with a construction period of nine months per lot (Annex 16).
The Project Unit of BNP would prepare tenders after subloans had been approved,
for a lot of at least 10 shrimp trawlers and would also ask for bids on the
remaining trawlers. BNP would have the right to accept at a later date the
bids for one or more trawlers when additional sub-borrowers had applied and
been approved, or, alternatively, to invite new bids on lots of at least 10.
3.15      At present, there is a regulation prohibiting the import of ves-
sels to fish shrimp in Panama (para 2.28). It would, therefore, be a condi-
tion of effectiveness of the loan that this regulation had been amended to
permit, if necessary, the import of new shrimp trawlers financed under the
proposed project. Local bidders would be allowed a preference margin of 15%
of the CIF bid prices.



- 14 -
3.16      Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the shrimp
trawlers and gear would be procured uncler international competitive bidding
procedures, as outlined in paragraphs 3.13 through 3.15, and that the bid
(locuments and contract awards would be subject to Bank approval.
F. Disbursement
3.17      Disbursement of the Bank loan would be made on 67% (the estimated
foreign exclange component) of the cost. of the shrimp vessels, including
gear, and 100% of the foreign costs of the technical assistance.  Disbursement
for vessel construction would be made by the Bank upon receipt of a request
from the Project Unit of BNP, supportedl by statements certified by BNP on
work completed by the shipyard.  Disbursement for the foreign cost of tech-
nical assistance would be made by the flank upon receipt of a request from
the Project Unit of BNP, supported by the experts' certified statements and
from Government for the fishing port feasibility study. An estimated
schedule of disbursements appears in Annex 17.
IV. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. Loan Policies and Procedures
4.01      BNP would be the lending charnel for the proposed project and
would set up a Project Unit within its organization to assume responsibility
for project coordination and execution. This Unit, to be established as
part of the Department of Industrial Credit, presently being reorganized
(para 2.27), would be headed by a senior BNP officer, who would coordinate
Vm ssel procurement and supervise all sublending operations. Assistance in
international tendering and bid evaluation would be provided by a naval
dr. Chitect (para 3.03) and by the Fisheries Project Committee (para 4.06).
T'Dt qualified credit analysts would also be assigned to the Project Unit to
perform the technical and financial analysis of the subloan applications.
The Directorate of Marine Resources and the Productivity Center, both in
the Mlinistry of Industry and Commerce, would assist in the technical, mainly
'ishing, aspects of the subloan analysis.  The appointment of an officer,
;-cectable to the Bank, to hiead the Project Unit and of two qualified credit
analysts would be conditions of effectiveness of the proposed loan.  During
negotiations BNP agreed to improve the staffing, organization and proce-
dures of the Department of Industrial Credit and to take steps to improve
l:NP's overall organization and operations.
4.02      Fishing operations can be undertaken as efficiently by small fish-
ermen as by large con,panies. Since processing companies have recourse to
credit sources, it is Government's intention to give priority in selecting
loan applicants to individual fishermenl and fishing companies not owned by
processing companies. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that only
- LFiere appeared to be insufficient credit demand would the processing
companies become eligible to apply for subloans.



- 15 -
4.03      An applicant for a subloan would submit to the Project Unit histor-
ical, financial, and operational data on his shrimp fishing activities and
proof that he holds a valid shrimp fishing license. Criteria for selecting
sub-borrowers would include:
(a) proven competence and experience in shrimp fishing;
(b) possession of a valid shrimp fishing license;
(c)  age of vessel (to which the existing shrimp fishing li-
cense applies) tl-hat would be replaced;
(d) lack of alternative sources of credit; and
(e) creditworthiness.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that sub-borrowers would
be selected as outlined above and that all subloan analyses would be for-
warded to the Bank for review before final approval. Assurances were also
obtained during negotiations that successful subloan applicants would be
required to deposit with BNP 5% of the estimated cost of vessel construction
at the time of signing subloan contracts.
4.04      Assurances were obtained during negotiations that BNP would
establish a separate Project Account in a form acceptable to the Bank through
which all project funds managed by BNP would flow.
4.05      Excluding contingencies, BNP would provide about US$20,000 towards
the financing of each new trawler and related technical assistance, which,
together with the contribution of the Bank, would provide a subloan of about
US$80,000; the remaining US$20,000 of investment funds would be provided by
the sub-borrower. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the
terms and conditions of all subloans would be acceptable to the Bank. Sub-
loans would be made for eight years, with a grace period allowing for six
months of construction and six months of initial operation. The subloan
interest rate would be 9-1/2%, which is the present commercial rate for this
type of loan. Subloans would be fully backed by mortgages on the new vessel,
gear, and license, which, evaluated at 80% of their commercial value, would
provide sufficient collateral. All the new trawlers would carry "all risk"
marine insurance, with BNP named as the first beneficiary. BNP would make
the insurance premium payments for the sub-borrowers and be reimbursed as
part of the subloan amortization. Because of the assured premium payments
and the safe, high-quality, supervised vessel construction, the insurance
companies would be prepared to provide a group plan at reduced rates
(Annex 18). BNP would negotiate with the local insurance companies to
obtain an advantageous policy for the new vessel owners.



- 16 -
B. Fisheries Project Comittee
4.06      A Fisheries Project Commitltee would be established, with repre-
sentatives of BNP, the Directorate oiE Marine Resources, the fishermen's
association, and independent fishermxn as menbers.  The committee, with the
assistance of the naval architect, would be responsible for determining the
proper trawler design criteria and deciding detailed specifications. The
committee would provide advice to the Project Unit on the evaluation of bids
received from shipyards.  That the Fisheries Project Committee had been
established as described above would be a condition of effectiveness of the
proposed loan.
C. Accounts and Audit
4.07      During negotiations, assurances were obtained that:
(a) detailed accounting procedures would be established and
followed for recording of all transactions involving the
Project Account;
(b) an independent annual audit, acceptable to the Bank,
would be made of BNP; and
(c) BNP's audited financial statements, including audited
Project Account statements, would be forwarded to the
Bank within four months after the close of BNP's
financial year.
V. OPERATING RESULTS
5.01      Analysis indicates that a 67-foot trawler, powered by a 240-hp en-
gine, would have a higler financial return than a larger size trawler (Annex
19). Catch rates for the recommended trawler during the first year of full
operation were conservatively projected to be at the same average level as
that achieved by trawlers of the same size that are one to five yea s old.
That level is about 70,000 lb per year for all shrimp species.  Due to
increased maintenance witlh age, this catch level is estimated to begin
declining after the first year, reaching 60,000 lb after 10 years and 52,500
lb after 15 years.
5.02      Operating cost estimates were based on data obtained from opera-
tors of similar steel trawlers in the fleet, with crew labor, fuel consump-
tion, and maintenance being the largest cost components.  Crew labor is paid
on a share-of-catch basis (about 18%), and projected fuel consumption is



- 17 -
based on hourly usage rates applied to a fishing year of 240 days. The
maintenance cost estimate includes an annual engine overhaul and sand-
blasting of the hull, followed by repainting.
5.03       The projected revenue from the proposed project trawler is based
on two alternative assumptions:  (a) shrimp prices and costs remain constant,
and (b) there is an increase in the price of shrimp (para 2.18) and in costs.
For the constant case, the price would remain at the 1970 average paid to the
fishermen in Panama for all varieties of shrimp, which was US$0.77 per lb.
For the increase case, the price is estimated to rise from US$0.77 per lb to
US$0.88 per lb in 1975, US$0.96 per lb in 1980, and US$1.09 per lb in 1985,
representing the increase projected (para 2.18). In calculating the net
earning for the increasing prices case, the cost of crew labor was projected
to increase at the same rate as that projected for shrimp prices since the
crew is paid on a share-of-catch basis (para 5.02). This assumption is
reasonable because it is expected that crew wages will increase slightly
due to pressure expected to arise on the Panamanian labor market. Panama
already has a relatively low urban unemployment (about 6%) and several labor-
intensive projects are to be executed in the next few years.
5.04       Based on the above, the financial rate of return for the individual
shrimp trawler would be about 14% if prices and costs remain constant and
22% if prices and costs increase (Annex 19). The projected cash flow for an
individual vessel (Annex 19, Table 11) shows that sufficient funds would be
generated to service each vessel's debt.
5.05       The cash flow for the Project Account has been calculated in
Annex 20 and indicates an accumulated net surplus of about US$140,000 after
BNP's administrative expenses are deducted. Assuming that the annual sur-
pluses were to be invested in securities yielding 7%, the project lending
operation would produce an accumulation of about US$690,000, which would
provide an adequate contingency for bad debts.
VI. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
6.01       The principal economic benefit of the proposed project would be
the stimulus it would give to the shrimp fishing industry by providing re-
placement trawlers, which would catch an annual average incremental volume
of about 1.8 million lb over what the old vessels would catch if they were
left to fish until the end of their economic life. Replacing the vessels
would of course be more profitable to the owner than operating them until
the end of their economic life. The value of net export earnings (after
debt service of the proposed Bank loan) from the annual average incremental
volume would be at least US$1.7 million over the expected life (15 years)
of the new trawlers.
6.02       The proposed project wotuld provide substnntial economic benefits
to the shrimp fishing sector, producing an economic rate of return of 15%
if prices and costs remain constant and 22% if prices and costs increase
as projecte(l (para 5.03). In addition to the earnings projected for the



- 1 8 -
fishing sector, the incremental volume would produce increased earnings
to the shrimp processing sector.  When the shrimp fishi ng and processing
benef Lts are combined, the rate of return increases to abotut 17% for the
constant prices and costs case and to about 23%,' for the increase in prices
and costs case (Annex 21) .
6.03      The efficiency of the entire shrifnp fishing fleet would be in-
creased with the introductioii of advanced fishing gear on new trawlers,
while the training program would have an eventujal impact on the entire
Paniamanian fleet. Furthermore, the assistance provided by the naval archi-
tect in designing and supervisinig the construction of the shrimp trawlers
would improve the capability and production quality of the local shipyard
if the vessels are constructed in Panama. Finally, as a result of executing
the credit operations of the proposed lproject, the management and organiza-
tion of BNP would be strengthened and staff members would receive valuable
experience.
VII. RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      During negotiations, assurances were obtained on the following
pri ncipal points:
(a)  all captains before assuming command of the new vessels
would receive a training course satisfactory to the
Bank (para 3.04);
(b) the trawlers and gear would be procured under international
competitive bidding procedures with a preference to local
bidders of 15%, as outlined iLn paragraphs 3.13 through 3.15
and that the bid documents and contract awards would be
subject to Bank approval (para 3.16);
(c)  priority would be given to smnall fishermen and fishing
companies in selecting sub-borrowers (para 4.02); and
(d)  the terms and conditions of all subloans would be acceptable
to the Bank (para 4.05).
7.02      Conditions of effectiveness of the proposed Bank loan would
be that:
(a)  a naval architect, acceptable to the Bank, had been
hired by BNP on terms and conditions acceptable to the
Bank (para 3.03);
(b)  the Government of Panama had exempted vessels fi-
nanced out of the project from the regulation prohibiting
the import of shrinmp traw,lers (para 3.15);



- 19 -
(c)  a senior officer of BNP, acceptable to the Bank, to
head the Project Unit and two qualified credit analysts
had been appointed (para 4.01); and
(d)  a Fisheries Project Committee had been established,
with the membership and functions outlined in paragraph
4.06.
7.03      The project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$3.4 million, with
a term of 12 years, including a grace period of five years. The borrower
would be the Banco Nacional de Panamaa and would accept the foreign exchange
risk.
July 12, 1971






ANNEX 1
PANAMA
FISHERIES PROJECT
Past Production, Exports and Imports of
Shrimp, Fish and Fish Products
1.        Statistics on the Panamanian fishing industry are presented
in Tables 1 through 4. Table 1 contains the estimated landings of crustaceans
(mainly shrimp), of fish for the fish meal industry (herrings and anchovies),
and of other fish caught. Table 2 presents the official figures for exports
of fish products by volume and weight, while Tables 3 and 4 give the volume
and weight of fish product imports.
April 29, 1971






ANNEX 1
PANAMA                                            Table 1
FISHERIES PROJECT
Fish and Crustacean Landings
(sh tons)
1961    1962    1963   1964      1965    1966    1967    1968       1969      1970
Crustaceans                                                                                         '
;- me shrimp                2,308   2,274   1,728   2,511   2,490   2,614   2,718   2,169    2,120         2,179
P-ik shri;mp                 1,290   1,697   1,448   1,252   1, 1a8   1,246   1,399   2,101    1,131        1,284
ITit i shrimp                2,218   2,)402   2,638   3,552   2,076   2,1)49   2,849   2,174    2,764       4,022
Carabali shrp                  230     254      329     446    4_        163     108      143        88       105
Solenocera shrinnp  1/                                            3       35       12      1)4     16          10
Spiny lobster                                                                              99        56      NA
Average 1961-70 =             -                                                     _     99        56
C56,619 shi tonsB
Total                   6,046   6,627   6,143   7,761   6,436   6,207   7,080   6,700    6,275         7,600
Herrings and anchovies         6,557   9,47)4   8,274
Anchovies                                            20,078  36,256  58,457  41,845  58,473    9,679    31,)496
Thread herring                                  -41                   14,159  30,0445  13,416   15,304      7,5)46
Total                   6,557   9,47Li  8,274  20,119  36,256  72,616  71,890  71,889   2)4,983    39,042
Unclassified fish
Shrimp tra-,ilers            1,060   1,047   1,008   1,192   1,278   1,311   1,348   1,685    1,662          NA
Purse seiners and
in-shore fishermen 2/       1,432   1,602   1,607   1,783   1,799   2,068   2,090
Purse seiners  2/                                                                         864       771      NA
In-shore fishexqen  2/                                                                  1,437    1,530       NA
Other fish for meal
and oil                                                                                 231        58      NA
Total                   2,493   2,649   2,615   2,976   3,077   3,379   3,438   4,216    4,022          NA
Grand Total:              15,096  18,750  17,032  30,856  45,769  832,202  82,)414  82,805   35,280
I/ Up to 1964 landings of Solenocera were included with pink shrimp.   2  Estimates.
Source:  Deaartamento de Pesca e Industrias Conexas, ,inisteric de Gomercio e Industrias; Republica de Panama.
june 10, 1971



ANNEX ,1
Table 2
pANAIM4
FISHERIES PROJECT
Exports of Fish Products
Year        | rirp  1/         Lobster          Fish         Fish Meal 2      Fish Oil  I/       Total
Volume (net weight in sh tons)
1960           4,158                              1                                              4,159
1961           4,770              54             69             1,316                            6,208
19 2           5,113               8             15                939                           6,075
1963           4,758               4             19                774                           5,555
1964           6,141               0             10             2,360               28           8,538
1965           5,243              44              1             4,906            1,054          11,248
1966           5,016              35                           11,232            2,786          19,070
1967           5,563               2                            9,944            4,178          19,687
1968            5,246             13                            9.835             L.).          19,509
1569            4,852             17                            2,235              330           7,434
1970  4/       6,328              NA                             5,089            NA            11,417
Value (US$'000)
1960           4,990                              1                                              4,991
1961           5,854              94              4               128                            6,o05
1962           7,941              16              2                101                           8,060
1963           6,173               9             25                 82                           6,289
1964           7,405               1              9               235                3           7,653
1965           7,782             143              1               612              170           8,7\8
1966           8,972             106                            1,399              454          10,931
1967           9,185               7                            1,123              367          10,682
1968           9,727              42                              954              252          10,975
1969           9,740              62                              276               54          10,132
1970   /      10,168              NA                              789               A           10,957
= NOt Avai:abLe
1/   Average of shrimp exports in value, 1965 - 1969: US$9,081,300
T/   Average of fish meal exports in volume, 1965-70: 6,965 sh tons
/   Average of fish oil exports in value, 1965-1969: US$259,000.
4/   Preliminary figures.
Source:  Direccion GenaFal de Est&distica y Censo, Contraloria General de la RepXblica de Panama.
Jule l0, 15971



PANAMA                                         ANNEX 1
Table 3
FISHERIES PRDJECT
Imports of Fish Products by Value 1/
(US$' 000)
1960      1961       1962    1963      1964      1965     1966      1967    1968      1969
Salted cod                    324        303        336     291       383      392       347       435     533       445
Dried crustaceans and
mollusks                     26         30         31      35        49       46        57        57      40        55
Sardines                      349        342        417     337       650      621       824       668     649       853
Salmon                         36         37         36      32        23       49        63        37      48        69
Tuna                           86        134       135      125       222      198       266       250     345       416
Canned crustaceans and
mollusks                      9         10         21      17        14       20        28        32      33        41
Fish soups and broths           2          6          3       4         4        6         7         7        9       10
Canned fish                     6          8          7       9         6         8       13        11      14        14
Other fish products             5          4          5       8         7         7       14        12      10        13
TQ+taL             843        874       991      858    1,358    1,347    l,619    1,509   1,681    1,916
1/  1960-63 values FOB; 1964 and after values CIF. Preliminary figures for 1970 indicate a total import of
about US$2.1 million of fish products in 1970.
Source:   Direccion de Estadistica y Censo, Contraloria general de la Repiiblica of Panama.



Table 4
PANAMIA
FISHERIES PROJECT
Imports of Fish Products by Volume
(net weight in sh tons)
1960      1961      1962    1963       1964     1965      1966      1967      1968       1969
Salted cod                 713      710        0 5      694       728       746      610       73 3    1,006       915
Dried crustaceans
and mollusks              20       21        23        28       36        32        40        41        29        42
Sardines                   919      834    1,027        825    1,381    1,280    1,616    1,374    1,307    1,640
Salmon                      43       43        47        26        15        37       42        23        32        41
Tuna                       172      261       248       219       359      294       361       329       450       507
Canned crustaceans
and mollusks               5        5        12        13         9       12        18        21        21        20
Fish solups and broths       4       13         7         9         8       13        13        13        16        17
Canned fish                  5       10         7         8         4         5        9        10         8        12
Other fish products          3        4         3         4         3         2        8         5         2         8
Total          1,914    1,901    2,179    1,826    2,543    2,421    2,717    2, 549    2,871    3,206
June 10, 1971



ANNEX 2
Page
PANAMA
FISHERIES PROJECT
Functions and Organization of the Directorate of Marine Resources
Functions
1.        The Directorate of Marine Resources, as part of the Ministry of
Commerce and Industry, has the following functions:
(a) Administration and Coordination
(i)    Advise the Ministry on all economic, social, adminis-
trative, and scientific matters relating to the fishing
industry and to the exploitation and exploration of
marine resources and their conservation;
(ii)    Plan and implement a national program to develop the
fishing industry, including:
(1)    promulgation of official policy governing fishing;
(2)    assignment of responsibilities for the control of
the fishing industry; and
(3)    formulation of rules, regulations, reports, and
publications related to control of development of
the industry.
(iii)    Propose regulations in other official publications for
the guidance and fulfillment of the fishing industry;
(iv)    Assure the full distribution of fishing registration, its
regulations and pertinent standards and procedures among
the competent authorities;
(v)    Issue fishing licenses, import permits for fish and fish
nets, and export licenses for fish meal, in accordance
with the governing regulations;
(vi)    Prepare and publish, at regular intervals, special reports
concerning activities of the Directorate;
(vii)    Prepare, direct, coordinate, and supervise the
national program of fish development, which includes
programs to investigate development of exploratory



ANNEX 2
Page 2
fishing to develop small sc:ale fishing, and to promote
fish consumption; and
(viii)    Coordinate procedures and assist in obtaining finance
and technical assistance from international organiza-
tions.
(b)  Biological Investigations
(i)    Initiate scientific investigations of fish populations
that are being commercially exploited to determine any
necessary changes in the intensity of fishing and in
the fishing environment;
(ii)    Advise the Director of any control measures required,
as revealed by the investigations;
(iii)    Prepare and publish detailed reports of the results of
the investigations;
(iv)    Determine the species whose importation could be
permitted in the interest of developing the fishing
industry; and
(v)    Initiate studies on fish culture and hatcheries and on
crustaceans, and coordinate international assistance.
(c) Development of_Small Scale Fish:Ln
(i)    Prepare, direct, and coordiLnate a program of technical
assistance for small scale fishermen;
(ii)    Prepare procedures for development promotion and fi-
nancing for the fishermen that will permit the estab-
lishment of the necessary :Lnfrastructure and the ac-
quisition of efficient equipment, obtaining the
assistance of internationaL organizations when appro-
priate; and
(iii)    Direct, supervise, and coordinate a special integrated
program for development of small scale fishing for Azuero,
Aguadulce, and Montijo that will increase the fish
catch; improve the method of processing and storage;
provide ice-making facilities; and improve the channels
of distribution and sales.



ANNEX 2
Page 3
(d) Exploratory Fishing
(i)    Make a quantitative inventory of the fishing resources
in the Atlantic and Pacific, with initial emphasis on
shrimp resources and deep waters;
(ii)    Determine the geographical distribution of the most
important marine resources and the seasons they should
be caught; and
(iii)    Estimate the commercial potential of the species with
highest commercial value.
(e) Fisheries Statistics
(i)    Collect, compile, and process statistical data concerning
landing and intensity of commercial fishing for crusta-
ceans and fish for industrial and human consumption;
(ii)    Provide the information necessary for biological inves-
tigations, for fish development programs carried out with
the cooperation of international organizations, and for
market studies;
(iii)    Conduct practical demonstrations on the cooking of fish;
and
(iv)    Advise and assist low-income fishermen in improving methods
of distribution and storage.
Organization
2.        Staffing of the Directorate is shown in Table 1.  Organization
is depicted in Chart 1.
April 26, 1971






ANNEX 2
Table 1
PANAMA
FISHERIES PROJECT
Personnel of the Directorate of Marine Resources
I.    Director's Office
1 Director
1 Administrative Official
2 Secretaries
1 Chauffeur
1 Janitor
II.   Department of Investigation and Exploration
A.   Biologlcal Investigation Section:
1 Chief Biologist
1 Associate Biologist
3 Biological Assistants
B.   Exploratory Fishing Section:
(These personnel will be named in October 1971)
1 General Fishing Expert (expatriate)
1 Biologlst
1 Biological Assistant
1 Captain
4 Crew Members
C.   Fisheries Statistical Section:
1 Chief Statistician
3 Statistical Assistants
III.   Small Fislwernen Assistance_  2partment
1 Chief Programmer
2 Programming Assistants
IV.   Department of Marketing
1 Chief Programmer
2 Home Economics Assistants
1 Assistant
June 8, 1971






ANNEX 2
CHART 1
PANAMA
FISHERIES PROJECT
ORGANIZATION OF THE DIRECTORATE OF MARINE RESOURCES
NATIONAL FISHING     _j_         DIRECTORATE OF
COMMISSION                      M MARINE RESOURCES
U.S. PEACE CORPS                                       UNDP/FAO REGIONAL
DEVELOPMENT OF                                         FISHING DEVELOPMENT
SMALL SCALE FISHING                                    PROJECT
DEPARTMENT OF INVESTIGATION         SMALL FISHERMEN                 DEPARTMENT OF MARKETING
AND EXPLORATION                     ASSISTANCE DEPARTMENT           D
BIOLOGI CAL
_-iNVESTIGATION
_SECTION
EXPLORATORY
FISHING
SECTION
FISHERIES
STATISTICAL
SECTION
I BR D-5676(2R)






ANNEX 3
Page 1
PANAMA
FISHERIES PROJECT
UNDP/FAO Regional Project of Central American Fishery Development
A.  Project Support
1.        United Nations Development Program (Special Fund)
Special Fund Allocation:                                 US$4,329,900
Consisting of:
Special Fund contribution        US$2,245,500
Governments' counterpart
contribution in cash           Us$1,884,000
Governments' contribution
toward local operating
costs                          US$  200,000
Governments' counterpart contribution in kind:           US$  720,000
Duration:                             Six years (Started: 1965)
Executing Agency:                     Food and Agriculture
Organization of the United
Nations
Cooperating Government Agency:        Central American Fishery
Development Commission,
under the auspices of the
Economic Cooperation Com-
mittee of the Central
American Isthmus, herein-
after referred to as the
"Fishery Commission"
Participating Governments:            Costa Rica
El Salvador
Guatemala
llonduras
Nicaragua
Panama



ANNEX 3
Page 2
B. Purpose
2.        The purpose of the project is to increase the production and
consumption of marine and brackish water fish and fishery products on a
regional basis. To achieve this, project efforts will be directed at:
(a)    the strengthening of fishery administrations and
planning;
(b)    the development and management of various fisheries;
(c)    a general resources survey; and
(d)    the improvement of processing and marketing.
C.  Description -/
Strengthening of Fishery Administrations and Planning
3.        The Project would strengthen the fishery administrations of the
six countries by establishing new posts and by providing training for
administration personnel. This must be done on a coordinated basis to
ensure that staffing is satisfactory and that administrations will be
granted the status required to maintain a proper continuity of action
after the period of Special Fund support. Training will emphasize the
practical aspects of developing the industry and will include fisheries
management, fishing methods, preservation, processing, transportation,
and marketing of fish and fishery products.
Development and Management of Various Fisheries
4.        The rational management oiF the major existing fisheries, parti-
cularly those for shrimp, will recelve high priority. Resource appraisal
will be carried out to determine the most economic yields that can be
expected and attention will be given to the possibilities of utilizing
the large quantities of fish caught by shrimp trawlers, most of which
are presently discarded. Development of existing in-shore shellfish
fisheries, as well as expansion of local tuna and anchoveta fisheries,
will also be considered. Demonstrations of modern fishery technology
and training of capable fishermen wiLll be carried out with a view to
improving the efficiency of artisan fisheries where they constitute an
important source of supply for the ]Local markets.
1/   This description was taken from Plan of Operation, Regional Project of
Central America Fishing Development, UNDP, Document Ws/48728.



ANNEX 3
Page 3
General Resources Survey
5.        The development of new fisheries, mostly for coastal fishes
using adequate vessels, will be promoted in the Caribbean and Pacific
waters. Two medium and one small mechanized vessel will be used for
demonstration, experimental, and exploratory fishing. These boats will
be equipped for adequate handling of fish and for different fishing
techniques, including long-lining, gillnetting, purse-seine fishing,
trolling, and fishing with lights; trawling for bottom and midwater
fish; and line-fishing for reef fishes. A general survey of those waters
considered to be potentially the most promising fishing grounds will be
carried out by an exploratory vessel. The operation will be mainly in
Pacific waters, with emphasis on the deep-water shrimp and demersal
resources. Fishing for snappers and reef fishes will be developed in
the Caribbean Sea. Possibilities of cultivating shrimp, oysters, and
other shellfish will be explored on both coasts. Biological oceanographic
observations will be made in the course of exploratory fishing by the
project vessels during special trips, and from market landings to obtain
information on the characteristics of the major resources and on the
effect of the fishery on them. Pertinent information obtained through
the fishing surveys of the Caribbean Fishery Development Project, which
is a regional scheme supported by the Special Fund, will be made available
to this Project.
Improvement of Processing and Marketing
6.        The project will give attention to the urgent need to improve
and extend the marketing of fish and fishery products in the six coun-
tries, as well as in intra-regional trade and export trade outside the
region. Based on the study of actual marketing problems, emphasis will
be placed on improved methods of processing, handling, storing, and
distributing fish and fishery products. The possibility of replacing
imported marine products with locally produced items will be given
careful attention. Adequate marketing and processing methods will be
demonstrated. Fishery enterprises will receive factual advice whenever
it is considered necessary to strengthen their management and improve
their operation in the best interest of the national and regional econom-
ics. Work on fish processing will be carried out in coordination with
the Central American Institute for Research and Industrial Technology
(ICAITI), which is a regional scheme supported by the Special Fund.
Studies concerning intra-regional trade will be carried out in collabora-
tion with the Permanent Secretariat of the General Treaty of Economic
Integration of Central America (SIECA).
Location
7.        Headquarters of the project will be situated in San Salvador,
Republic of El Salvador. Different aspects of the project, however,
will be implemented in various parts of the region in accordance with
their special conditions. International experts will be stationed in



ANNEX 3
Page 4
various countries, although they will be required to travel throughout
the region. The Executing Agency will make arrangements with the Govern-
ments, as necessary, through the Cooperating Government Agency, for
office accommodation and facilities for project staff, and for the neces-
sary shore facilities at which demonstration and exploratory vessels are
based or are to land their catches and training courses, processing
marketing studies, and demonstrations are to be carried out. In order
to receive training, as well as in accordance with specific project re-
quirements, Government personnel will travel extensively and may have to
spend extended periods of time outside their own country.
Duration
8.        The six-year period of the project will be divided into a
preparatory phase, lasting approximately one year, followed by an opera-
tional phase, lasting approximately ifive years. The division between
preparatory and operational phases may vary between the sections of the
project.
April 26, 1971



ANNEX 4
Page 1
PANAMA
FISHERIES PROJECT
UNDP Follow-up Project
UNDP Regional Project
1.        The UNDP/FAO Regional Project of Central America Fishery Develop-
ment (Annex 3) was initiated in 1965 and is ending in 1971. In the opin-
ion of many, the project covered too many subject matters and was spread
too thinly over a large area to have a serious impact on fisheries devel-
opment in Panama. Some of the operations carried out, however, have
brought positive results. Most beneficial activities included:
(a)    assistance and training provided to fisheries cooperatives
in the processing of sharks by salting/drying; this product
is a substitute for imported salted/dried cod;
(b)    a deep sea resource survey along the Pacific Coast of Panama.
The first phase of the survey found considerable trawlable
areas in the depths 100-200 fathoms. High yield sample catches
were made of a small, red, deep sea shrimp, thought to be
Soleniocera sp;
(c) a brief survey of possible trawl net fishing grounds on
the continental shelf of the Caribbean Sea along the
coast of Panama. According to the preliminary results
of this survey, potential resources in lobster and
shrimp in the shallow water area of the Caribbean are
rather poor, but commercial quantities of various species
of shrimp and "Scampi" (Norway lobster) have been found
on the continental slope between depths of 100 and 200
fathoms; and
(d)    a survey organized for the purpose of identifying the
factors that hamper development of fish distribution and
consumption on the internal market. A plan of action to
overcome these factors and to organize fish distribution
is being established and a pilot program will be implemented
in 1971.
Follow-up Project
2.        Follow-up action is necessary before advantages gained under
the first project can be fully exploited, and FAO officials in Panama
are assisting the Government in formulating a program to provide this.



ANNEX 4
Page 2
The Government of Panama intends to request a second project that would
cover Panama exclusively and concentrate on the problems whose solution
is a condition of further development of its fisheries. The proposed
project would include the aspects discussed below.
3.        Exploratory Shrimp Fishery.  The shrimp fishery presently
fully exploits the relatively shallow fishing grounds. In order to
substantially expand, a program of exploratory fishing would be carried
out on the deeper area of the Pacific continental shelf to locate red
shrimp (Solenocera sp.) resources and find out when and where they occur
in commercial quantities. The same type of work would be also carried
out on the continental slope of the Caribbean for Norway Lobster
(Nephrops sp.) and shrimp species of commercial quantities. The Govern-
ment intends to request UNDP to transfer one of the research vessels of
the regional fisheries project to thle new project. If this is not pos-
sible, the Government would construct or buy another vessel suitable
for this investigation. The Government already has a budget allotment
for exploratory fishing and the Directorate of Marine Resrouces will
begin hiring specialized personnel, including exploratory vessel cap-
tains, in the second half of 1971.
4.        Development of Market and Improvement of Fish Distribution.
The main fisheries activities in Pan,ama are oriented toward products
(shrimp and fish meal) that can be etxported. At the same time, ex-
ploitation of bottom fish resources is neglected and the greater part
of the fish taken by the shrimp trawler and purse seiner fleet is
discarded. The need for a diversification of the fishing industry also
arises from the low domestic consumption of fish - a high protein source.
5.        The survey recently made, with UNDP regional project assis-
tance, has shown that there is a potential domestic market for fish.
In addition, there is a potential market provided by the merchant and
passenger vessels that call at Balboa or Colon while passing through
the canal. Approximately 400,000 seamen and 140,000 passengers pass
through the Panama Canal per year; additionally about 100,000 tourists
visit Panama yearly. Hlowever, present fish catches by in-shore fisher-
men and shrimp trawlers find a limited outlet because of the lack of
a fishery harbor with central marketing facilities and the lack of a
proper fish distribution network.
6.        The Government is arranging for a feasibility study on con-
struction of a fishing port. At the same time, however, efforts must be
made for the organization of fish distribution and gradual development of
fish consumption so that, when a new, port is put in operation, its installations
will be fully used.
7.        The fish distribution network to be gradually developed will
be fed by fish landed by shrimp trawlers and in-shore fishing boats.
Small storage and ice-making facilities will be set up at landing sites
where inshore fishermen's cooperatives are operating and where te&hnical



ANNEX 4
Page 3
assistance in fish handling and conditioning for internal distribution
would be available. Training and transportation to distribution centers
and retail stores would be organized and advice and assistance would be
provided to retailers. A campaign to promote fish consumption would
also be organized. At the same time, assistance to inshore fisheries
would be provided to increase production as the demand for fish develops.
8.        Organization of the complete fish distribution network, as
outlined above, would be developed step by step. It would be centered
on the fishing port central market and amplified when construction of
the new port is completed. An expert in fish marketing would be provided
for the duration of the project. In addition, an expert to advise
cooperatives and inshore fishermen in fish handling and conditioning for
internal distribution would be required during 18 months.
9.        A master fisherman to assist and advise inshore fishermen in
fishing boat and fishing gear handling and maintenance would also be re-
quired during 18 months. The necessary equipment, storage facilities,
and such that would be required during the early phases of the project
would be provided by Government. The complete expansion would eventually
require new investments for which an international source of financing
would be sought.
10.       Shark Fishing.  Previous assistance provided in the processing
of sharks has given excellent results, and processed shark has been
readily accepted on the Panama market as a substitute for imported cod.
Production now needs to be increased. This increase can be obtained
through an improvement in fishing gear and methods. A small program of
assistance in this field would be carried out as a part of the wider
program to assist inshore fishermen and to organize the fish distribution
network. Increased catches of shark would be welcomed by the shrimp
fishermen, who often have them ripping into shrimp trawl nets. A con-
sultant would be required for approximately three months to advise and
assist fishermen in the design and operation of suitable fishing gear.
April 26, 1971






ANNEX 5
Page 1
PANAMA
FISHERIES PROJECT
Panamanian Shrimp Fishing Fleet
1.        Shrimp fishing in Panama with cast nets and seines dates back
to ancient days, but modern trawling began about 1946 when one boat
started fishing for the local market. Visiting tuna fishermen from the
United States saw the large shrimps that were caught and sent samples
to American importers. These were well received and a new industry
developed rapidly. The first shipments were made in 1950 and within a
year the fishery was booming. By 1955, the shrimp fleet had grown to
90 vessels, and four freezing plants were in operation.
2.        The Panamanian fishery started with United States capital.  In
1953, most of the companies then operating were bought out by Panamanian
interests. At present, six freezing plants are locally owned and the
seventh is U.S.-owned. No difficulties are placed in the way of foreign
ownership, although foreign investors are required to form a Panamanian
company. At first, all the boats were from the United States, mostly
typical old-style Mississippi coastal single-net trawlers, along with
a few West Coast conversions. Since 1953, only boats built in Panama
have been permitted to operate.
3.        By 1955, the several boatyards in Panama City were building
shrimp trawlers, with 15 under construction in November of that year.
About that time, the typical Panama-type boat evolved, which has since
spread to Ecuador and El Salvador. This craft, essentially based on
the Florida trawler, is 55 to 65 feet in length and of wooden construc-
tion. Traditionally, Panamanian trawlers are painted black, with a
white superstructure, but recently a few white vessels have appeared.
The first steel trawlers were built in 1955, although steel craft did
not become popular until lately when a slight trend toward steel became
evident. All the vessels fish with two nets, most of them with the
usual two booms slung from the mast. Mlany, however, rig the booms on
the outboard rails, which is more prevalent in Panama than elsewhere.
All vessels are equipped with brine refrigeration instead of ice-carrying
facilities.
4.        Because of attacks from shipworms, the wooden trawlers need
frequent service and seldom can continue in operation more than 10
years. Consequently, several boatyards in Panama City are kept busy
servicing and building replacements; in fact, it is usual to have to
wait one's turn for haul-outs. Typical repairs include replacing planks,
plugging worm holes, caulking, and painting, as well as servicing the
rudder and propeller.



ANNEX 5
Page 2
5.        Between 1957 and 1959, the fleet underwent a tremendous and
uncontrolled expansion, following exceptional fishing for pink shrimp.
In an effort to control over-expansion, which had resulted in unprofitable
operations, legislation was passed in 1968 to limit the total fleet to
238 vessels. Table 1 shows the average number of vessels in operation
each year from 1960 through 1970. In 1970, 229 of the 238 authorized
licenses were being utilized; the remaining nine belonged to owners who
had been delayed in replacing sunken vessels.
6.        The composition of the shrimp fleet by age, tonnage, and horse-
power at the end of 1970 is shown in Table 2. About 50% of the trawlers
in the fleet were 10 years old or more. A distinct move toward larger
and more powerful vessels is evident.
7.        Tn 1970, ownership of the fleet was divided between the shrimp
processing plants (45%) and independent vessel owners (55%) who supply
the processing plants (Table 3). Froim 1968 through 1970, there has been
a definite trend toward more shrimp processing plant ownership, probably
reflecting financial ability to purchase licenses (and build boats) from
independents, who are not in a financial position to replace their old
trawlers.
8.        Table 3 also indicates the structure of fleet ownership.  Fish-
ing companies with only one or two licenses each comprise 84;..of all
fishing companies, but they own only 32% of the total number. of licenses.
On the other hand, companies that own three to forty-four licenses each
comprise only 16% of the fishing company population but own 68% of the
total number of licenses.
April 26, 1971



ANNEX 5
Table 1
PANAMA
FISHERIES PROJECT
Average Number of Shrimp Trawlers in Operation
Year of Operation          Number of Vessels
1960                        160
1961                        159
1962                        156
1963                        149
1964                        177
1965                        189
1966                        193
1967                        212
1968                        224
1969                        222
1970                        229
Source:  Departamento de Pesca e Industrias, Ministerio de Comercio
e Industrias, Republica de Panama.
April 26, 1971



Table 2
PANAMA
FISHERIES PROJECT
Composition of Shrimp Tra,wler Flijet. 1970
Year of        Number 1/    GIodSS Regis tir&  T                    Horsepower
Construction  of vesseTs
Total       %     Average                %       Average
per V'essel  Total           per Vesaal
1948           1            45.8       0.3      45.8        180     0.4      18o.o
1949           1            45.9       0.3      45.9        210     0.4      210.0
1951           1            64.5       0.1k     64.5        170     0.3      170.0
1952           1            66.5       0.5      66.5        170     0.3      170.0
1955           5           287.5       2.0      57.5        720     1.4      144.0
1956          15           814.1       5.6      54.3      2,774     5.5      184.9
1957          47         2,689.2      18.5      57.2      9,028    18.1      192.1
1958          37         2,149.3      14.9      58.1      6,795    13.6      183.6
1-959          5           258.3       1.8      51.7        976     1.9      195.2
1960           2           112.0       0.8      56.0        304     o.6      152.0
1961           3           176.5       1.2      58.8        495     1.0      165.0
1962           7           374.1       2.6      53.4     1,480      3.0      211.4
1963          10           577.5       4.0      58.8     1,990      4.0     199.0
1964          24         1,415.3       9.8      59.0      5,2?5    10.5      219.8
1965          20         1,385.7      9.6       69.3     4,410      8.8     220.5
1966          14         1,045.1       7.2      74.7     3,985      8.0     284.6
1967          19         1,655.2     11.4       87.1      5,612    11.2     295.4
1968          10           709.0      4.9       70.9     2,967      5.9     296.7
1969           4           344.4l      2.1t     86.1     1,460      2.9     365.0
1970           3           255.3       1.8      85.1     1,080      2.2     360.0
Total        229        14,%71.2    100.0       63.7    50,081   100.0      220.6
Average
-Age                       Number of vessels         %
10 years or older ...............     115                 50
5 tQ i.0 vears    ..... ...... ..      64                 28
1 to    .YearS    ......... I...        50                22
Total:        229                100
1/  Shrimp trawlers in over-20-tro,ss-tonnage cl'ss.
Onurce: Direccion General de Ilecursos Marinos , Ministerio de Comercio e
Industrias, Republica de Panamsa.



ANNEX 5
Table 3
PANAMA
FISHERIES PROJECT
Licensed Shrimp Fleet Ownership
A. Processing Plant Versus Independent Ownership
1968              1969               1970
No. of            No. of             No. of
Licenses  %       Licenses  %        Licenses  %
Shrimp Processing
2iants                       90    38           94    40          106    45
Independent Vessel
rwners                      148    62          144    60          132    55
TOTAL                    238   100          238   100          238   100
B. Number of Licenses by Size of Companies
% Licenses                  % Owners
Size of Companies         Total No.       by Size of       No. of      by Size of
by No. of Licenses       of Licenses       Company         Owners      Company
1                       48              20             48            65
2                       28              12             14            19
3-5                     14               6              4             5
6-10                    23              10              3             4
11-20                   25              10              2             3
21-44                  100              42              3             4
TOTAL                   238              100            74           100
April 26, 1971






ANNEX 6
Page 1
PANAMA
FISHERIES PROJECT
World Shrimp Resources and Market Prospects
1.        Shrimp are found in practically all oceans of the world, but
they fall broadly in one of the two varieties: the tropical and subtropical
and those found in the northern temperate zone, the former being by far
the most common. Shrimp are concentrated in the west-central Pacific and
the Indian Ocean, though a substantial amount is also caught in regions
like the east-central and southwest Atlantic, east-central Pacific and
the Mediterranean. As is typical of fisheries, the world harvest of
shrimp is limited by natural and biological factors.  The maximum sus-
tainable yield of shrimp is estimated to be in the neighborhood of 3.3
billion pounds and the world catch, which at present is about 44% of
this figure, is expected to reach that level by the year 2000. Because
of the relatively short life cycle, overfishing of shrimp is virtually
impossible.
Shrimp Catch and Trade 2
2.        Consumption of shrimp has grown rapidly in the recent decades,
while consumption of all seafood has just about kept pace with popula-
tion growth. Not very long ago, shrimp was regarded as a rare luxury
consumption item in the western countries but now, although still ex-
pensive relative to other food substitutes, it has become fairly popular,
especially in the United States.
3.        The United States is both the largest catcher and consumer of
shrimp, consuming in any year more than 30% (or around 450 million pounds)
of world shrimp catch in one form or another. Per capita consumption of
shrimp in the United States rose from 1.47 pounds in 1950 to 2.22 pounds
in 1960 and about 3.00 pounds in 1969. The countries next in importance
are Japan, with a consumption level of about 250 million pounds, and
Thailand.
1/   FAO has agreed on the prospects for shrimp as presented in this Annex.
2/   Data on shrimp may occasionally appear to be conflicting with other
sources. It is largely attributable to the way product weight is de-
fined.  The two most common measures are the "live weight" and "heads-
off weight". Unless otherwise specified, it is the former measure
used here.



ANNEX 6
Page 2
4.        World catch of shrimp increased by something like 200% between
1950 and 1958, reaching a level of 1,054 million pounds in the latter
year (Table 1). Growth in the sixties, particularly since 1963, has
been much slower.  Between 1958 and 1968, the annual shrimp catch in
the listed countries expanded at an average rate of 4.4%. The value
of shrimp landings is estimated to have increased from US$143 million in
1950 to US$402 million in 1960 and US$781 million in 1967. The rate of
expansion in this respect was also considerably slower in the 1960's
than in the period before.
5.        It is clear from Table 1 that there is a large number of coun-
tries engaged in shrimp trade, but the great bulk of supplies comes from
the Asian and North and South American countries, with obviously very
large differences among individual countries. Countries whose annual
catch exceeded 100 million pounds during 1966-68 were the following: the
United States (281 million pounds), India (207 million pounds), Japan
(144 million pounds), Mexico (144 million pounds), and Thailand (133
million pounds). Other important suppliers include the Federal Republic
of Germany (71 million pounds), Malaysia (66 million pounds), the Philippines
(53 million pounds), Pakistan (52 million pounds), and Taiwan (43 million
pounds). Brazil's annual catch usually exceeds 50 million pounds, but
data for recent years are not available. These countries together account
for about three-quarters of the world catch of shrimp.
6.        A significant feature in the development of the world shrimp
industry has been that the large suppliers in general have been able to
expand their catch much more slowly than some of the small suppliers.
In the case of the United States, India, Japan, Mexico, and the Federal
Republic of Germany, shrimp catch has increased hardly at all in recent
years, while some Asian countries--notably, Thailand, Taiwan and Malaysia,
and possibly also Pakistan and the Philippines--went through a period of
very rapid expansion. In most cases, especially the United States, the
slow growth can be explained by the fact that additional fishing effort
on traditional grounds has failed to produce any material gains. As
observed earlier, overfishing is not possible in the case of shrimp. In-
creasing the catch significantly, therefore, involves fishing in more
distant waters, but this requires larger vessels with equipment needed
to preserve shrimp for a longer than four- to seven-day period, which
happens to be the present norm.
7.        A natural consequence of the above situation has been that the
United States, Japan, and other large consumers among developed countries
have had to rely increasingly on imports to meet the rising domestic con-
sumption of shrimp. Information on imports and exports is limited only
to a few countries, 1/ but the data in Tables 2 and 3 show unmistakably a
rapid expansion in shrimp trade-,
1/   It is believed, nevertheless, that the listed countries do cover
the bulk of world trade in shrimp.



ANNEX 6
Page 3
8.        Table 2 gives the level of imports during 1962-69 in the United
States, Japan, and Canada, while the data for the EEC are available only
since 1966. The expansion in imports was most dramatic in the case of
Japan, where imports rose from 8 million pounds to 108 million pounds in
1969. However, her imports still remain only a little more than half of
the U.S. imports. The increase during the same period in the case of the
United States and Canada was, respectively, 38% and 147%.
9.        Table 3 gives the export side of the picture for the period
1958-69. Exporters that supplied more than 10 million pounds of shrimp
per annum to foreign countries during the last three years of the period
were Mexico, India, the United States, Pakistan, Panama, and liong Kong.
Price Behavior and Future Outlook
10.       There are fairly wide differences in the prices charged for
the different varieties of shrimp. Larger size shrimp, i.e., with lower
count per pound, are more expensive per pound than shrimp of small size.
It has also been observed in recent years that the price increases have
been steeper in the case of large shrimp, while the price of the smallest
size shrimp has not increased over the years. however, in general, the
price movement has been fairly uniform among the various varieties and
markets.
11.       Table 4 gives the wholesale price of shrimp at Chicago since
1950, and refers to frozen brown shrimp, with 26 to 30 count per pound,
and the same data are reproduced in graph form in Chart 1. It is im-
mediately obvious that shrimp prices have been on a rise throughout the
period, although there were substantial but fairly regular cyclical
fluctuations. The trend lines fitted gave an average annual growth rate
of 5.8%, and an average yearly increase of 3.1 cents. 1/
12.       The price in 1950 was only 63 cents per pound, as compared to
US$1.31 in 1969. The pressure on shrimp prices remained very strong
throughout the 1960's, when the decade began with a price of 72 cents,
but the price increases were particularly sharp between 1964 and 1969.
Past experience has shown that suppliers do respond, however slowly, to
sharp price increases and bring down the prices somewhat. There does
1/   Equation for the trend line is: Y - - 101 + 3.13 t
(0.42)
(7.45)
2
r - 0.75
This equatAon obviously does not give the trend rate of growth, which
is measured by: log Y - 0.970 + 0.016 t
(0.002)
(7.68)
where t - 50 for the year 1950, etc.



ANNEX 6
Page 4
seem to be a close relationship between the price increase and the
unusually slow expansion in shrimp supply since 1963. lhowever, there
has been some improvement in the supply situation relative to the demand
in the last few months of 1970, resulting in a decline in the price
level.
13.       Shrimp prices in the United States at any rate have risen
faster than the prices of other varieties of meats, 1/ which can be
attributed to a relatively high incorme elasticity with low price
elasticity of demand for shrimp and the relatively poor response of
the supply to the increases in demancl. Very little information is
available on the actual magnitude of these elasticities. Results of an
attempt made by the U.S. National Marine Fisheries Service to measure
these elasticities for some selected countries are reproduced in Table 5.
14.       It is evident that the estimates differ as to the extent of
their reliability. Only in the case of the United States do the results
seem plausible: Not only is the signL of the elasticities what could be
expected a priori, but the magnitudes also seem reasonable. 2/ Only in
one other case, i.e., Mexico, are both the elasticities significant at
95% level of confidence and of the "right" sign, but their magnitudes
seem to be on the high side. Thailand and Pakistan have significant (95%
level) estimates of income elasticity, but the estimates of price elasticity
do not have the right sign. On the other hand, neither Japanese nor Indian
data threw up any significant results, and the Indian results are peculiar,
for the estimated price elasticity is positive and the income elasticity
negative.
15.       Estimates of income elasticity are more reliable than those of
price elasticity, and suggest that as per capita incomes and population
rise, particularly in the less developed countries, demand for shrimp
will remain strong and continue to grow. If the U.S. price elasticity,
estimated to be - 0.31, is taken to be more realistic, then this pressure
of demand, in the presence of supply limitations, will have a tendency,
as in the past, to raise shrimp prices in the future. The price increases
are likely to be steeper as the time passes. If past tendencies persist,
1/   See Donald P. Clearly, Demand and Price Structure for Shrimp, Working
Paper No. 15, U. S. Bureau of Commercial Fisheries, Division of Economic
Research, June 1969.
2/   An estimate of price elasticity can also be obtained from a model
worked out by Mr. Timmer.  See his, "A Projection Model of the U.S.
Shrimp Market", Food Research Institute Studies in Agricultural
Economics, Trade and Development, Stanford University, Vol. VIII,
No. 3, 1968.  On the basis of his regression results, the price
elasticity comes to 0.41 for the demand and price level in 1966.



ANNEX 6
Page 5
i.e., the shifts in demand continue to be closely associated with time, 1/
the price that will rule in 1975 at Chicago may in fact lie on the ex-
tended trend line in Chart 1, barring any temporary disturbances. In
this case, the price will reach a level of US$1.33 per pound in that year.
This estimate seems to be in line with the estimates derived by the U.S.
National Marine Fisheries Service, after converting its price relatives
to the actual market price. 2/ However, the increase in price could be
as much as 60%, if world supply of shrimp continues to grow at the rate
observed during the 1960's and if the price and income elasticities of
demand for shrimp for the world are more or less similar to the U.S.
estimates.
16.       The simple projection of time trend for the purpose of price
forecast becomes increasingly unsatisfactory as the period is extended
into the more distant future. The reason for this is that this procedure
does not take account of the worsening of the supply situation that will
result as the world supplies will approach the world maximum sustainable
yield for shrimp and the substantial changes that can be expected in the
demand elasticities in future. However, the U.S. National Marine Fisheries
Service estimates that the price increase will be 39% between 1965-67 and
1980 and 58% between 1965-67 and 1985 (or a 41% increase between 1970
and 1985). This, when converted into the market prices used in the above
analysis, implies that the shrimp price will be around US$1.43 in 1980
rising to about US$1.63 in 1985 barring, of course, any temporary dis-
turbance.
May 21, 1971
1/   A sufficient condition for the observed price to be associated with
time is that shifts in the demand and supply schedules are also
closely related to time.
2/   For the purpose of comparison, this was done by assuming that the
actual market price between 1967 and 1975 would rise by the same pro-
portion as the price relative calculated by the U. S. National Marine
Fisheries Service.






ANNEX 6
PANAMA                                      Table 1
FISHERIES PROJECT
Shri.i    CalahAs by f,   trt 4aa and R~
(nominal catch (live wgeights); million pourdK)
Country/IRegion    1958  1959  1960    1961    1962    1963    1964    1965    1966    1967    1968
North America
E:L Salvaador     2.2   4.2  17.2    13.7    13.2    12.6    12.1    11.0    16.1    12.3           9.9
Mexico          110.7  132.9  147.3   159.4   155.6   158.7   152.1   130.3   145.1   154.5   129.2
Panama           10.1  12.3  12.1    11.5    12.3    12.3    15.6    13.0    12.6    14.3    13.2
United Statea   213.8 240.3 249.3   174.4   191.1   240.3   211.9   243.6   238.9   312.2   291.7
Others            6.2   0.    1.8      .5      11.5    12.8    17.9    14.3    19.4    19.2    21.2
Total        M34 39  4      27.7   - 46 409.   42 42-.1 512. 465.2
South America
Bra2il-          38.4  h0.1  47.8    55.1    77.6    63.7    60.0    76.7    n.a.    n.a.    n.a.
Chile             0.7  15.6  23.6       5.3     9.5      7.9    13.0    13.0    25.1    22.0    22.7
Colombia          1.5   2.9   3.7      4.2      h.0      4.2     5.7      5.9      4.6     5.3    15.0
Ecuador           6.o   6.2   6.2    10.1    10.3    11.5    11.0    12.6    11.7    13.2    1h.1
Guyana           n.a.   1.1   2.2      4.0      5.1      6.2     7.0      8.1      9.5     9.0      9.2
Venezuela         2.4   3.5   3.1       5.5     8.4      8.6     9.5    16.5       7.5    11.2    10.1
Others          4.8   3.3   3.3         53      4.2      5.1     S1       3.7      3                2.6
Total          53.8  727    9.9             119.1   107.2   111.3              26. 5 6           73.7
Wetern Europe
DenMark           3.7   5.3   6.4      7.7    10.1    10.6       8.2    11.5    10.6    10.8    12.1
Germany, Fed.Rep. 64.8  56.7  52.9    60.8    56.7    93.2    63.5    62.4    84.6    53.8    73.0
Italy           14.1  12.8  12.8    17.0    16.3    14.5    17.4    18.9    18.7    17.8    20.5
Netherlands      28.9  29.5  28.4    32.8    36.1    54.4    48.3    38.4    34.2    31.5    24.7
Norway           16.1  21.4  21.2    22.3    24.0    25.8    24.2    23.1    16.3    18.5    15.8
Spain            30.2  34.2  37.7    33.0    31.1    28.7    28.0    26.0    21.2    19.6    16.1
Others           19.6  23.6  24.9    25.1    30.0               35.6    36.7    37.       33.0       .
To t-al lT7.1T, _18T7 1434. 3 145.7   204.           3       225.2          270 *222.6   1973
Africa
Total           4.6   5.9   4.8       7.5     4.2    27.5      5.9      5.7      8.4     9.7    14.8
Oceania
A3uetralia        4.6   6.6   7        6.6      9.      12.6    13.4    12.1    12.6    13.7    20.1
Tlmtal    h    r.6   Z7       .    _7  b       4     72.6 9.3  :X 3           .2.6 1 r   3.7    20.1
Asia
China (Taiwan)    8.8  11.0  11.0    12.1    14.1    19.8    21.6    31.3    37.7    44.8    47.8
Hong Kong         6.4   1.3   0.9      0.9      3.1      2.2     1.1      1.3     0.9      1.3      2.0
India           191.1  148.8 155.6   138.4   183.4   179.9   209.2   170.4   200.4   201.9   220.0
Iran             n.a.  n.a.  n.a.    n.a.    n.a.    n.a.    n.a.    n.a.    10.1          9.0    n.a.
Japan           122.8  1-J.6  133.1   162.L   174.8   191.1   171.5   146. t,  151.7   134.j   146.2
uoX-CI (SoutIlLi)    36.1  40.6  22.9    50.5    h5.o    31.3    39.9    37.9    26.7    19.6    25.1
Kuwait           n.a.  n.a.  n.a.    n.a.    n.a.        5.7     8.4      8.8      8.8    13.2    n.a.
Malaysia         19.8  n.a.  n.a.    35.5    46.1    41.9    42.5    45.8    53.8    71.2    72.5
Pakistan         32.8  33.5  39.7    43.0    42.1    40.6    56.6    59.5    48.9    55.1    51.6
Philippines      .0.2  n.a.  n.a.    37.2   1h.41    44.7    47.4    50.5    57.8    52.9    47.4
Saudi Arabia     n.a.  n.a.  n.a.    11.5    13.2    14.5    15.4    14.5    15.6    17.2    28.0
Thailand          .7 920.3  32.0    36.4    44.3    Sl.S    65.o    77,6    99.9   134.5   1653
Totga         470.7 3r7.l  395.2   527.5   610.2   62 J       7 .    6,.2   712.3   755.2   1
Total above      1054.1 1046.6 1109.6  1198.3  1330.8  1467.9  1414.0  1427.7  1450.1  1540.3  1577.4
Note: ri.a. * not available.
Soulrce: FAO, Yearbook of Fishery Statisttcs. Catches and IAndings various issues.



PANAMA
FISHER3ES  PROJECT
Shrimap Imprts into Major Markets
(Product weight: millions of pounds)
1962       1963        196h        1965       1966        1967        1968        1969
United States      141.2      151.5       153.6       161.7       177.3       186.1       187.5      193.8
Japan 1/             8.0        26.0       4o.1        46.9        81.1        98.3        77.8      108.2
EEC                 n.a.        n.a.       n.a.        n.a.        14.7        15.1        10.5       19.3
Canada               5.9         6.8        7.3        8.7          7.9        10.3       11.9        1h.6
Total above      155.1      18.3       201.0       217.3       281.0      287.7       293.7       336.h
1/  Japan figures include some other crustaceans.
Source: Natioral Trade Statistics.



PANAMA
FISHEkVES PROJ3CT
Shrix  fports by Country
(Product weight:  millions of pounds)
1958   1959   1960   1961   1962   1963   1964   1965   1966   1967   1968   1969
.'e.ico-                       50.7   63.5   70.9   80.2   76.9   76.3   70.8   59.5   65.9   70.9   35.9   68.4
Parama                          8.2    8.8    8.4    9.5   10.1    8.6   12.3   10.6   11.5   11.2   10.6   10.1
Ur tIed States                  6.2    8.4   10.4   15.3    9.9   18.9   21.5   21.9   23.2   31.5   26.8   43.0
Brazil                         n.a.   n.a.   n.a.   n.a.   n.a.   n.a.   n.a.   n.a.    1.5    1.5    2.2    5.1
Ve-eve'a                       n.a.   n.a.   n.a.   n.a.   n.a.    7.5    9.5   15.6    3.5    7.3    6.6    6.9
.o? .og                         6.6    3.1    3.5    3.1    5.3    9.5    8.6   1C.4   12.1    9.3   10.1   10.3
s.a                           r.n.a.   10.4   11.0   13.9   14.1   15.4   18.5   22.3   27.8   30.0   40.6   52.4
Jaar. 2/                         4.4    8.2    3.7    2.9    4.2    2.6    2.9    3.7    5.7    3.1    5.3    8.1
Korea, Republic of             n.a.   n.a.   n.a.   n.a.   n.a.    3.7    4.4    4.2    3.5    5.3    4.8   n.a.
Pa ki tan                      n.a.   n.a.   n.a.    3.2    3.6    L.1   n.a.    5.0   11.1   11.4   13.2   14.0
rl a Gn d s                5.3    6.6    4.8    5.5    5.7    7.5    9.9    9.3    8.2    8.2    6.8   n.a.
4- .8    5.5    7.7    8.6    8.2   10.1    6.8    5.9    3.3    3..3    4.6   n.a.
Australia                      n.a.   n.a.   n.a.   n.a.   n.a.    1.1    1.1    1.3    2.2    2.6    3.7   n.a.
Other countries 3/             n.a.   n.a.   n.a.   n.a.   n.a.   n.a.   59.8   76.9  112.5  116.8  104.7  121.8
Tctal above               92.2  116.5  120.4  142.2  138.0  165.3 226.1  246.6  292.0  312.4  295.9  340.1
1/  Preliminary data.
2/ Excludes exports of canned shrimp.
3/ Refers to eyports to United States and Japan only.
Source: FAO, Yearbook of Fishery Statistics, various issues; U.S. Department of the Interior, Bureau of
Commercial Fisheries, Shellfish Situation and Outlook; National Trade Statistics ohirJapan, India,
Pakistan and United States.



ANNEX 6
Table 4
PANAMA
FISHERIES PROJECT
Shrimp -/ Wholesale Price Series Ex Chicago
(Annual Average in US #/lb)
Year            Price           Year             Price
1950              63            1960               72
1951              56            1961               78
1952              62            1962              103
1953              78            1963               90
1954              57            1964               82
1955              61            1965               90
1956              76            1966              111
1957              89            1967              107
1958              90            1968              121
1959              74            1969              131
Source:  FAO, Monthly Bulletin and Production Yearbook, various issues.
1/   Frozen, brown grooved headless, 26 to 30 count in 5-lb carton.
May 21, 1971



ANNEX 6
Table 5
PANAMA
FISIIERIES PROJECT
Income and Price Elasticity of Consumption
for Shrimp in Different Countries
Price                Income
Country                Elasticity            Elasticity
/1                   /1
United States           - 0.31-                1.70-
/1             ~~~~~/1
Mexico                  - 1.66a                5.24-
India                     0.48               - 0.01
Japan                   - 0.15                 0.14
Pakistan                  0.17                 2.02/
Thailand                  0.6 0/               3.9g
/1   Results significant at 95% or higher level of confidence.
Source: U.S. National Marine Fisheries Service, Division of
Economic Research, "The Future of the World's Fishery
Resources", 1970.
May 21, 1971






PANAMA
FISHERIES PROJECT
SHRIMP PRICE MOVEMENTS, 1950 - 69
160  _ _    _     _ _   __                   _   _     _ _    __                               _   _     _ _    __                               _    __      __
140  _  _   _     _ _   __                               _    _     _ _   __                                                                     _      _
ACTUAL
120   _ _ _  _                                                                    _ _  _ _   _  _ _  _
100   _    _                     _     __                                                                      _
z
u  CD     80_ _                               _                                                                    _   _    _
EC I~~~~~~~~~~~~
60  _o       ,          ._                                                     _                                     _     _ ,,_,_
z
40_ _                               _
20_                                                                                            _   _     _ _  _   _   _  _   _
1950        1952        1954         1956        1958         1960        1962         1964        1966         1968         1970        1972         1974
IBRD-5581 (2R)






ANNEX 7
Page 1
PANAMA
FISHERIES PROJECT
1/
World Fish Meal Production and Market Prospects
Past Trends and Present Situation
1.        World 2/ consumption of fish meal in the period 1955-57 to 1969 has
grown at an annual rate of 9.3%, due mainly to increased consumption in the
United States, the EEC, and Japan 3/. Supplies of fish meal have been able
to match demand, in part through higher production in some of the old estab-
lished producing countries, i.e., Norway, South Africa, and Iceland, but
particularly by the entry of new producers (Peru, Chile, and Denmark).
These supplies were also sufficient to offset a long-term decline in the
domestic production of some major consumers, i.e., the United States (Chart 1).
Growth in world trade, therefore, has more than matched the growth of world
consumption and exports grew at a rate of 17.9% per annum during the period
1955-57 to 1968 (Table 1).
2.        As of 1968/69, world exports accounted for 68% of world production
(Table 2). The major exporters of fish meal have been Peru, which in 1968/69
accounted for nearly 60% of world exports, South Africa, and Norway. Minor
exporters are Chile, Iceland, Denmark, and Angola. More than two-thirds of
"Total" exports went to the EEC, the United States, and the United Kingdom
(in that order of importance) while the remaining exports were rather widely
dispersed.
3.        Over the period 1955-57 to 1966-68, there was a considerable shift
in the geographic distribution of import demand for fish meal. The combined
share of the EEC, the United States, and the United Kingdom, the three
largest markets in the late 1950's, dropped from 81.7% to 64.1% as of 1966-68,
involving declining market shares for the EEC and the United Kingdom but
showing some increase for the United STates. At the same time, imports into
the centrally planned countries, Japan, and other Western European countries
have gained importance and now account for roughly 40% of the market for
fish meal (Table 3).
1/   Prepared by Trade Policies and Export Projections Division, Economics
Department, IBRD, March 31, 1970.
2/   Throughout this report, the term "world" is defined as the world,
excluding Mainland China but including all COMECON countries.
3/   "Consumption" in this case means use in animal feed mixtures.



ANNEX 7
Page 2
4.        Despite the rapid increase iLn consumption, the long-run trend of
fish meal prices remained remarkably trendless and the average price for
the period 1964 through 1968 was approximately US$156 per ton c.i.f. Hamburg
(Table 4). Short-term price fluctuations, however, connected as a rule
with supply fluctuations of rather small magnitudes frequently disrupted the
trend (Chart 2).
5.        The current situation is one case in point.  Prices in 1969
rose from US$135 per m ton in March 1969 to US$205 per m ton in December
1969, averaging US$172 per m ton for the year.  The main reason for
the price increase, similar to short-term price fluctiations in 1959 and 1965
has been a supply shortage in Peru, Norway, and South Africa, which was not
offset by reported gains in exports from Angola and Chile. Import demand,
while sharply reduced in the United States, continued to increase in the EEC
(particularly Germany) and other countries. Total demand in 1969, therefore,
maintained its level as compared to 1968 and stocks were depleted. There
are indications that world fish meal supplies are increasing again, however
(particularly in Peru), and meal price-s have shown a tendency to weaken,
declining to US$170 per m ton in late March 1970.
Future Trends
6.        Nearly all fish meal is used as an important ingredient in poultry
protein feed containing fish meal and other feed meals and mixed on the basis
of protein content. The possibility of technical substitution between fish
meal and other ingredients, in particular soybean meal, is significant. The
highest rate of interchangeability between fish meal and soybean meal appears
to exist in countries where animal feed mixing is highly developed and based
on scientific research (i.e., the United States); it declines together as the
level of mixing technology drops.
7.        Pig and poultry, the end prcducts for which fish meal is used as
animal feed, have an extremely low income elasticity. In addition, fish
meal is facing a high price elasticity, of demand. As a result of these two
factors, efforts to project demand as a function of any macroeconomic data
are greatly hindered and have produced only inconclusive qualitative results.
A somewhat pragmatic approach has, therefore, been adopted by FAO in arriving
at its demand projection for fish meal 1/. This projection, in addition,
assumes a constant 1962 price for fishl meal.
8.        On the basis of data on the EEC's policy of expanding pig and
poultry production, FAQ expects fish meal consumption in the Community to
grow at an annual rate of 4.4% betweern 1970 and 1975 2/. For the other
1/   FAO, Indicativ*,World Plan, C 69/4, Vol. 1, August 1969, pp. 273-303.
2/   FAO's projections assume a linear rate of growth between 1962-75.



ANNEX 7
Page 3
European countries and for the United States, lower rates are projected,
while, for Japan and other developed countries, growth rates range between
5.8 and 8.5% per annum. On the basis of these projections, demand for fish
meal in the developed countries as of 1975 may reach 4.25 million tons com-
pared to 3.04 million tons in 1964-66, or grow at an annual rate of approx-
imately 4.5% between 1970 and 1975. Fish meal consumption in the centrally
planned and in the developing countries is projected to nearly double between
1965 and 1975 and is predicted to reach 1.5 million tons as of 1975. On
the basis of the foregoing considerations, FAO projected that world consump-
tion of fish meal seems likely to grow at an annual rate of 5.6% per annum.
9.        However, growth of world consumption in the period 1961-63 to
1966-68 has turned out to be significantly higher than those projections.
Due largely to higher growth of US consumption (at an annual rate of 7.6%
as compared to an FAO projection of 2.6% per annum), the actual annual rate
of world consumption reached 7.5% per annum. Consumption in the centrally
planned countries and in the United Kingdom was also higher than predicted
in the FAO study.
10.       A major reason for this increase in the United States and the
United Kingdom appears to have been the combined effect of increasing world
market prices for soybean meal, the major substitute for fish meal, and
some decline of fish meal prices in the middle 1960's. In the period 1966-68,
the price ratio between fish meal and soybean meal in the United States
decllned to approximately 1.6, i.e., returned to levels prevailing in the
late 1950's. Our present view, based on preliminary examination of these
relationships, is that consumption of fish meal in the United States would
slow down, i.e., might grow at a rate of approximately 5%, if the price
ratio were maintained at 1.7. In Western Europe, fish meal seems to be
replaced by soybean meal in the feed component if the ratio increases above
1.5 1/. In fact, in 1966-68, the ratio has averaged approximately this
level. Assuming a continuation of this ratio in the period 1970 to 1975,
consumption in Western Europe is estimated to grow at an annual rate of
approximately 4%. Given our projected price for soybeans, the price implica-
tions of these ratios for fish meal are US$143 per ton c.i.f. Hamburg
and US$158 per ton f.o.b. New York. This will be discussed further below.
11.       It is hazardous to forecast fish meal production simply by extra-
polating historical trends. Fish meal production is determined by the
availability of fish occurring in great abundance and readily accessible to
large-scale production types of gear. To provide a realistic forecast of
fish meal production, It is necessary to have knowledge of the world harvest
1/   The difference in the ratios of fish meal prices to soybean prices of
1.5 and 1.7 for Western Europe and the United States reflects largely
lower prices for soybean meal in the United States as compared to
Western Europe.



ANNEX 7
Page 4
potential of these fish species.  Some information is available for Peru
and Chile from Bank reports. In many other countries, however, no study of
the potential has been undertaken. FAO has drawn attention (with others) to
the problem of over-exploitation and has projected world fish meal production
to reach 4.5 million tons as of 1975, compared to 6.3 million tons based on
trend extrapolation. There exist possibilities of exploitation of new
sources of supply in the longer run (particularly of Antarctic krills) and a
production of 4.7 million tons in 1985 is suggested. Both the latter projec-
tions, however, have already been surpassed by production in 1968 when 4,945
million tons of fish meal were produced. In view of these deficiencies, and
pending Bank projections for a number of other countries, a tentative projec-
tion is provided in Table 2, using estimates of other experts in the field.
These assume that growth of world production for the period 1970-75 could
continue to grow, but a declining rate, from an annual rate of 5.8% to annual
rate of 4.2%, even if Peru's production were to return to its 1968 level
(Chart 3).
12.       Production in net exporting countries are assumed to grow at 3.7%
per annum while production in consuming countries (i.e., net importing
countries and countries neither exporting nor importing at present) would
grow at 5.2% per annum. Since production of net exporting countries is
nearly all exported, exports from these will grow at the same rate as produc-
tion (Table 1) 1/. The increasing fish meal production in consuming countries
is expected to occur mainly in centrally planned economies, where rising
domestic demand would, however, prevent the development of any excess supplies
and, therefore, a change in those countries' trade position from an importing
to an exporting country. However, it is expected that net imports into
those countries and into the "rest of the world" group will stabilize at
approximately their 1966-68 level. Net imports into all other countries,
particularly the United States, the EEC, and other developed countries, are
projected to grow at the same annual rate as consumption.
13.       The trade balance between potential and net imports, calculated
on the basis of factors discussed above, indicates a more or less balanced
export/import position of fish meal as of 1975. With an export potential
of 4.1 million tons as of 1975, total net imports may reach 4.3 million
tons. The estimated gap of 0.2 million tons, equivalent to 5% of the export
volume, is too small to indicate a significant supply deficit in view of the
tentative character of the export and import projections.
1/   Note, due to lack of data for exports in 1969, growth rates of prospec-
tive exports for the period 1969-75 are calculated on the base years
1966-68. Production of net exporting countries in 1966-68 was slightly
lower than in 1967-69. The implied annual rates of export growth,
shown in Table 1, therefore, are slightly higher than the annual rates
of growth of production calculated on the basis of 1967 to 1969.



ANNEX 7
Page 5
14.       The price of fish meal at this volume of import demand would
have to remain within the price ratios of 1.7 in the United States and 1.5
in Western Europe in relation to the price of soybean meal (para 10).
Soybean meal prices as of 1970 to 1975 are projected to remain at approxi-
mately US$95 per m ton c.i.f. European ports, with ample supplies available
to meet expected demand 1/. The corresponding price of fish meal c.i.f.
European and U.S. ports would amount to US$143 per m ton and US$158 per m
ton, respectively, or decline by approximately 8% from the average price
level as of 1963-69 (Table 4 and Chart 2).
15.       The declining price predicted in face of a significant reduction
of growth in fish meal supplies assumes a further substitution of soybean
meal for fish meal in Western Europe. Preliminary analysis undertaken in
the Economics Department indicates a high probability of this development.
In Germany, which is the major fish meal importer in Western Europe, statu-
tory minimum ratios of fish meal in feed mixtures have been abolished as of
January 1, 1970 and these changes should open the possibility of further
substitution. In case substitution is advancing slower than expected,
however, the average price c.i.f. Hamburg, as of 1974-76, might remain at,
approximately, the 1963-69 level of US$156 per m ton.
16.       Prices within the range of US$143-156 per m ton c.i.f. Hamburg
might also be sufficient to cover production costs in major producing
countries and should prevent any curtailment of production. Average costs
of production in major producing countries are estimated, by various sources,
to range between US$85 to US$130 per m ton.
1/   IBRD, Economics Department, Trade Policies and Export Projections
Division.
April 26, 1971






--Iish 'eal and Soio5i
--(-+,hAiRA m tons)
.Rate of                   Rate of
A c t u a 1                          Growth        Projected    Growth
Average                      ~:1963-65                                          1966-68
1955-57   1963-65    1966     1967     1968    1969      to 1966-68       1975       to 1975
(% p.a.)                   ( p.a.)
Ango'a                    66.0       44.7      53.6    37.8    44.o    95.0          0.3           150.o      16.2
Chile                      6.0      103.0     185.0    117.0   179.0   145.4        15.8           250.0        6.1
Nor-vay                  163.0      186.0     261.0   496.o   437.0   303.0         28.0-          500.0        3.6
Iceland                  31.0       127.0     174.0   134.0    64.o    .59.0    - 0.9              100.0     - 2.5
Peru                      36.0   1,295.0  l,304.0  1,595.0  2,081.0 1,655.0          8.6         1,900.0        1.7
South Africa)             56.0      232.0     173.0    289.0    353.4  - 301.0       5.4           50.0         7.9
S.W . Africa )          --                                     i --
Total FED 2/           358.    1,987.7   2,150.6  2,668.8  3.158.4 2,558.0        10.2         3,400.0        3.3
Other 3xporting
Comntries              132.0      242.3     319. 1    371 .2 _ 431.6.  371.6      15.6            69o.o       7.6
W'orld Total 3xports     490.0   2,20.0  2?.470.0  3.0140.0  3,59o.0 2.9.6 3/  10.8              4..oo          3.9
I/  3xcludes Mainland China.
2/  Fish Heal Lotesu Orpaniatim.
3/ Preliminary.
Source:  FA0 Com2odity Review and Outlook, 1968-1969 and 1969-1970.
Fish Meal Exporters Organizatiwi, Monthly I       August 1979.
U.S. Department of Agriculture, World Agricultural Producticn and Trade  August 1970.
CD.



PANWA
FISHERIES ?IfJECT
. o1z Map)1 anrl .Snlub1AS. trld'dProduction, 1255-65 - 1975
Rate of              Rata of
A a c   u a i                        Gr_ owh    Projected   Growth
Averag e                                             1963-65               1967-69
19 5557  1963-65    1966    1967    1968    1969    to 1967-69   1975           to 1975
(% p.a.)             (% p.a.)
Totai FRO
Dorters 2/                   495.0  212.24.0   2 627.0  2,993.0  3 161.5 2 608.0        8.3      3 500 0      2.8
Angola                      72 .0     45.0 -O            no.0     4.5                -6.X       b15 ;       3
Cwi.e                       17.0    128.0    220.0   166.0   235.0   130.0            8.4        250.0      4.2
Ice'land                    41.0    133.0      179.0   114 .0    53.0   .65.0        12.7        100.0      2.6
Non-.ay                    228.0    218.0    424.0   493.0   402.0   309.0           16.5        500.0      3.0
P-ru                        40.0  1,325.0  1,473.0 1,816.0  1,925.0. 1,610.0          8.0      1,900.0      1.4
South Africa 30                                2.    364.0   500.0   406.0                       600.o      5.5
S.W. Africa                 97 O                          4      >U.I.
Other Prodkieing Countries     885.0  1,356.0  1.52.3..  1,667.0 1,918.5  1 895 3         8.2      2,680.0      6.2
Denmark                     5r.O    119.0    132.0   17C;mi   244.0          0       37.2-       300.0      5.2
Canada                      66.o      87.0      92.0    93.0   126.0   315.o          6.6        300.0    14.3
Morocco 3/                   n.a.    18.1       37.1    25.3    38.2    24.0         12.6         90.0    13.9
Subto-al 4/             317.0    224.1    26i.1   294.3   408.2   326.0           11.2        690.0      9.6
Others                     768.0  1,131.9  1,251.9 1,372.7  1,510.3  1,569.3          7.0      1,990.0      5.2
Wlorld Total                 1,380.0  3,1480.0  4.ThO.Q  4,660.0  5,t28.o 4,.503.3  /   8.1        6,180.0      4.2
21 Excludes YUOWLand Chira.                  / Exports.                                        Preliminary.
2/ Fish Meae.. Exporters Organization        !Al  other net exporting countries.
Source: FAO, Cc.odiL Rehiew and Out.lokc, 1968-69 ar.d 1969-70.
I32A, 01"_ od e, Nover.aher 28, 1969, pp. 5-192.
Pish Yeal Exporters Organizatimp, mh-nvY R    t , Aug:st 1970.
U.S. Deparua,ent of Agriculta-tr, dorld        al Produqtion and Trade. August 1970.                      g'



ANNEX 7
PANAMA                                      Table 3
FISHERIES PROJECT
Fish Meal:  World baports, 1955-57 - 1968
Ujrj. t ed     Urti ted   Ws.vtcr Cw' ttral]).,   o.f    World
3tLttce^, E1,',  li ~wdo:n Thrc,'-.   Jaa.    P.la!r .d  V!orI(d  Tot.l
A.toal
1955-57                 '       2,26   1 39        .5 -7                         17      502i
1966-6                 591,     930   1X05       10.6      IlI       283        227   2,965
1962                   229      799   277         162       39        86         83   1,67-W
1963                   3L,2     66`3   232       220        81      161        123   1,075
1-961,                 3`8      SOl3   367        2lW?     102       195        1h5   2,297
]965                   245      838   3 66        314      1133      272        156   2,301h
3.966                  1130    'r,8   313         358       96       283        1.81   2,1j39
I96,7                  59h      9?:3.  )O.        32)0      87       293        216   2,912
1968                   778   1,060   501.         I9       150       214        255   3,'47
}hte of   th
(5N p.a.)
1,9';-57 - :19.  2    20.0   13. f   10.?         22.0      2..0   .7.5
- - Iyf6;.-68f   6     64 .    7.0o       o'.    10.3       17.8       18,0    n
.-,l    o ofi K>. I  n
(%>)
1955-<57               15,2  l.d;7     27.6       8&9       -          0.1       3j     . 10i.0
19t;2 (.t              16.93  3b.8,    1v>..      t0?      3.9        7.7       6.6  Ioo.o
1966) -C"              20.0  311.h   1  7        14.6      3.7        9.5       7. 7  10'0.)0
S .Itrc e:    } 1t          ,{FA051. ,, I      t,l . ,   (f  _,i .     ;I c - 1Qt J3,1 v19(,.



ANrPE2t 7
Tlabil.e 4
PAl"AI-A
11'zI .;I  111ES T Il 0J';.CT
Prices c)f Fislh Mleal in Western Europe and lTiited States;
1954-;,
(IJS$ per m ton)
Western Euroe         United States
c.i.f., /1   f.o.b., /2       f.o.b. /3
1954-56        135.00         154.50            n.a
1959           174.00         151.63            153.96
-1960          116.00         107.89            105.34
1961           131.00         122.47            120.41
1962           148.00         137.13            135.75
1963           145.00         140.43            133.71
1964           161.00         146.33            146.73
1965           190.00         182.32            170.47
1966           160.00         180.34            173.50
1967           134.00         154.49            144.24
1968           129.00         160.61            142.80
1969           172.00         188.91            185.02
/1   Peruvian, 65% to 70% till 1965; 1965-69:  65% only.
/2   Ex-plant, domestic product.
/3   Peruvian, 65%, free on rail at ports of import.
Source:  USDI, Situation Outlook, April 1968, p. 21;
Market New Daily Report, N.Y., DKS, September
13, 1960;
Bureau of Commercial Fisheries, Fish and
Wildlife Service, USDI;
IBRD, Trade Policies and Export Projections
Divisi6n, Economics Department.
April 26, 1971



PANAMA
FISHERIES PROJECT
FISH MEAL PRODUCTION AND IMPORTS IN MAJOR NET IMPORTING COUNTRIES, 1955-1968
(THOUSANDS OF METRIC TONS)
3,000                                                                 I                      I       I       3,000
2,500            l                                                                                            2,500
2,500-                                                         PRODUCTION AND IMPORTS                        2 .
2,000                                                                                                         2,000
1,500                                                                                                         1,500
11000                                                                                                         1,000
500 -500
0                                                                                                         o
1955-57  1958   1959   1960   1961   1962   1963   1964   1965   1966   1967   1968   1969    1970 X
IBRD - 4893(R)



PANAMA
FISHERIES PROJECT
FISH MEAL PRICES IN WESTERN EUROPE AND IN U.S.A.
(U.S. DOLLARS PER METRIC TON)
220                                                                                                      220-r-,-i  r  -   T  X  *  I  -- 220
200      -200
WESTERN EUROPE (c.i.f. HAMBURG)
I                _ u_180
160--                                              g160
140                                                                                                      t,o /140
\\ / / ~U.S.A. ( f.o.r. NEW YORK)j| 
120                                                                                                      120-12
lo    -                                                                                                  100    |a , , ,,           o
195 5 '56  '57  '58  '59  '60O  '61  '62  '63  '64  t6 5  '66  '67  '68  '69  70O  '71  '72  '73  '74  1975 
:                 -   ~~~~~~ACTUAL                                 le    -PROJECTED       > p
IBRD - 4892(k/



PANAMA
FISHERIES PROJECT
FISH MEAL AND SOLUBLES PRODUCTION IN MAJOR PRODUCING COUNTRIES, 1955-75
(THOUSANDS OF METRIC TONS)
7,0001            X        i   ,                          N                                                               7,000
6,000             i                                                                  - - -                   _     m      6,000
5,000                      I         TOA                            - ,-                 -                                5,000
4, 1                                                                                                                0W  -OTHER  -  4,000
S   |   J     '                                                                                     ' PRODUCINGCROCODRING   COUN  _,E
3,00OO-                                                                                                                  3,000
ICELSAANASWARIA              ----~-
2,0001                                        A,SW;AF                                                                     2,000
0@  i    002k--______________-----------------
1,000                                                                                             ____0
0 
1955-57     1963-65   1966      1967    1968    1969      1970     1971    1972      1973    1974        1974-76
Average     Average                                                                                      Average         nI>
d           A           C r uAL-->ACTUAL                                                                                  >
IBRD - 4891(R)  -






ANNEX 8
Page 1
PANAMA
FISHERIES PROJECT
Panamanian Fish Meal Industry
Resources
1.        Small pelagic fish are caught by purse seiners for processing into
fish meal and fish oil. The main species caught at present is the
Centengraulis mysticetus (a type of anchovy), generally found in Panama
in shallow coastal waters; its estimated life cycle is one year. The abun-
dance of this species is subject to considerable fluctuation with the catch
very low in the years when water upwellings and rainfall do not occur in the
Bay of Panama. The annual landing of anchovy, according to past catch
records, has varied from 9,000 to 53,000 sh tons (Table 1) although the
Directorate of Marine Resource of Panama estimates that the maximum annual
sustainable yield is around 80,000 sh tons.
2.        The other main species caught by purse seiners is Opisthonema sp.
(thread herring), which, in Panama, is found in deeper waters than the
anchovy. The fishermen find the thread herring only during about six months
of the year and past catch records show that landings vary from 7,000 to
27,000 sh tons per year (Table 1). After exploratory fishing, the UNDP/FAO
Central America Fisheries Development Project staff reported that there is
little possibility of finding more in deeper off-shore waters in the Bay of
Panama.
Fleet
3.        The purse seiner fleet varies from 15 to 20 vessels, consisting
mostly of converted shrimp trawlers (Table 2), although one of the fishing
companies has recently added four new purse seiners built in Mexico.1/ The
newer ones are equipped with refrigeration facilities so that trips may be
longer.
Processing
4.        There are two fish reduction plants, one on an island in the
Gulf, just off the entrance to the Panama Canal. It was recently purchased
1/   The import of these vessels was allowed as an exemption to law prohibiting
the import of fishing vessels with the condition that the firm must re-
place them with Panamanian built vessels within five years.



ANNEX 8
Page 2
by International Protein Corporation, USA, after a previously foreign-owned
and managed enterprise went into bankruptcy. This plant can convert 49.6 sh
tons to 55.1 sh tons of raw fish into fish meal each hour. Fish are provided
by the company's own fleet of nine purse seiners. Operating expenses are
somewhat higher than those of the land-based plant (para 5) because of the
cost of transporting employees and the difficulty of maintaining a fresh
water supply.
5.        The other plant, located at a small inlet of Puerto Caimito, has
been in operation for over 10 years and is owned by a number of Panamanian
interests. The capacity of the plant is 44.1 sh tons of raw fish per hour,
supplied by a separate fishing company, owned by many of the same interests,
two independent purse seiners, and the company's own fleet of about eight.
6.        Each plant claims it requires an annual fish meal output of 5,512.5
sh tons to break even on direct costs and an output of 8,820 sh tons to show
a reasonable profit. Historical production levels of fish meal are given in
Table 3. The plant with outputs of about 5,953.5 sh tons of meal in 1969 and
6,174 sh tons of meal in 1970 showed net losses for those years. Their total
production cost was US$127 per sh ton in 1969 and US$ 141 per sh ton in 1970
against average sales prices of US$122 and US$139 (FOB Panama), respectively.
In 1968, with the record catch and being the only plant in full operation out-
put increased to 11,907 sh tons of meal, total production cost dropped to
US$102 per ton and the world price was depressed to an average selling price
of US$96 per sh ton (FOB Panama).
7.        The projected selling price, FOB Panama, based on the projections
in Annex 7, would be US$101 per sh ton to the U. S. and US$112 per sh ton to
Europe. If each plant received an even share of the total fish resource based
on the average landing over the past five years (56,228 sh tons), both plants
would be producing only about 5,513 sh tons of meal each. Based on the proj-
ect prices and estimated production costs, both plants would be operating at
a loss.
Purse Seiner, Catch Rate, Earnings, Cost and Rate of Return
8.        The average fleet catch rate, according to the landing record,
varied from 15.2 sh tons to 24.9 sh tons per trip during the past five years.
The average trip catch for the newer purse seiners was about 26.4 sh tons and
the average number of fishing days per year was 180, producing an annual
catch of 4,752 sh tons. The present price for raw fish paid to the fisherman
in Panama is based on 10% of the price of fish meal FOB Panama, and the max-
imum price is US$15 per sh ton. Based on these assumptions, the estimated
gross earnings of a new purse seiner would be the following (Table 4):
US$10.00        US$12.50        US$15.00
Catch              per sh/ton      per sh/ton      per sh/ton
752 sh tons per year  US$47,500        US$59,400       US$71,300



ANNEX 8
Page 3
The ratio of total operating costs to the gross earnings is 88% at
US$10.00, 77% for US$12.50, and 69% for US$15.00 (Tables 4 and 5). The
resulting rate of return to the fishermen would be the following:
Price of Fish paid to       US$10.00    US$12.50      US$15.00
Fishermen:                  _
Rate of Return:               -3.4%        6.9%         14.8%
With the projected FOB Panama meal price projected at US$101 to US$112 per sh
ton of fish meal, the financial prospects for a fisherman with a new purse
seiner are unsatisfactory.
July 13, 1971






ANNEX 8
Table 1
PANAMA
FISHERIES PROJECT
Landings of Anchovy and Thread Herring
(sh tons)
Year      Number                                        Average for Trip
of              Total Landings
Trips     Anchovy   Herring    Total
1960                                      3,780
1961                                      6,557
1962                                      9,474
1963                                      8,274
1964      1,206     20,078         41    20,119                16.7
1965      1,901     36,256               36,256                19.1
1966      4,076     58,457    14,159    72,617                 17.8
1967      5,068     41,845    30,045    71,891                 114.2
1968      3,177     58,473    13,)4i6    71,888                22.6
1969      1,810      9,679    15,304.   24,983                 13.8
1970      2,156     31,1496     7,546    39,042                18.1
Five-Year Average                        56,o00
1966-70
Source:    Departamento de Pesca e Industrias Conexas, Ministerio de Comercio
e Industrias.
June 10, 1971



PANAMA
FISHERIES PROJECT
Parse Seiner Fleet
(1970)
Gross Regis.ered Tonnage
I              i                iv                (GTm)                                    _________G
Year of           Numnbey      ! ,umber of
Construction       of Vessells       Urewnen   ' ofaI    '                                  T ,   Average
)per Vessei
-~~er Vessel
! ~ ~  ~     ~     ~ ~ - |  i                                 j  :  5:    7-|    i      
I Q ~ ~ ~ ~~~~I                .j 
b S  / , s , *  .;I                 1, .                    __     .  I   .    ,-', -_. '
.;   ,  vr      {         . 3    -     ~~~-              -                            
-         ;       i        *e {)   I      i- -.  -; ,-              I,          I,I
,.-.i.z~~         1       j                             i                I I
1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
'--; -- ! - ~~~i                                       I; ;   '; 7  !i,   1i1          
~~~~ ~~~C-
Soure: r. . ? ., ,  ;,  , -' a- .                      1               2: '  I .~2       :   '->'a)N
ii. I<.>r e -K -.-.v.y ...) t *    -fi--> ^I
Source:           :--    (,                          -



ANNEX 8
Table 3
PANAMA
FISHERIES PROJECT
Fish Meal and Fish Oil Production
(sh tons)
Year       Fish Meal           Fish Oil           Gross Value
(thousand
balboas)
1962         1,778                 70                 255
1963         1,7914                33                 264
1964         3,782                319                 513
1965         6,236              1,551              1,150
1966       12,686               3,689               2,368
1967 A/l    12,731             t4,524              1,818
1968 71    11,917               4,674              1,261
1969         4,486                798                 706
1970 /1      7,484                571                  /2
/1    Preliminary figures.
/2    Not available.
Source:    Direccion de Estadistica y Censo, Contraloria General de la
Republica.
June 10, 1971



ANNEX 8
Table 4
PANAMA
FISHERIES PROJECT
Estimated Earnings and Costs of Purse Seiner
(Construction cost: US$123,000)
-------USs$ -  __-_____-__
Earnings and Costs
1.   Gross Earnings                           10.00         12.50          15.00
per sh/ton      per sh/ton   per sh/ton
47,500        59,400        71,300
2.   Operating Costs
(a) Trip Expenses
Crew                               14,300        17,800        21,400
Food                                2,500         2,500         2,500
Fuel                               6,300          6,300         6,300
Lubricant                             300            300          300
Miscellaneous                       1,200         1,200         1,200
Subtotal                           24,600        28,100        31,700
(b) Ship's Expenses
Repairs and Maintenance            6,500          6,500         6,500
Fishing Gear                        5,000         5,000         5,000
Dinghy and Watchman                   300           300           300
Insurance                          3,700          3,700         3,700
Licenses and Legal Expenses           500            500          500
Overhead                            1,200         1,200         1,200
Subtotal                          17,200         17,200        17,200
(c)  Total Operating Costs             41,800         45,300        48,900
3.   Net Earnings before Depreciation         5,700         14,100       22,400
4.   Depreciation                             7,400          7,400        7,400
5.   Net Earnings after Depreciation         -1,700          6,700       15,000
6.   Rate of Return                          -3.35Z          6.87%       14.79%
April 26, 1971



ANNEX 8
Table 5
PANAMA
FISHERIES PROJECT
Assunptions for Purse Seiner Income Statement Forecasts
Characteristics                Length:  71 ft
Engine: 365 hp
Cost of vessel: US$123,000 (c.i.f. Panama),
including electronic equipment and without
insulation and refrigeration
Operations                      180 fishing days per year
Earnings                        180 trips (daily operation) at 26.4 sh tons
per trip - 4,752 sh tons per year
Ex-vessel price:
Minimum US$10.00 per sh ton
Medium US$12.50 per sh ton
Maximum US$15.00 per sh ton
Crew's share                    30% of gross landing value of fish
Fuel                            0.38 lb/hr x 365 hp - 138.7 lb/hr
138.7 lb/hr x 12 hours - 1,664.4 lb/day
1,664.4 lb/day x 180 days - 299,592 lb/yr
299,592 lb/yr e 7.12 lb - 42,000 US gal/yr
US$0.15 x 42,000 US gal/yr - US$6,300/yr
Lubricant                       42,000 US gal x 0.54%   226.8 US gal
US$1.40 x 227 US gal   US$318
Food                           TUS$14 per day for 10 crewmen
US$14 x 180 days - US$2,520/yr
Miscellaneous                   US$6.70 x 180 days - US$1,200/yr
Insurance                       Marine insurance for total loss based on the
special reduced rate
Other costs                     Repairs and maintenance, fishing gear, dinghy
and watchmen, licenses and legal expenses,
overheads: estimated costs based on similar
existing vessels
Depreciation                    Residual value of vessel after 15 years,
10% of US$123,000 - US$12,300
To depreciate US$110,700 in 15 years
US$7,380 per year
April 26, 1971






ANNEX 9
Page 1
PANAMA
FISHERIES PROJECT
Panama Banking Sector and Monetary System
1.        The Panamanian monetary system is closely linked to the US dollar
(which is equivalent to the Balboa) and the country's monetary basis, under
free currency convertibility, is essentially determined by the movements
in the balance of payments. With a central bank (Banco Nacional de Panama,
BNP) of only limited powers, the commercial banks within this system enjoy
great freedom of activity and carry a major responsibility for the function-
ing of the money market.
2.        Within this free environment and under an aggressive credit
policy, the banks, during 1960-67, recorded a rapid growth, marked by
a large credit expansion supported by a strong inflow of deposits (Tables
1 and 2). These developments were brought to a sudden stop in 1968 due to
the uncertainties caused by the political events of the year. However,
after reassurances were given by the new Government, which took the stand
that the traditional freedom of the banks would not be encumbered by
restrictive regulations, the rapid expansion resumed in 1969 and continued
into 1970. BNP did not immediately participate in this credit expansion due
to a depletion of its liquid resources caused by withdrawals and the heavy
Government borrowings in the aftermath of the 1969 political events.
3.        In the absence of a central bank equipped with adequate regulatory
powers over the activities of the money market and over the country's economic
activities in general, Panama lacked the necessary facilities required for
support of the Government's fiscal policies as well as the protective measures
for meeting a liquidity crises in times of emergency. To remedy this situation,
the Government, in July 1970, created the National Banking Commission, equipped
with important regulatory powers, to meet these objectives and to ensure a
sound banking system and an attractive environment for Panama as an interna-
tional financial center.
4.        The credit activities of the banks are greatly diversified, with
strong emphasis on commercial credits (Table 2). Loans to agriculture and
industry are of relatively minor importance, covering mainly cattle raising
and cash crops and, manufacturing and processing, particularly for export.
Consumption, housing, and personal loans are important lines with some of the
banks, especially BNP, where they have reached major proportions. Apart from
the commercial banks, these latter credits are also provided by a number of
small finance companies and savings and loan associations, classified as
Establecimientos Financieros (Tables 3 and 4).



ANNEX 9
Page 2
5.        The commercial banks take an active interest in financing capital
investments, although they, with the exception of BNP, generally limit their
lendings in this field to terns of up to three years and not more than five.
BNP, under its supervised loan programs for agriculture and industry, supple-
ments the activities of two specialized agencies. The Instituto de Fomento
Economico, IFE, an autonomous Government institution, extends assistance to
the agricultural sector through its price-support and development loan
programs, while the Desarollo Industrial S.A., DISA, a private development
finance company, serves the private sector of industry through loan and
equity finance. The two institutions have been relying heavily on AID and
IDB low-interest loan funds for their financial resources.
6.        The expanding insurance sector in Panama has become a source
of long-term capital of growing importance, the major part of its free
funds being invested in loans as well as in equities.
April 26, 1971



ANNEX 9
Table 1
PANAMA
FISHERIES PROJECT
Summary Balance Sheet Figures of Panama Banks and Savings Institutions
(B'gooo )
i26         1966         1967                       1969
ASSETS
Cash and Other Liquid Assets
Cash and Other Gah Values    29,735.5    33,748.6    34,040.2    40,723.6    37,772.4
Bank Deposits and   1
Correspondents -         16,114.2    26,461.3    29,980.2    41,191.3   76,372.7
Productive Assets
Loans                         184,302.2   240,818.7   263,263.5   302,614.9  433,920.6
Securities in Portfolio         2,382.0     3,081.5      4,993.6      6,779.6    8,612.4
Other Assets:                      9,229.4    17,930.6    17,057.6    15,534.1   21,079.7
Total:                        2u41,763.3   322,040.7   349,335.1   406,843.5   577,757.8
LIABILITIES A1'D IZET WOR'Ill
Cash and Other Liquid liabilities
Demand Deposits                84,698.3    89,195.1   104,033.5   111,671.6   128,319.7
Time Deposits                  90,412.1   106,925.5   132,325.5   150,156.7   198,131.4
Interbank Deposits             34,528.2    79,395.0    66,935.2    92,772.4   163,104.7
Other Liabilities                 13,182.3    26,027.9    25,822.4    31,080.1    58,610.2
Capital                           15,194.8    16,594.8    17,562.8    18,212.9    21,9126
Reserves                           3,747.6      3,902.4     2,655.7      2,948.8     7,679.2
Total                          241,763.3   322,040.7   349,335.1   406,843.5   577,757.8
v Net figure after adjustment for interbank sight deposits.
v Adjusted for interbank sight deposits.
sources Entidades Bancarias de la Republica de Panama.



ANNEX 9
Table 2
PANAMA
FISHERIE'' PROJECT
A. Balances of Bank Deposits
December 31, 1966-69, March 31, 1970
(B '000)
1966    1967    1968    1969    1970
Total  . . . . . . . . . . . 196.2   236.3   261.9   326.4   362.7
Demand Deposits . . . . . . . . . 89.2   104.0   111.7   128.4   136.1
Time Deposits (up to 31 days) . . 55.8    68.3    75.1    78.3    80.2
Time Deposits (over 31 days). . . 49.8    61.5    70.5   116.5   142.7
Restricted Deposits . . . . . . .   1.4       2.5     4.6     3.2      3.7
B. Loans Granted
Years 1966-69 and First Trimestre 1970
(B '000)
11966    1967    1968    1969    1970
Total . . . . . . . . . . . .287.7   329.3   368.9   565.5   171.4
Agriculture-Cattle. . . . . . . . 113.0    21.9    23.8    27.7        7.7
Commerce. . . . . . . . . . . . . 155.0   194.8   209.3   246.8    77.3
Industry. . . . . . . . . . . . .  22.5    27.8    33.0    36.8        6.8
Housing . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18.5    18.3    23.5    31.8         8.1
Personal Consumption. . . . . . . 30.3    44.2    30.3    51.5    12.3
External Sector . . . . . . . . . 47.1    18.9    41.0   140.5    58.4
Other    .  .          . . . . . .  1.3       3.4     8.0    30.4      0.8
Source:   Memoria del Banco Nacional de Panama 1969-1970.
February 1971



ANNEX 9
Table 3
PANAMA
FISHERIES PROJECT
Panama Banks and Savings Institutions
(December 31, 1969)
---------Establishments----------
Principal     Branches
Total         Offices     & ARencies
Total  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  100  18      82
Official Institutions. . . . . . . . . . 39              2            37
Banco Nacional  . . . . . . . . . . 29 /1           1            28
Caja de Ahorros . . . . . . . . . . 10              1             9
Private Institutions . . . . . . . . . . 61             16            45
First National City Bank. . . . .  15               1            14
Chase Manhattan Bank. . . . . . .    6              1             5
Banco Fiduciario de Panama, S.A o.. .  6            1             5
Banco de Colombia   . . . . . . . .  5              1             4
Bank of America . . . . . . . . . .  5              1             4
Compania Nacional de Ahorros y
Prestamos     . . . . . . . . . .  3              1             2
Bank of London and Montreal Limited   2             1             1
Mercantile Bank of Panama Inc.. .    2              1             0
Banco General, S. A.. . . . . . .    1              1             0
Banco Cafetero  . . . . . . . . . .  2              1             1
Banco Exterior  . . . . . . . . . .  6              1             5
Banco de Santander y Panama . . . .  2              1             1
Banco de Comercio . . . . . . . . .  2              1             1
Banco de Bogota . . . . . . . . . .  2              1             1
Banco La Filantropica . . . . . . .  2              1             1
U. S. Investment Bank . . . . . . .  1              1             0
First National Bank of Chicago. . .  1 /1           1             0
/1  As of January 31, 1971.
Source:   Contraloria General, Direccion de Estadistica y Censo, Hacienda
Publica y Financas, ano 1969.
March 1971



ANNEX 9
PANAMA                                  Table 4
FISHERIE&i PROJECT
Panama Finance Companies
(Establecimientos Financieros Panama)
Comparative Sumnary Balance Sheets December 31, 1964 and 1968
(B'OiDO)
Assets             1964      1968     Liabilities & Capital            196.s    1968
Current Assets                   146     2,245    Current Liabilities              1466    3,377
Loans                          8 270    23X706    Borrowings:                      2737
Secured                   :3610     16,712           Banks                     1,402    4,865
Personal or Unsecured      5,166     6,994           Other Finance
Institutions             1,335   10,603
Investments         1.595                          Other Liabilities                 629    1,743
Government Bonds              19        :i-i
Shares                     1,086     2,523
Other                        490     2,9'95
Fixed Assets                     435       8;28    Capital & Reserves              5,829   14,935
Other Assets                     215     31
Total                10,661   35X5;'6           TOAL                     10,661   3526
List of the Finance Companies
(.Yea~r 196d
Commerce                                                      Personal loanss
Cuentas, S. A.                                              Rattan Singh
Finanzas, S. A.                                             Financiera del Educador, S.A.
Santa Elena, S.A.                                           Financiers General, S.A.
Financiera Crawford, S.A.                                   Prestadora Istemena, S.A.
Financiera Istmena, S.A.                                    Inversiones Algor, S.A.
Financiera Panamericana, S.A.
Compania Panamena de Finanzas
Creditos Panama, S.-A.                                Industry:
Compania Financiera Pancolon, S.A.
Laykas, S. A.                                               Desarrollo Industrial, S.A.
Creditos Latorre, S.A.                                      Cuentas Comerciales, S. A.
Financiera Automotriz
West Indies Financial and Commercial Corporation
Housing
Compania Inversionista Panamena, S.A.
Primera Asociacion de Ahorros y Prestanos para la Vivienda
Asociacion nacional de Ahorros y Prestamos para la Vivienda
Asociacion la Inversionista de Ahorros y Prestamos para la Vivienda
Source: Contraloria General, Direccion De Estadistica y Censo, Hacienda Publica y Financas,
ano 1969.



ANNEX 1 0
Page   1
PANAMA
FISHERIES PROJECT
Fisheries Development Credit
Demand and Sources of Credit
1.        There is a large unsatisfied demand, particularly on the part of
the small fishing operators, for credit to support capital investments in new
vessels and to finance remodeling and overhaul of old boats, and to provide
working capital. Credit facilities offered by the commercial banks are
generally out of reach of the small fishing boat operators, who have an
inadequate credit standing or lack the collateral or financial backing
required by the banks for the approval of credits. Even those owners who
are able to obtain partial credits for constructing new boats, must repay
the loans in three to five years. Interest and amortization payments are
made on a monthly basis and most borrowers must supplement their boats
income with funds from other sources to meet the payments. Their financial
requirements are usually covered by the freezer plant owners within close
trade-partnership arrangements, whereby the freezer plants provide credits for
ship maintenance and working capital requirements, including the supply of
small items of equipment. Piers are owned by the processing plants and in
order to land shrimp at one, the boat owner must buy his fuel from the
processing plant. Many boat owners find themselves short of sufficient
funds to finance a two-week trip so it is sold on a credit basis until the
boat returns from a fishing trip. In addition, some of the processing plants
have small fish gear supply stores and sell to fishermen on credit. The
fishermen, in turn, sell their catch to the freezer plants at an agreed
discount price, involving a margin of 7% to 10% below the current market
price. These arrangements clearly have been inadequate and quite costly
for the small shipowners, especially for those with older boats who, have not
been able to generate adequate funds finance proper maintenance or renew
their boars and fishing equipment, let alone expand their operations. Trade
credits have also played an important role in the establishment and build-up
of some of the local processing plants. They were granted by foreign importers
of shrimp (mainly US) to individual local companies and, sometimes, process-
ing equipment is supplied on credit agreements containing exclusive shrimp
supply contracts, under fixed price and payment provisions, with the local
producer.
Bank Finance
2.        Bank finance has mainly benefited the larger and medium-sized
fisheries enterprises, covering their working capital requirements as well
as capital enterprises, covering their working capital requirements as well



ANNEX 10
Page 2
as capital investment needs. Trade credits, especially in the export
phase of the frozen product, have been an important and apparently very
lucrative line of the bank's credit activities in this sector. They have
grown over the years with these industries into important financial relation-
ships, involving a continual credit expansion both for capital investment
and operational purposes.
3.        An estimate of bank loans to the fisheries sector from January 1,
1966 to September 30, 1970 is given in TAble 1. Total bank credits, over
about five years, amounted to B 2.7 million. Among the four banks involved
in fisheries credits, Chase Manhattan has had a leading position, based
on years of experience in credit activities in the sector that it helped to
develop, particularly in regard to fish processing. DISA, since it started
operations in 1964, has taken a continuing interest in serving the industry's
short and mediumr-term financing requirements, both for fishing and processing,
resulting in a total investment over a seven-year period of B 619,000.
Banco Nacional de Panama (BNP), after an earlier bad experience in financing
boat repair and rehabilitation projects, resumed fishing credit activities
in 1969 and 1970 with four loans for new boat construction in the amount of
B 230,000.  This raised its total lendings to the sector, over the past five
years, to B 355,200. Details on BNP's fisheries loans are given in Table 2.
Purpose and Terms of Loans
4.        The loans by the banks vary widely in purpose, comprising those
for capital investment in new fishing vessels, remodeling old boats, acquir-
ing processing plants, and equipment jand buildings, as well as those for
working capital and trade credits. The terms of the loans also vary, running
up to five years, from 90 days for trade credits to three years, in excep-
tional cases, for loans for capital investments. Loans to the fishing boat
operators range in size from B 3,000 and less for small items of machinery
and equipment to B 60,000 for new fishing vessels. The loans carry interest
at the prevailing rate of 9% per annun and they are secured by mortgage or
collateral up to 60% of assessed value.
April 29, 1971



ANNEX 10
Table 1
PANAMA
FISHERIES PROJECT
Estimate of Bank Loans to
the Fisheries Sector
January 1, 1966 to September 30, 1970
(B '000)
------  Y e a r -------- 1-3 qtr
1966   1967   1968   1969   1970    Total
Banco Nacional de Panama (BNP)   48.0   44.7   13.2   67.0  182.3    355.2
Desarollo Industrial SA (DISA)    -        54.6   48.7   65.0  300.0    468.3
Chase Manhattan and Other
Commercial Banks                268.9  549.2  117.2  760.8  238.2  1,934.3
Total                        316.9  648.5  179.1  892.8  720.5  2,757.8
Source:  Based on data supplied by Direccion de Estadistica y Censo, DISA
and BNP, February 1971.
April 26, 1971



ANNEX 10
Table 2
PANAMA
FISHERIES   PROJECT
Banco Nacional De Panama: Loans for Fishing Vessels made in 1969 and 1970
(in Balboas)
Kind o.'           Company      .     o.al         BI.?             v  Termns of      Grace
Date of Knd of                         Company           Total       BN P       Interest ~_    !. Loans    Per,lod
Loan             Vesse-l             or }wner            Cost         Loan        2a1e (ears)    (Months)   Securi-6A'
June i8,1970     Shrimp trawler      Angel Recarey      110,000.00      40,000.00    9%           3           6        85,ooo.oo
72' Foot        Lopez
May 22,1970       Shrimps trawler    Co. Maritima
3 Boats         Unida, P.L.,S.A.   65,000.00       70,000.00    9%           3          -0-      180,000.00
63' Foot                             62,000.00
74' Foot                             50,000.00
60.5 Foot
Dec. 15,L969      Shrimp trawler     Fidel Oro          105,000.00      60,000.00    9%           3           6         80,000.00
72' Foot
August 3,1970    Shrimp trawler      Pescadora Ma-       95,000.00      60,000.00    9%           3           6         60,000.oo
72' Foot         rina, S. A.
TOTAL                             487,000.o      230,000.00
1/ Interest rates are subject to upward automatic adjustment concurrently with any increase in the maximum interest rate set
by the law. No additional charges or commissions are charged.
2/ Amounts stated are insured values of the vessels forming the collateral of the BNP loans.



ANNEX 1 1
Page 1
PANAMA
FISHERIES PROJECT
Banco Nacional de Panama
1.        The Banco Nacional de Panama (BNP) is a government-owned finance
institution that serves as Government's fiscal agent, with limited central
banking functions in addition to its widely spread banking activities as
the country's leading commercial bank. It started operations in 1904,
originally as a mortgage loan bank and in February 1956 was reorganized,
assuming its present name and functions. It has a continual record of
growth, both in its widely diversified commercial banking activities and in
its extensive fiscal operations. BNP lendings so far have been directed
mainly to commercial credits and personal consumption and housing construc-
tion loans, which, on July 31, 1970, represented 23X and 312 of the bank's
loan portfolio. Comparative balance sheet statements for 1966-70 appear
in Table 1.
2.        Small loan operations have been considerably expanded, reaching,
together with personal loans in the first three quarters of 1970, a
record number of 42,838 transactions. This reflects, in part, the take-over
by the BNP of the loan portfolio and business from Bancrepo, a Government-
owned small loans bank that, in 1969, was liquidated. The move further
increased the bank's already heavy preoccupation in a field of lending
activity that may be socially justified and very lucrative, but does not
serve productive purposes. The usually high incidence of defaults in
small loans has added to the bank's loan recovery problems.
3.        BNP has recently taken an increased interest in expanding its
loans for agricultural and industrial development (Table 2 indicates BNP's
loan activities by sector). These operations have been financed mainly
by loans from the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) under supervised
loan programs, but, in their total, US$4.5 million, they have remained
as yet in moderate proportions. The bank has also recently made loans
for the construction of fishing vessels and has applied for an additional
loan from the IDB for agriculture.
4.        Although qualified professionals for key positions in BNP have
been recently recruited, the bank lacks at present the staff for appraising
development projects, and, on the advice of IDB, it has retained a consul-
tants firm 1/ to build up its industrial credits department. It also has
under review its overall organization, which has been lacking in operating
efficiency and staff performance. Chart 1 depicts BNP's present organiza-
tion, and Table 3 indicates personnel assignments in BNP.
1/   Peat, Marwick and Mitchell, U.S.



ANNEX 11
Page 2
5.        BNP's operations and financial position suffered from the
political events in 1968 and its liquidity was seriously affected by large-
scale deposit withdrawals and heavy borrowings by Government. In meeting
the sharply increased Government financing demand, the bank raised large
credits on short term from foreign banks, the greater part of which had
been repaid by early 1971, concurrently with Government loan recoveries.
As a result of these repayments and a greatly curtailed credit expansion,
the bank's liquidity by 1971 has considerably improved. Increased promo-
tional efforts are now underway to attract new deposits, which should help
to enlarge the basis for planned further credit expansion. Due to its
low cost resources and high gross income from earned interest, BNP has had
a comfortable profit/assets margin, averaging 4.8% over the past five years.
(Table 4 contains the comparative income statements for the years 1966-70).
Much of this, however, has been absorbed by high administrative costs and
growing financial expenses, resulting in only a moderate gross profit ratio
but a satisfactory net return on net worth (average, 7.5% in normal years).
Since 1967, the bank's yearly surpluses have been added to capital and
reserve, resulting in an improvement of the bank's debt-equity ratio
from 6.6:1 in 1966, to 5.8:1 on December 31, 1970. 1/ However, the bank's
financial position appears to be considerably affected by its loans in
arrears, which are heavily weighted with a large block long overdue.
A final opinion on this situation will have to await completion of a
detailed report on the subject, which is under preparation by the Government
Auditor.
May 21, 1971
1/   The adding of surpluses tended to improve the debt-equity ratio,
although, because of the disturbances of 1968, the debt equity in
that year became about 7.3:1. The ratio has been calculated by
eliminating the IMF counterpart and the category of special reserves.



ANNEX 11
Table I
PANANA
FISHEIaES PROJECT
Banco Nacional De Panama: Comparative Balance Sheets
December 31. Fiscal,Years 1965 through 1970
k"sUuu)
ASSETS                                           166       1967     1968     1969        1970
Cash and Local Banks                         10,605   13,603   13,980    13,988       17,582
Correspondent Banks                           1,245       836    3,683     7,983       1,894
Overdrafts                                     -      10,068    7,968      6,586       8,559
Clearings, Branches and Agencies
tRemittances in Transit)                     4,110    2,179    3,350      3,700       4,572
Loan Xlthholdings                              -         -        -           379        825
Sub-total                                15,960   26,686   28,981    32,636       33,432
International Monetary Fund                   2,931    2,931    2,931      7,289      12,607
Credit Portfolio                             46,245   39,667   40,663    67,635 11  54,369
Investments                                     912       880      865     3,199       3,417
Fixed Assets (Buildings and Equipment)        1,660    2,971    3,747      2,047       1,920
Other Assets                                    773    1,326    1,209      2,464         948
Total Assets                             68,h81   74,461   78,396   11,270    106,693
LIABILITIES AND CAPITAL
Fbreign Bank Overdrafts                        -         -        -        1,083       2,016
Sight Deposits                               35,700   39,091   33,h85    39,582       42,651
Time Deposits                                17,703   19.125   25,152    22,799       23,942
Total Deposits                           53,402   58,216   58,637    62,381       66,593
International Monetary Fund                   2,803    2,850    5,201      9,989      13,063
Foreign Borrowings                              503    1,693    2,100    20,132 V    2,912
Deferred Liabilities (Certified-and           2,920    2,232    3,158      7,066       7,814
Manager Checks)
Special Reserves and Provisions                 269       407      491       636         713
Capital and Reserve Fund                      8.583    9,063    8,809    13,983 i/  13.582 
Total Capital and Reserves               68,481   74x461   78.396   115,270    106.6
1/Includes B  22,150,000 special loans to Central Government.
/ Includes foreign borrowings, B 17,530,000.
y Includes capital of Bancrepo,B 4,528,0oo and B 3,216,000 in 1969 and 1970,respectively.
Source:  Banco Nacional De Panama, Accounts Dept.
April 5, 1971



ANNEX 11
Table 2
PANAMA
FISHERIES PROJECT
Banco Nacional De Panama (Loans Granted in 1966 to 1969 and First through Third Quarter 1970)
Distribution of Loans by Economic Sectors
Agri-  1/                                            Other         Personal
culture -    Commerce     Industg       Housing    Constructiop  Consumption    Other         Total
1966 No.          2,391        5,005          256          456           165        17,262         200         25,735
(B'OOO)     6,379        14,826        2,932        2,145        2,062        11,664          287        40,295
1967 No.          2,325        3,855          200          244           198        17,195         165        24,182
(B'OOO)      5,252       16,640        1,892        1,404        3,790        13,620          572        43,170
1968 No.          1,431        2,169          142          191           166         9,160         120        13,379
(B'OOO)     6,875        18,629        2,096        1,043        3,053         8,723        2,658        43,077
1969  No.         1,769        2,293          121          i66           172        28,426          83        33,030
(B'OOO)     6,257        17,318        1,142        1,343        2,340        19,794       26,595        74,789
1970(1-3rd Qtr.)
No.         2,059        2,665           91          125          134'        42,838          68        47,980
(B'OOO)     4,629        16,257          632        1,221        1,679        14,096        1,665        40,179
Total:
No.         9,975       15,987          810        1,182           835       114,881         636       144,306
(B'OOO)    29,392        83,670        8,6.94       7,156       12,924        672847       31.777       214510
V    Including cattle  and livestock.
April 5, 1971



ANNEX 11
PANAMA                          Table  3
FISHERIES PROJECT
Personnel of the Banco Nacional De Panamia
kJanuary Iy7I)
Head       Branches
Executive and Supervisory Staff                 Office     & Agencies      Tot&l
Division Managers                           4                           b
Controller                                  1                           1
Departmental Managers                        7            9            16
Sub-M4anagers                              18            20            38
Departmental Chiefs                        17             5            22
Assistant Department Chiefs                1            57            71
Total                                  61           91           152
Professional Staff                                                         208
ClericAl and Office Personnel                                              159
Maintenance and General Services                                            78
Total Personnel                                                  897
Assignments
of Professional Staff
Professions         Technical   Financial  Economic   Administrative   Total
Engineers                     1                                                   1
Agronomists                   1                                                   1
Economists                                 1                                      5
Public Relations                            2                        1            3
Agronomists                   2                                                   2
Lawyers                                                              9            9
Architects                    1                                                   1
Accountants                               24                                     2
Financial Analists                         5                                      5
Auditing Specialists                      21                                     21
Agriculturalists             13                                                  13
Securities officers                                                  1            1
Personal Assistants                                                  1            1
Statisticians                                                        3            3
Journalists                                                          1            1
Social Workers                                                       1            1
I. B. M. Technicians                      12                                     12
Bookkeepers                               25                                     25
Promotional Officers                                                 bh
Cash Receivers                            75                                     75
18          165                       21           208
SourcA: BNP, Administration Dept.
F'ebruary 16i 1971



ANNEXll
PANAMA
FISHERIES PROJECT
Banco Nacional De Panama: Comparative Income St&tenta
(B tOQO)
A6 of Dec. 31              1966       1967       1968 2    19.69      1970
Income:
Discounts                                     223        272        212       223        171
Interest Earned                             3,201      3,723      3,382      4ilU0     4J 
Commission.and other charges                          _                         1L ?.. 717  9T:
Sub-total                               4,/ I0,28  4,744     4,311      5,317      6,16Z'
Other Income (real estate)                    .22t        15        .522.
Total Income      .                               )j,759    4.327       5          64131
xpenses:
Interest and Financial Expenses               558        77%      1,013      1,068     l,l8Y
Administration and General Expenses         2.6 17     3,137      3.195        32 3.
Sub-total                               3,175     3,911      4-,208     4,391      4,,989
Other Expenses (real estate)                  - 51.      _                      30       _ 330.
Total Expenses                          3h226     3<9SQ      hh236.    IJJ421:    5.
Netl]gz                                        2t         Q        .I91.    __9t11-    11
1/ These are adJusted figures for the year that showed an aetial net lobss of ib 2woJE iK,
Source :   BNP,-Departamento de Investigaciones Economicea
February 25, 1971



PANAMA
FISHERIES PROJECT
ORGANIZATION OF THE BANCO NACIONAL DE PANAMA
B OARD OF DIRECTORS 
i  EXTERNAL ALDITOR   -     - *-*- - *-. -      GENERAL MANAGER                                LEGAL ADVISO
ADMINISTRATIVE                                      CEI
COMMITTEE                                           CMTE
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
EXECLITVE MkANAGE2 |t                                                                         EXECTIVE MtANAGER|
O F CPElfA fONS                                                                                 OF CffEDIT
5 IIIN       tLCTGTO                       DfVISfDN       |         IIfN       l|DIVISION                                                                     Di |  II ,fN
W ACOfING  |                                                             IEREfFOREIGNGENERALECTIDErT,OM|MDEPT,L
DEFT,                VESTIGATIATON|                                                       COL'.     ET.F l | LECTIERO                     DET                              CREITEPT
A 1 4o                 COANOlI IN-< 
f~~~~~~~~                                                                                                                            MAIO ANNCD3N
; DATA PROCESSING_                                               i   CONSOLIZATION
| BRANCH BANKS |                  | 3~~~RANCH BANKS ||3AC   AK 
I AREA I   j                      | ~~~~~~~~AREA 2   ||AE  
-|)






ANNEX 12
Page 1
PANAMA
FISHERIES PROJECT
Specifications for 67-ft Shrimp Trawler
Material                         Steel
Dimensions                       Length (overall)         67 ft
Breadth                  20 ft
Depth                   11 ft
Capacity                         Fish hold                13,200 lb
Fuel tank                24,000 US gal
Lub. tank                   165 US gal
Water tank                  600 US gal
Engine                           Main engine              240 hp
Auxiliary engine         7.5 hp
Speed                            Crusing speed            9.5 knots
Nautical Equipment               Magnetic compass, short-wave radio
telephone, Echo sounder
Electric Installation            Generator, 2.5 kw (32 v)
Crew                             Captain         1
Machinist      1
Deckhande      2
Cook           1
Total          5
May 21, 1971



PANAMA
FISHERIES pgQIriT
STEXAMPLE Qf 4CCEpTABLE DESIGN FMe 67-Frx7
STEEL SHRIMP DOUBLE RIGGER TRAWL FIS4j.j, VESSa
DEPT,, 11 f\N
/''//I1:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~II EIC-,,,
=zg- S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SPEED-g
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-         ----- = ? 
,                              t__ ^  E  !   _  ,                /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FS  No,         L    -    t  Qkt ER AXir



ANNEX 13
Page 1
PANAMA
FISHERIES PROJECT
Naval Architectural Services
Vessel Design and Specification
1.        A naval architect with experience in supervising design and
construction of shrimp trawlers would be hired to determine the most appro-
priate vessel characteristics, detailed features, and design of the shrimp
trawlers to be built under the proposed project.  He would be assisted
in acquiring the consensus of the recommendations of the prospective sub-
borrowers by the Fisheries Project Committee.
2.        During the preliminary design work, the architect would partici-
pate in actual shrimp fishing operations and become fully familiar with
both the sea conditions in the Gulf of Panama, the trawling depths, and
the characteristics of present and future landing facilities. In particular,
he would perform detailed analysis on the economics and operating factors
of vessel size and engine horsepower.
3.        Upon finalization of the detailed design and specifications, the
architect would prepare the tender documents required for the international
competitive bidding procedures and, subsequently, assist Banco Nacional de
Panama and the Fisheries Project Committee in evaluating the bids received.
Supervision of Vessel Construction
4.        Periodic supervision of vessel construction by a naval architect
would be provided under the project so that he could check workmanship and
conformity vith plans and specifications included in the constructiom
cvaotract. Supervision would require two visits of about one veek e.ac
during the construction of each lot over the four years alloted for vessel
construction.
5.        If the construction is won by the Panamanian shipyard, additional
supervision could be carried out. The fisheries operations training officer,
together with the prospective shipowners should check suitability of
the installation of equipment, machinery, and accommodations in the vessels.
May 21, 1971






ANNEX 14
Page I
PANAMA
FISHERIES PROJECT
Project Training Program
Need for Training Program
1.        Captains of shrimp trawlers in Panama are well experienced and
know how to operate shrimp fishing gear. For implementation of the project,
there is no doubt that owners of the vessels to be provided under the
project have, or will be able to find in Panama, captains and crews able
to operate successfully in the fishing grounds that are at present exploited
in shallow waters close to the coast. The captains, however, are usually
former seamen 11 who have learned "on the job" receiving little or no
formal or theoretical training. They have scant knowledge of navigation
and would not be able to determine the position of their vessels with
sufficient accuracy if they were to attempt to exploit offshore fishing
grounds in deeper water. Their lack of knowledge of safety rules at sea
occasionally makes them navigational hazards to ships coming from or going
to the Canal. Furthermore, vessels to be provided under the project would
have echo sounders to determine the depth at which shrimp trawls would be
towed. Such devices can also be employed to detect the occurrence of the
species of fish normally found in association with shrimp. Since echo
sounders are presently used only on a small number of vessels, few skippers
have experience in their use. Therefore, to insure full success of the
project, training of captains in elementary navigation, navigation rules,
and echo sounding would be required.
Subjects to be included in Training Program
2.        Training would include a minimum theoretical course ashore
on navigation, safety rules, echo sounder installation, and engine
maintenance, and then practical training at sea.
(a) Elementary training in navigation would include instruction
in: determination of ship position by dead reckoning;
making corrections for draft and current; use of tide
tables, magnetic compass, marine sharts, and pilot
books; and keeping a navigation log;
(b) Training in navigation and safety rules would include
instruction in: navigation rules at sea and in channels;
lights to be shown at night by boats when fishing, when
1/   The captain career pattern is usually:  apprentice seaman/helper,
mechanic, and then captain.



ANNEX 14
Page  2
sailing, when at anchor, and the like; rules of maneuver
to avoid collision; requirements for lifesaving devices
on fishing boats; methods of fire prevention and fire
fighting; and operation of bilge, fire, and safety pumping
system;
(c)  Training in the use of eclho sounder would include instruction
in:  general principles of echo sounding, installation and
maintenance (change of needle and paper), adjusting gain,
adjusting zero depth measurement, determining nature of
bottom and detecting fish; and
(d) Elementary training in operation and maintenance of diesel
engines.
O it othe Program
3.        In organizing and implementing the training program, the
Banco Nacional de Panama would be assisted by the Directorate of Marine
Resources. The exploratory fishing vessels to be operated by the Directorate
as part of the UNDP/FAO follow-up preoject would be used for training
sessions at sea and the Directorate would also provide any other equipment
required.
4.        Each captain would follow a two weeks' course ashore and receive
10 days' training at sea. No more than 10 captains at a time would attend
the courses ashore and no more than five would receive at sea instruction
at the same tinme.
5.        Instructor.  A fisheries operation officer would be required
to serve as instructor for these courses over a period of 18 mouths. To be
qualified, he must have had experience as a captain on a shrimp trawler
with modern gear and previous experiLence as an instructor. He would
also have to be able to speak Spanish.
6.        Certficates. A certificate would be issued by the Directorate
of Marine Resources to captains who successfully complete the courses.
The possession of such a certificate would be required of all captains
of the proposed vessels.
May 21, 1971



ANNEX 15
Page 1
PANAMA
FISHERIES PROJECT
Project Cost Estimates
1.        Estimated Cost Breakdown of One 67-ft Shrimp Trawler
(Constructed in Panama)-
Z        ~US$
1.   Steel Plate and Steel Products              16         12,960
2.   Engine                                     20          16,200
3.   Shafting, Steering Gear, and such            6          4,860
4.   Auxiliary machinery, including
generators, winches, and such              18          14,580
5.  Electronics                                   3          2,430
6.   Paint                                       2           1,620
7.   Wood                                         2          1,620
8.   Labor charge                                18         14,580
9.   Overhead, profit                            15         12,150
Total                                     100          81,000
Working Capital
2.        The permanent working capital requirement for a vessel would be
that amount needed to finance purchase of supplies for a two-week fishing
trip and the cost of licensing for shrimp fishing. Approximately US$3,000
per vessel is needed for diesel fuel, oil, crew, food, and miscellaneous
supplies.
3.        Shrimp fishermen paid only a nominal fee to the Directorate of
Marine Resources for their original shrimp fishing licenses but since
the number of licenses was fixed in 1968, their commercial value has
increased to US$8,000 - 10,000 in 1970. Licenses are transferrable, and
recent court actions in Panama have ruled that a holder can realize the
1/   At present there are import duties on vessel construction materials
of 8-10% but it is expected that these duties will be removed by
Presidential decree before the initiation of the proposed project.



ANNEX 15
Page 2
actual market value of the license. In recent years a number of licenses
have been sold, usually individual vessel owners vho cannot replace their
old trawlers sell their licenses to larger fishing companies. US$8,000
was used as part of the estimate of the working capital requirement for
the project cost estimate. A subloan applicant must either pos"ss a
license of this value or purchase one.
May 21, 1971



PANAMA
FISHERIES PROJECT
PROJECT TIME SCHEDULE
YEAR                  1                  2                 3                  4 |
NAVAL sr                                                        777
ARCH ITECTi1910
F IT R E I G NL+
EXPERTS TRAINING                               * f* ff*
OFFI CER                                           F
LOT 1                                                       T    I I                 
10 Vessels                IIIII  III,t-I
LOT 2          --1I----- 
SHRIMP esgn10 Vessels          1id Eauto                     C u11                                1c
TRAWLERS LoTi3                             tructi -- ii
10 Vessels                                                                                     - IIIIIII
LOT 4- - 
10 Vessels
NAVAL ARCHITECT                                        TRAINING OFFICER                      SHRIMP TRAWLERS              z
9K'A Design, Tender Preparation, Bid Evaluation        1EEE Conducting Training              IlIllIlIll Construction 
*   Period;ic Construction Supervision                                                            Operation 
IBRD - 5563(R)






PANAMA
FISHERIES PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Quarterly Disbursements
(US$'000)
Technical   Technical
Aasistance   Assistance Fishing Fort
Fishing    Naval        Training   Feasibility                       Total          Amount
Year     Quarter   Vessels   Architect    Officer         Study       Contingency    Disbursements    Undisbursed
1        1                                                                                            3,400
1971       2                                                                                             3,400
3                     13                                                        13           3,387
bo l                  13                         50                             6            3,324
9bb-total                                                                                  7
-   1                 114                        50                             64           3,260
2        2         191                                    50                            241           3,019
1972       3          1 92         2                        50                            244            2,775
4         192          3             5           50                            250           2,525
SLub-total                                                                                799
1                                    5           50                             55           2, 470
3        2          191          2            5           50                            248            2,222
1973       3          192                       5           50                            247            1,975
4          192         3             5                                         200            1,775
Sub-total                                                                                 750
1                                    5                                           5            1,770
4        2          191          2            5                                         198            1,572
1974       3          192                       5                                         197            1,375
4         192          3                                                       195           1,180
Sub-total                                                                                 595
5        2          191          2                                                      193              987
1975       3          192                                                                 192              795
4         1 92         3                                                       195             600
Sub-total
1                                                                600           600                             >
6
1976.-
Sub-total                                                                                 600
TOTAL               2,300         60           40          400              600         3,400
7/13/71






ANNEX 18
Page 1
PANAMA
FISHERIES PROJECT
Maritime Insurance
1.        Two companies in Panama presently write maritime insurance and
both maintain reinsurance arrangements with foreign concerns for their
large underwriting contracts.
Coverage
2.        Two types of coverage are available -- total loss and
all risk. The former provides compensation only for total loss. Offered
at a lower rate than the all risk policy, it affords no protection against
partial damage due to natural causes or to collision and other operational
accidents. The "all risk" policy provides comprehensive insurance covering
total loss as well as damage caused by stranding, storm and lightening
and explosion and collision. The insurance is normally contracted on
a year-to-year basis and covers the vessel on the high seas, in port, and
in the shipyard.
Restrictions
3.        The companies often place two important restrictions on the
extent of their financial coverage, i.e., required co-insurance and a
deductible provision. The co-insurance provision limits the insurance
companies' coverage to a portion of the asset value of the vessel and
it may vary between 75% for new ships and 60% or less for older vessels.
This imposes an unduly high risk on the shipowner, making it an unattractive
type. A standard deductible in the amount of B'`OOO is presently provided
for in all policies on compensation claims under the insurance contract.
Rates
4.        A summary of the latest tariff of maritime insurance rate is
given in Table 1. The rates which have been raised substantially recently
due to the high incidences of loss in the operation of the local fishing
fleet, vary considerably, depending on the type of vessel, its construction,
and age. For example, all-risk insurance on vessels over 70 ft long is
being quoted at between 5.75% and 12% for those of steel construction, de-
pending on the age and condition of the boat, and between 6.75% to 13% for
those made of wood. These may be considered as maximum rates, subject to
negotiations; underwriters have been able, in individual cases, to make
considerable reductions if warranted by the condition of the vessel, the
credit standing of the customer, and the business volume involved. It is



ANNEX 18
Page 2
generally known that, under special circumstances, insurance contracts with
larger customers have been made at preferential rates of 5% and below.
Payment Provisions
5.        The insurance contracts are usually for a period of one year
and premiums are payable in cash on al quarterly or monthly basls. However,
the companies have encountered great difficulties in collecting their
premium payments on time from many of the financially weak policy holders,
some of them having been in default in their payments for considerable
time periods. Contractual arrangements under which premium payments would
be made by a bank on behalf of an insured party in case he fails to make
his own payment are therefore favored by the insurance companies whenever
feasible.
Fisheries
6.        In establishing insurance requirements for the fishing vessels
to be financed under the project, two points should be considered:
(a) the vessels financed under the program should be covered by
all-risk insurance without restrictions. This has been a
normal requirement of the local finance institutions and
it would be an appropriate arrangement also under the
the Project subloans.
(b) insurance for these vessels should be possible to arrange at
considerably lower rates than those presently charged by the
local companies on boats in a similar category. The increased
seaworthiness of these vessels would justify a substantial
reduction.
7.        The insurance requirements of up to 40 vessels to be acquired
under the proposed project by the fisheries industries would provide a
considerable impetus to the local insurance business. Because of the
increased volume of contracts and the reduced risks involved, insurance
companies appear quite willing to adjust their rates downward by a
substantial amount. Group arrangemenLts would greatly facilitate a rate
reduction. Insurance companies would also welcome automatic direct payments
by BNP of premiums due instead of operating under the stand-by arrangements
presently in use.
8.        While the two maritime insurance companies apparently have attained
a measure of coordination in their activities in the local market, an
element of competition exists. This would undoubtedly increase as each
tries to capture a share of the new market resulting from the Fisheries
Project. BNP would be responsible for negotiating a satisfactory group, all
risk, Marine insurance for the new vessels. BNP would, as part of its nego-
tiations, give due consideration to the past performance, financial strength,
and reinsurance arrangements of the company selected, as well as to the in-
surance rates quoted.
July 13, 1971



ANNEX 18
Page 3
would therefore be responsible for negotiating a satisfactory group, all
risk, Marine insurance for the new vessels. The Fisheries Project Committee
would, as part of their negotiations, give due consideration to the past
perfonmance, financial strength, and reinsurance arrangements of the com-
pany selected, as well as to the insurance rates quoted.
May 21, 1971






PANAMA
FISHERIS  PROJECT
Maritime Insurance Rates
(January 1971)
Type of Vessel                Vessels  under  70-ft Long                  Vessels  over  70-ft Long
Basic Construction                  Wood             Steel                    Wood             Steel
Total    All      Total    All            Total     All      Total    All
Type of Insurance               Loss    Risk       Loss     Risk           Loss     Risk      Loss     Risk
Age of Vessel
New to Two Years                 5.00%  7.25%     4.00%    6.25%          4.75%    6.75%    3.75%    5.75%
From Two to Five Years          6.00%  7.75%      5.00%    6.75%          5.50%    7.25%    4.50%    6.25%
From Five to 10 Years            7.00%  9.50%     6.00%    8.50%          6.75%    8.75%    5.75%    7.75%
Over 10 Years                   9.50% 14.50%      8.50%  13.50%           9.00%   13.00%    8.o0%   12.00%
1/ The rates quoted are basic rates, subject to possible adjustment, depending on the condition of the
vessel and its maintenance; all policies include a deductible provision in the amount of B 1,000.
Source: Compania Interamericana de Seguros S. A.
1c






ANNEX 19
Page 1
PANAMA
FISHERIES PROJECT
Financial Operating Results of Shrimp Trawlers
1.        An analysis was made to determine the most advantageous size of
shrimp trawler and to determine the financial returns to the individual fish-
ermen purchasing a new trawler.
Trawler Size
2.        More than 50% of the trawlers in the present fleet have an overall
length of 60 to 65 ft and, on the average, are powered by engines of about
200 hp (Table 1). However, the vessels that have been constructed in the
past few years have been significantly larger, with most being in excess of
70 ft and powered by engines of the 240-hp, 365-hp and 425-hp category.
3.        A proper balance of trawler size and engine power for the shrimp
fishing grounds in Panama would be a 72-ft trawler powered by a 365-hp engine
or about 67-ft trawler powered by a 240-hp engine. The standard trawler size
being used by the American and Mexican fleets in the Gulf of Mexico are about
72 ft and powered by engines of about 365-hp. However, the fishing grounds
there are usually farther from the home fishing port and fishing trips last
from 4 to 6 weeks. In Panama, the shrimp fishing grounds are usually only
a few hours from the shore facilities and the average trip lasts 15 days.
Therefore, the trawler carrying capacity for oil, water, and shrimp catch is
less in Panama than in the Gulf of Mexico. In addition, the Gulf of Panama
has much calmer waters than the Gulf of Mexico and the size of a Panamanian
trawler for adequate seaworthiness can be smaller.
Financial Evaluation
4.        The financial operating results projected for the 67-ft vessel and
the 72-ft vessel operating in Panama clearly favor the 67-ft vessel. The
annual catch estimated for the two trawlers (Table 2) shows an advantage for
the larger vessel due to its ability to tow larger trawl nets, but the cor-
responding fuel consumption is nearly a third greater for the larger engine.
The catch estimates are conservatively projected by starting at the average
catches of similar sized vessels one to five years of age presently used in
Panama and declining each subsequent year. The earnings and costs estimates
for the two trawlers appear in Tables 3 through 6.
5.        Trawler financial projections were made under the assumption that
shrimp prices and costs would remain constant as well as on the basis that
there would be an increase in shrimp prices due to the world situation --
increasing per capita consumption and demand that a fixed world supply of



ANNEX 19
Page 2
shrimp (Annex 6) 1/. In the case where the calculation is made on the basis
of increased shrimp prices, the cost of labor is increased in the same pro-
portion 1/. The crew is paid on a share basis (approximately 18% of the
catch), and, under the price projection, their salaries would be increasing
at a rate of 41% between 1970 and 1985, or at an average rate of 2.7% per
annum. The future labor situation would most likely require an increase in
wages because, at present, the urban unemployment level is estimated at only
about 6% and a number of labor intensive construction projects will be under-
taken in the next few years.
6.        The results of the analysis based on the above assumptions are
summarized as follows:
72-Ft Trawlers 67-Ft Trawlers
(a)  Net annual earnings after
tax and depreciation:             US$13,600       US$15,240
(b)  Net annual earnings after
tax plus depreciation:            US$18,400       US$19,600
(c)  Financial Rate of Return (Tables 7 through 10):
With constant prices and
costs                             10.2%                 13.8%
With increase in prices
and costs                         18.8%                21.5%
7.        On the basis of the financial evaluation, the 67-ft trawler size is
superior to the 72-ft size, and, since the smaller vessel is adequate for the
operating conditions in Panama, it is recommended as the proper size to be
used for the project.
Sub-borrower Cash Flow
8.        A cash flow was projected for the sub-borrower purchasing a new
67-ft trawler as proposed in the project (Table 11). The net cash flow under
the assumption of constant prices and costs indicates that the sub-borrower's
cash flow would allow him to repay US$80,000 in a period of eight years, with
one year of grace, during the construction and initial six months of opera-
tion.
1/   The increases estimated for shrimp prices and labor costs could be de-
fined as "real" increases depending on definitional criteria and in any
case the increases estimated do not take into account any future changes
which would be attributable to inflationary pressures.
May 21, 1971



ANNEX 19
Table 1
PANAMA
FISHERIES PROJECT
Number of Shrimp Trawlers According to Length
(1970)
Horsepower
Ave rage
per
Vessel LenRth                   Number           Total           Vessel
30 ft to 39 ft 11 in
40 ft to 49 ft ll in               5                804            161
50 ft to 59 ft 11 in              32              6,698            209
60 ft to 64 ft 11 in              132            26,320            199
65 ft to 69 ft 11 in               25             6,580            263
70 ft to 74 ft 11 in              27              7,635            283
75 ft to 79 ft 11 in               3                925            308
80 ft to 84 ft 11 in                4             1,120            280
85 ft to 94 ft 11 in                1               370            370
TOTAL                       229            50,452             220
Source:   Direccion General de Recursos Marinos, Ministerio de Comercio e
Industrias, Republica de Panama.
May 21, 1971



ANNEX 1$
Table 2
PAN'AMA
FISHERIES PROJECT
Annual Catch Eatimaates of Poposed Shrimp Trawlers
-67-ft 240-hp  _-ee1 Trawler
Commercial name            Catch (lb)        Value/lb (US$)    Ytxlue (US$)
White                27,840                 1.33              37,027
pink                 19,488                 0.58              44,303
Titi                 22,200                 0.24               5,328
Zebra                     72                0.30                  22
Total                69,600                 0.77              53,680
72-ft 365-hp Steel Trawler
Commercial name           Catch (lb)         Value/lb (US$)      Value (US$)
White                30,451                 1.33              40,500
Pink                 21,562                 0.58              12,506
Titi                 24,099                 0.24               5,784
Zebra                   388                 0.30                 116
Total                76,500                 0.77              58,906



ANNEX 19
Table 3
PANAMA
FISIIERIES PROJECT
Estimated Earnings and Costs of 72-Ft Shrimp Trawler
(365-hp, Steel)
(Construction cost: US$91,000)
Annual Earnings and Costs                             US$
1.   Gross Earnings                                 58,900
2.   Operating Costs
(a) Trip Expenses
Crew                                      10,600
Food                                       19800
Fuel                                      11,200
Lubricants                                   600
Miscellaneous                                300
Sub-total                                 24,500
(b) Ship's Expenses
Repairs and Maintenance                    7,000
Fishing Gear                               4,000
Dinghy and Watchman                          300
Insurance                                  2,500
Licences and Legal Expenses                  300
Overheads                                  1 200
Sub-total                                 1 ;,300
(c)  Total Operating Costs                     39P800
3.   Net Earnings before Depreciation               19,100
4.   Depreciation                                    5,500
5.   Tax                                               700
6.   Net Earnings after Depreciation and Tax        13,600
7.   Net Earnings after Tax plus Depreciation       18,400



ANNEX 19
Table 4
PANAMA
FISHERIES PROJECT
Assumptions for Income Statement Forecasts of 72-Ft Shrimp Trawler
Characteristics                Length:  72 ft
Engine: 365 hp
Cost of vessel:  US$91,000
Operations                     240 fishing days per year
Catch                          Catch calculated on the basis of 1970
catch from boats of similar characteristics
Crew 's Share                  182: of catch value
Fuel:                          0.38 lb/hr x 365 hp x 80% - 110.9 lb/hr
110.9 lb/hr x 20 hr - 2,218 lb/day
2,218 lb/day x 240 days - 532,320 lb/yr
532,320 lb/yr ; 7.12 lb - 74,700 US gal/yr
US$0.15 x 74,700 US gal - US$11,205/yr
Lubricant                      74,700 US gal/yr x 0.54%   403.38 US gal/yr
US$1.40 x 403 US gal/yr - US$564/yr
Food                           US$100 x 18 trips - US$1,800/yr
Miscellaneous                  US$17 x 18 trips - US$306/yr
Insurance                      Marine insurance for total loss
based on the special reduced rate
Other costs                    Estimated costs based on similar
existing vessels
Depreciation                   Residual value of vessel after 15 years,
10% of US$91,000 - US$9,100
To depreciate US$81,900 in 15 years -
US$5,460 per year
May 21, 1971



ANNEX 19
Table 5
PANAMA
FISHERIES PROJECT
Estimated Earnings and Costs of 67-Ft Shrimp Trawler
(240-hp, Steel)
(Construction cost; US$81,000)
Annual Earnings and Costs                               US$
1.   Gross Earnings                                  53,700
2.   Operating Costs
(a) Trip Expenses
Crew                                        9,500
Food                                        1,800
Fuel                                        7,500
Lubricants                                    400
Miscellaneous                                 300
Sub-total                                  19,500
(b) Ship's Expenses
Repairs and Maintenance                     6,500
Fishing Gear                                3,500
Dinghy and Watchman                           300
Insurance                                   2,300
Licences and Legal Expenses                   300
Overhead                                    1,200
Sub-total                                  14,100
(c)  Total Operating Costs                      33,600
3.   Net Earnings before Depreciation                20,100
4.   Depreciation                                     4,860
5.   Tax                                                500
6.   Net Earnings after Depreciation and Tax          14,740
7.   Net Earnings after Tax plus Depreciation        19,600
May 21, 1971



ANNEX 19
Table 6
PANAMA
FISHERIES PROJECT
Assumptions for Income Statement Forecasts of 67-Ft Shrimp Trawler
Characteristics                           Length:  67 ft
Engine: 240 hp
Cost of vessel: US$81,000
Operations                                240 fishing days per year
Earnings                                  Catch calculated on th. ,aaAs of
1970 catch from boats of similar
characteristics.
Crew's Share                              18% of catch value
Fuel                                      13 US gal/hour x 80% x 20 hours -
208 US gal/day, 208 US gal/day x 240
days = 49,920 US gal/yr, US$0.15 x
49,920 US gal/yr - US$7,488/yr
Lubricant                                 49,920 US gal/yr x 0.54% - 270 US gal/yr
US$1.44 x 270 US gal - US$378/yr
Food                                      US$100 x 18 trips - US$1,800/yr
Miscellaneous                             US$16 x 18 trips - US$300/yr
Insurance                                 Marine insurance for total loss
based on the special reduced rate
Other Costs                               Estimated costs based on similar
existing vessels
Depreciation                              Residual value of vessel after 15
years, 10% of US$81,000 - US$8,100
To depreciate US$72,900 in 15 years
- US$4,860 per year
May 21, 1971



PANAMA
FISBMIES PROJECT
Financial Return of 72 -ft Vessel
ulth Constant Prices and Costs
2/                                                         Net        Net       Net Benefit
Year        Year      Investient    Catch         Prilce    Gross      Production    Earning    Earning    Flow  after
Earning        Cost     before Dep. after Tax        Tax
(US$O0Oo)    (t000 lb)   (US$Ab)    (US$'000)   (us$'00o)    (US$'00o)   (US$o000)    (Us$I oo)
1972          1         -109.0                                                                                  -109.0
1973          2                      76.5         0.77       58.9         39.8        19.1        18.4            18.4
1974          3                      75.4         0.77       58.0         39.8        18.2        17.6            17.6
1975          4                      74.3         0.77       57.2         39.8        17.4        16.8            16.8
1976          5                      73.2         0.77       56.3         39.8        16.5        15.9            15.9
1977          6                      72.2         0.77       55.6         39.8        15.8        15.2            15.2
1978          7                      71.1         0.77       54.7         39.8        14.9        14.4            14.4
1979          8                      70.1         0.77       54.0         39.8        14.2        13.8            13.8
1980          9                      69.o         0.77       53.1         39.8        13.3        12.9            12.9
1981         10                      68.o         0.77       52.4         39.8        12.6        12.2            12.2
1982         11                      66.9         0.77       51.5         39.8        11.7        11.3            11.3
1983         12                      64.6         0.77       49.7         39.8         9.9         8.8             9.6
1984         13                      62.5         0.77       48.1         39.8         8.3         7.2             8.1
1985-        14                      60.3         0.77       46.4         39.8         6.6         6.5             6.9
1986         15                      58.o         0.77       44.7         39.8         4.9         4.8             4.8
1987         16           20. J     56.o         0.77       43.1         39.8         3.3         3.3            23.4
Financial Rate of Return = 10.2%
g   Residual Value (10-of-tesseal price plus US$11,000 in working capital).
21   Investment Cost:
Vessel Cost            $91,000
Gear                     5 000
Wlorking Capital        11,000  -
Technical Assistance
(Vessel Design)          2,000
$109,000
July 13, 1971



PANAMA
FISHERIES PROJECT
Financial Return of 72-ft   Vessel
with Increase in Prices and Costs
Year        Year    Investment       Catch     Price        Gross       Production     Net          Net     Net Benefit
Investme  Catch  ParnricCoet                          Earningfl   Earning    Flow after
before Dep.   fter Tax        Tax
________         (usa,+* Iooo   (000 lb) (US$/lb)    (us$'000)   (ujs- Iooo)                 aftoo    (s'o)  usoo
1972          1        -109.0                                                                                   -109.0
1973          2                        76.5     0.83        63.5           40.7       22.8        22.0            22.0
1974          3                        75.4     o.85        64.1           41.0       23.1        22.3            22.3
1975          4                        74.3     o.86        63.9          41.3        22.6        21.8            21.8
1976          5                        73.2     o.88        64.4           41.7       22.7        21.9            21.9
1977          6                       72.2      0.90        65=0          42.1        22.9        22.1            22.1
1978          7                       71.1      0.92        65.4          42.4        23.0        22.2            22.2
1979          8                        70.1     0.94        65.9          42.8        23.1        22.3            22.3
1980          9                       69.o      o.96        66.2          43.2        23.0        22.2            22.2
1981         10                       68.o      0.99        67.3          43.7        23.6        22.8            22.8
1982         11                       66.9      1.01        67.6          44.1        23.5        22.7            22.7
1983         12                       64.6      1.03        66.5          44.6        21.9        21.1            21.1
1984         13                       62.5      l.o6        66.3          45.1        21.2        20.5            20.5
1985         14                       60.3      1.09        65.7          45.5        20.2        19.5            19.5
1986         15                       58.0      1.12        65.0          46.1        18.9        18.2            18.2
1987         16          20 .1        56.o      1.15        64.4          46.7        17.7        17.1            37.2
Financial Rate of Return :  18.8%
1/   Residual Value (10% of vessel price plus US$11,000 working capital).
2/   Investment Cost - See Table 7.
July 13, 1971



PANAMA
FISHEES PROJECT
Financial Return of 67 -ft Vessel
With Constant Prices and Costs
Net         Net      Net Benefit
Year      Yesr      Investment    Catch       Price      Gross      Production  Earning     Earning   Flow  after
Earning       Cost   before DeP.  after Tax      Tax
(us$'1oo)    ('000 lb)  (us$hb)   (us$'000)  (us$              t wo)  (US$s$oo)   (us$'oo)   oUS j000
1972        1           -99.0                                                                             -99.0
1973        2                      69.6       0.77       53.6         33.6       20.0         19.6         19.6
1974        3                      68.5       0.77       52.7         33.6       19.1         18.6         18.6
1975        4                      67.4       0.77       51.9          33.6      18.3         17.7         17.7
1976        5                      66.4       0.77       51.1         33.6       17.5         16.9         16.9
1977        6                      65.3       0.77       50.2         33.6       16.6         16.2         16.2
1978        7                      64.2       0.77       49.4          33.6      15.8         15.4         15.4
1979        8                      63.2       0.77       148.7        33.6       1 ,1         14.5         14.5
1980        9                      62.1       0.77       47.8          33.6      14.2         13.7         13.7
1981       10                      61.0       0.77       47.0          33.6      13.4         12.9         12.9
1982       31                      6o.o       0.77       46.2          33.6      12.6         12.2         12.2
1983       12                      58.4       0.77       45. o         33.6      11.4         11.1         11.1
1984       13                      56.9       0.77       43.8          33.6      10.2          9.9          9.9
1985       14                      55.5       0.77       42.7          33.6        9.1         8.9          8.9
1986       15                1     54.o       0.77       41.6          33.6       8.0          7.8          7.8
1987       16           19.1 -     52.5       0.77       40.4          33.6       6.8          6.7        25.8
Financial Rate of Return = 13.8%
-1/  Residual Value (10% of vessel price plus Us$11,000 working capital).
2/  Investment Cost:
Vessel Cost               $81,000
Gear                        5,000
Working Capital            11,000                                                                       0
Technical Assistance      _
(Vessel Design)           2.000                                                                        'o
July 13, 1971                          $99,000



rANAMA
FISHERIES PROJECT
Financial Return of 67-ft   Vessel
with Increase in Prices and Costs
2/                                                        Net         Net       Net Benefit
Year       Year    Investme'nt     Catch       Price     Gross      Production    Earning      Earning     Flow after
Earning        Cost     before Dep.  a'ter Tax      Tax
(_US$____--_- tO lb)  ('000 m)  (US$/lb)  (us$o00)oo)    (us$t          )(S'O )    (u
1972         1         -99.0                                                                                 -99.0
1973         2                     69.6         0.83      57.8         34.4         23.4         22.6         22.6
1974         3                     68.5         o.85      58.2         34.7        23.5          22.7         22.7
1975         4                     67.4         o.86      58.0         35.0        23.0          22.2         22.2
1976         5                     66.4         0.88      58.4         35.3         23.1         22.3         22.3
1977         6                     65.3         0.90      58.8         35.7        23.1          22.3         22.3
1978         7                     64.2         0.92      59.1         36.0        23.1          22.3         22.3
1979         8                     63.2         0.94      59.4         36.4        23.0          22.2         22.2
1980         9                     62.* 1       0.96      59-6         36.7        22.9          22.1         22.1
1981        10                     61.1         0.99      60.5         37.1        23.4          22.6         22.6
1982        11                     6o.o         1.01      6o.6         37.5        23.1          22.3         22.3
1983        12                     58.4         1.03      60.2         37.9        22.3          21.5         21.5
1984        13                     56.9        :i.o6      60.3         38.3        22.0          21.2         21.2
1985        14                     55.5         1.09      6o.5         38.8        21.7          20.9         20.9
1986        15               1    54.o          1.12      6o.5         39.3        21.2          20.5         20.5
1987        16          19.1       52.5         1.15      6o.4         39.9        20.5          19.8         38.9
Financial Rate of Return = 21.5%
1/    Residual Value (10% of v essel price plus US$11,000 working capital).
2t/   Investment Cost - See Table 9.
July 13, 1971



PANAMA
FISHERIES P.3OJECT
(US$'003)
Project Yese         1          20          3            4            5          6             7             8          9            10        11            12           13         14           15           16
Cash Tnflo1
S.blo-s
BNP
Owner Equity                                    20.0
let Profit before Inte-et
TV es and Diepreciatiosns                       10.1       1.9.1        18.2       17.4         16.6          15.8         14.9        14.1         13.3       12.6          11.4        10.2        9.1         7.9         6.8
Total Cash rnflow                             109.1     19.1          18.2       17.4         16.6         15.8          14.9        14.1         13.3       12.6          1.1.4      10.2         9.1        7.9          6.8
Cabh Cutflow
Investment in Shrimp
Fishing Operation  g/                          99.0
Tnxes on enrnings                                0.3        0.5          0.5        0.5          o.4           0.4          0 4          0.4         0 4        0 4           0.3         0.3        0.2         0.1         0.1
Interest Doring Construction snd
Grne  Period                                     5.0
Interest and Loan Arorti&ation  3/                           15.5         15.'        15.5        15.5          15.5         15.,         15.5         _           _            _           _          _           _           _
Total Cash Outflow                         104.3        16.0         16.0       16.0         15.9          15.9         15.9        15.Q          O.4        0.4           0.3        0.3         0.2        0.1          0.1
Net Cash Flow                                4.8         3.1          2.1         1.4         0.7         (0.1 )        (1.0 )      (1.8         12.9       12.2          11.1        9.9         8.9        7.8          6.7
Accumulated Cash Flow                        4.8         7.9         10.1       11.5         12.           12.1         11.1         9.3         2      .2   34.4         45.5       55.4        64.3       72.1        78.8
Based on operation of 67 ft. shrimp trawler with future prices and  cost. cnstant (aee Table 6, Annee  19).
Investment cent:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 -o
Vessel Cost     -  $81,000
Geoking Capital      I1,000
Technical
Asointance      -   2,000
(Vessel Design)
T.ers:  9-1/2% interest with monthly saortiZatiOn; 8 ye.r tern with one year of trnce.
July 13, 1971






ANNEX 20
PANAMA
FISHERIES PROJECT
Projeted Pmojet Account Cash Flow
(US$000)
ProJct Year              1          2              3           4            5             6            7           8            9           10           11             12
1971         1972         1973         1974         1975         1976         197         18           1979         1980          1981         192          Total
CASH  INFLOW
1. IBRO  Fuods                                                                                  40         580          530          580          580                                                                                                   2 360
2. BFP FPnds                                                                                     6         196          196          196          196
3. Subborrower Ponds                                                                                        90           90           90           90                                                                                                      360
4. Sublon .Aortization (Intre-t & Pr;ncip.l) by Sobborro-er                                                            156          312          468          624          624         624          624          468           312          156         4,368
5. Subloan Int-rost paym-nt doting Pr-ce by Subborror                                                       56           56           56           56                                                                                                      224
A. Contingency Allowanco
ISRD                                                                                                                                    600                                                                                                      600
BNP                                                                                                                                     10                                                                                                       135
Sobborrowr                                                                                                                               65                                                                                                        5
7. A-ortization of Contingo.cy by Subborro-or(fron I13K0, BNP) by                                                                                              146          146        146           146          146           146         146          1,022
Subborr2wer (Interest plu. Principal)
TOTAL, CASH lVFLOW:                                                                   46         922        1,078         1,234       2,190          770          770        772           770          6i1,          458          302         9,924
CASH OUTFLOW
1. Psymnnt to Shipy-rd                                                                                      860         860          860           60344
2. Tenh.ical Assiatn-34
N-va1 Arohitoct                                                                    46               6          6            6             6                                                                                                       70
3. BNP Adliin.tr-ti-e Eop-nose
Subloan Processing                                                                                 3           2            3            2                                                                                                        10
Sobloao Supervision                                                                                2           2             2            2            1            1          1             1            1            1            1             15
4. A-nLotioion   (Intoroot & Pri-cipol) to BNP frin  ProJect Aocoont                                                                                           17D           170        178           170          170          170          170         1,192
5. A-ortiati-on (1nt-r-st & Prin-ipl) to IBRD from Project Account                                                                                             545          545        545           5             545          545          545         3,815
6. Peymnot of Inter-et during Crace to BNP from Projeot Acoount                                               7          21            34          48                                                                                                      110
7. Paym-ot of ISt-r-st during Croce to IBRD e-nn Projejt Account                                             21          63           105         147                                                                                                      336
S. Conting-ney Diobo-rseet                                                                                                                        R0O                                                                                                      800
TOTAL CASH OUTFLOW:                                                              _46             899         154 ..    0O     o       1.865          716    -      16       716           716           716          716          716           7
NET  CASH  FLOW                                                                                  0             21          14           224         325            54           54s        54            h        _ (0021       (o58(           11         _18
ACCUMULATED  CASH  FLOW                                                                          0              23         147           371         696          750          004        857           912          810          552          138
ACCUM1ULATED CASH  FLOW INVESTED AT 7% p.a.                                                                    24         i54            397         762          371          983      1.113         1,247        1.22D        1,o48          693
P    7 Tubloon -    IJ$S 79.000 enoh and in-lude6 payment for teobnicbi1 zsistnece services in vessel design cod procurement.






ANNEX 21
Page 1
PANAMA
FISHERIES PROJECT
Economic Results of Project
Economic Earnings
1.        The net economic benefits that would result from the proposed
project were calculated by estimating the benefits that would accrue from the
future operation of 40 replacement trawlers as compared to the benefits that
would accrue if there were no replacement and the vessels continued in opera-
tion until the end of their economic or technical lives. The calculations
were made on both the basis of an increase in prices and costs and the al-
ternative of constant future prices and costs (Annex 20).
2.        Old Vessels.  Projections for earnings on old vessels were made on
the basis of statistics available for shrimp catches and operating costs of
vessels 10 years old or more. The conservative assumption was made that a
wooden vessel presently (1970) 10 years of age could fish another 10 years if
it proved economical to do so. The catch of a wooden vessel was expected to
decline as more and more fishing time was lost due to increasing repair
time. The operating costs were conservatively estimated to remain at the
same level. Under these assumptions, the old vessels would have an economic
life until 1975, assuming prices and costs constant, and an economic life
until 1978, assuming increasing prices and costs (Tables 1 and 2).
3.        New Vessels.  The financial benefits of the new vessels were given
in Annex 19, and the earnings of a 67-ft vessel under the conditions of both
constant and increasing prices and costs were used. The new steel vessels
were estimated to have a life of 15 years, with a 10% residual value. The
financial earnings of the shrimp trawler operations were adjusted to economic
earnings by adding back taxes that were projected to be paid by the fishermen
on the incremental income due to the new vessels. Also, the value of the
shrimp fishermen's licenses were deducted from the investment costs as this
was not considered as using an economic resource. The investment required
for permanent working capital was retained as it goes mainly for stocks of
oil, food, and supplies.
4.        With these adjustments, the project's internal economic rate of
return would be 15.22, assuming prices and costs remain constant, and 21.8%
assuming projected increases in prices and costs (Tables 1 and 2). The total
additional income of the project under constant prices and costs would be
about US$8.2 million, US$7.1 million of which would be due to the incremental
volume of shrimp produced by the new vessels and US$7.1 million to the in-
creased efficiency of the new vessels. With the projected increases in
prices and costs, the additional earnings provided by the project would be



ANNEX 21
Page 2
about US$13.1 million, about US$10.11 million of which would be due to incre-
mental volume and about US$3.0 milli'on due to increased efficiency.
Benefits to Shrimp Processing Sector
5.        As a result of the project's incremental volume (26.7 million lb
with price increases and 32.7 million lb with prices constant) of shrimp
catch, the shrimp processing sector would be provided with additional earn-
ings. Since the shrimp processing sector in Panama has earnings of about
4 cents per lb of processed shrimp, the proposed project would produce about
US$1.3 million of additional earnings.
Combined Benefits
6.        The investment for shrimp processing is about 6 cents per lb and
the net shrimp processing benefit flow was calculated by providing for capa-
city to process the incremental volume. Discounting the combined processing
benefit flow and the shrimp catching economic benefit flow yields a rate of
return of 17.2%, assuming a constant: price and cost, 22.5%, assuming in-
creases in prices and costs (Tables 1 and 2).
Sensitivity Testing
7.        Sensitivity testing was performed on the economic rate of return
by using alternative values for the estimated catch of the shrimp trawlers.
The results for the case of increasing prices and costs can be summarized
as follows:
10% Decrease Estimated 10% Increase
in Estimated  Catch       in Estimated
Catch Rate    Rate        Catch Rate
Project Internal Economic
Rate of Return                         19%           22%         242
Project Rate of Return
Including Benefits to
Shrimp Processing Sector               20%           23%         26Z
Export Earnings
8.        The export earnings due to the incremental volume of the project
would amount to about US$32.7 million during the 15 years, or an average of
about US$2.3 million per year, assuming prices and costs constant (Table 3).
Assuming increases in prices and costs, the total value of the exports would
be about US$36.4 million, or an annual average of about US$2.4 million (Table
3).
May 21, 1971



P A NA  A                                                                                                            AsA       2
molzaeiO  lesoos or Iroj-ct
(frlrees 800 Costs Zocatant!
-j.ect Ya          1          2            3            9            5                                    .                                                            *1In At. If i   AL4     .t          AS
5972      1973          1974         1975        1976       1977         197s         1979       1980         108l          1982         1983         1984        1985       19"         19597
Ol2 V,esse
Q-attity of Shr1i  0h1st (      W000 D)   (1)                 55.0         53.3          51.6        49.9        48.3        46.6        45.7          X  -       f of phyeira
V.ld. or Cetri ($'ODD)                                        42.2          41.0         39.7        38.5        37.1        35.9        34.7
TotsCtr a of ctcb ($'o)                                       40.0          4o.o         4o.o        40.0        40.0        40.0        40W.3
Net teroInge frca Catch ($000)                                 2.2           1.0          1  -  300 profitath  at this  ci,ct.
841 of soo.m-Lc life ofco,1
halt oiRBrcjr   of Catch ($/lb)       (2)                       .o4           .02
Q,ot ty of lIna  CatrI 1000 lIe)   (3)                        69.6         68.5          67.14       66.14       6.5.3       614.2       63.2         61.1       61.0           60.0         58.14       56.9        ss.s       514.o        5.
Vaz  or Catoh ($000 )53.8                                                   52.7         51.8         51.1       50.2        49.4        48.7         412.8      47.0          146.2         145.0      143.8        42.7       141.6        4o.14
Total Cost of Catch ($10)                                     33.6          33.6         33.6         33.6       33.6        33.6        33.6         33.6       33.6           33.6          33.6       33.6        33.6        33.6        33.6
Ne Meotog  fr    Catch S$ooo1                                 00.7          19.1         18.3         17.3       16.6        15.8         U.1         14.2       13.4           12.6           1.14      10.2         9.1         8.0         6.8
.oit f.rala of Cacth ($1l1)           (4)                      0.29           .28
IhoA2s O ua 9rcIoee per Veesel ($000o)
ta.eoe moe to basre<Ae'vah- Vut 3/                             4.1           4.3         18.3        17.35        6.6        15.8        ISI         04.2       13.4           72.6         71 4        10.2         9.1         8.8         6.8
2arta=ga Doe to Icreasatd  lfftcteay 2/                       13.7          13.6                                                     -                  -          -              -             -          -           -           -
Cotal                               17.S          18.1         16.3         17.5       16.6        175.8        U.1         14.2        13.4          12.6          1.1.4      30.2          9.1        8.0         6.8
Project (40 V e..ie) 7r-.ntal Mraisga ($ 000)
hoe to IO".read Volg                                         164.0         h72.0        732.0        700.0      664 0       632.0        604.0       569.0      536.0          504.0        1456.0      408.o        364.0      310.0       272.0        7 ,9.8
o to laed          fier                                      548.0         552.0           -            - _-                                            -          -              -                                                                            .
rote3       (5)                    712.0         714.0        732.0        780.0      664.o       632.o        604.0       56a.o      536.0          50d.0         456.0      408.0        364.0      380.0       27..0         8,a7.0
40 Vees1s 2/ (8000)   (6)                    (3.680.0)
Nasida) Vaz.l  V  18O) (7)                                                                                                          7bo
T.et Ores-ic BeLyfit FOa 2/  (8)  $,.00)          (3,680.0)       711.0       724.0       738.0        700.0       664.o        632.o       604 .0       568.0        536.0      504.0        456.,        408.0       364.0        320.0        712.0
Iroject laiers l E-Asc  34t3 of eBc tp7      15.20
Peozjert beofite Pseidad to Shriep Froreec-
ittlesS87or
Ia trs Pta          . Vsl'int Par ve.eh ('900 lb)           14.6         15.2        67.4         66.4        65.3         64.2         63.2        62.1         61.0       60.0         58.4         56.9       55.5          54.0         52.5
FrojerV  Ocreta  VI-r (140 et.-I.)
('000 1)         1        (                                564.0       609.o 0     .696.0     v.656.0      P,62.jo      2,560.0     2,520        o,484.o     2,440.0   2,400.0       2,336.0       2,276.0    2,a20.0       2,760.0      2,700.0      3e,6'.
(0718   t         P        r        o       o       e       02brn=s dur tn 7rps zt , 23.0  24.0  108.0  1C6.o  105.0     103.0       100.0         99.0         98.0       96.0         93.0         91.0       89.0          86.o         84.o       1,306.o
gcrnDtal FoVscaehsi Csracteet
Ad,itinal  Capacity  e.VJ-etd (000 1i1)                    584.0        o4.o     2,088.0
Ad,itiofl I-tact | (SN 000)                                (35.0)       (1.01     (125.0)
carhla   r-rea.1sig 7-fi floe  (N) (9) 000                         (12.0)       23.0       (17.0)       116.0 o     10.0           03.3       014.3        96.0         90.0        B0.0        33,          30.0       g0.0          66.0          84.o
Cc.biotd  Oeoafit Ploe 2/  (9000)                  (3,680.0)       700.0       747.0       715.0        806.0       769.0         735.0       705.0       667.0        634.0      6-0          549.7         499.0      453.0        140.0         794.0
proJ eot Ooosgoel tote of letoro IcohoOllo
mocefiss tc Ohnlori  Pr zresetc,s Sector     n17. R7
BJ Be00  03 o           -eeatisg results atiete   fr 67 ft. ces_-l.
9 ime (14) X (7.e 63) - LiY (1)).
/  lIe (1) c (LAna (4) .-     (2)).
!/  Veaeel Igce0mie:
'67 rt. teacher - t81,000
Gear - ~5,000
$'3,000
s/ 7J9s or9 10% of aex ceaael Ocrae Agd 00fh50 Ira3rttal.
6s/ Atloe7 of limes (5), (6) crdS (7).
Naad sn $014 PAr 1b. Pea earsicce freoa proreasitO.
$.ed oc $06 her lb. 1tyetet reqolrec or p          -eetlts eapeoity.
Lio  (8) plo  Lin  (9).
Ar-l1 4tb. 1977



IAN  A    A                                                                                                            Lt  21
FIT_563E P301ECT
7083968  200C
oo_ie flsoults of ProJect
(w0th looms,e1. Prrice e boss.)
FroSert Iea                       7            3             4                                   7            3    0 a                               2            11 12       13           14         j5            1h         Te
1972        1973          1974          1975        1976        1977         1978        1979         1980        1981           1982         1983        0984         0985       1984         197
Old Vessel
O. ntity of %,btiW  Catoh ('Oo lb.)    (1)                     55.0         53.5          51.6         49.9        48.3        46.6         45.0           X  -  [d of pbrsi-e
ifeof -0.
Val  of Catlh ($Jo00)                                           45 .7         45. 3        44.3         43.9       43.5         42.8         42.3
Total Poet of Caleb ($'0007                                     41.0         41.3          41.7         40.o        4, 4        42.8         43.2
Net 0.08 . fr    Catch (o4.7                                                    .           2.6          1.9         1.1          X      Not pofitable  t this pi.9
Te   f ecnaelife ofusai
7.it 1araloge of Cateb ($/lb)           (W)                       .09           .o8          .05          .04         .02
IIle, VeSse13,/
Q-ntity of Vtrl.th Cateb  ("400 lbe)   (3)                      69.6         68.5          6758.        6654       65.3         64.2         63.2        62.1        61.1           60.         60.4         56.9        55.         6 54. 0      50
Osle  f ,,b ($'Co73                                        57.8          58.,          58.),       58,4        58.8        59.1         59.5         59.6       60.5           6o.6          603.2       66.3        68.5        608.5         0
Total Cost of Catch ($ OOf                                      34.4         34.7          35.0         35. 3       35.7        36.0         36.4        36.7        37.1           37.5          37.9        38.3        38.8        39.3         39.9
Net Ear.Oags rtr  Calb (toto)                                   23.4         03.5          23.0         23.1       23.1         23.1         23.0        22.9        23.4           23.1          22.3        22.0        21.7        21.2         20.5
U=It f.or M.9.o  of Catlh ($/lb)         (4)                      .34           .34          .35          .35         .35          .36         .37          .37        .38            .39           .41         .43         .45         .47          .49
Iao _Tto  ?rngeps   re - eV-1 ($700)
Pteinae   too   Icer         I  i Volm  2J                       5..0          53           5 4          5.8         5.9        23.1         23.0         22.9       23.1           23.1          22.3        22.0        21.7        21.2         20.5
Poo-i4g  Doe to bIne-asd  fffcleoc-y 3/                        13. 7        14.2          15.0         15.4        16.1          _ -          -                       _              _             _ -         -                       _            _
eta.l                             18.7          19.5          20.4        21.2        22.0        23.1         28.0         22.9        23.0           23.1         22.3        22.0         21.7       21.2        20.5
PraJoct (40 V.ssie(   nrfentel brolage ($208)
DUe to lvr-eaee  Volume                                        208.0        212.0         216.0        232.0       236.0       084.0        920.0        916.0      936.0          924,0         892.0      880.0        868.9       e48.0        80_.0    l
Poe to O -erae   yiffoieeer                                    s48.0        568.o         600.0        616.0      644.o           _            _            _           _                           - _         _                       -            -      2,97b.0
ToeW       (5)                   748.0         700.0         84o.o        848.       8.0          924.0       920.0        916.0      39o.6           924.0        562.0       880.0o        68.o      848.o        820,0    13,".s
Proisot I_     ot (WOOO)
40 Vassas V         (6)
Residu-l Value 2/   (7)                       (3,600.0)                                                                                                                                                                                          4W.0
let  b         -i b fit Pflo   Y(8)  (SoOO)          (3,68.0)       748.0        7800         816.0       848.0        880.0        924.0        920.0      916.3          936.,      924.0        89C.o         88.o        868.o        8a8.o       1,260.,
Proj,ect beeeft Pro-idd te g8hr ip  reee-_
lag 4ctap                                                                                               Projeot  Iater-al r0ca.cie Vats of Betup  -0 1.kt
Ibo -rVta0   Volume per  ee,e. I( fOO lb.)                     14.6        15.2         15.5         16.5        17.0          64.2         63.2        62.1         61.1        60.0        58.4          56.9        55.5          54.0         52.5
Fro-eet Var3aasl Velc  (40   sels)
(0O0o lbe)                                                  584.o       608.o        632.0       66o.o        68o.o       2,560.0     2,506,0      2,484.o      2,444.0    2,408.0      2,336.0       2,276.0    2,220.0       2,160.0       2,100.0      26,6aO.o
(let Peaeeseio  X-iee  Doe to ProJe-t Y./
(M)07 )23.0                                                               24.o        25.0         26.0         7r.0        103.0        101.0         99.0         96.3       96.o         93,0          91.o       89.o          86,           84.,o      1,065.0
Ao41tioaaI eapeeity Rsqus-ed (008 lbe)                       584.0        24.0         24.0         28.0        20.0       1,888.0
Additioaal 7aqr      t Y(' 0o o)                             (35.0)        (1.0)        (1.0)       (2.0)        (1.0)      (113.0)
ghriap Pro .essi       f befit f3ot  (9) (['00)                     (12.0)        23.0         24.0        24.0         26.0           M 0.0)    151.0         r.0          98.0        A6.o        )3.0          91.0        89.0         86.o          84.0
Cvbitod Oeceflt F710  2/ (. 400)                     (3,600.0)      736.o         803.0       8403.       M72.0        906.0        916.0      1,021.0      10O5.3       1,034.7    0,62.0         995.o         301.0       957.o        934.0       1,344.0
P>roject icotneOc bite of Eeturo leclodbog Ocefeite
to 6bri 2 Posn3asine Seto 0t 22.72
,r Basd adt operating fsolts eetlateo for 67 ft. ce--I.
/  Lioe (4) 1 (Lian  (3) - li  (I')
Line (1) X (Lin  (4) - Line (2)).
67 ft. traler -        $l,Oo
Osac -                   50,o
9Vokiig CPStitl .        3,C39
7 cialol Asit-aos_  3,
/  hOd  or 10% of e v                         keseel price nod  corbe capital.
4  tai2on  of tines (S), (6) eel (7).
BasJed or 5.84 per lb. _et er3iags ff97, protsessnc.g
asPend on $.06 pec lb. ina-etmet requird or processIng carnclty.
Lice (8)  plan Line (9)
April 4th, 1971



ANNEX 21
Table 3
PANAMA
FISHING PROJECT
Incremental Shrimp Export Earnings
Incremental Exports                Incremental Exports with
at Constant Price                      Price Increase
Volume  ('000 lb) Value (US$'000)    Volume  ('000 lb) Value (US$'000)
1973          584             613                   584              666
1974          608             638                   608              705
1975        2,696            2,831                  632              739
1976        2,656           2,789                   660              799
1977        2,612           2,743                   680              836
1978        2,568           2,696                 2,568            3,210
1979        2,528           2,654                 2,528            3,236
1980        2,484           2,608                 2,484            3,229
1981        2,440           2,562                 2,444            3,270
1982        2,400           2,520                 2,400            3,288
1983        2,336            2,453                2,336            3,294
1984        2,276           2,390                 2,276            3,277
1985        2,220           2,331                 2,220            3,286
1986        2,160           2,268                 2,160            3,283
1987        2,100           2,205                 2,100            3,276
Total      32,668           34,301               26,680           36,394
Annual       2,178           2,287                1,779            2,427
Average
May 21, 1971






MANFISHERIES PROJECT                                           0~~ OO
MANSHRIMP FISHING GROUJNDSt 
~~    I  ~~ AlI,nion
0              *C" PoNtd
epl,'                                                                     Ch...  so                                             D      R    E   N ~fi



