Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 4054-IN 
 
Restated and Amended 
Project Agreement 
 
(Emergency Tsunami Reconstruction Project) 
 
among 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
and 
 
STATE OF TAMIL NADU 
 
and 
 
UNION TERRITORY OF PUDUCHERRY 
 
Originally Dated May 12, 2005 
Restated and Amended on August 13, 2009 
 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 4054-IN 
 
RESTATED AND AMENDED 
PROJECT AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, originally dated May 12, 2005, restated and amended 
 
on August 13, 2009, among INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
 
ASSOCIATION (the Association), the STATE OF TAMIL NADU, acting by its 
Governor and the UNION TERRITORY OF PUDUCHERRY, acting by its Lieutenant 
Governor (the Project States). 
 
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith 
between India, acting by its President (the Borrower) and the Association, the 
Association has agreed to make available to the Borrower a credit in an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to Three Hundred Eight Million Four Hundred Thousand 
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 308,400,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the 
Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that the Project States agree to 
undertake such obligations toward the Association as are set forth in this Agreement; and 
 
WHEREAS the Project Sta
tes, in consideration of the Association’s entering into 
the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, have agreed to undertake the 
obligations set forth in this Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
 
Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. 
Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Development Credit Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and in the 
General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth. 
 
ARTICLE II 
 
Execution of the Project 
 
Section 2.01.  
(a)  
Tamil Nadu and Puducherry declare their commitment 
to the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit 
Agreement, and, to this end, Tamil Nadu shall, through TNPEAs, carry out its relevant 
activities under Parts A through F of the Project, and Puducherry shall, through PIA, 
carry out its relevant activities under Parts A, B, D and E of  the Project, with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, and 
environmental practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, 
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project. 
Page  3
-
2
-
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Project States shall carry out, and 
shall cause their respective Project Executing Agencies to carry out, their relevant 
activities under the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
(c) 
Without limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under 
the Project Agreement, for the purpose of implementation of its relevant activities under 
the Project, Tamil Nadu shall: (i) enter into arrangements satisfactory to the Association 
with TNSCB, each DIU, TNEB and CMWSSB; and (ii) cause TNSCB, each DIU, TNEB 
and CMWSSB to carry out its respective activities under the Project in accordance with 
such arrangements and the provisions of this Agreement. 
 
(d) 
Without limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under 
the Project Agreement, for the purpose of implementation of its relevant activities under 
the Project, Tamil Nadu shall ensure that each Beneficiary, DIU and an independent non-
governmental organization enter into an agreement which include the selected house 
design, construction and quality at completion information as set forth in Annex 4 of the 
Operational Manual 
–
Part F. 
 
(e) 
Without limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under 
the Project Agreement, Puducherry shall: (i) execute, and cause PIA to execute, a 
Memorandum of Understanding, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association; 
and (ii) cause PIA to carry out its respective activities under Parts A, B, D and E of the 
Project in accordance with the Memorandum of Understanding. 
 
Section 
2.02.  (a) 
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, 
procurement of the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as the said provisions may be further elaborated in the 
Procurement Plan of each Project State. 
 
(b) 
Each Project State shall update its Procurement Plan in accordance with 
paragraph 7 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement and in accordance with guidelines 
acceptable to the Association, and furnish such update to the Association not later than 
twelve (12) months after the date of the preceding Procurement Plan, for the 
Association’s approval. 
 
Section 2.03. 
(a) 
Each Project State shall carry out the obligations set 
forth in  Sections 4.04, 4.05, 4.06, 4.07 and 4.08  of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition) in respect of the Project. 
 
(b) 
For the purposes of Section 4.08 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, each Project State shall: 
Page  4
-
3
-
(i) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association 
and furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after 
the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this 
purpose between the Association and such Project State,  a plan 
for the future operation of the Project; and 
 
(ii) 
afford the Association and the Borrower a reasonable 
 
opportunity to exchange views with such Project State on the 
 said 
plan. 
 
Section 
2.04. 
 (a) 
Each Project State shall, at the request of the 
Association, exchange views with the Association with regard to the progress of the 
Project, the performance of obligations under this Agreement, and other matters relating 
to the purposes of the Credit. 
 
(b) 
Each Project State shall promptly inform the Association, of any 
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by such Project State 
of its obligations under this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III 
 
Financial Covenants 
 
Section 3.01. 
(a) 
Each Project State shall, and shall cause its respective 
Project Executing Agencies to, establish and maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts and prepare financial statements, in accordance with 
consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Association, adequate to 
reflect its operations and financial condition and to register separately the operations, 
resources and expenditures related to the Project, of the departments and agencies of each 
Project State or its respective Project Executing Agencies responsible for carrying out the 
Project. 
 
(b) 
Tamil Nadu shall, and shall cause TNPEAs to: 
 
(i) 
have the records, accounts and the financial statements referred 
to in paragraph (a) of this Section for each fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with consistently applied auditing standards 
acceptable to the Association, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;  
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six (6) months after the end of each such year: (A) 
certified copies of the financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section for such year as so audited; and (B) 
Page  5
-
4
-
an opinion on such financial statements, records and accounts 
and report of such audit, by the said auditors, of such scope and 
in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; 
and   
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
such records and accounts and the audit of such financial 
statements, and concerning said auditors, as the Association may 
from time to time reasonably request. 
 
(c) 
Puducherry shall, and shall cause PIA to: 
 
(i) 
have the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each six (6) months of each fiscal year, audited, in 
accordance with consistently applied auditing standards 
acceptable to the Association, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association; 
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than ninety (90) days after the end of each such six (6) 
months of each fiscal year: (A) certified copies of the financial 
statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for such 
six (6) months, as so audited; and (B) an opinion on such 
statements by the said auditors, in scope and detail satisfactory to 
the Association; and 
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
such records and accounts, and the audit of such financial 
statements, and concerning said auditors, as the Association may 
from time to time reasonably request. 
 
Section 3.02. 
(a) 
Each Project State shall prepare and furnish to the 
Association a financial monitoring report, in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Association which: 
 
(i) 
sets forth sources and applications of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately the funds provided under the Credit and explains the 
variances between the actual and planned uses of such funds; 
 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by the said report; and 
explains variances between the actual and planned Project 
implementation; and  
 
Page  6
-
5
-
(iii)  
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by the said report. 
 
(b)  
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Association not later than 
November 15, 2005 and shall cover the period from March 23, 2005 through  
September 30, 2005; thereafter each Financial Monitoring Report shall be furnished to 
the Association not later than forty five (45) days after each subsequent calendar quarter 
and shall cover the period not covered by the previous Financial Monitoring Report until 
the end of such calendar quarter. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Effective Date; Termination; 
Cancellation and Suspension 
 
Section 4.01. 
This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date 
upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective. 
 
Section 4.02. 
(a) 
This Agreement and all obligations of the Association 
and of the Project States thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two 
dates: 
 
(i) 
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall 
terminate in accordance with its terms; or 
 
(ii) 
the date twenty (20) years after the date of this Agreement. 
 
(b) 
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with its 
terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)(ii) of this Section, the Association shall 
promptly notify the Project States of this event. 
 
Section 4.03. 
All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE V 
 
Miscellaneous Provisions 
 
Section 5.01. 
Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly 
given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telex or facsimile to the 
party to which it is required or permit
ted to be given or made at such party’s address 
hereinafter specified or at such other address as such party shall have designated by 
Page  7
-
6
-
notice to the party giving such notice or making such request. Deliveries made by 
facsimile transmission shall also be confirmed by mail.   The addresses so specified are: 
 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
 
Telex:   
 
Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
For Tamil Nadu: 
 
Chief 
Secretary 
    
 
Government of Tamil Nadu 
 
Secretariat 
Fort St. George, Chennai 
Tamil Nadu, India 
 
 
Facsimile:  
 
91-44-25672304 
 
For Puducherry: 
 
Chief 
Secretary 
   
 
Government of Puducherry 
 
Secretariat 
 
Puducherry 605 001, India 
 
Facsimile: 
 
91-41-2337575 
 
Section 5.02.  
Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of: (a) Tamil Nadu 
may be taken or executed by its Chief Secretary or by such other person or persons as its 
Chief Secretary shall designate in writing, and Tamil Nadu shall furnish to the 
Association  sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature 
of each such person; and (b) Puducherry may be taken or executed by its Chief Secretary 
or by such other person or persons as its Chief Secretary shall designate in writing, and 
Page  8
-
7
-
Puducherry shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the 
authenticated specimen signature of each such person. 
 
Section 5.03. 
This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument. 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Chennai, India, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By 
/s/ 
Rachid 
Benmessaoud 
    
 
Authorized Signatory 
 
India 
 
STATE OF TAMIL NADU 
 
By /s/ 
N. Sundaradevan 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
UNION TERRITORY OF PUDUCHERRY  
 
 
By /s/ 
Ragesh Chandra 
 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
Page  9
-
8
-
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Procurement and Consultants’ Services 
 
Section I. 
General
A.
 
All goods, works and services (other than consultants’ services) shall be procured 
in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with 
the provisions of this Schedule.  
 
B. 
All consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with Sections I and IV 
of the Consultant Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Schedule.   
 
C. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Schedule to describe particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Association of particular contracts, 
have the meanings ascribed to them in the Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant 
Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
Section II. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Services 
(other than Consultants’ Services)
A. International 
Competitive 
Bidding
.
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, contracts shall be awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding 
in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Procurement Guidelines.  The 
provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Procurement Guidelines, providing for 
domestic preference in the evaluation of bids, shall apply to goods manufactured in the 
territory of the Borrower. 
 
B. 
Other Procurement Procedures  
 
1.  
Limited International Bidding
.
Goods, which the Association agrees can be 
purchased from a limited number of suppliers, may be procured under contracts awarded 
on the basis of Limited International Bidding, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 3.2 of the Procurement Guidelines. 
 
2. 
National Competitive Bidding
.
Goods estimated to cost less than $200,000 
equivalent per contract and all contracts for works may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of National Competitive Bidding, in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Procurement Guidelines and the additional provisions 
agreed between the Borrower and the Association in writing from time to time.  
 
3. Shopping
.
Goods, work
s
and services (other than the Consultants’ services), 
estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of Shopping, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 3.5 of the Procurement Guidelines.  
Page  10
-
9
-
4. Direct 
Contracting
.
Goods and works which the Association agrees meet the 
requirements for Direct Contracting may be procured in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraph 3.6 of the Procurement Guidelines.  
 
5. Force 
Account
.
Works which the Association agrees meet the requirements for 
Force Account may be carried out in accordance with the provisions of said procurement 
method. 
 
6. Community 
Participation
.
Goods and works required under Parts A.2 and B.2(a) 
and B.2(b) of the Project may be procured on the basis of Community Participation/Self-
help Groups in accordance with paragraph 3.17 of the Procurement Guidelines following 
procedures set out in the Project Implementation Plan or the Operations Manual, as the 
case maybe. 
 
Section III. 
Par
ticular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
A. 
Quality-and Cost-based Selection
.
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.  For purposes of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines, the short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $500,000 
equivalent per contract may comprise entirely national consultants. 
 
B. Other 
Procedures 
 
1. Quality-based 
selection
.
Services for assignments which the Association agrees 
meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 3.2 of the Consultant Guidelines may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality-based Selection in accordance 
with provisions of paragraphs 3.1 through 3.4 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
2. 
Selection Under a Fixed Budget
.
Services for assignments which the Association 
agrees meet the requirements of paragraph 3.5 of the Consultant Guidelines may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of a Fixed Budget in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.5 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
3. Least-cost 
Selection
.
Services for assignments which the Association agrees 
meet the requirements of paragraph 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of Least-cost Selection in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
4. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
.
Services estimated to cost less 
than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1, 3.7 and 3.8 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
 
Page  11
-
10
-
5. 
Single Source Selection
.
Services for tasks in circumstances which meet the 
requirements of paragraph 3.10 of the Consultant Guidelines for Single Source Selection, 
may, with the Association
’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.9 through 3.13 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
6. Individual 
Consultants
.
Services for assignments that meet the requirements set 
forth in the first sentence of paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured 
under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 5.2 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines. Under the circumstances 
described in paragraph 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines, such contracts may be awarded 
to individual consultants on a sole-source basis subject to prior approval by the 
Association.  
 
7. 
Service Delivery Contractors
.
Services to be provided by data entry operators, 
social workers, staff nurses, laboratory technicians etc., may be procured in accordance 
with the provision of paragraph 3.21 of the Consultant Guidelines on the basis of 
procedures acceptable to the Association. 
 
Section IV.   
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
Except as the Association shall otherwise determine by notice to the Borrower, 
the following contracts shall be subject to Prior Review by the Association:  
 
Under Parts A, B, C, D, and E of the Project 
 
(a) 
(i) 
 
each contract for goods procured on the basis of International
 
Competitive Bidding and Limited International Bidding;  
 
(ii)  
first two contracts for goods procured by each TNPEA and by the PIA,
 
on the basis of National Competitive Bidding; and 
 
(iii)  
first two contracts for goods procured by each TNPEA and the PIA, and 
each contract of goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $30,000 or 
more, procured on the basis of Direct Contracting;  
 
(b)  
first two contracts for works and services (other than consultants’ services) 
procured by each TNPEA and by the PIA and each contract for works and services (other 
than consultants’ services) estimated to cost the equivalent of $750,000 or more; and  
 
(c)  
first two contracts for consultants’ services procured by each TNPEA and by the 
PIA, each contract for consultants’ services provided by a firm estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $200,000
 
or more, contracts for consulting services provided by individuals 
and estimated cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, and all contracts for consulting 
services provided by individuals concerning positions for PIU managers, procurement 
consultants, inspection agents and legal advisors.  
Page  12
-
11
-
Under Part F of the Project 
 
(a) 
all contracts for goods and works procured on the basis of International 
Competitive Bidding;  
 
(b) 
first contract for goods and first contract for works procured by each DIU; 
 
(c) 
first two contracts for goods and first two contracts for works procured by each  
implementing agency (other than the DIU) on the basis of National Competitive Bidding;  
 
(d) 
all contracts for works estimated to cost the equivalent of $5,000,000 or more;  
 
(e) 
all contracts for goods and works procured on the basis of Direct Contracting; 
and  
 
(f) 
each contract for consultants’ services provided by a firm and estimated to cost 
the equivalent of $200,000 or more, each contract for consultants’ services provided by a 
firm selected on sole source basis and estimated to cost US$50,000, contracts for 
consulting services provided by individuals and estimated cost the equivalent of $100,000 
or more, and all contracts for consulting services provided by individuals concerning 
positions for PIU managers, procurement consultants, inspection agents and legal 
advisors.  
 
All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Association. 
Page  13
-
12
-
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Implementation Program 
 
Institutional Arrangements 
 
1. 
For the purpose of managing the implementation of the Project: 
 
(a) 
Tamil Nadu shall: 
 
(i) 
establish, and thereafter maintain throughout the period of 
Project implementation, a state level Steering Committee, in a 
form and with functions, staffing and resources satisfactory to 
the Association, which shall be responsible, inter alia, for 
providing overall guidance to the TNPEAs;  
 
(ii) 
establish, and thereafter maintain throughout the period of 
Project implementation, an Empowered Committee, in a form 
and with functions, staffing and resources satisfactory to the 
Association, which shall be responsible, inter alia, for according 
all approvals and sanctions for carrying out of the Project; and 
 
(iii) 
establish, and thereafter maintain throughout the period of 
Project implementation, a Project Management Unit within 
OSRC, in a form and with functions, staffing and resources 
satisfactory to the Association, which shall be responsible for, 
inter alia: (A) overall coordination, monitoring and evaluation of 
Project implementation in Tamil Nadu; (B) acting as secretariat 
to the Steering Committee established pursuant to 
 
paragraph 1(a)(i) above of this Schedule 2; and (C) preparing 
and furnishing the Financial Monitoring Reports to the 
Association in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement. 
 
(b) Puducherry 
shall: 
 
establish, and thereafter maintain throughout the period of Project 
implementation: (A) an Empowered Committee at the union 
territory level, in a form and with functions, staffing and 
resources satisfactory to the Association, which shall be 
responsible for, inter alia, monitoring and supervision of PIA; 
and (B) Project Monitoring Committees at the regional level, in a 
form and with functions, staffing and resources satisfactory to 
the Association; 
 
Page  14
-
13
-
establish, and thereafter maintain throughout the period of Project 
implementation, a Project Implementation Agency (PIA), in a 
form and with functions, staffing and resources satisfactory to 
the Association; and 
 
enter into a Memorandum of Understanding with PIA for, inter alia, 
vesting it with the overall responsibility of implementation and 
execution of the Project in Puducherry, including the terms and 
conditions set out in paragraph 3 of this Schedule 2. 
 
Anti-Corruption Guidelines 
 
2. 
Each Project State shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with 
the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
 
Memorandum of Understanding 
 
3. 
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Memorandum of 
Understanding shall include, inter alia, the following provisions: 
 
(a)  
Puducherry shall agree to promptly make available the proceeds of the 
Credit to PIA on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association;  
 
(b) 
PIA shall declare its commitment to the objectives of the Project as set 
forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and to that end, it shall agree 
to undertake implementation of Project in Puducherry with due diligence and efficiency 
and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and environmental practices, 
and to provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required therefore; 
 
(c) 
PIA shall agree to assume all obligations applicable or relevant to 
Puducherry under this Agreement and to take all necessary actions necessary to 
implement the Project in Puducherry; 
 
(d) 
PIA shall agree to carry out the activities under the Project in accordance 
with the Operations Manual and ESMF; 
 
(e) 
PIA shall agree to carry out activities under Parts A.2 and A.3 of the 
Project in accordance with the respective Housing Policy Framework and the Housing 
Plan of Puducherry; 
 
(f) 
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, PIA shall agree not to 
waive any provision of the Operations Manual; 
 
Page  15
-
14
-
(g) 
PIA shall undertake to procure the goods, works and services required 
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit made available to PIA 
under the Memorandum of Understanding in accordance with the provisions of  
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as the said provisions maybe further elaborated in the 
Procurement Plan of Puducherry; 
 
(h) 
PIA shall agree that the Association may from time to time inspect the 
goods, works and services under the Project including all records and documents thereto; 
 
(i) 
PIA shall agree to assume and undertake the obligations set forth in 
Sections 4.04, 4.05, 4.06, 4.07 and 4.08 (relating to insurance, use of goods and services, 
plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land acquisitions) of the 
General Conditions in respect of the Memorandum of Understanding and Puducherry
’s 
portion of the Project; 
 
(j) 
PIA shall agree to maintain a financial management system, including 
records and accounts and prepare financial statements in a format acceptable to the 
Association, adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project, of the departments and 
agencies of PIA responsible for carrying out the Project in Puducherry; 
 
(k)  
PIA shall agree to: 
 
(i) 
have the records, accounts and the financial statements referred 
to in sub-paragraph (j) above of this paragraph 2 for each six (6) 
months audited, in accordance with consistently applied auditing 
standards acceptable to the Association, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;  
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than ninety (90) days after the end of each such six (6) 
months: (A) certified copies of the financial statements referred 
to in paragraph (a) of this Section for such six (6) months as so 
audited; and (B) an opinion on such financial statements, records 
and accounts and report of such audit, by the said auditors, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and   
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
such records and accounts and the audit of such financial 
statements, and concerning said auditors, as the Association may 
from time to time reasonably request. 
 
(l) 
PIA shall agree to undertake to assist Puducherry in complying with the 
financial covenants prescribed by Article III of this Agreement; 
Page  16
-
15
-
(m) 
PIA shall agree that Puducherry may suspend or terminate its right to use 
the proceeds of the Credit made available under the Memorandum of Understanding upon 
its failure to perform any obligations under the Memorandum of Understanding or upon 
notice by the Association that it intends to exercise its remedies under Article V of the 
Development Credit Agreement; 
 
(n) 
PIA shall agree to promptly inform Puducherry and the Association of 
any condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of its portion of 
the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit under the Development 
Credit Agreement, or the performance of its obligations under the Memorandum of 
Understanding; and 
 
(o) 
PIA shall agree that it shall, from time to time, at the request of 
Puducherry or the Association: 
 
(i) 
exchange views with Puducherry and with the Association 
(through Puducherry) with regard to the progress of carrying out 
activities under the Project, its performance under the 
Memorandum of Understanding and other matters relating to the 
purposes of the Credit under the Development Credit 
Agreement; and  
 
(ii) 
furnish all such information related thereto as may reasonably be 
required by the Association. 
 
Project Implementation Plan 
 
4. 
 Tamil Nadu shall, and shall cause its respective Project Executing Agencies to, 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Project Implementation Plan; and, except as 
the Association shall otherwise agree, Tamil Nadu shall not amend or waive any 
provision of the Project Implementation Plan, if in the opinion of the Association, such 
amendment or waiver may materially or adversely affect the carrying out of the Project or 
the achievement of the objectives itself. 
 
Operational Manual 
–
Part F 
 
5. 
Tamil Nadu shall and, and shall cause the respective Project Executing Agencies 
to, implement Part F of the Project in accordance with the Operational Manual - Part F, 
and, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, shall not amend or waive any 
provision of the Operational Manual 
–
Part F, if in the opinion of the Association, such 
amendment or waiver may materially or adversely affect the carrying out of Part F of the 
Project or the achievement of the Project objectives. 
 
Page  17
-
16
-
Operations Manual 
 
6. 
 Puducherry shall, and shall cause PIA to, carry out the Project in accordance 
with the Operations Manual and, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, shall 
cause PIA not to amend or waive any provision of the Operations Manual, if in the 
opinion of the Association, such amendment or waiver may materially or adversely affect 
the carrying out of the Project or the achievement of the objectives thereof. 
 
Procurement Plan 
 
7. 
 Within  thirty (30) days from the Effective Date, each Project State shall prepare 
its Procurement Plan, satisfactory to the Association, covering the initial 18 months 
period (or longer) of Project implementation, and thereafter update such Procurement 
Plan from time to time to cover succeeding 18 months period (or longer) of Project 
implementation.  
 
Internal Audit 
 
8. 
(a)  
Tamil Nadu shall, no later than three (3) months from the Effective Date, 
appoint an internal auditor on terms of reference satisfactory to the Association;  
 
(b)  
cause internal audits to be conducted for the period commencing from 
March 23, 2005 and ending on September 30, 2005, and, thereafter, for every quarter,  in 
accordance with such terms of reference and in a manner satisfactory to the Association; 
and  
 
(c)  
furnish to the Association the reports of such internal audits within a 
period of forty-five (45) days from the end of each quarter beginning with the quarter 
ending on September 30, 2005. 
 
9. 
For the purpose of implementation of the Project, Tamil Nadu shall 
recruit/depute/contract, and thereafter maintain, staff including financial management 
staff in TNSCB, the Fisheries Department and each DIU, on terms of reference 
satisfactory to the Association. 
 
ESMF 
 
10. 
(a)  
Each Project State shall, and shall cause its respective Project Executing 
Agencies to, carry out the Project in accordance with the ESMF. 
 
(b) 
Prior to carrying out activities under Parts A, B, C and F of the Project, 
the Project States shall, and shall cause their respective Project Executing Agencies to: 
 
Page  18
-
17
-
(i)  
undertake environmental and social screening for identifying any 
adverse environmental and social impacts of carrying out the 
Project; 
 
(ii)  
prepare mitigation plans satisfactory to the Association to 
address the adverse environment and social impacts so 
identified; and  
 
(iii)  
implement such mitigation plans in a manner satisfactory to the 
Association, all in accordance with the ESMF. 
 
(c)  
The Project States shall not carry out, and shall cause their respective 
Project Executing Agencies not to carry out, any Project activities involving relocation of 
tsunami affected people to new areas under Parts A, B, C, and F of the Project to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit unless: 
 
(i)  
to the extent practicable, the Project States make available land 
for such relocation that is owned by them and is free from 
encumbrances and encroachments or obtain such land on a 
voluntary basis in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the 
Association; and  
 
(ii)  
such relocation is carried out in accordance with the ESMF. 
 
(d) 
Each Project State shall, and shall cause its respective Project Executing 
Agencies to, prior to any relocation of people to new areas involving involuntary 
resettlement, prepare resettlement plans satisfactory to the Association and consistent 
with the ESMF for such involuntary resettlement and shall implement such plans in a 
manner satisfactory to the Association. 
 
(e) 
Each Project State shall, and shall cause its respective Project Executing 
Agencies to, prior to any acquisition of private land for the purpose of implementing the 
Project, pay compensation to the owners of such land in accordance with the provisions 
of the ESMF. 
 
Transit Shelters 
 
11. 
Each Project State shall ensure, and shall cause its respective Project Executing 
Agencies to ensure, that transit shelters are built under Part A of the Project only to the 
extent, and for a period, that the same are required for the purpose of providing 
temporary accommodation to the Beneficiaries until the completion of 
construction/reconstruction of their houses. 
 
Page  19
-
18
-
Other 
 
12. 
Without prejudice to the provisions of paragraphs 4, 5 and 10 of this Schedule 2, 
Puducherry and/or Tamil Nadu, as applicable, shall: 
 
(a) 
(i) 
implement Parts A.2, A.3 and F.2 of the Project in accordance 
 
with its respective Housing Policy Framework and its respective 
 
Housing Plan and with the objectives of ensuring that the 
 
housing options include features  that  encourage  public-private 
 
participation, the options available to beneficiaries are owner-
 
driven and the selection process is participatory; 
 
(ii) 
establish arrangements satisfactory to the Association for 
 
purposes of implementation monitoring and quality review of 
 
Parts A.2, A.3 and F of the Project; and 
 
(iii) 
maintain institutional framework set out in its respective 
 
Housing Policy Framework and its respective Housing Plan in a 
 
manner satisfactory to the Association; 
 
(b) 
carry out repair and reconstruction of existing houses and construction of 
new houses under Part A.2(A) of the Project, provide ready built houses for housing and 
relocation of the Beneficiaries in and around Chennai under Part A.2(C) of the Project 
and restore  damaged lands, farm ponds and dug wells under Part B.2(a) of the Project: 
 
(i)   
only to support those Beneficiaries who are living in the 
Tsunami Affected Areas and whose houses, agricultural and 
horticultural lands, farm ponds and dug wells and related 
infrastructure were damaged or destroyed, as determined in 
accordance with criteria satisfactory to the Association; and 
 
for such purpose, enter into Memorandums of Understanding with the 
Beneficiaries or the Self-help Groups, as the case maybe, on 
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association;  
 
(c) 
implement Part F of the Project in accordance with the Operational 
Manual 
–
Part F, and ensure that the selected Beneficiaries who are living in vulnerable 
houses are selected in accordance with provisions of Part 5 of Operational Manual – Part 
F
,
and are living within 200-1000m of high tide line;  
 
(d) 
implement Parts A, B, C and F of the Project in a manner consistent with 
the CRZ Notification, which shall include, without limitation, obtaining the required CRZ 
clearances and permits from governmental authorities prior to awarding any civil works 
contract under Part F of the Project; 
 
Page  20
-
19
-
(e) 
carry out civil works under Parts A, B, C and F of the Project to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit in accordance with designs and standards and 
technical specifications satisfactory to the Association; such designs, standards and 
specifications shall include, inter alia, adequate measures for mitigating adverse 
environmental and social impacts in accordance with the ESMF; and 
 
(f) 
carry out civil works under Parts F.1, F.2 and F.3 of the Project in 
accordance with the designs, standards, technical specifications, and institutional 
arrangements set forth in Parts 3, 4, 5 and 6 of the Operational Manual 
–
Part F. 
 
13. 
Each Project State shall, provide quarterly reports to the Association within thirty 
(30) days after the end of each quarter describing the progress achieved in implementing 
the Project. All such reports shall be prepared in a format satisfactory to the Association. 
 
14. 
Each Project State shall provide to the Association technical and quality audits in 
respect of implementation of the Project in accordance with terms of reference and a 
timetable satisfactory to the Association. 
 
15. 
Each Project State shall: 
 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Association, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association no later than June 30, 2010, a report integrating the results of 
the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section, on the progress achieved in carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of the said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure 
the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objective thereof 
during the period following such date; and 
 
(c) 
review with the Association by July 31, 2010, or such later date as the 
Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and 
the achievement of the objective thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations 
of the said reports and the Association’s views on the matter. 
 
