Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
TF 026058
Trust Fund Credit Agreement
(Second Emergency Rehabilitation Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (acting as Administrator of 
the Trust Fund for Gaza and West Bank)
and
PALESTINIAN ECONOMIC COUNCIL FOR
DEVELOPMENT AND RECONSTRUCTION
(an Agency of the Palestine Liberation
Organization)
Dated May 1, 1996
TF 026058
TRUST FUND CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 1, 1996, between INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION, 
acting as administrator (the Administrator) of the Trust Fund for Gaza and West Bank,  
established on October 19, 1993, by Resolution No. 93-11 and IDA 93-7, as amended by 
Resolution No. 95-6 and IDA 95-3, of the Executive Directors of the International Bank 
for Reconstruction and Development and the International Development Association (the 
Trust Fund), and PALESTINIAN ECONOMIC COUNCIL FOR DEVELOPMENT AND RECONSTRUCTION (the 
Borrower), an agency established and operating under a Basic Regulation (the 
Regulation) issued on May 14, 1994, under a Decree from the Chairman of the Executive 
Committee of the Palestine Liberation Organization (the PLO).
WHEREAS (A) the Board of Governors of the International Bank for Reconstruction 
and Development, acting on the recommendation of its Board of Executive Directors, has 
decided on October 12, 1995, to replenish the Trust Fund in the amount of $90,000,000 
to be transferred from the net income of the International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development, and to be used for financing rehabilitation activities in Gaza and the 
West Bank;
(B)
the Borrower was established specifically to be responsible for 
coordinating and implementing programs and projects for the development and 
reconstruction of the West Bank and Gaza (the Territories) and to be the recipient of 
funds allocated therefore;
(C)
the Borrower and the Administrator have entered into a Trust Fund Credit 
Page  2
Agreement (Emergency Rehabilitation Project), dated September 7, 1994 (the First Trust 
Fund Credit Agreement) for the purpose of assisting in the financing of the project 
described in Schedule 3 to the First Trust Fund Credit Agreement (the First Emergency 
Rehabilitation Project);
(D)
the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Administrator to assist in financing the Project; 
(E)
under the Agreement on the Gaza Strip and The Jericho Area between the 
PLO and the Government of the State of Israel, dated May 4, 1994, the parties thereto 
agreed to the establishment by the PLO of a Palestinian Authority (the Palestinian 
Authority) to perform the powers and functions therein set forth;
(F)
the Palestinian Authority had made certain confirmations to the 
Administrator as to the power of the Borrower to enter into this Agreement and as to 
the succession arrangements to be made with respect to rights and obligations of the 
Borrower in case of its full or partial dissolution, reconstitution or merger; and 
WHEREAS the Administrator has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the 
foregoing to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth 
in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions" set forth in Schedule 1 to the First 
Trust Fund Credit Agreement, with the modifications set forth below (the General 
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Administrator and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall 
be made:  (a) on account of expenditures in the territories of any 
country which is not a member 
of the Bank or for goods produced in, or services 
supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the 
purpose of any payment to persons 
or entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment or 
import, to 
the knowledge of the Administrator, is prohibited by decision of the United Nations 
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"PMO" means the Program Management and Monitoring Office of the Borrower;
(b)
"Sub-Project" means any component of the Project;
(c)
"Implementing Agency" means any entity in the Territories, or an agency 
of the United Nations operating therein, to which the Borrower shall assign the 
responsibility for implementation of a Sub-project;
(d)
"Co-Financier" means any donor providing the Borrower with a loan or a 
grant to assist in financing the Project;
(e)
"Co-Financing Agreements" means the agreements to be concluded between 
the Borrower and the Co-Financiers; and
(f)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
Page  3
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount in various currencies 
equivalent to twenty  million dollars ($20,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Administrator shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Administrator, including appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1997 or such later date as 
the Administrator shall establish. The Administrator shall promptly notify the 
Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Administrator a commitment 
charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate 
to be set by the Administrator as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate 
of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.*
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty (60) days 
after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which 
amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and 
(ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at 
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Administrator shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Administrator a service charge at 
the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount 
of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semi-annually on February 1 and August 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in 
semi-annual installments payable on each February 1 and August 1 commencing August 1, 
2006 and ending February 1, 2036.  Each installment to and including the installment 
payable on February 1, 2016 shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and 
each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with the 
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement, as such 
Implementation Program shall be modified from time to time by the Agreement of the 
Page  4
Borrower and the Administrator.
Section 3.02. Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section 
including those for the Special Account for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance 
with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to 
the Administrator;
(ii)
furnish to the Administrator, as soon as available, but in any 
case not later than 
six (6) months after the end of each such 
year, a certified copy of the report of 
such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Administrator 
shall 
have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Administrator such other information concerning 
said records, 
accounts and the audit thereof as the 
Administrator shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Adminis\1ftrator has 
received the audit for 
the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Credit Account was made, all 
records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Administrator's representatives, based on an 
appropriate notice, to 
examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to 
in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report 
of such audit contains a 
separate opinion by said auditors as to 
whether the statements of expenditure 
submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the proce\1fdures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Administrator
Section 5.01. (a) Pursuant to Section 6.02 (g) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that subject to paragraph (b) of this 
paragraph: (i) the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of any grant or loan 
made to the Borrower for the financing of the Project shall have been suspended, 
cancelled or terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of the agreement 
Page  5
providing therefor, or (ii) any such loan shall have become due and payable prior to 
the agreed maturity thereof.
(b)
Paragraph (a) of this section shall not apply if the Borrower establishes 
to the satisfaction of the Administrator that: (i) such suspension, cancellation, 
termination or prematuring is not caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform any 
of its obligations under such agreement; and (ii) adequate funds for the Project are 
available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions consistent with 
the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is speci\1ffied, namely, that the event specified in 
paragraph (a) (ii) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the 
proviso of paragraph (b) of that Section.
ARTICLE VI
Termination
Section 6.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Managing Director of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Palestinian Economic Council
  for Development and Reconstruction
95 Rue Mouawya Ibn Abou Soufiane Street
El Mensah VI-Tunis
Republic of Tunisia
or
c/o Palestinian Authority
     Jericho
For the Administrator:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI)
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)   
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(as Administrator of the Trust Fund)
Page  6
By /s/ Kemal Dervis
Regional Vice President 
Middle East and North Africa
PALESTINIAN ECONOMIC COUNCIL FOR
  DEVELOPMENT AND RECONSTRUCTION 
By /s/ Sa’eb Erakat
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
  % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures 
Category 
   Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)
Civil Works
  16,440,000
100% 
(2) Vehicles, 
Equipment,
Supplies and Spares
     360,000
100%
(3) Consultants’ 
services,
studies and training
     600,000
100%
(4)
Incremental Operating
Expenditures of the Borrower    600,000
100%
(5)
Unallocated  
 
   2,000,000
TOTAL
  20,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule the term "operating expenditures" means 
expenditures incurred by the Borrower on account of salaries, operation equipment, 
rentals, supplies and utility prices.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement. 
4.
The Administrator may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts not exceeding 
$50,000 equivalent, under such terms and conditions as the Administrator shall specify 
by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to support the Borrower’s programs initiated 
under the First Emergency Rehabilitation Project to address the most pressing needs 
for rehabilitation and improvement of essential services in the West Bank and Gaza and 
Page  7
for creation of productive employment.
The Project consists of the following components:
Part A:
Rehabilitation of Infrastructure
(1)
Water Supply, Waste Water and Sanitation: implementation of high priority works 
and provision of essential operation and maintenance equipment, including: (a) 
upgrading of wells and storage facilities; (b) upgrading/extension of storm water 
collection and sewerage system; (c) installation of urgently needed wells and 
improvement of water supply in selected villages; (d) provision of equipment, 
operation vehicles, supplies, spares and materials to meet basic operation and 
maintenance requirements; and (e) provision of engineering services for purposes of 
project preparation and implementation.
(2)
Inter-urban Roads: rehabilitation of main road network, including: (a) 
rehabilitation of main roads and of village access roads; (b) provision of guard 
rails, maintenance equipment and vehicle and office facilities; and (c) provision of 
engineering services to assist in road program preparation, work supervision and staff 
training.
(3)
Municipal Roads: rehabilitation of critical municipal road sections, including: 
(a) rehabilitation/improvement of secondary roads and internal village roads; (b) 
implementation of a short-term program for removal of debris; (c) provision of 
essential equipment, vehicles and materials required for road maintenance, 
construction supervision and staff training; and (d) provision of engineering services 
to assist municipalities in road program preparation, construction supervision and 
staff training.
Part B:
Institutional Support
(1)
Support for the operation of the Borrower and Implementing Agencies, through the 
financing of employment of staff, rental of office facilities and acquisition of 
operation vehicles, equipment and materials.
(2)
Provision of Consultants' services to assist in the management of the Project 
and other programs of the Borrower, and in procurement, accounting and audit of 
account.
(3)
Carrying out of studies and training for the staff of the Borrower and 
Implementing Agencies.
*       *        *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1997.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January 1996 (the Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II  of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
Goods and works to be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B shall be subject to the following provision, 
Page  8
namely, that the provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 
2 thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in, and works to be carried out by 
domestic contractors from, the Territories.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Works estimated to cost the equivalent of $2,000,000 or less per contract, may 
be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised 
locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Administrator. Such 
procedures shall ensure, inter alia, that: (i) tenders will be advertised for at least 
two consecutive days in a local newspaper of wide circulation; (ii) prospective 
bidders will be allowed a minimum of 15 days between the first appearance of 
notification and bid submission; (iii) bidding documents will follow the formats of 
the Administrator's Standard Bidding Documents or those used by United Nations 
Agencies operating in the Territories; (iv) if interested, foreign bidders will be 
allowed to submit bids; (v) bids will be submitted in sealed envelopes, and both 
mailed and hand-carried bids will be accepted; (vi) all bids will be opened at the 
same time in public; (vii) contracts will be awarded to the lowest evaluated bidder; 
(viii) bidders will not be asked, nor allowed, to change the substance of their bids 
after the bid closing date, and price negotiations with the lowest evaluated bidder 
will be confined to those cases listed in the Guidelines; and (ix) in the absence of 
prequalification, postqualification criteria will be explicitly stated in the bidding 
documents.
2.
International Shopping
Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $250,000 or less per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of  international shopping procedures in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs  3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or less per contract, may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in 
accordance with the provisions of  paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
4.
Direct Contracting
Proprietary items may be procured under contracts to be directly negotiated with 
the suppliers thereof, in accordance with  the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the 
Guidelines..
Part D:
Review by the Administrator of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Administrator for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix I to the Guidelines.  Procurement of all goods and works shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by 
the Administrator, and with the provisions of set paragraph 1.  
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for works estimated to cost the equivalent of more 
than $2,000,000 and each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of more 
than $250,000, and the first two contracts to be concluded by any Implementing Agency, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by the pre\1fceding paragraph, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Page  9
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
1.
In order to assist the Borrower in the carrying out of the Project, the Borrower 
shall employ consultants who shall be selected in accordance with principles and 
procedures satisfactory to the Administrator on the basis of the "Guidelines for the 
Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" 
published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, 
time-based assignments, the Borrower shall employ such consultants under contracts 
using the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by the 
Administrator, with such modifications as shall have been agreed by the Administrator. 
Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the Administrator, 
the Borrower shall use other standard forms agreed with the Administrator.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Administrator review or approval of budgets, 
short lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation 
reports and contracts shall not apply to contracts estimated to cost less than 
$100,000 equivalent each. However, this exception to prior Administrator review shall 
not apply to the terms of reference for such contracts or to the employment of 
individuals, to single source selection of firms, to assignments of a critical nature 
as reasonably determined by the Administrator or to amendments of contracts raising 
the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Arrangements
The Borrower shall apply the following Project implementation arrangements, as 
they may be modified by the agreement of the Borrower and the Administrator in the 
course of the semi-annual reviews referred to in paragraph B(3) (c) of this Schedule.
A.
Project Management
(1)
PMO shall have the overall responsibility for Project management. PMO shall 
perform the following functions with the assistance of a firm of management 
consultants:
(a)
programming and budgeting for Project activities;
(b)
institution of operation procedures and systems;
(c)
sub-project screening and evaluation;
(d)
use of  model contract documents for use by Implementing Agencies;
(e)
payment review and certification;
(f)
implementation monitoring and supervision; and
(g)
project data processing and accounting.
(2)
PMO shall be directly responsible, with the assistance of consultants, for: (a) 
the implementation of large or inter-municipal sub-projects; and (b) the carrying out 
of bulk procurement of goods required for a multitude of Sub-projects.
(3)
Sub-projects shall be:
(a)
screened and approved based on their satisfaction of criteria as to 
their: (i) economic and technical feasibility; (ii) readiness for implementation; 
(iii) environmental impact; and (iv) consistency with Project objectives and the 
relevant sectoral strategy; and
(b)
rated in terms of priority based on their satisfaction of criteria as to 
their: (i) economic and social impact; (ii) distributional equity; (iii) requirements 
in terms of recurrent cost; and (iv) satisfaction of community needs.
Page  10
B.
Project Implementation
(1)
Sub-project implementation responsibility shall rest with: (a) the 
municipalities with respect to water, waste water and sanitation and municipal roads 
activities, current road construction/maintenance structure; and (b) PMO and the 
agencies to be designated by the Palestinian Authority with respect to inter-urban 
road activities.
(2)
For preparation and implementation of Sub-projects, the following procedures 
shall be followed:
(a)
Implementing Agencies shall prepare any such project proposals with the 
assistance of a qualified local engineering or architectural firm selected by such 
Implementing Agency from a pre-qualified panel of such firms identified by PMO;
(b)
upon the approval of a priority Sub-project according to the criteria 
referred to in paragraph A(3) of this Schedule, the Borrower shall budget for such 
Sub-project in its Program;
(c)
thereafter, the Borrower shall issue an authorization letter to the 
relevant Implementing Agency indicating: (i) the amount allocated for the Sub-project; 
(ii) a brief description of the Sub-project; (iii) the proposed implementation methods 
and duration; and (iv) reporting, financial and other requirements;
(d)
responsibility for conclusion of contracts costing not more than $250,000 
equivalent, required for implementation of this Sub-Project shall rest with the 
Implementing Agency. For contracts exceeding such amount, the approval of PMO shall be 
required;
(e)
payments due under contracts shall be certified by the Implementing 
Agency, confirmed by PMO and effected through the concerned financial office of the 
Borrower; and
(f)
PMO shall maintain an up-dated record of Sub-projects and of contracts 
concluded thereunder.
(3)
Maintenance of Accounts and Reporting:
The Borrower shall:
(a)
ensure the maintenance by Implementing Agencies of records, accounts and 
underlying documentation related to their activities under the Project;
(b)
prepare and furnish to the Administrator quarterly reports on the status 
of project implementation; and
(c)
undertake, jointly with the Administrator, semi-annual reviews of the 
Project for the purpose of agreeing on such adjustments to the components, or 
implementation and financing arrangements of the Project as may be required to achieve 
the objective thereof.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2), (3) and (4) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $4,000,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account 
Page  11
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Administrator has received evidence satisfactory to it that the 
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and 
subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Administrator a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not 
exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request 
or requests, the Administrator shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the 
Credit Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the 
Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Administrator requests for deposits into the 
Special Account at such intervals as 
the Administrator shall 
specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Administrator the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Administrator shall, on behalf of 
the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been 
shown by 
said documents and other evidence to have been paid 
out of the Special Account for 
eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Administrator from the Credit Account 
under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as 
shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Administrator shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Administrator such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the 
Administrator shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Administrator shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of  the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Administrator pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall equal the 
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Administrator shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall 
be made only after and to the extent that the Administrator shall have been satisfied 
that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of 
such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that any payment 
out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not 
eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the 
evidence furnished to the Administrator, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from 
the Administrator: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Administrator may 
request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Administrator shall so 
request, refund to the Administrator) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or 
Page  12
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Administrator shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Administrator into the Special Account 
shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or 
refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Administrator, refund to the Administrator such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Administrator, refund to the 
Administrator all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Administrator made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and 
(c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal 
or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
