RESTRICTED
||ITRU    (OF (0)Report No. P-843
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated orgonizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accurocy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTENATIONAL BANK PO12 RECONSTizUCnoN AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
THE KARIBA NORTH BANK COMPANY
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
FOR A
HYDROELECTRIC POWER PROJECT
June 24, 1970



2 rE-'T.;.IOI-L BAE! FOR RECOZSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO THE IARIBA NORTH BANK COMPANY
FOR A HYDRO-ELECTRIC POWER PROJECT
1.     I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan in an amount in various currencies equivalent to US $40 million to
the Kariba North Bank Company (KNBC) for the construction of a 600 MW
power station on the north bank of the Zambezi river in Zambia. The loan
will be guaranteed by the Republic of Zambia.
PART I - HISTORICAL
2.     The present project is the second stage of the Kariba hydro-electric
scheme.   The first stage, financed in part by Loan No. 145-RN of $80 mil-
.ion in 1956, consisted of a dam on the Zambezi river, a 705 MW power
station (Kariba South) on the south bank of the river, and a transmission
system interconnecting existing generating stations and load centers in
Southern and Northerm Rhodesia. Other sources of loan finance were: the
Commonwealth Development Corporation (CDC) which lent i 15 million, the
Commonwealth Development Finance Company (CDFC) which lent i 3 million,
and the Federation of Rhodesia and Nyasaland (the Federation) which lent
OR 28 million.
3.     The various loans for the first stage, including the Bank loan, were
all made to the Federal Power Board (FPB). The Bank, CDC and CDFC loans
were guaranteed by the Govermzents of the Federation of Rhodesia and
Nyasaland (the Federation). The Bank loan was,in addition, guaranteed by
the United Kingdom. The project was completed on schedule in mid-1962 at
a cost of US $217 million, about 5% below the initially estimated cost.
4.     When the Federation dissolved at the end of 1963, the United Kingdom
established, by an Order-in-Council, the Central African Power Corporation
(CAPC), which assumed the obligations of the FPB under the Bank's loan
agreement. NIorthern and Southern Rhodesia each respectively assumed the
guarantee of half of the amount of the Bank loan previously guaranteed by
the Federation. The United Kingdom guarantee remained in force.
5.     In October 1964, the Bank made a loan (392-RNS) of US $7.7 million
to CAPC to assist in financing a second transmission line between Kariba
South and the Copperbelt in Northern Rhodesia and the expansion of sub-
stations. This loan was guaranteed as to half each by Northern and
Southern Rhodesia, with the guarantee of the United Kingdom for the whole
amount of the loan. The project was completed in October 1968 at a cost
(US $15.3 million) slightly less than had been estimated.



- 2 -
6.       The Republic of Zambia, established as an indePendent nation in
October 196h, assumed the responsibilities of Northern Rhodesia in respect
of the guarantees for loans 145-RN and 392-RNS.
7.       The Unilateral Declaration of Independence (UDI) by Southern
Rhodesia in November 1965 had a number of consequences for CAPC and its
creditors.  In the first place CAPC was unable to obtain from the Govern-
ment of Zambia and the Smith regime in Southern Rhodesia foreign exchange
to service its external loans. Since December 1965 the United Kingdom,
as Guarantor, has paid on the Bank loans the 50% due from CAPC in Southern
Rhodesia. Zambia is paying, also as Guarantor, the other half. CAPC
reimburses the Zambian Government in Kwacha for payment made to the Bank
by Zambia as guarantor, and pays the other half in Rhodes:an currenev into
a blocked account in Southern Rhodesia in the name of the British Govern-
ment.
8.       Payments due by CAFC under the CDC and CDFC loans are also affected.
The Zambian Government and the Smith regime now refuse to grant foreign
exchange transfer permits to CAPC for payment of its debt service on these
loans. Zambia pays as Guarantor half of the amount due. CDC has obtained
judgments against CAFC in Zambian courts requiring CAPC to pay, in Kwacha,
the other half, but the funds so recovered are sub-,ect to Zambian Exchange
Control; although usable in Zambia for approved purposes their direct
transfer into sterling has not been permitted. On the CDFC loan, the half
of the payments not made by Zambia as guarantor is being paid by CAPC into
bloclced accounts in Southern hlodesia.  Debt service on the government
loans has been duly paid by CAPC in Zambia and Southern Rhodesia.
9.       When the Federation was dissolved, the United Kingdom established by
Order in Council a Higher Authority for Power consisting of two ministers
from Northern Rhodesia (later Zambia), and tiwo from Southern Rhodesia.  The
Higher AuthDrity for Pbwer was required to approve major commitments by CAPC
and also appointed the Chairman of the CAFC Board and one member acceptable
to CDC. The Board consisted in addition of three members appointed by
Northern Rhodesia (later Zambia) and three by Southern Rhodesia. The quorum
was five. Following UDI the Higher Authority for Power ceased to function.
When the terms of office of the Chairman, the CDC member and the Southern
Rhodesian members expired the Board itself was without a quorum, and CAFC
could not enter into major new commitments. Day-to-day operations have
carried on under a Committee consisting of three Zambian members, three
members from Southern Rhodesia and the Chairman of CAPC, who has remained
in function after his legal term of office expired.
10.      In the above circumstances, it was impossible for CAPC to carry out
its expansion program, in particular the construction of a second station
of up to 900 NW on the north bank of the Zambesi river, which had been
planned to be started immediately after completion of Kariba South, with
the completion of the first unit in 1970. Faced with the prospects of
serious power shortage if supplies of power from the CAPC system were



- 3 -
ni,erru?ted, tlhe 7amV,an Go.ernm.ent undertook to build two small hydro
stations (one of which is completed) at Victoria Falls, and the first stage
of amajor power development on the Kafue river.    Construction at Kafue
oegan early in 1967, financed by the Government of Zambia and Yugoslav
contractors. The station will have an installed capacity of 600 HW,
expandable to 900 MI, but until upstream storage is provided in a second
phase, firm outout will be little more than 200 M\d.  Kafue Stage I,
estimated to cost about US$115 million, is scheduled to be completed in
1971. Upstream storage and installation of two additional 150 IpThJ genera-
ting sets at Kafue will require an additional investment of approximately
US$65 million. Even with the power becoming available from Kariba North
in 1974/75, the expected power demand in the two territories served by
CAPC by 1977/78 will be such that a decision on the construction of Kafue
Stage II may have to be taken as early as 1972.
11.      By 1968 it became clear that the power from Victoria Falls and
Kafue Stage I would not be sufficient to meet the growing demands on the
CAFC system. A 1969 report by CAPC's consultants recommended the early
construction of Kariba North (600 MW, expandable to 900 MfA), expansion of
transmission systems in Zambia and Southern Rhodesia, followed by the con-
struction of Kafue Stage II at a later date.   The Government of Zambia (GRZ)
and CAFC accepted these recommendations, and the Bank was asked to consider
financing the foreign exchange cost of those parts of the CAPC program
located in Zambia.
12.      The political, legal, financial and administrative problems created
by UDI that stood in the way of the implementation of the CAPC program were
considered at great length by the governments of the United Kingdom and
Zambia, together with the Bank, and at a meeting in London in mid-196°
between representatives of all parties concerned, agreement was reached on
the approach to be followed. The project appraisal was completed by a
mission in March 1970 and final negotiations took place in W,lashington
between May 25 and June 9, 1970. GRZ and KNBC were represented by a delega-
tion led by Mr. P. Chisanga, Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Power, Trans-
port and Communications. The U.K. Government wias represented by a delega-
tion headed by Mr. J.A.B. Stewart of the Foreign and Commonvwealth Office.
CAPC's delegation was led by Mr. J. "-ard, Chairman of the Committee; CDC,
as an observer, was represented by a delegation under Mr. J. Caunce, Solicitor.
CDFC, though invited, did not send an observer.
13.      The following is a summary statement of effective loans to Zambia
as of May 31, 1970; in addition a loan (685-ZA) of US$5.5 million for a
Commercial Crops Farming Development Project was signed on June 5, 1970.



Aumount (US$ million)
Loan No.    Year  3.orrtJer            Purpose              TaIn   Undisbursed
74-NR      1954   Zambia              Railw,ays            1).0
145-RN      1956   Central African     Electric Power       40.0 2
Powner Corp. 1/
197-RN      1958   Zambia 1/           Railirays              9.5
392-RRT     196)4  Central Aifrican    Electric Power         3.852/
Powver Corp.
h69-Z'n     1966   Zambia              Roads                17.5        5.9
562-zA      1968   Zambia              Forestry              5.3        h.8
563-7A      1908   Zambia              Roads                 10.7       1.6
592-ZA      1969   Zambia              Education             17.L      17.4
627-ZA      1969   Zambia              Livestock              2.5       2.5
645-ZA      1969   Zambia              Education              5.3       5.3
Total (less cancellations)                     126.1
of which has been repaid
to Bank and others                             27.7
Total now outstanding                           98.4
Amount sold:                37.6
of which has been repaid  20.9                16.7
Total now held by Bank                          81.7
Total undisbursed                                         37.7
Note: The first four of the above loans carry the guarantee
of the United Kingdom.
14.     Technical and staffing difficulties wihich led to delays with the
forestry project (562-ZA) are now being overcome.  Agreement has been
reached with the Bank on planting programs for 1970 and 1971, and the
appointment of additional experienced staff. A review of the org'aniza-
tion responsible for the project iwill be made before the end of 1970.
The Bank is discussing with the Goverunent the possible cancellation of
part of the undisbursed balance of the first road loan (469-ZA), which
is unlikely to be required.
1/ As a result of Loan Assumption Agreements entered into in connection
with the dissolution of the Federation of Rhodesia and Nyasaland at
the end of 1963.
2/ Amount guaranteed by Zambia, i.e., one-half of loan.



- 5-
15.    A second livestock project is under preparation by consultants and
is likely to be considered for possible Ban1k financing.   The Government
has also asked the Bank to help to identify possible jpr6jects in the
telecommunications sector.
PART II - DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSED LOAN
16.    Borrower;                    Kariba North Bank Company, Limited
(ECT BC).
Guarantor:                   Republic of Zambia.
Amount:                      Various currencies equivalent to
US $40 million.
Purpose:                     To finance the foreign exchange
costs of a 600 11W power station
to be built on the north bank of
the Zambezi river at the Kariba
Dam.
Amortization:                In 25 years, including a 5-year
period of grace, through semi-annual
instalments beginning August 1, 1975
ending February 1, 1995.
Interest Rate:              7a per annum.
Commitment Chare"            3/4 of 1% per annum.



-6-
P!;RT III - IE! PROJECT
17.       An Appraisal Report entitled "Zambia - Appraisal of Kariba 'North
Hydroelectric Project' dated June 23, 1970 is attached. The project is
part of CA PC's development program for the years 1969-76, which consists of
the construction of the Kariba North poTwer station, the expansion of the
330 KV transmission system in Zambia and Southern Rhodesia, and the instal-
lation of additional sub-station capacity. The total cost of the program
excluding interest during construction, is about $99 million, of which about
$20 million is for the transmission system in Zambia and about $30 million
for the system in Southern Rhodesia.
18.       The project proposed for Bank financing is confined to the construc-
tion of the Kariba North generating station in Zambia. The station twill
have an installed capacity of 600 11F, to be provided by four 150 MUrJ turbo
generating units, the first to be in operation by June 1974 and the fourth
unit by June 1975. The station will be designed so that capacity could be
subsequently increased to 900 IrTrT.
19.       The cost of the generating station is estimated at $47.7 million,
of which civil works (including preliminary wzorks and housing) account for
$19.0 million, and generating plant and equipment for $16.8 million. In
addition, interest during construction is estimated at $9.4 million.    The
proposed Bank loan would finance the foreign exchange cost of the Kariba
North station, estimated at $33.6 million, and interest during construction
on the loan estimated at $6.4 million.   The total Bank loan would thus be
$40.0 million. The loan would be for a period of 25 years including a
5-year grace period. The local currency costs of the project, estimated at
$14.1 million, plus $3 million for interest during construction, would be
financed by CAFC through a loan from its own resources. The Government of
Zambia has agreed to provide any additional funds required to complete the
project.
20.       The cost of the expansion of the transmission system will be
covered by CAPC out of its own resources, supplemented by some short term
borrowing in Southern Rhodesia,in respect of the system in that country and
with the Government of Zamnbia and the Smith regime making available the
foreign exchange required for the oarts oL the transmission system located
in their territories.
21.       Because the proposed project would be an addition to the existing
installations at Kariba, it would be the most economic source of power
available, with a capital cost equivalent to only US$79.50 per M%T installed.
The cost per K. installed for the North and South stations together would
be equal to about $155, which is itself a low cost for hydroelectric capacity.
During the year ending June 30, 1976, when the combined output of the North
and South Bank stations is exoected to reach an estimated annual average
output of 8,500 GiH, the estimated cost per KEH would be only about 1.74
US mills. The incremental financial rate of return on the proposed project
is about 17 percent. KNBC's earnings would be determined by the amounts



- 7 -
received from 5AFC under the Lease Agreement. Debt service on the proposed
Bank loan therefore is in effect, dependent on CAPC's earnings.   CAPC's debt
service wrould be covered 1x5 times by cash generated.
22.      Procurement will be on the basis of international competitive
bidding, except for items involving expenditures of less than US$10,000,
which would be procured on the basis of other procedures to be approved by
the Bank. With the approval of the Bank, contractors have been invited to
apply to prequalification for the main civil works. Contract documents are
scheduled to be issued shortly; it is planned to award contracts in January
1971.
PART IV - PROPOSED ARRANGEMENTS FOR CARRYING OUT THE FROJECT
23.      Under normal conditions, the Bank would have made a loan directly
to CAPC to assist in financing the second phase of the Kariba project. The
loan to CAPC would have been guaranteed in equal parts by the Zambian and
Rhodesian Governments and, if the situation in Southern Rhodesia so required,
the United Kingdom government would have guaranteed that part of the loan
for which Southern Rhodesia was responsible. The present situation in
Southern Rhodesia makes these arrangements impossible. The alternative
arrangements described below correspond as closely as practicable in present
circumstances to the intent of the arrangements originally envisaged. CAPC
will as a practical matter be responsible for supervising construction and
for operating the North Bank station. CAPC will not, however, own the
station or borrow from the Bank for its construction. CAPC, with its head-
quarters in Salisbury, has been in frequent contact with officials of the
Smith regime about the project and has been informed that the Smith regime
supports the proposed arrangements. The three members of the CAPC Committee
appointed by the Smith regime have also indicated their approval of the
arrangements proposed. There is an understanding among the parties concerned
that, if future conditions permit and the parties concur, CAPC would acquire
the station and take over the outstanding debt to the Bank. In that event,
there would be a consequential rearrangement of guarantees to conform to what
would have resulted from the application of the arrangements originally
envisaged.
Administrative Arrangements
24.      A Zambian company, wholly owned by Zambia, the Kariba North Bank
Company Limited (INBC) was incorporated in March 1970. The Memorandum and
Articles of Association of this company are satisfactory to the Bank. and CAPC.
25.      KNBC will appoint CAPC as its agent for the construction of the pro-
ject, and as agent CAPC will employ consultants for the design and supervision
of construction of the project and other activities normally entrusted to
consultants in similar cases. A draft Agency Agreement, satisfactory to the
Bank, has already been approved by officials of CAPC and KNBC. Consultants
have already been appointed by CAPC after consultation and in agreement with
the Zambian Government, KNBC and the Bank.



- B -
26.       Until KNBC has repaid the 3ank and CAPC loans, KNBC will lease
the North Bank station to CAPC which will manage, operate and maintain it
and feed the output of the station into the CAPC system. Asa charge for
the lease of the station, CAPC will pay to KNBC amounts equal to the
interest and redemption payments due by KNBC on loans made to it for the
construction of the station, plus all reasonable administrative costs of
KNBC. A draft Lease Agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, has been agreed
upon between officials of KNBC and CAPC. The lease arrangements would run
from the time that the first generating unit is ready for operation.
Financial Arrangements
27.       The local costs of the project would be financed by a loan from
CAPC to KNBC. A draft loan agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, has been
agreed upon between officials of CAPC, KNBC and the Zambian Government. The
GAFC loan, of up to $18.2 million equivalent, including interest during
construction, would be for 25 years with a grace period of 5 years. The
rate of interest would be the same as that of the proposed Bank loan, but
there would be no commitment charge.
28.       Under the original arrangements contemplated for financing Stage II
of the Kariba scheme, Zambia would have guaranteed half the amount of a Bank
loan to CAPC, and Southern Rhodesia the other half. Under the proposed
arrangement, Zambia would guarantee the whole amount of the Bank loan to KNBC.
All concerned agree, however, that Zambia should not be required, as a con-
sequence of UDI, to incur a greater liability under the proposed arrangements
than she would have incurred under the original arrangements. The United
Kingdom, which continues to guarantee in full the existing Bank loans for
Kariba, has accordingly agreed that the Bank should release Zambia from a
part of its obligations as guarantor of loans 145-RN and 392-RNS.   Both
governments have agreed that Zambia be released from guarantees of principal
and interest under the existing loans in an aggregate amount which, when
discounted to a date to be determined, but not earlier than July 1, 1973,
would be equivalent to one-half the aggregate payments of principal and
interest on the proposed loan. The applicable discount rate would be the
same as the expected rate of interest on the new loan. The United Kingdom
wishes, and Zambia agrees, that the release of guarantees be deferred as
long as possible. On present estimates of disbursements under the proposed
loan the release date could be as June 1, 1974. A draft Agreement providing
for a release of Zambian guarantees as agreed to by the Government of the
United Kingdan and Zambia is being distributed with the loan documents
relating to the proposed loan.
legal Arrangements
29.       For CAPC to take actions approving the various agreements requires
a properly constituted Board. At present only three Zambian members are
regarded by the Government of Zambia as being properly appointed and since a
quorum of five is required, the Board of CAPC is unable to function.



- 9 -
3C.      To meet the situation the United Kingdom has made an Order in Council,
to be operative October 1, 1970, providing that the Higher Authority shall
consist of two Zambian ministers and two members appointed by the Secretary
of State of the United Kingdom, instead of two Southern Rhodesian ministers.
The Zamibian Parliament would pass a similar statute. The Higher Authority
thus reconstituted would be in a position legally to appoint a Chairman of
CAPC and a Board member acceotable to CDC. These Board appointees together
with the appointees of the Government of Zambia would comprise a quorum of
CAPC's Board and would approve the agency, loan and lease agreements between
CAPC and KNBC. Formal approval and execution of those agreements is a con-
dition of effectiveness of the proposed Bank loan.
31.      Because of the proximity of Southern Rhodesia and the inter-connec-
tion of the Zambian and Southern Rhodesian power systems, the construction
and operation of the North Bank station will be inconsistent with certain
parts of Resolutions 253 (1958) and 277 (1970) of the United Nations Security
Council in regard to sanctions.   In particular, the Rhodesia Railways will
be used to transport some of the equipment for the Project; a small amount
of construction material, such as sand, presently stored in Southern Rhodesia,
will be purchased from CAPC; Southern Rhodesian personnel may be used in
the construction and operation of the station; and power produced by the
station will be fed into the system serving both Zambia and Southern Rhodesia.
32.      There is no procedure for obtaining exemptions from the sanctions
resolutions.  However, states bordering Southern Rhodesia have informed the
Security Council of their inability to comply with certain parts of the
resolutions and the Security Council has taken no action on this. Because
of the obligation in our agreement with the United Nations to have due regard
for resolutions of the Security Council involving sanctions, we requested
the Government of 7ambia to inform members of the Security Council of the
project and of the Bank's involvement in it. This was done in a letter of
April 8 to the Secretary General from the fmbassador of Zambia to the United
Nations, which was circulated to all memDbers of the Security Counci-l. WTe
have been informed that there was no adverse reaction of any kind by members
of the Security Council. It should be noted that Zambia i-s specially
mentioned in resolutions 253 (1958) and 277 (1970); paragraph 15 of resolu-
tion 253 (1958) provides as follows:
The Security Council ..... Requests States Members of the United
Nations, the United Nations Organization, the specialized agencies,
and other international organizations in the United Nations system
to extend assistance to Zambia as matter of priority with a view
to helping her solve such special economic problems as she may be
confronted with arising from the carrying out of these decisions
of the Security Council.



- 10 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTI;CUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
33.      The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and the K'ariba North
Bank Company Limited, the draft Guarantee Agreement between the Republic
of Zambia and the Bank, the draft Guarantee Release Agreement, the Report
of the Cormmittee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles
of .;greement, and the text of Resolutions approving the loan and authorizing
the release of Zambian guarantees, are being distributed to the 5cecutive
Directors separately.
3h.      Since KNBC will not operate the station itself, the draft Loan
Agreement contains certain special features. Provision is made for agency,
lease and loan agreeements satisfactory to the Bank to be
concluded between KNBC and CAPC as conditions of effectiveness and KNBC
will covenant not to amend these agreements wfithout the approval of the
Bank. A default by either party to these agreements will permit the Bank
to suspend disbursements and accelerate the repayment of its loan.   KNBr
will also agree not to engage in any activities while the agency and lease
agreements are in effect unless such activities are necessary to carry on
limited functions in connection with construction of the Project and will
agree not to incur indebtedness other than the loan from the CAPC and a
possible loan for the Project from the Government of Zambia, if required
to cover an overrun in project costs.
35.      The draft Guarantee Agreement provides for a full guarantee of
KNBC's obligations to the Bank. In addition, Zambia will covenant to take
all reasonable action necessary to enable KNBC and CAPC to perform their
obligations under the agency, lease and loan agreements between them.
PART VI - THE ECONONY
36.      An economic report entitled "Economic   osition and Prospects of
Zambia,, (AE-8a) dated June 24, 1970, is beinr distributed separately. A
basic data sheet is annexed.
37.      The copper industry is the most important sector of Zambia's economy.
It contributes about 42O of GDP and 952I of exports.  Copper prices have been
rising steadily since the end of 1968 .and are now at a record level of 55%
above the November 1968 level. This has resulted in substantial budget
surpluses and the accumulation of large reserves of foreign exchange. The
future of copper prices is uncertain,but they would have to decline sub-
stantially before the Government would have to face serious internal or
external financial problems.
38.      In August 1969 the Zambian Government announced its intention to
take a 51 percent shareholding in the copper mining companieo and negotia-
tions for the takeover have been substantially completed.   At the same time
changes in the taxation system were introduced under which the royalties
and export taxes based on copper production and prices were abolished and



replaced by a new mineral tax based on profits. The previous mining con-
cessions in perpetuity have been replaced by 25-year leases on those areas
where mines are in operation, and other areas covered by existing prospec-
ting and exploration licenses considerably reduced in size. These reforms
were designed to give the Government direct control over the leading sector
of the economy, to introduce a taxation system that would encourage produc-
tion of exieting inies, despite differences in production costs, and to
create opportunities for the entry of new mining interests.
39.     Since 1961i, agricultural production has hardly increased at all;
its relative share in GDP has declined from 11%J to about 7% in 1968.  On
the other hand, manufacturing has grown fast. It now contributes about 10%
to GDP and has surpassed trade as the second largest productive sector.
The rapid growth of manufacturing is the result of import substitution, in
particular for imports of manufactured consumer goods from Rhodesia following
UDI, and of the active role which the Government is playing in the promotion
of industrial activities through its Industrial Development Corporation.
40.     For many years to come Zambia's creditworthiness will remain closely
linked to the fortunes of its copper industry. Copper prices are expected
to fall gradually to 50 US cents per pound.  On that assumption, foreign
exchange reserves would nevertheless reach a level of almost two years of
merchandise imports by 1973. In spite of its high budget surplus the
Government is pursuing a cautious expenditure policy to reduce inflationary
pressures on the economy. Zambia's external debt at the end of 1969 stood
at US$210 million; debt service represents about 2% of the annual foreign
exchange earnings. Zambia's strong internal and external financial position
enables her to borrow abroad on conventional terms, but the Government con-
siders that such borrowing should be limited to project financing wfhich is
accompanied by a substantial element of technical assistance.
PART VII - COMPLIANCE WITH ARTICLES OF AGREEtENT
41.     I am satisfied that the proposed Bank loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VIII - RECOMRJENDATION
42.     I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan
and the proppsed release of Zambian guarantees on the two existing Bank loans
related to the Kariba development.
Robert S. McNamara
President
W4ashington, D. C.
June 24, 1970



Annex 1
z A M B I A
BASTC  DATA
Area:    291,000 square m-les
Population (1969)- 4,054,000
Rate of growth: 2.5 percent; Density: 14 per sq. mile
Political status
Independent since 1964; member of the British Commonwealth and
the Sterling Area.
Gross National Product (Est. 1969): K 1,160 million (US $1,625)
Per capita: $400
Rate of growth 1965-1969 at constant prices
including improvement terms of trade: 13:,
excluding improvement terms of trade:   5.5%
Percent of GNP                          1965- 1969
Gross investment                      29;t
Gross savings                         37%
Government recurrent revenue          33%
Percent of GDP at factor cost (Est. 1968)
Agriculture                            75'"
Mininrrh 42%
Manufacturing                         10%
Construction                           7%
Public utilities                       1%
Commerce and services                 33%
Money, Credit and Prices (K million)                Average annual increase
Dec. 1969         1966-69
Total money supply                            252                23%
Ibmestic credit to private sector             106                26%
Cost of living index                                            6.5%



-2-
Public Sector Operations (K million)
(Central Government only)                                a/
1968    1969    1970-
Recurrent receipts                    306     401     490
Recurrent expenditure                 226     233     245
Surplus                                80     168      45
Capital expenditure                   193     156     14)
Overall position                     -113     +12     +?6
External Public Debt (US $ million)
Total debt (including undisbursed)
at December 31, 1969                  210 - 
Total debt service (1969)              19.6
Debt service ratio (1969)               2.0%
Balance of Payments (US $ million)                  1969    Average annual
1968  Estimate     increase
1965-69
Exports goods and services            762   1,075        16.7%
Imports goods and services            669     665        17.3%
Net investment income                  82      85          -
Current account surplus                11     325          _
Foreign aid disbursements              50     n.a.         -
Commodity Concentration of Exports (1969)
Copper:   95%
Gross Foreign Exchange Reserves (US $ million)
Dec. 1968      Dec. 1969
212             380
IMF Position (US $ million)          A.pril 1970
Total gross position            .59.9
Drawings                       None
Rate of Exchange:  1 K = US $1.40
a/ figure for receipts: estimate last economic missions; figures for
expenditure: budget
8 June 1970



