                  Document of
                The World Bank




                                            Report No: 36626

     IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
             (CPL-37700 FSLT-71970)

                     ON A

                     LOAN

        IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ MILLION

                    TO THE

             REPUBLIC OF LEBANON

                     FOR

TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE FOR REVENUE ENHANCEMENT
                     AND
             FISCAL MANAGEMENT




                  June 30, 2006

                CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

             (Exchange Rate Effective June 2006)

                  Currency Unit = Lebanese Pound (LL)
                            1LL = US$ 0.00066
                         US$ 1 = 1,507 LL

                        FISCAL YEAR
                  January 1     December 31

            ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


            DG              = Director General
            DOLR            = Directorate of Land Registration
            GDP             = Gross Domestic Product
            GOL             = Government of Lebanon
            IBRD            = International Bank for Reconstruction and
            Development
            ICB             = International Competitive Bidding
            IC              = Implementation Coordinator
            MOF             = Ministry of Finance
            PIT             = Project Implementation Team
            SOE             = Statement of Expenditure
            TA              = Technical Assistance




                 Vice President:    Christiaan J. Poortman
              Country Director      Joseph. P. Saba
               Sector Manager       Farrukh Iqbal
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:      Giulio de Tommaso

                                          LEBANON
                              LB-TA FOR REVENUE ENHAN


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data
2. Principal Performance Ratings
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
6. Sustainability
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
8. Lessons Learned
9. Partner Comments
10. Additional Information
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Annex 4. Bank Inputs
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Project ID: P005340                                                  Project Name: LB-TA FOR REVENUE ENHAN
Team Leader: Giulio De Tommaso                                       TL Unit: MNSED
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 30, 2006


1. Project Data
                   Name: LB-TA FOR REVENUE ENHAN                                  L/C/TF Number: CPL-37700; FSLT-71970
   Country/Department: LEBANESE REPUBLIC                                                  Region: Middle East and North
                                                                                                     Africa Region

        Sector/subsector: Central government administration (95%); Law and justice (5%)
                  Theme: Tax policy and administration (P); Trade facilitation and market access (P); Personal and
                            property rights (P); Economic statistics, modeling and forecasting (P)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 03/23/1993                                     Effective: 04/13/1995                04/13/1995
     Appraisal: 07/13/1993                                         MTR: 10/30/1996                  04/14/1997
      Approval: 06/29/1994                                      Closing: 03/31/2000                 12/31/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT/MINISTRY OF FINANCE
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Christiaan J. Poortman                         Caio Koch Weser
Country Director:               Joseph P. Saba                                 Ram Chopra
Sector Manager:                 Mustapha Kamel Nabli                           Barbara Kafka
Team Leader at ICR:             Giulio de Tommaso                              Sarshar Khan
ICR Primary Author:             Mikhail Pryadilnikov; Giulio de
                                Tommaso


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: S                                S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:


Background

A long and devastating civil war lasting between 1975 and 1990 severely weakened the Lebanese
economy and society. Nearly US$25 billion of damage was inflicted on the Lebanese
infrastructure with per capita income dropping by two-thirds from its prewar level. In addition, a
quarter of the population of 3.5 million was displaced. Though public institutions remained
resilient throughout the war, there was a severe depletion of human resources and physical
infrastructure. Most Government buildings were completely destroyed or severly damaged, office
equipment was either destroyed or stolen, and public employment was reduced to a bare skeleton.
Fewer than 7,400 public posts were filled out of the 20,860 prescribed by the government's
organizational structure, with nearly 60% of the management and mid-level posts in grades I, II
and III vacant.

Accordingly the first priority at the end of the conflict was to focus on rebuilding effective
institutions able to effectively carry out the functions for which they were mandated. This was to
be done through addressing the most basic administrative needs in every area of government
activity, especially in the area of revenue collection. Improvement in basic revenue collection
needed to be accompanied by strengthening of the expenditure management.

In the aftermath of the civil war, the Ministry of Finance (MOF) ability to perform its basic
functions was severely challenged. The taxation administration system was weak, the tax structure
was too complex. Domestic taxation records were largely destroyed from the war and tax
evasion was rampant.        Public expenditure management was hampered by weak reporting,
outdated accounting standards and lack of medium-term budget programming; the customs tariff
system was excessively complex and burdensome. Customs receipts were low due to the
application of lower than -the market exchange rate to determine the value of imports.

Additionally, the land cadastre system required significant rebuilding. Many maps and land
records were either destroyed or in extreme state of physical deterioration. The program to survey
the entire Lebanese territory was interrupted by the war, and therefore remained largely
incomplete and inadequate. Like most other institutions in the Lebanese public administration, by
the end of the civil war the Directorate of Land Registration (under the MOF) lost personnel and
facilities and was unable to keep the cadastre up to date or to record and archive real estate
transactions and ownership records. Its information system was old and outmoded and it s
equipments were technically inadequate. As a result, both property registration and property
taxation suffered.

Unless addressed, these shortcomings directly affected the ability of the government's ability to
impact on private sector land-related investment for housing and restore its general ability to
perform its revenue generation functions. In support of this initiative, the Bank developed the
Revenue Enhancement Project (1994)- the project under review in this ICR; and the
Administrative Rehabilitation Project (1995) - which focused on the physical rehabilitation of
Public Administration's infrastructure including the infomration technology in most government
ministries and agencies.

Objective



                                                 - 2 -

The Project's objective was to support government efforts to enhance revenues and strengthen
fiscal management by filling the gaps in key personnel, skills, equipment, and physical resources;
assisting in improving systems, procedures, and data bases; and providing advice on future policy
reforms. This was to be achieved by increasing the MOF's operational efficiency and building its
capacity to develop and use better policies and procedures, with particular reference to
departments responsible for revenue collection and fiscal management. In addition to improving
operational efficiency the project supported the immediate government efforts to enhance
revenues and rationalize public expenditure.

3.2 Revised Objective:

The objectives of the project however remained unchanged throughout the life of the project.

3.3 Original Components:

The project had three major components:

1) Reforms of Customs Administration which focused on (a) implementing a customs tariff reform
with the adoption of market exchange rate for valuation, lower nominal rates, the consolidation of
numbers, the concentration of tariffs, and the reduction in number of tariff positions; (b)
introducing a harmonized tariff system; (c) introducing simplified customs documentation; and (d)
introducing an Automated System of Customs Data Entry (ASYCUDA), starting with the Beirut
Port and expanding to other entry points subsequently.

The cost of the original component is US$ 3.39 million, and it targeted customs administration
within the MoF.

2) Rehabilitation and Modernization Cadastre and Land Registration Systems. This component
included (a) undertaking a cadastral survey of about 1500 sq. km of land; (b) preserving existing
titles, maps and registration and transforming them into shareable digital maps and titles; (c)
designing and implementing a transaction processing system capable of supporting information
database and current and future GDLRC operations; (d) providing supporting hardware, software
and necessary training to ensure the sustainability of information systems and its components.

The cost of cadastre component is US$ 15.13 and was directed towards Cadastre and Land
registration unit within the MoF.

The component was subdivided into two separate sub-units: COMAP-1 and COMAP-2.

            ·COMAP-1 This turn-keykey contract sought (i) the creation of a digital coded
            database for all information content of title registers; (ii) the development of software
            to support current business processes of registry offices; (iii) providing associated
            training and technology transfer; and (iv) institutional upgrading.

            ·COMAP-2 This turn-keykey contract supported (i)the formation of a digital database



                                                - 3 -

            of all mapped parcels; (ii) the development of software to support Cadastre
            department; (iii) the necessary training and technology transfer associated with this
            process; and (iv) institutional upgrading.

3) Improvement of Domestic Taxation and Public Expenditure Management through (a) the
establishment of a specialized unit for large tax payers; (b) broadening of the tax base and the
diversification of revenue sources, emphasizing consumption taxes, simplifying procedures for tax
assessment and collection, preparing proposals for broadening and diversifyin tax base, and
introducing payer identification and computer systems; (c) the strengthening of the budget system
by improving the budget process and reform budget nomenclature and classification, systematize
the formulation of public expenditure plans and strengthen the control and oversight of such
expenditure; and (d) strengthen treasury management,through procedural reforms designed to
increase liquidity in government finances, erhance control ovedisbursements,and improve
accounting and cash management.

The original costs of PEM activities were US$ 1.47 million and involved the Tax and Expenditure
management services within the Ministry of Finance.

3.4 Revised Components:

The project was extended three times, in 2000, 2002 and a final time in 2003. Additionally, a
US$ 5.31 Million supplemental loan to finalize work on the cadastre project was provided.

Two revisions took place to the Cadastre and Land Registration component:

l    In late 1996, subcomponent (a), the first-time survey and registration of 1,500 square
    kilometer of the territory, was removed from the project. This change was made to avoid the
    likely implementation delays resulting from obtaining presidential decrees to authorize this
    activity.   The amendment was made to the project following advice received from the
    constitutional court in late 1996.

l In 2003, all the remaining activities under this component were expanded, by increasing the
    scope and the magnitude of the mapping and surveying exercise to include additional title
    registries and mapped parcels. This additional work was financed by a US$ 5.31 supplemental
    loan approved by the Board on This revision was the result of an accurate computerized
    inventory of existing mapped parcels and adjudicated properties without title registers. This
    inventory would not have been possible without the modern computerized methods employed
    to perform the inventory prior to electronic conversion of the records. In total, this constituted
    400,000 additional title registers and 200,000 additional mapped parcels. This revision
    necessitated the development of the supplemental loan operation which was appraised in 2003
    and became effective in 2004.

3.5 Quality at Entry:


Quality of entry is rated satisfactory.




                                                 - 4 -

This ICR finds project design is appropriate for the circumstances of post- war Lebanon. It
addresses several different aspects of Revenue Generation, simultaneously, which is necessary
given the dire need of the government to generate revenue for reconstruction, but maintains very
clear accountability lines by focusing institutional development and reforms within only one
ministry and therefore the purvue of only one minister. This enabled very important and difficult
reforms to be passed, without delay, and ensured prompt and systematic problem solving when
difficulties arose. The program supported by the project was well targeted, and tackle timely
concerns in the most important areas of government finance.

The project adequately identified risks associated with the Project; namely, (i) the difficulties
faced in creating a viable macroeconomic framework in the aftermath of conflict, (ii) protracted
uncertainty in the region, (iii) external or domestic events which could upset the country's current
political stability and adversely affecting the implementation of the Project and (iv) delays delays
in project execution and shortfalls in the transfer of technical know-how, as a result of the
Government's weak implementation capacity, the shortage of technicians and middle-level
management, and possible lags in the recruitment of necessary staff and procurement of goods.

The Project, incorporated features which greatly assisted in reducing delays in implementation.
Among them, the agreement with the government of the inclusion of monitorable indicators of
progress (which were not standard at the time of project preparation), the involvement of
specialized multilateral agencies to assist in the implementation of customs administration,
domestic taxation, and Public Expenditure Management components and the imposition of
turnkey contracts to implement cadastre and land registration.

The government was strongly committed to the project and has been involved closely in its
preparation. The project also benefited from a well-designed training program and the work of the
Institute of Finance, a leading training institution in the region.

The project was underfunded with regards to the cadastre and land registration component.
However this cannot be considered a flaw in design, given the limited information available on the
scope of the work available in the immediate aftermath of the civil war. During the course of
project implementation it became evident that the new surveying and adjudication were required
and that these could not be accommodated under the allocated budget. This, however, became
obvious only after significant work was undertaken to identify the reality on the ground and
therefore should not be considered a flaw in quality at entry but rather an effect of a crippling civil
war. At the preparation stage, the Lebanese authorities lacked the capacity and manpower to
accurately assess the exact magnitude of the physical destruction of the existing infrastructure.

On the negative side, the inclusion of the public expenditure management, while fairly narrow in
scope, was probably inappropriate given the conditions and the situation in Lebanon. The topic is
just too complicated to be addressed as one subcomponent in a project focused on other issues
and would have been more appropriately addressed in a distinct operation. This however is a very
small component in an otherwise very well focused project.




                                                  - 5 -

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

The ability of the project to achieve its objectives is rated satisfactory.

The project has very significantly increased the capacity of the Ministry of Finance to efficiently collect and
manage government revenue. The automation of government services enabled superior methods of records
management and improved efficient use of government resources.               The improvement of Customs
procedures and the modernization and computerization of the land and registration systems have reduced
corruption.

The Ministry of Finance is today an area of administrative excellence in Lebanon, displaying greater
transparency and higher level of accountability as a result of the measures undertaken under this project.

The cadastre and land registration component fulfilled its major objective of rehabilitating and
modernizing land registration systems.          The project supported the reconstruction, archiving, and
computerization of 75 percent of all title registers and 100 percent of survey maps. The project also
supported automation of all registry and mapping offices in Lebanon. The ability to track transaction
electronically has raised the accountability of the government employees to a higher level and is proving to
be a very important tool against corruption. The electronic handling of land records also led to a higher
quality of service delivery. The processing time for land transactions was reduced from an average of three
days to a matter of minutes, and preliminary assessments indicate that revenues from land transaction
increased substantial savings in time and resources needed for daily operations. It is the first project of its
kind in the Middle East and is considered as a model for many other countries in the region and world wide.


The project's goals of modernizing the Customs Administration were fulfilled. The customs department
adopted a new system for customs clearance and control. The SYCUDA/NAJM software package for
customs data entry was adopted and is now successfully utilized by all custom offices. Additional
efficiency gains were made through the adoption of one clearance document (SAD) and the initiation of a
four-step clearance process replacing the old and burdensome system which required 16 different
signatures. As a result, the clearance time was reduced to two to three days compared to an average of
eight days previously.

The Tax Administration and PEM reform at the MOF included the introduction of the new Chart of
Accounts at the Principal Accounting Office (PAO). The MOF strengthened its statistical capacity. Since
1998, up-to-date monthly fiscal data on budget and treasury operations is published. A new budget
nomenclature was developed and approved in 1997 coupled with extensive training for all government
officials involved in the budget preparation and execution process. The project had a direct and immediate
impact on government revenues. Revenues increased by an average of 25 percent per year during 1995 and
1997 and 5 percent thereafter. Customs revenues contributed about half of the increase before the
enactment of the VAT tax. The improvement in revenue collection went hand in hand with the consolidation
of political stability and renewed economic growth.

4.2 Outputs by components:

Customs




                                                       - 6 -

This component is rated Highly Satisfactory

The reforms in customs administration improved operational efficiency, reduced transaction time
and provided more reliable trade statistics. The short-term goal of increasing government revenue
was also achieved. The dramatic impact of this component reinvigorated customs reforms in other
parts of the region. At the beginning, the project was supported by an IMF expert and an expert
from UNCTAD who trained the local team which became self-sufficient 18 months into the
program. The project also benefited from the close cooperation with UNDP's Fiscal Reform and
Administration Project (FRAP) which supported the project implementation team.

The project was boosted by the adoption of customs reform in 1996 which simplified the tariff
structure and introduced a harmonized system of classification. The new law consolidated the
duties, indirect taxes, and additional charges which used to be levied on top of the standard tariff
duty. The 1996 legislative changes were followed by the adoption of a new customs law in 2000.
This new law conforms to the best international practices and WTO requirements such as the
WTO Agreement on Customs valuation (CVA), the Agreement on Rules of Origin (ROO), and
the main principles of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade.

The legislative changes were accompanied by the broad-scale institutional reforms. Customs
procedures were modified through the introduction of a new customs declaration form (Single
Administrative Document-SAD) in 1997. SAD replaced 16 forms used earlier in the second year
of implementation which served as an important bridge to increasing automation. The Automated
System of Customs Data Entry (ASYCUDA), a UNCTAD supported operational system required
for processing of all import and export declarations. The system was introduced in a gradual
manner, first at the port of Beirut and Beirut International Airport in 1997 and 1998. The
component introduced arabization of ASYCUDA through NAJM (Customs Information
Systems), the first e-government service in Lebanon, at the port of Beirut in 1997. NAJM
introduced an Arabic translation of user interface and developed an Arabic version of Single
Administrative Document.

Following the full automation of the airport and port of Beirut, NAJM/ASYCUDA was later
extended to the Port of Tripoli. The Tripoli port ranks third in volume of transactions after Beirut.
At the time of the ICR, there are still four small offices accounting for less than 3 percent of trade
activity that are still not automated. Most of them are located next to the Syrian border and were
subject to political interference until recently. The efforts are currently under way to modernize
these offices.

In 2001, an on line operation program NOOR was installed to help the traders have direct access
to NAJM. NOOR initiated the first full e-government service in Lebanon. The traders are now
capable of login into NAJM from their own offices and allow them to enter and track customs
declarations through the internet. This reduced the burden on data-entry on staff and cut the
declaration processing time by about half.

In two years the program achieved 60 percent submission level for all clearance procedures
through on line through direct electronic entry system. To facilitate the usage of the new on line



                                                 - 7 -

system among the trading community, the Ministry of Finance provided training for the new
system. NOOR training at the Institute of Finance was composed of a two-week course in data
entry of customs declarations in groups of 15 members. More than 400 traders received the
specialized training.

The latest phase of reforms included the changes in the customs control and risk management.
The older inspection procedures mandated the inspection of 100 percent of all imports. This
delayed the release of goods and often led to corruption. Following the changes in administrative
procedures and re-focusing on post clearance audit, the customs unit currently inspects only 25
percent of all goods. As the post-clearance controls become even more efficient, there are plans to
reduce the inspection ratio even further.

The customs reform program was instrumental in improving efficiency and increasing government
revenues. During the first months of 1998, the customs revenues were up by 23 percent in dollar
terms. While the revenues from customs in 1998 increased across the board, the Beirut port
which had implemented NAJM first had a higher relative increase, nearly 25 percent as opposed
to 17 percent in all other cities. In light of the drastic decrease in effective customs rate, the
revenues derived directly from customs dipped by 50 percent given in 1999. This decrease was
compensated by the introduction of VAT and excise taxes which kept the effective tax rate
relatively constant at 22 percent for all traders. Despite the fact that the effective tax rate
remained relatively stable, the total revenues increased by approximately 55 percent during the
same period--an increase due largely to the improved performance of customs and tax collection
authorities and to some extent increase in the volume of imports associated with reconstruction
activities. The program became an important model for customs reforms elsewhere in the region.
Jordan, Yemen, Syria and Palestinian Authority either are currently in the process or have already
adopted similar systems based largely on the reforms in Lebanon.


Cadastre.

This component is rated Highly Satisfactory

The component supported automation of the General Directorate of Land Registration and
Cadastre (GDLRC) which is responsible for all real property records in Lebanon. Through
COMAP-1, all existing title registers were converted into digital database electronic format.
Additonally, registry operations were automated using Oracle-based a database management
system resulting in a custom-built software. The integrated registry system (IRS), with Arabic
language interface, has been implemented in the registry for all nine registries. COMAP-2
supported the conversion of all map sheets legal parcel maps into digital database electronic
databases plus the automated processes of work in the surveying and cadastre office. The
Integrated Mapping and Surveying System (ICMSS) has been implemented in all of the eight
regional cadastre offices.

Overall 75 percent of title registers and 100 percent of survey parcel maps have been converted
into electronic version data and at the same time are integrated with the process and work



                                                - 8 -

operations through a database management system. The preservation was a one time effort and all
records went through pre-screening exercise to identify the deficiencies. These achievements are
all the more impressive if they are placed in a context where automation needed to be preceded by
the supply of more basic needs such as getting electricity, furniture, cabinets, restoring damaged
records, as well as hiring and managing temporary workers.

The progress to date includes full automation of 10 registry (including 1 central office) and 9
cadastre offices (including one central office). Property affidavits such as title abstracts and map
abstracts which used to take three days to process can now be issued on demand, an in a matter of
minutes. All transactions are logged electronically and can be tracked on demand, leading to more
transparency. The whole transaction takes minutes and is separated into 3 simple steps, entering
the property number, printing affidavit title abstract, and signing it. The simplicity of the
procedure, and the easy access of the registry offices has eliminated the use of a go-between (a
person who is paid to actually undertake the administrative steps associated with any given
transaction) and has reduced the scope for corruption.

The project was a catalyst in reinvigorating the real estate market in Lebanon which now brings
around ten percent of total government revenue. The volume of registered property increased by
750,000 or 50 percent over the life of the project. Part of it can be attributed to the endogenous
demand, but some of it simply to the improved efficiency and modernization efforts. The total
number of transactions processed by the registered properties by the GDLRC increased from 1.65
in 1994 to 2.3 million in 2003.

This component faced significant delays in implementation and great cost overruns which required
the processing of a supplemental loan and a third extension of the project to December 31, 2005.
The nature of the problems encountered was three-fold: (a) a difficult political situation; (b)
obstacle of a technical nature; and (c) procedural difficulties.

At the political level, the 1996 Israeli invasion halted implementation for several months by
preventing consultants to travel to Lebanon. Additionally, implementation pace was greatly
reduced when, from 1998 to 2000, the Government refused and obstructed most donor funded
projects underwritten by previous governments.

Additionally a series of technical obstacles slowed down implementation. Nearly 400,000 title
registers were found not to have been finalized during the war and required completion before
they could be automated. Some title registers had tears making them unfit for scanning and some
were so fragile that they could not be handled at all. Finally, regional sites hosting expected to
host the cadastral documents often lacked adequate basic facilities and often were not supported
by continuous electricity. Addressing these issues took approximately four years.

Finally and most importantly, the implementation of this component suffered from procedural
problems. For example, the identification and selection of the Project Implementation Unit for this
component took over a year. Additional delays incurred in proceeding with the procurement of
the large turn-key contracts and in finalizing the selection process and project signature. As a
result of these delays, contract signature for COMAP-1 and COMAP-2 took place almost three



                                                - 9 -

years after the loan became effective.

Despite these problems and the long period of implementation, the project has made a very
important impact on the economic and social infrastructure of Lebanon.

Economic Management in the MOF

This component is rated Satisfactory.

This component benefited from broad-scale collaboration from various donor sources. The scope
of the component was expanded with parallel support from Canada (CIDA grant of C$ 4.8
million) for tax reform, and France (a Fr. FR. 5 million grant) for training, the installation of a
database systems and information technology training funded directly from the Loan.

The component supported implementation of an integrated tax administration automated system
which includes taxpayer identification and the issuance of a unique tax payer number. It supported
streamlining of budget preparation and budget coverage. The new budget nomenclatures now
applicable to both revenues and expenditures is fully operational.

The government adopted new accounting standards which includes a new Chart of Accounts, and
accounting procedures for principal and local accounting offices at the customs and Treasury
departments. However, the efforts to establish a Large Taxpayer Office (LTO) initially ran into
political problems. The government is currently pursuing an LTO unit implementation plan and
preparing a list of large taxpayers.


4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not Applicable


4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not Applicable

4.5 Institutional development impact:

Institutional Development Impact is rated as Substantial

The project has made substantial institutional development impact on GDLRC, the Customs
Administration and selected units at the MOF in charge of public expenditure management and
tax administration. The duration of transaction time has been cut through automation. The
automated system allows for greater levels of accuracy and control. Greater transparency
improved the quality of public service delivery and improved trust and accountability in
government offices. The project had a directly positive effect on government finances.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:




                                                     - 10 -

Factors outside of implementing agency's control relate to the unstable post-war situation of
Lebanon. The most notable events include the Israeli's bombing of Beirut in April of 1996 which
delayed the project implementation for several months and similar attacks on power plants in
1999. Finally, the extremely depleted state of the civil service (devoid of most capacity) and the
poor state of the infrastructure of the public sector had major impacts on the implementation of
the project.

Additionally, delays in implementation were suffered during the period in which the Bank changed
its procedures for bidding for Information Technology. The project was asked to delay the
procurement of its two large turnkey contracts until new bidding documents were developed and
mainstreamed by the Bank.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

During the initial stages of a the project design, both the costs and legal prerequisites of the
component that dealt with first time land survey mapping and registration were miscalculated and
underestimated. This occurred partly because of lack of information on the available resources
and partly because of the demands of various political groupings seeking to benefit from the
project. The estimates were based on carrying out the work in-house while in actuality it became
apparent that this capacity was not available in the short-term in-house. The legal prerequisites
were also discovered to be significant only after consultations with constitutional court. After the
information of additional costs came out the project had to be significantly repackaged in late
1996 and early 1997 and the scope had to be reduced.

On a positive note the government provided a working institutional framework for program
implementation. The program original project director was also the principal advisor to the
Minister of Finance. This opened direct and open link to communication between the government
and the PIU. The Ministry could be enlisted to provide political support at the Government level
for necessary legislative changes, as well as to obtain resources for institutional upgrading of the
land registries and cadastre departments as a precursor to the computerization efforts. The
government also facilitated a close involvement of the beneficiary departments in the design
phase, ensuring sustainability of the project once PIU is disbanded.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

The PIU design and the technical quality of the staff ensured that political interference were less
of a factor. The PIU worked tirelessly to enlist support of the regular bureaucracy to increase
automation and improve efficiency. When the political battles threatened to stifle the operation,
the PIU set up a "real life" simulation of the new processes to promote scenario building and
dialogue. Many of these successful demo sites became training sites for other units.

The project's FM arrangements were rated as satisfactory throughout the project's life with
respect to staffing, accounting, internal controls, flow of funds and auditing. The project faced
some difficulties with respect to timely generation of Financial Monitoring reports which became
a requirement under the supplemental loan. However, with the Bank's supervision and guidance,
the PIU managed to generate these reports using spreadsheet applications which the Bank found



                                                    - 11 -

to be an acceptable arrangement.


5.4 Costs and financing:

Total project cost for this project was US$29.3 million. The total loan amount was US$25.2
million, of which US$19.94 million for the original loan and US$ 5.31 million for the
supplemental loan. Actual disbursement for the project is US$24.7 million. The original loan
amount was underestimated at appraisal due to lack of consistent data on the number of destroyed
or missing cadastral maps. Extra work was needed to complete the project. The loans were fully
disbursed. The credit was made at IBRD standard variable rate, a five-year grace period with a
term of 17 years.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

The sustainability is rated Likely.

All of the components integrated in the regular government business practices are currently in operation
and remain a high priority for the government because of their high impact on efficiency and revenue.

The Project Implementation Unit, responsible for managing the project in a period where capacity to do so
did not exist has been dissolved and the needed competencies have been mainstreamed into the agency who
will run the different programs supported by the project. New procedures were developed and have been
assimilated by the Staff in all agencies. One of the significant achievements of this project is the extensive
training provided to regular staff. All-mid level and upper level managers in the Cadastre unit have
undergone extensive training. Non-project specific training was provided by the Institute of Finance.
Training was also provided for users of the new NOOR on line system for trading.


6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

The agencies mainstreamed project activities into regular operations and the government commitment to
these reforms remains high.

In terms of the cadastre component, the project benefited from the close cooperation between the PIU and
the regular bureaucracy. Both COMAP-1 and COMAP-2 were developed with a heavy participation of
GDLRC top management. During the project start-up, both the PIU and the GDLRC were housed on the
same floor in the Ministry to increase cooperation and interaction. Subsequently, the GDLRC moved to a
new building in order to accommodate the PIU and the contractors were housed in the same building on the
same floor to ensure proper monitoring and coordination.

During the pilot stages the rank and file employees of GDLRC were involved in ensuring that the data
conversion was administratively adequate. A two-tiered quality control system (contractual and
administrative) examined the process of conversion while management oversaw its execution. This intimate
involvement with the work process of the contractor promoted greater involvement of regular staff and
familiarized them with the technical aspects of the job at a very early stage.




                                                    - 12 -

The initial resistance to automation of processes was countered by involving the staff directly in testing.
This elicited extensive feedback from the staff and reduced the inherent mistrust of the new automated
systems. The feedback received by employees positively contributed to changes in the system and created a
supportive lobby among the regular employees. The informal interaction between the contractor and the
regular employee promoted a more open approach to the new and often difficult procedures.

The fact that some PIU members were GDLRC staff and that virtually all PIU members (except for the
project director) were native Lebanese was helpful in avoiding the usual mistrust of strangers inherent to
such situations. To ensure sustainability, the GDLRC members assigned to the PIU as early as during the
design phase.

The customs reform followed a similar set up, in which the PIU and the regular staff were closely involved
in testing and modeling of operational innovations. Over 200 custom officials were trained in the new
automated operations, and over 400 customs brokers and traders were trained in remote operations. The
new system is well established in the biggest ports of entry in Lebanon. The success of future expansion
into new offices is ensured by the MOF's commitment to building the capacity of the Institute of Finance.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

The Bank's demonstrated great commitment to the government of Lebanon in its wish to
reactivate and modernize its agencies through long-term institution building. The Bank team was
deeply involved in assisting the government in its extremely difficult task of preparing the project
under harduous conditions. It provided both technical and administrative support, and were
instrumental in leveraging funds from other donors such as UNDP which supported the Fiscal
Reform and Administrative Project (FRAP--NDP/LEB/92/017) and the IMF. The involvement of
other multilateral agencies strengthened project implementation and ensured provision of quality
inputs.

The Bank could have better used its experience in post conflict situation to reassess the scope of
the project, given the scarcity of information available and the traditional difficulties associated in
engaging the client on broad based reforms under these circumstances. This is related to
overestimation of the degree of political capacity and will to carry out broad scale reforms in the
area of public expenditure management.

Bank performance in lending is rated satisfactory.

7.2 Supervision:

The Bank is responsible for some of the delays in implementation as a result of its transition to the
new standard bidding documents for Information Technology. This directly and significantly
affected the implementation of the two turn-key contracts.             During the whole supervision
process, however, the Bank's performance was outstanding, responding practically and flexibly to
the Government's requests for assistance providing practical suggestions and direct support, and
providing additional financial support through a supplemental loan to complete a very important
information system, and demonstrating patience by extending a project which despite its long



                                                  - 13 -

implementation has netted excellent results. Finally, the Bank's team also effectively assisted the
borrower in monitoring the inflow of technical assistance from other sources.

Bank performance in supervision is rated satisfactory.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The overall Bank performance is considered satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

The government was able to tap into numerous TA resources in the process of designing and
implementing the project. Partnerships were developed with the UNDP and UNCTAD to provide
software and project management support. The government was able to effectively anticipate and
address the problem associated with weak implementation capacity by recruiting capable
Lebanese professionals from outside of the country.

The Government's performance in terms project preparation is considered satisfactory.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

The government's commitment to reform remained steady except for twenty months from late
1998 to late 2000 when a new government signaled a new direction set of priorities for reforms
and resisted moving forward on virtually all donor projects underwritten by its predecessors.

The success of customs and land registration component had a ripple effect elsewhere in the
region. The government offered its experience to other Arab countries. Between 1997 and 2003,
Lebanese customs officials provided training to Saudi, Jordanian, Syrian, Egyptian and Yemeni
counterparts. The Yemeni, Jordanian, Syrian, West Bank and Gaza, and Iraqi officials have visited
the premises of GDRLC and received training in the presentations on the cadastre and land
registration reforms.

The Government's performance in terms of project implementation is considered satisfactory.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

The GDLRC, a directorate of the Ministry, performed well over the life of the project.
Additionally, the PIU was created as a temporary body assigned to the Ministry to implement the
project and to disband upon its completion. For virtually all of the life of the project, the Minister
of Finance and its direct advisor provided steadfast political support and guidance to ensure that
the program would be carried out in a competent and efficient manner.

The performance of the implementing agency is considered Highly Satisfactory.


7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall borrower's performance is satisfactory.



                                                 - 14 -

8. Lessons Learned


Project Design

l Greater beneficiary agency involvement is necessary from the outset. The Revenue
   enhancement experience confirms the willingness and capacity of beneficiary agencies to
   absorb project components depends directly on them having a stake in the project.

l Difficult automation project require adequate project planning, especially in terms of properly
   identifying accompanying reforms, human resource requirements, capacity building
   requirements and other peripheral issues. Putting together an administrative system that
   works requires this type of comprehensive planning. Doing so ahead of implementation
   reduces greatly delays and reduces the ability of opponents to reform to coalesce and resist.

Project Implementation

l There is a clear correlation between lack of capacity and length of implementation. No matter
   how simple the design and how well defined the activity, building capacity for institutional
   reforms may require a longer time frame than what is generally practiced. This is especially
   true for countries in post-conflict situations. The difficulty in appraising projects correctly in
   post-war environments and the inherent imprecision of project design in those circumstances,
   combined with weak capacity will inevitably lead to delays.

l Donor-funded enclaves of technical excellence can and should must be mainstreamed into the
   traditional civil service. In this project, the systematic interaction of regular civil servants with
   the Project Implementation Unit, along with the limited mandate of the PIU greatly facilitated
   the eventual mainstreaming of the capacity into the regular civil service. Some of the PIU
   members were GDLRC staff and virtually all PIU members were native Lebanese which
   helped avoid some of the usual distrust of strangers inherent in such situations. Additionally,
   regular civil servants were given every opportunity to shine and take the credit for the
   successes achieved. This project benefited from giving senior administration officials a stake in
   the success of the effort and allowing them to be viewed by the minister as enlightened and
   internationally savvy public servants. The minister provided an excellent incentive for staff
   participation by acknowledging their work and providing them opportunities to be noticed.

l Reform Champions Matter.              They can make the difference between a successful
   implementation and a total failure. To enlist champions within the administration, he project
   focused on achieving early wins in highly visible areas to signal others that the old processes
   no longer represent a venue for exercising power or maintain social status (e.g. increasing
   transactions in the green light in the port in Tripoli or minimizing the time of processing in the
   Beirut customs office from days to minutes). The project also actively courted society at
   large as the ultimate users of the system by setting up special demonstration offices in which
   regular staff and clients were able to try out using the automated systems before they actually
   became operational. The systems were subsequently modified based on recommendations
   received from the users. With regards to customs reform, the project actively sought to build



                                                  - 15 -

    partnerships with the private sector and actively involved the trading community in reform
    formulation from the outset.

Project Supervision

l There is a clear correlation between the capacity at entry and the closeness of supervision to
    be provided. When the Bank carries out close supervision of TA projects in post-war
    reconstruction situations in the early part of the project, these projects have reduced
    difficulties and have provided good results. Supervision responsibility should be with the
    country office in the earliest stages of institutional development projects when at all possible.




9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:


(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information




                                                  - 16 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                      1
               Indicator/Matrix                                Projected in last PSR                        Actual/Latest Estimate
The Project's objective was to support             Achieved - Revenues have indeed been          Achieved
government efforts to enhance revenues and increased and substantial efforts have been
strengthen fiscal management by filling the        made in this area. Additionally, Ministry of
gaps in key personnel, skills, equipment, and Finance operations have been greatly
physical resources; assisting in improving         improved.
systems, procedures, and data bases; and
providing advice on future policy reforms.
This was to be achieved by increasing the
MOF's operational efficiency and building its
capacity to develop and use better policies
and procedures, with particular reference to
departments responsible for revenue
collection and fiscal management. In addition
to improving operational efficiency the project
supported the immediate government efforts
to enhance revenues and rationalize public
expenditure.




Output Indicators:
                                                                                      1
               Indicator/Matrix                                Projected in last PSR                        Actual/Latest Estimate


Customs

- Acquisition of office technology and             - The Customs offices within MoF are fully   - The Customs offices within MoF are fully
communication equipment as scheduled               equipped with necessary communications       equipped with necessary communications
                                                   and office technology                        and office technology

- Preparation and implementation of                - New customs declaration form (SAD)         - New customs declaration form (SAD)
recommendations about procedural and               replaced 16 forms used earlier; ASYCUDA      replaced 16 forms used earlier; ASYCUDA
systems improvement                                system for data entry was introduced and     system for data entry was introduced and
                                                   translated into Arabic through NAJM; on line translated into Arabic through NAJM; on line
                                                   NOOR operation systems installed to help     NOOR operation systems installed to help
                                                   traders have direct access to customs data   traders have direct access to customs data
                                                   entry                                        entry

- Increase in Customs Receipts, separately         - in 1998, the customs revenues went up by   - in 1998, the customs revenues went up by
on account of (i) rate and coverage changes; 23 percent especially in places where              23 percent especially in places where
and (ii) improvement in customs systems and ASYCUDA/NAJM was first implemented;                 ASYCUDA/NAJM was first implemented;
administrative efficiency (i.e., total increase in total revenues due to improved performance   total revenues due to improved performance
receipts)                                          of customs and tax administration authority  of customs and tax administration authority
                                                   increased by 55 percent                      increased by 55 percent

                                                   - More than 60 percent of submission for     - More than 60 percent of submission for
- Improved clearance of goods                      clearance of goods are done on line; time    clearance of goods are done on line; time
Cadastre and Land Registration                     needed for clearance reduced following       needed for clearance reduced following
                                                   selective inspection procedures and          selective inspection procedures and
                                                   implementation of more efficient             implementation of more efficient
                                                   post-clearance controls                      post-clearance controls




                                                   - General Directorate of Land Registration   - General Directorate of Land Registration
- Implementation of a computerized program and Cadastre (GDLRC) was automated, and and Cadastre (GDLRC) was automated, and
for archiving Land Registration Journals and all existing title registers were converted into   all existing title registers were converted into
for establishing a property database               digital database; integrated data registry   digital database; integrated data registry
management system                                  (IRS) implemented in all nine registries;    (IRS) implemented in all nine registries;
                                                   through COMAP-2 all map sheets and legal     through COMAP-2 all map sheets and legal




                                                                      - 17 -

                                               parcels were converted into digital database; parcels were converted into digital database;
                                               Integrated Mapping and Surveying System        Integrated Mapping and Surveying System
                                               (ICMSS) implemented in all eight regional      (ICMSS) implemented in all eight regional
                                               cadastre offices including the central office  cadastre offices including the central office

                                               - real estate market transactions bring nearly - real estate market transactions bring nearly
                                               15 percent of government's total revenue; the 15 percent of government's total revenue; the
- Increase in the receipts of registration     volume of registered property increased by     volume of registered property increased by
(transaction) fees and property taxes,         750,000 or 50 percent over the life of the     750,000 or 50 percent over the life of the
separately for (i) rate and valuation changes; project; the total number of transactions      project; the total number of transactions
and (ii) improvement in records, systems,      processed GDLRC increased from 1.65 in         processed GDLRC increased from 1.65 in
and administration                             1994 to 2.3 million in 2004                    1994 to 2.3 million in 2004




Domestic Taxation                              - Feasibility Report on the creation of ULT    - Feasibility Report on the creation of ULT
                                               was completed by the MoF                       was completed by the MoF
- Completion of the feasibility report and
design of a unit for large taxpayers (ULT)     - Progress on establishing ULT was slow; the - Progress on establishing ULT was slow; the
                                               government did not set up the office as of to  government did not set up the office as of to
- Progress of ULT (i.e. issuances of           date although a decree was drafted             date although a decree was drafted
necessary decree, completion of staffing,
purchase of computer equipment and
software)                                      Completed                                      Completed

- Preparation of proposals on (i) extending
coverage of excises; and (ii) introduction of a
general sales tax                              Achieved                                       Achieved

- Increase in domestic tax receipts,
separately due to (i) rate changes in existing
taxes; (ii) establishment of ULT and other
improvements in tax administration; and (iii)
extension of excise taxes to new products
and introduction of a sales tax, when agreed
and implemented, at mid-term and end of
Project




1End of project




                                                                   - 18 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                         Appraisal  Actual/Latest Percentage of
                                                         Estimate    Estimate      Appraisal
                       Component                        US$ million  US$ million
Customs                                                    3.38           1.49            44
Cadastre                                                  15.13         20.16            133
Other Financial Activities                                 1.47           1.47           100
Project Implementation                                     0.90           1.58           175

Total Baseline Cost                                       20.88         24.70
                          Total Project Costs             20.88         24.70
                  Total Financing Required                20.88         24.70




                                                - 19 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits


Revenue from land registration constitutes around ten percent of the consolidated budget's general
government revenue. This is nearly twice as much as it was before the reforms started. It is also estimated
that the volume of land registration increased by 40 percent from an initial level of 1.65 million in 1994 to
2.3 million in 2004. More than half of this increase can be attributed to the improved capacity of the MOF
to process land and property transactions.

During the first months of 1998, the customs revenues were up by 23 percent in dollar terms. While the
revenues from customs in 1998 increased across the board, the Beirut port which had implemented NAJM
first had a higher relative increase, a nearly 25 percent as opposed to 17 percent in all other cities. In light
of the drastic decrease in effective customs rate, the revenues derived directly from customs dipped by 50
percent given in 1999. This decrease was compensated by the introduction of VAT and excise taxes which
kept the effective tax rate relatively constant at 22 percent for all traders. Despite the fact that the effective
tax rate remained relatively stable, the total revenues increased by approximately 55 percent during the
same period--an increase due largely to the improved performance of customs and tax collection
authorities.




                                                      - 20 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              03/1993                        SR. TECH. ASSIST. OFF. (1);      S               S
                                             DISBURSEMENT OFF. (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT ADVISOR
                                             (1); TASK MANAGER (1); SR.
                                             INFORMATICS SPC. (1)


 Appraisal/Negotiation
              07/1993                        SR. TECH. ASSIST. OFF.           S               S
                                             (1); DISBURSEMENT OFF.
                                             (1); PROCUREMENT
                                             ADVISOR (1); TASK
                                             MANAGER (1); SR.
                                             INFORMATICS SPC. (1)


 Supervision

              06/05/1995                2    SR.TECH. ASST.OFFICER (1);       S               S
                                             SR.INFORMATICS SPEC. (1)
              11/04/1995                5    SR. TECH. ASSIST. OFF. (1);      S               S
                                             DISBURSEMENT OFF. (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT ADVISOR
                                             (1); TASK MANAGER (1); SR.
                                             INFORMATICS SPC. (1)
              07/16/1996                2    SR. INFORMATICS SPC. (1);        S               S
                                             TASK MANAGER (1)
              06/22/1997                2    SR. INFORMATICS SPEC. (1);       S               S
                                             TASK MANAGER (1)
              02/14/1998                3    TASK MANAGER (1); SR.            S               S
                                             INFORM. SPECIALIST (1);
                                             ECONOMIST (1)
              08/31/1998                2    TASK MANAGER (1); SR.            S               S
                                             INFORMATION SPEC. (1)
              11/20/1998                1    TASK TEAM LEADER (1)             S              HS
              06/09/1999                1    TASK TEAM LEADER (1)             S              HS
              11/18/1999                1    COUNTRY ECONOMIST (1)            S              HS
              04/20/2000                1    TEAM LEADER (1)                  S               S
              12/11/2000                1    TEAM LEADER (1)                  S               S
              05/18/2001                1    TEAM LEADER (1)                  S               S
              09/02/2001                2    TASK MANAGER (1);                S               S
                                             CONSULTANT (1)
              06/12/2002                2    TEAM LEADER (1); IT              S               S
                                             SPECIALIST (CONS.) (1)




                                              - 21 -

 ICR
                                      1     TEAM LEADER (1)                    S    S
                                              PS Specialist (Cons)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                  US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                                        177,000
  Appraisal/Negotiation                                             376,000
  Supervision                                                       495,000
  ICR                                                                15,000
  Total                                                           1,063,000




                                            - 22 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 23 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 24 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents




                                      - 25 -

- 26 -

