Report No. PIC810
Project Name   Lebanon-Revenue Enhancement and Fiscal Management...
Technical Assistance Project
Region               Middle East and North Africa
Sector               Finance
Project ID           LBPA5340
Borrower             The Lebanese Republic
Implementing Agency Ministry of Finance
Contact Person: Mr. Basil Fuleihan
Project Director
Tel: 866-902
Fax: 212-478-3487
Date PID Prepared    October 20, 1994
Date of Initial PID May 16, 1994
Project Cost        US$23.60 million
Financing Plan                 Local     Foreign         Total
--------(US$ millions)--------
Bank            0.36      19.58          19.94
Government      1.97       0.00           1.97
UNDP            0.00       1.03           1.03
IMF            0.00        0.66           0.66
Total           2.33      21.27          23.60
Appraisal Date       July 1993
Post-Appraisal Date April 1994
Board Approval Date June 1994
1.   Background.   Fifteen years of conflict in Lebanon (1975-90) have
left the economy devastated, with real per capita income reduced by
nearly two thirds due to the widespread destruction of infrastructure
and productive assets and dislocation of the population. The total
war damage to the economy is estimated by the U.N. at approximately
US$ billion. Nearly a quarter of the population of 3.6 million has
been displaced. Apart from the tragic loss of life and the disabling
of thousands of people, about 200,000 professional and skilled
Lebanese have left the country. This has caused major shortages of
skilled workers in various sectors of the economy. Public
institutions are operating with limited skilled staff, and it is
difficult to attract qualified new staff due to the current low salary
scales. The working of the Government has also been seriously
affected by the lack of office space (as most public buildings have
been damaged by war), office equipment, and supplies, in addition to
the lack of civil service training to update skills. The Ministry of
Finance (MOF) occupies a central position in overcoming these



difficulties. Although it has suffered from the same handicaps (lack
of personnel and equipment) as other ministries, it has the critical
responsibility of stabilizing the economy and mobilizing resources for
reconstruction and growth.
2.   Project Objectives.   The Project seeks to support Government
efforts to enhance revenues and strengthen fiscal management. The
Project's main focus is on filling the immediate gaps in key
personnel, skills, equipment, and physical resources; assisting in
improving systems, procedures, and data bases; and providing advice on
future policy reforms.
3.   Project description.   The Project would provide technical
assistance in the form of consultant services, training, and
equipment, including computer equipment for the adoption of modern
information technology. The Project would have three main components,
focusing on the rehabilitation and modernization of: (a) the customs
administration (US$3.82 million); (b) cadastre and land registration
(US$17.09 million); and (c) domestic tax administration and public
expenditure management (US$1.67 million). The activities in (c) are
being supported by a parallel activity with some initial grant
financing from the United Nations Development Program (UNDP). The
Project would finance the cost of consultants (mostly short-term) and
some equipment for these activities to supplement the UNDP financing.
4.   Technical assistance in the area of customs administration would
focus on the reform of customs procedures and the installation and
commissioning of the Automated System of Customs Data Entry (ASYCUDA)
based on a United Nations Conference on Trade and Development
(UNCTAD)/UNDP proposal. The component of cadastre and land
registration would support the reconstruction and computerization of
maps that were destroyed or damaged during the conflict, the
correction of errors and discrepancies among maps, a cadastral survey
of about 1500 km2 of land, the preparation and computerization of maps
for unmapped areas as well as new areas to be surveyed, and the
introduction of a Geographic Information System (GIS) so as to keep
track of land management records. This component is considered urgent
for promoting private investment activity and institutional credit and
for improving the collection of property taxes. To improve domestic
tax administration, the focus of the technical assistance would be on
establishing a specialized unit for large taxpayers, emphasizing
consumption taxes, simplifying procedures for tax assessment and
collection, preparing proposals for broadening and diversifying the
tax base, and introducing tax payer identification and computer
systems. To strengthen budgeting and expenditure control, the aim of
the technical assistance would be to improve the budgeting process,
review and reform the budget nomenclature and classification,
systematize the formulation of public expenditure plans, and
strengthen the control and oversight of such expenditures. To improve
treasury management, procedural reforms would be designed to increase
liquidity in government finances, enhance control over disbursements,
and improve accounting and cash management.
5.   Project Cost and Financing.   The total project cost is estimated
at US$23.60 million, including US$2.72 million to cover price and
-2 -



physical contingencies. Foreign costs amount to $21.27 million, and
local costs to US$2.33 million. The Bank would finance foreign
exchange costs of US$19.58 million and local costs of US$0.36 million
(for local consultants and training). The Government would provide
US$1.97 million equivalent from the budget to finance the balance of
local costs. UNDP would provide a grant of US$1.03 million, and the
IMF an equivalent of US$0.66 million. The Bank loan amount could be
reduced (through cancellation) in case grant funds become available
from other donors for financing part of the Project.
6.   Project Implementation.   Arrangements have been made to ensure
effective project implementation. A Project Implementation Team
(PIT), consisting of a Project Director, a Project Manager, three
Component Implementation Specialists (CISs), an Accounts Officer, and
support staff, would be established under a UNDP grant. The work of
the PIT would be supervised by a Steering Committee, chaired by the
Minister of Finance, and comprising the President of the Higher
Council of Customs, the Director General of Finance, the Director
General of Customs, the Head of the Directorate of Land Registration,
and the Project Director (Secretary).
7.   Role of Other Multilateral Agencies.   The MOF would use the IMF,
which has been involved in preparatory studies for fiscal management
improvement and has helped in project preparation, as a technical
assistance agency to implement the domestic taxation and public
expenditures management component and part of the customs component.
It would implement the rest of the customs component through UNCTAD.
The MOF would directly implement the cadastre and land registration
component through turnkey contracts.
8.   Project Sustainability.   Project sustainability would be
facilitated by the substantial provision of training for Lebanese
staff under the Project. In particular, the international consultants
hired would have a special responsibility to train the counterpart
staff, beyond the transfer of knowledge expected in the ordinary
course as a result of their working together. The institutions
strengthened, the equipment procured, the management information and
other systems established, and the improved procedures introduced
would benefit MOF functions beyond the life of the Project.
9.   Project Benefits.   The overall benefit of the project would be to
improve the MOF's capacity for fiscal management and economic
stabilization. The "re-tooling" of the MOF and its directorates would
increase their efficiency in mobilizing revenues, managing the budget
and the treasury, and controlling public expenditures. More
specifically, the customs component would increase the efficiency of
the customs administration, thus encouraging trade activity (including
exports), increasing customs revenues, reducing business costs, and
facilitating formulation of trade policy. The cadastre and land
registration component would help reconstruct and preserve property
records, increase receipts from registration fees and property taxes,
and encourage real estate investment and related financial and
economic activities. The sub-component of domestic taxation would
help tap a relatively large potential for revenue increase, and the
sub-component of public expenditure management would improve
- 3 -



budgeting, expenditure control, and cash management. Together, these
activities should have a substantial impact in terms of improved
fiscal and economic performance. Further, economic stabilization
would help attract private sector (domestic and foreign) investment,
which is critical for the recovery of the Lebanese economy over the
medium-term.
Contact Point:            Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202)458-5454
Fax No.: (202)522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
may not necessarily be included in the final project.
- 4 -



