LOAN NJMBER 3770 LE
Loan Agreement
(Revenue Enhancement and Fiscal Management Technical
Assistance Project)
between
LEBANESE REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated    )po      i/    , 1994


﻿LOAN NUMLBER 3770 LE
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated 04 bA4w     E4    , 1994, between LEBANESE
REPUBLIC (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of
the Project; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement:
(a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
(b)   In Section 6.02, t;ub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as
sub-paragraph (1) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:
"(k) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under
which any further withdrawals under the Loan would be
inconsistent with the provisions of Article III, Section 3 of
the Bank's Articles of Agreement."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)   "Central Bank" means Bangue du Liban, the central bank
of the Borrower established and operating pursuant to the Money and
Credit Law promulgated by Decree 13513 of the Borrower, dated August
1, 1963, as the same may be amended from time to time;


﻿-2-
(b)   "MOF" means the Ministry of Finance of the Borrower;
(c)   "DLR" means the Directorate of Land Registration within
MOF;
(d)   "GDC" means the General Directorate of Customs within
MOF;
(e)   "Participating Directorates" means, collectively, DLR,
GDC and the General Directorate of Finance within MOF;
(f)   "PIT" means the Project implementation team referred to
under Section A.2 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement; and
(g)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of nineteen million nine hundred forty thousand dollars
($19,940,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the
Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such
withdrawal.
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if :the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in the
Central Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this
Agreement.


﻿-3-
Section 2.03. The Cl-sing Date shall be March 31, 2000, or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.
(b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.
(c)   For the purposes of this Section:
(i)    "Interest Period" means a     six-month  period
ending on the date immediately preceding each
date  specified   in  Section   2.06  of   this
Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period in
which this Agreement is signed.
(ii)    "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost,
as reasonably determined by the Bank and
expressed as a percentage per annum, of the
outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down
after June 30, 1982, excluding such borrowings
or portions thereof as the Bank has allocated to
fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) loans
which may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989
bearing interest rates determined otherwise than
as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
(iii)    "Semester" means the first six months or the
second six months of a calendar year.


﻿-4-
(d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months' notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:
" (a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to
the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent
(1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section
2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
applicable during such Interest Period."
"(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of
each Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the
Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of
such Quarter."
"(c) (iii) 'Quarter' means a three-month period
commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in
a calendar year."
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on February 1 and August 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through MOF
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
economic, financial, administrative and technical practices, and
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services
and other resources required for the Project.
(b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01
(a) hereof, and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise


﻿-5-
agree, the Borrower shall carry out, or cause to be carried out, the
Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and consultants' services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain, or cause to be
maintained, records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for marrying out the Project or
part thereof.
(b)   The Borrower shall:
(i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) of this Section including those
for the Special Account for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)    furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
any case not later than nine (9) months after
the end of each such year, the report of such
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in
such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
requested; and
(iii)    furnish to the Bank such other information
concerning said records and accounts and the
audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to
time reasonably request.
(c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:


﻿-6-
(i)    maintain  or   cause  to   be  maintained,   in
accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
records    and   accounts    reflecting    such
expenditures;
(ii)    retain, until at least one year after the Bank
has received the audit report for the fiscal
year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
Account or payment out of the Special Account
was made, all records (contracts, orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)    enable the Bank's representatives to examine
such records; and
(iv)    ensure that   such  records and   accounts are
included in the annual audit referred to in
paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
report of such audit contains a separate opinion
by said auditors as to whether the statements of
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
together with the procedures and internal
controls involved in their preparation, can be
relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an
additional condition of the effectiveness of this Agreement within
the meaning of the Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions,
namely, that the Borrower has established PIT in accordance with the
provisions of Section A.2 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.


﻿-7-
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minister of Finance
Ministry of Finance
Beirut, Lebanese Republic
Telex:
923.235.13
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                 Telex:
INTBAFRAD                 248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)


﻿-8-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
LEBANESE REPUBLIC
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By       RO/OVw-    e- 6 I*-o
b,4    4   Regional Vice President
Middle East and North Africa


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Goods,including            3,140,000        100% of foreign
equipment,                                  expenditures,
supplies and                                100% of local
materials                                   expenditures
(ex-factory cost)
and 85% of local
expenditures for
other items
procured locally
(2) Consultants'              16,800,000        100%
and technical
services,
studies and
training
TOTAL                19,940,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower.


﻿- 10 -
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.    The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be
made on the basis of statements of expenditure for such expenditures
for goods and services under contracts not exceeding $50,000
equivalent, under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall
specify by notice to the Borrower.


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to increase the operational
efficiency of MOF and to enhance its capacity to develop and use
improved policies, systems and procedures in the areas of revenue
collection and public expenditure management.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Customs Administration
Improvement of the efficiency of GDC and rehabilitation of its
institutional capabilities through:
(i)    the  introduction   of  suitable  measures   to
strengthen customs administration and reform
customs procedures;
(ii)    the computerization of GDC's customs operations;
and
(iii)    the provision of office space, equipment and
consultants' services, and the training of GDC's
personnel   to   upgrade   their   professional
capabilities.
Part B:     Land Registration and Cadastre
1.    Cadastral mapping, through the use of aerial photography and
land surveys, of about 1500 square kilometers of the Borrower's
territory.
2.    Reconstruction, archiving and computerization of destroyed and
defaced cadastral maps of the surveyed part of the Borrower's
territory, production of new cadastral maps of the surveyed part of
the Borrower's territory for which no such maps exist and
production, archiving and computerization of cadastral maps for the
part of the Borrower's territory to be surveyed under Part B.1 of
the Project.


﻿- 12 -
3.    Training of the personnel of DLR to upgrade their professional
capabilities.
4.    Enhancement of the institutional capabilities of DLR through
the establishment of a computerized land rights and graphical
information data base.
5.    Development of a suitable geographic information system
designed to (i) electronically link the operations of the Department
of Cadastre within DLR to those of the Department of Land
Registration within DLR; and (ii) provide an automated means to
access land records throughout the territory of the Borrower.
Part C:     Domestic Taxation and Public Expenditure Management
1.    Provision of equipment and consultants' services to (a) assist
in the establishment, within MOF, of a specialized tax collection
unit; (b) develop suitable operational procedures and information
systems therefor; and (c) train MOF staff assigned to said unit on
the use and application of the aforementioned procedures and
systems.
2.    Provision of consultants' services to (a) design suitable
information systems, and accounting and auditing procedures; (b)
train MOF staff on the use and application of the aforementioned
systems and procedures; and (c) recommend measures to improve tax
administration.
3.    Provision of consultants' services to assist the Borrower in
preparing measures aimed at the broadening of the tax base and the
diversification of the Borrower's revenue sources.
4.    Provision of consultants' services to assist the Borrowe- in
improving MOF's public expenditure management, including its
budgeting, expenditure and financial controls, and cash and debt
management.
The Project is expected to be completed by September 30, 1999.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due               (expressed in dollars)*
On each February 1 and August 1
beginning February 1, 2000
through February 1, 2011             830,000
and on August 1, 2011                      850,000
*     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.


﻿- 14 -
Premiums on Prepayment
Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:
Time of Prepament                         Premium
The interest rate (expressed
as a percentage per annum)
applicable to the Loan on the
day of prepayment multiplied
by:
Not more than three years                        0.18
before maturity
More than three years but                        0.35
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but                          0.65
not more than 11 years
before maturity
More than 11 years but not                       0.88
more than 15 years
before maturity
More than 15 years before                        1.00
maturity


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Goods
Part A:     International ComDetitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
(a)   For  fixed-price contracts,   the invitation to    bid
referred to in paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that,
when the contract award is delayed beyond the original bid validity
period, the successful bidder's bid price will be increased for each
week of delay by two predisclosed correction factors acceptable to
the Bank, one to be applied to all foreign currency components and
the other to the local currency component of the bid price. Such an
increase shall not be taken into account in the bid evaluation.
(b)   In the procurement of goods in accordance with this Part
A.1, the Borrower shall use the relevant standard bidding documents
issued by the Bank, with such modifications thereto as the Bank
shall have agreed to be necessary for the purposes of the Project.
Where no relevant standard bidding documents have been issued by the
Bank, the Borrower shall use bidding documents based on other
internationally recognized standard forms agreed with the Bank.
2.    To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be
grouped into bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of
$150,000 or more.
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in the Lebanese
Republic may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the
Guidelines and paragraphs I through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.


﻿- 16 -
Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of more than $50,000
per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $150,000, may
be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of
price quotations obtained from at least three suppliers from at
least three different countries eligible under the Guidelines, in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
2.    Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of less than $50,000
per contract may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three
suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Part D:     Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
(a)   With respect to each contract for goods estimated to
cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank
prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special Account
in respect of such contract.
(b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, said procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
(c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals are to be
made on the basis of statements of expenditure.


﻿- 17 -
2.    The figure of 10% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
1.    In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants: (i) whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Bank; and (ii) who shall be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank
on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published
by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex,
time-based assignments, the Borrower shall employ such consultants
under contracts using the standard form contract for consultants'
services issued by the Bank, with such modifications as shall have
been agreed with the Bank. Where no relevant standard contract
documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use other
standard forms agreed with the Bank.
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section,
the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank
review or approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures,
letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts,
shall not apply to (a) contracts for the employment of consulting
firms estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each or (b)
contracts for the employment of individuals estimated to cost less
than $30,000 equivalent each. However, said exceptions to prior Bank
review shall not apply to (a) the terms of reference for such
contracts, (b) single source selection of consulting firms, (c)
assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the
Bank, (d) amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting
firms raising the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above, or
(e) amendments to contracts for the employment of individuals
raising the contract value to $30,000 equivalent or above.


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 5
Implementation Program
A.    Project Implementation
1.    MOF shall at all times have the overall responsibility for
carrying out the Project.
2.    The Borrower shall establish and thereafter maintain a Project
implementation team within MOF, with members whose qualifications,
experience and terms of reference shall be acceptable to the Bank,
to assist MOF in respect of the carrying out of the Project and the
coordination of its implementation.
3.    PIT shall be responsible for the procurement and disbursement
processes under the Project. PIT shall consist of a Project
director, a Project manager, three implementation coordinators and
an accounts officer.
4.    The Project director shall be responsible for overseeing
progress in implementing the Project and shall act as an advisor to
the Minister of Finance of the Borrower. The Project manager shall
assume responsibility for the day-to-day management of the Project
and shall be assisted in the carrying out of this function by the
three implementation coordinators, each of whom to be assigned to a
Participating Directorate. The accounts officer shall be responsible
for monitoring the Project's accounts, controlling the Project's
costs and preparing financial statements reflecting the Borrower's
resources and expenditures in respect of the Project.
5.    The Borrower shall cause each Participating Directorate to
prepare and furnish to PIT for consolidation and subsequent
forwarding to the Bank: (i) not later than December 31 of each year,
a detailed work plan in respect of the activities to be carried out
by such Participating Directorate in the course of the twelve (12)
months immediately following the date of the above-mentioned plan;
and (ii) on a quarterly basis, a report describing the progress
achieved by such Participating Directorate in the carrying out of
its respective Part or Parts of the Project.
6.    The  employment  of  consultants under    the  Project, the
appointment of local individuals to act as counterparts thereto, the
training program for the staff of the Participating Directorates and


﻿- 19 -
the reporting to the Bank thereon shall be carried out in accordance
with an action plan agreed upon between the Borrower and the Bank.
B.    Mid-Term Review
1.    Not later than August 31, 1996, the Borrower shall prepare and
furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and in such detail as
the Bank shall reasonably request, describing, on the basis of
indicators agreed upon between the Borrower and the Bank, the
progress achieved in carrying out the Project.
2.    The Borrower and the Bank shall carry out a mid-term review,
not later than October 31, 1996, during which they shall exchange
views on the report referred to undeL paragraph B.1 above, and,
thereafter, the Borrower shall take all action which the Borrower
and the Bank shall have agreed is required for the attainment of the
objectives of the Project.


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 6
Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) and
(2) set forth in the table in paragraph I of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;
(b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)   the term   "Authorized Allocation" means an     amount
equivalent to $500,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed 'the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as
the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
deposits into the Special Account at such
intervals as the Bank shall specify.
(ii)    Prior to or at the time of each such request,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the


﻿- 21 -
documents and other evidence required pursuant
to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment
or payments in respect of which replenishment is
requested. On the basis of each such request,
the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
shall have requested and as shall have been
shown by said documents and other evidence to
have been paid out of the Special Account for
eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions    of paragraph   3  of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:
(a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or
(b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02
of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal
the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to
the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date


﻿- 22 -
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or. if the Bank shall so request,
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.
(c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.
(d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy of
the original in the archives of the International Bank
for Reconstruction and Development.
OR ARETRY


