CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 270 TUN
Project Agreement
(Fisheries Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
BANQUE NATIONALE DE TUNISIE
DATED SEPTEMBER 24, 1971


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 270 TUN
Project Agreement
(Fisheries Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
BANQUE NATIONALE DE TUNISIE
DATED SEPTEMBER 24, 1971


﻿AGREEMENT, dated September 24, 1971, between INTER-
NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association) and BANQUE NATIONALE DE TUNISIE (herein-
after called BNT).
WHEREAS by a Development Credit Agreement of even
date herewith between the Republic of Tunisia (hereinafter
called the Borrower) and the Association (hereinafter re-
ferred to as the Development Credit Agreement), the Asso-
ciation has agreed to make available to the Borrower an
amount in various currencies equivalent to two million dol-
lars ($2,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in
the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition
that BNT agrees to undertake such obligations toward the
Association as hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered
into between the Borrower and BNT an amount equivalent
to one million eight hundred and thirty thousand dollars
($1,830,000) out of the proceeds of the Credit, provided
for under the Development Credit Agreement will be made
available to BNT on the terms and conditions therein set
forth; and
WHEREAS BNT, in consideration of the Association's en-
tering into the Development Credit Agreement with the
Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations herein-
after set forth;
Now THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as
follows:


﻿4
ARTICLE I
Definitions
SECTION 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless
the context shall otherwise require, the several terms de-
fined in the Development Credit Agreement and in the
General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective
meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Proin
SECTION 2.01. BNT shall carry out Parts A and C of
the Project described in Schedule 2 to the Development
Credit Agreement with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with sound administrative, financial and fish-
eries credit practices.
SECTION 2.02. BNT shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Asso-
ciation shall otherwise agree, BNT shall not take or con-
cur in any action which would have the effect of amending,
abrogating, assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement or any provision thereof.
SECTION 2.03. (a) BNT undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of the imported vehi-
cles to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit relent
to it by the Borrower against hazards incident to the acqui-
sition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place of
use and for such insurance any indemnity shall be repay-
able in a currency freely usable by BNT to replace or
repair such vehicles.
(b) Except as the Association may otherwise agree BNT
shall cause all vehicles and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit relent to it by the Borrower to be
used exclusively for the Project.


﻿5
SECTIoN 2.04. BNT shall take out and maintain with re-
sponsible insurers insurance against such risks and in such
amounts as shall be consistent with sound practice.
SECTION 2.05. (a) Prior to initiating the lending pro-
gram under the Project BNT shall review the outstanding
fisheries loans administered through FOSEP and which
are fully guaranteed by the Borrower and shall do its best
efforts to improve the general status of the said loans.
(b) In particular BNT shall:
(i) scrutinize the existing system of securities;
(ii) take additional guarantees whenever they are
available;
(iii) ensure that fishing boats are adequately insured
by sub-borrowers during the duration of the
sub-loan; and
(iv) introduce repayment methods substantially sim-
ilar to the methods set forth in Part B of Sched-
ule 1 to this Agreement.
SECTION 2.06. BNT shall make sub-loans according to
the lending policy set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement
and in such amounts as shall be required to purchase fish-
ing boats and fishing gear included in Part A of the Project,
including inter alia the following terms and conditions:
(a) except as BNT and the Association shall otherwise
agree, a sub-loan (i) shall bear interest at a rate
not less than six per cent (6%) per annum, (ii) shall
have a maximum term of eight years including a
three-month grace period, (iii) shall not exceed
seventy five per cent (75%) of the investment cost of
a fully equipped motorized fishing boat and (iv) shall
be repaid in installments as set forth in Schedule 1
to this Agreement;
(b) each sub-loan agreement between BNT and a sub-
borrower shall become effective only upon the ful-
fillment of the following conditions:


﻿6
(i) the sub-borrower shall have regularly attended
a program of training administered by FPD as
set forth in Schedule 4 to the Development
Credit Agreement;
(ii) the sub-borrower shall have made a minimum
down-payment on the fishing boat price equal
to ten per cent (10%) of the investment cost
of a fully equipped motorized fishing boat; and
(iii) the Borrower shall have made available in ad-
vance to BNT: (A) a grant equal to fifteen
per cent (15%) and (B) a supplementary loan,
under terms and conditions consistent with the
terms and conditions set forth in the Subsid-
iary Loan Agreement, equal to five per cent
(5%) of the investment cost of a fully equipped
motorized fishing boat;
(c) except as BNT and the Association shall otherwise
agree, each fully equipped fishing boat financed out
of the proceeds of a sub-loan shall serve as collateral
to secure the said sub-loan; and
(d) except as BNT and the Association shall otherwise
agree, each sub-borrower shall take out and maintain
for the benefit of BNT, with insurers acceptable to
BNT, an insurance policy covering his fully equipped
fishing boat against such risks as shall be consistent
with sound practice and in such amounts as shall be
required to meet his outstanding indebtedness (prin-
cipal, interests and accessory costs) to BNT under
the Project.
SECTION 2.07. BNT shall enter into an agreement satis-
factory to the Association with the Borrower whereby FPD
shall carry out technical appraisal of all fisheries sub-loan
applications under the Project and subsequent technical
supervision of use and maintenance of fishing boats and
gear financed by the sub-loans under the Project.


﻿7
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of BNT
SECTION 3.01. (a) BNT shall at all times employ quali-
fied and experienced personnel in all of its management
and clerical positions for the purposes of the Project.
(b) Without limitation upon the generality of the fore-
going, BNT shall ensure (i) that a senior officer of its head
office be entrusted with the responsibility for the fisheries
lending program under the Project and (ii) that one loan
officer-supervisor, of at least an assistant branch manager
competence, be assigned, for each tranche of one hundred
active sub-loans, on a full-time basis, to the Project during
its duration and be provided with appropriate motorized
means of transportation. Notwithstanding the foregoing
assignment of personnel, at any period during the execu-
tion of the Project, there shall be at least two loan officers-
supervisors assigned to the Project.
SECTION 3.02. (a) BNT shall maintain records adequate
to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound
accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
(b) Without limitation upon the generality of the fore-
going, BNT shall maintain separate records and accounts
of sub-loans made under the Project.
SECTION 3.03. BNT shall: (i) have its accounts and
financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income
and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with sound auditing principles con-
sistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association; (ii) furnish to the Association as soon as
available, but in any case not later than four months after
the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of its finan-
cial statements for such year as so audited and (B) the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and


﻿8
in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably re-
quested; and (iii) furnish to the Association such other
information concerning the accounts and financial state-
ments of BNT and the audit thereof as the Association
shall from time to time reasonably request.
SECTION 3.04. BNT shall furnish to the Association all
such information as the Association shall reasonably re-
quest concerning (i) the general status of the outstanding
sub-loans and (ii) the activities of the personnel referred
to in Section 3.01(b) of this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Consultation, Information and Inspection
SECTION 4.01. The Association and BNT shall cooperate
fully to assure that the purposes of the Credit will be
accomplished. To that end, the Association and BNT shall
from time to time, at the request of either party, exchange
views through their representatives with regard to the per-
formance of their respective obligations under this Agree-
ment, the administration, operations and financial condition
of BNT and other matters relating to the purpose of the
Credit.
SECTION 4.02. The Association and BNT shall promptly
inform each other of any condition which interferes with,
or threatens to interfere with, the accomplishment of the
purposes of the Credit, the performance by either of them
of its obligations under this Agreement or the performance
of the Borrower and BNT of their respective obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
SECTION 4.03. BNT shall enable the Association's rep-
resentatives to visit headquarters and branches of BNT
and inspect any relevant records and documents.


﻿9
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
SECTION 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit
Agreement becomes effective.
SECTION 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations
of the Association and of BNT thereunder shall terminate
on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agree-
ment shall terminate in accordance with its terms;
or
(ii) a date sixteen years after the date of this Agree-
ment.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates
in accordance with its terms before the date specified in
paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall
promptly notify BNT of this event and, upon the giving
of such notice, this Agreement and all obligations of the
parties thereunder shall forthwith terminate.
SECTION 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any can-
cellation or suspension under the Development Credit
Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
SECTION 6.01. Any notice or request required or per-
mitted to be given or made under this Agreement and any
agreement between the parties contemplated by this Agree-
ment shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be
deemed to have been duly given or made when it shall be


﻿10
delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, telex or
radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or
making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.
For BNT:
Banque Nationale de Tunisie                                    - -7
19 Avenue de Paris
Tunis, Tunisia
Cable address:
Bankagric
Tunis
SECTION 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be
taken, and any documents required or permitted to be
executed, under this Agreement on behalf of BNT may be
taken or executed by its President Directeur General or
such other person or persons as BNT shall designate in
writing.
SECTION 6.03. BNT shall furnish to the Association suf-
ficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated spec-
imen signature of the person or persons who will, on be-


﻿11
half of BNT, take any action or execute any documents
required or permitted to be taken or executed by BNT pur-
suant to any of the provisions of this Agreement.
SECTION 6.04. This Agreement may be executed in sev-
eral counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and
all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESs WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have
caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective
names and delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT AssoCIATION
By /s/ J. BURKE KNAPP
Vice President
BANQUE NATIONALE DE TJNISIE
By  /s/ SLABEDDINE EL GOULLI
Authorized Representative


﻿12
SCHEDULE 1
Lending Policy of BNT
for Fisheries Operations
(A) Methods of processing of sub-loan applications
After sub-loan applications have been appraised on tech-
nical grounds by FDP, applications which are technically
sound will be forwarded by DSP to BNT, which will con-
duct financial appraisals. Special attention will be paid by
BNT to the estimation of expected operating costs and
values of catches, taking into account the local fishing con-
ditions, the aptitudes and the level of indebtedness of sub-
borrowers, and fish prices paid at home bases of sub-
borrowers. The fisheries loan appraisers and supervisors
of BNT will make the financial evaluation of sub-loans,
which will include calculations of returns on proposed in-
vestments and examination of applicants' repayment abil-
ity. The senior officer in charge of the fisheries lending
program will review appraisal reports and make recom-
mendations to BNT management, which will be responsible
for final sub-loan approval or rejection.
(B) Methods of repayment of sub-loans
Sub-borrowers will repay each year a uniform amount
of the sub-loan (principal and interest) in monthly install-
ments. They will open a deposit account at a BNT branch
and make, to the extent possible, monthly payments of
about ten per cent (10%) of the annual repayment amount.
An adjustment of sub-loan accounts will take place at least
once during a twelve-month repayment period. The loan
appraisers and supervisors of BNT will supervise repay-
ments closely by making frequent field visits. If monthly
payments do not take place as scheduled, BNT will take
all necessary steps to enforce promptly the system of secu-
rities available to it.


