CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 270 TUN
Development Credit
Agreement
(Fisheries Project)
BETWEEN
THE REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED SEPTEMBER 24, 1971


﻿CONFORAED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 270 TUN
Development Credit
Agreement
(Fisheries Project)
BETWEEN
THE REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED SEPTEMBER 24, 1971


﻿AGREEMENT, dated September 24, 1971, between the
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA (hereinafter called the Borrower)
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT AssoCIATION (hereinafter
called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Associa-
tion to assist in the financing of the foreign exchange cost
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by
extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) The Project will be substantially carried out by
Banque Nationale de Tunisie (hereinafter called BNT)
with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assist-
ance, the Borrower will make available to BNT proceeds
of the Credit as hereinafter provided; and
(C) The Association is willing to make the Credit avail-
able upon the terms and conditions set forth hereinafter
and in a project agreement of even date herewith between
the Association and BNT;
Now THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as
follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
SECTION 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to
Development Credit Agreements of the Association, dated
January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the fol-
lowing modifications thereof (said General Conditions Ap-


﻿plicable to Development Credit Agreements of the Associa-
tion, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General
Conditions) :
(a) Sections 5.01 and 6.02(h) are deleted;
(b) Section 6.02(i) is renumbered into Section 6.02(h);
(c) Section 6.06 is amended by inserting the words ", the
Project Agreement" after the words "the Development
Credit Agreement";
(d) Section 8.02 is amended by inserting the words "or
under the Project Agreement" after the words "the De-
velopment Credit Agreement"; and
(e) The following sub-paragraph is added to Section
2.01: "13. The term 'Project Agreement' shall have the
meaning set forth in the Developmenit Credit Agreement".
SECTION 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless
the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in
the General Conditions have the respective meanings there-
in set forth and the following additional terms have the
following meanings:
(a) The term "Project Agreement" means the agree-
ment between the Association and BNT of even date here-
with, as the same may be amended from time to time, and
such term includes all schr :1Jes to the Project Agreement;
(b) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement
to be entered into between the Borrower and BNT pur-
suant to Section 3.01(b) of this Agreement, as the same
may be amended from time to time, and such term includes
all schedules to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(c) the term "Direction des services des p^ches" (here-
inafter called DSP) means the Directorate of Fisheries of
the Borrower;
(d) The term "Fisheries Project Division" (hereinafter
called FPD) means a division to be established within
DSP under the Project;
S


﻿5
(e) The term "Banque Nationale de Tunisie" and the
letters BNT mean the entity which is entrusted with carry-
ing out Parts A and C of the Project under the Project
Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(f) The term "Fonds Special d'Encouragement a la
P&che" (hereinafter called FOSEP) means the Special
Fund for Fisheries Development established by the Bor-
rower and administered by BNT;
(g) The term "sub-loan" means a loan to be granted by
BNT under Part A of the Project; and
(h) The term "sub-borrower" means the recipient of a
sub-loan.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
SECTION 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions in the Development
Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in
various currencies equivalent to two million dollars
($2,000,000).
SECTION 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be with-
drawn from the Credit Account in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Sched-
ule shall be amended from time to time, for expenditures
made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made)
in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed under the Development
Credit Agreement; provided, however, that, except as the
Association shall otherwise agree, no withdrawals shall be
made on account of expenditures in the territories of any
country which is not a member of the Bank (other than
Switzerland) or for goods produced in, or services supplied
from, such territories.
SECTION 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, the goods and services (other than spare parts and


﻿6
services of experts) required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be procured
on the basis of international competition under procedures
consistent with the Guidelines for Procurement under
World Bank Loans and IDA Credits, published by the
Bank in August 1969, as revised in May 1971, and in ac-
cordance with, and subject to, the provisions set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
SECTION 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31,
1976 or such other date as shall be agreed between the
Borrower and the Association.
SECTION 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(% of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
SECTION 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-
annually on April 15 and October 15 in each year.
SECTION 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on
each April 15 and October 15 commencing October 15, 1981,
and ending April 15, 2021, each installment to and includ-
ing the installment payable on April 13, 1991, to be one-half
of one per cent (1/ of 1%) of such principal amount, and
each installment thereafter to be one and one-half per cent
(12%) of such principal amount.
SECTION 2.08. The Currency of the United States of
America is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
SECTION 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause DSP to
carry out Parts B and D of the Project with due diligence


﻿7
and efficiency and in conformity with sound administrative,
engineering, fisheries and training practices, and shall pro-
vide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the purpose of the Project.
(b) The Borrower shall relend for the purpose of carry-
ing out Part A of the Project an amount equivalent to one
million eight hundred and thirty thousand dollars
($1,830,000) out of the proceeds of the Credit to BNT under
a subsidiary loan agreement between the Borrower and
BNT upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the Asso-
ciation, including inter alia the following:
(i) amortization in fifteen years including a five years'
grace period and interest rate of three per cent
(3%0) per annum on the principal amount outstand-
ing from time to time; and
(ii) the Borrower shall assume fifty per cent (507/%)
of any losses incurred by BNT due to default by
sub-borrowers.
(c) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect
the interests of the Borrower and the Association and to
accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except as the
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not
assign, nor amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement or any provision thereof.
(d) The Borrower shall take and shall cause all its agen-
cies to take all action which shall be necessary on their
part to enable BNT to perform all of its obligations under
the Project Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement
and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which
might interfere with such performance.
SECTION 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against
hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and de-


﻿8
livery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for
such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency
freely usable by the Borrower to replace or repair such
goods.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively for
the Project.
SECTION 3.03. The Borrower shall (i) maintain records
adequate to record the progress of the Project (including
the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose
the use thereof in the Project; (ii) enable the Association's
representatives to inspect the Project, the goods financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant records
and documents; and (iii) furnish to the Association all in-
formation. as the Association shall reasonably request con-
cerning the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the
Credit and the goods and services financed out of such
proceeds.
SECTkN   3.04. The Borrower shall establish, within DSP
and under the direct responsibility of the Director of
Fisheries Services, a Fisheries Project Division (FPD)
whose responsibilities under the Project are set forth in
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
SECTION 3.05. The Borrower shall appoint the following
personnel and experts to staff FPD:
(a) a chief of the Project who shall be a qualified and
experienced expert in inshore fisheries, preferably with
experience in fisheries credit operations, together with a
counterpart who shall be a qualified and experienced spe-
cialist in inshore fisheries and fisheries credit;
(b) a qualified and experienced expert in naval archi-
tecture together with a counterpart;


﻿9
(c) a qualified and experienced expert in naval carpen-
try; and
(d) three officers qualified and experienced in inshore
fisheries operations.
SECTION 3.06. (a) The experts referred to in Section
3.05(a), (b) and (c) shall be appointed after consultation
with the Association and shall be employed on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association.
(b) The Borrower shall provide the personnel and the
experts referred to in Section 3.05 of the Agreement with
appropriate supporting services, including inter alia appro-
priate means of transportation.
SECTION 3.07. The Borrower shall enter into an agree-
ment satisfactory to the Association with BNT whereby
FPD shall carry out technical appraisals of all fisheries
sub-loan applications under the Project and subsequent
technical supervision of sub-loans under the Project.
SECTION 3.08. The Borrower shall take all legal action
to ensure that the terms and conditions which govern the
funds administered through FOSEP, for procurement of
motorized inshore fishing boats, are consistent with the
terms and conditions set forth in Section 2.06(a), (b) (ii)
and (iii), (c) and (d) of the Project Agreement.
SECTION 3.09. Unless the Borrower and the Association
shall otherwise agree, in respect to fully equipped motorized
fishing boats financed under the Project the Borrower shall
make available in advance to BNT (i) a supplementary
loan, under terms and conditions consistent with the terms
and conditions set forth in the Subsidiary Loan Agreement
equal to five per cent (5%) and (ii) a grant equal to fifteen
per cent (15%) of the investment cost of such boats.


﻿10
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
SECTION 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to
be maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained sound accounting practices the
operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the
Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
SECTION 4.02. The Borrower shall cause DSP to take
out and maintain with responsible insurers, or to make
other provision satisfactory to the Association for, insur-
ance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be
consistent with sound practice.
SECTION 4.03. The Borrower shall cause the fishing boats
financed under the Project to be built and equipped in ae-
cordance with designs, standards and technical specifica-
tions satisfactory to the Association.
SECTION 4.04. The specific conditions under which firms
partly owned on controlled, directly or indirectly, by the
Borrower would be eligible to supply marine diesel engines
under the Project shall be as set forth in Schedule 5 to this
Agreement.
SEciiox 4.05. The Borrower shall make all necessary
arrangements satisfactory to the Association to provide
the counterpart referred to in Section 3.05(b) with an
adequate overseas training.
SECTION 4.06. The Borrower shall promptly take, on cer-
tification by DSP that they are required for carrying out
the Project, all measures to permit the importation of
fishing boats, boat bnilding materials, equipment, gear
and spare parts (including marine diesel engine spare
parts).
S


﻿11
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
SECTION 5.01. The Borrower and the Association shall
cooperate fully to assure that the purposes of the Credit
will be accomplished. To that end, the Borrower and the
Association shall from time to time, at the request of
either party:
(a) exchange views through their representatives with
regard to the performance of their respective obligations
under the Development Credit Agreement, the performance
by BNT of its obligations under the Project Agreement, the
administration, operations and financial condition, resources
and expenditures of BNT and, in respect of the Project,
of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible
for carrying out the Project or any part thereof, and other
matters relating to the purposes of the Credit; and
(b) furnish to the other all such information as it shall
reasonably request with regard to the general status of the
Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such information
shall include information with respect to financial and eco-
nomic conditions in the territrries of the Borrower, includ-
ing its balance of payments. %,nd the external debt of the
Borrower, of any of its political subdivisions and of any
agency of the Borrower or of any such political subdivision.
SECTION 5.02. (a) The B-orrower shall furnish or cause
to be furnished to the Association all such information as
the Association shall reasonably request concerning the
operations and financial condition, resources and expendi-
tures of BNT and, in respect of the Project of the depart-
ments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof.
(b) The Borrower and the Association shall promptly
inform each other of any condition which interferes wi4h, or
threatens to interfere with, the accomplishment of the pur-
poses of the Credit, the maintenance of the service thereof,


﻿12
the performance by either of them of its obligations under
the Development Credit Agreement or the performance by
BNT of its obligations under the Project Agreement and
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
SECTION 5.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable
opportunity for accredited representatives of the Associa-
tion to visit headquarters and branches of BNT and inspect
any relevant records and documents and to visit any part of
the territories of the Borrower for purposes related to the
Credit.
ARTICLE VI
Taxes and Restrictions
SECTION 6.01. The principal of, and service charges on,
the Credit shall be paid without deduction for, and free
from, any taxes imposed under the laws of the Borrower or
laws in effect in its territories.
SECTION 6.02. The Development Credit Agreement and
the Project Agreement shall be free from any taxes on or
in connection with the execution, delivery or registration
thereof, imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws
in effect in its territories.
SECTION 6.03. The payment of the principal of, and
service charges on, the Credit shall be free from all restric-
tions, regulations, controls and moratoria of any nature im-
posed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in
its territories.
ARTICLE VII
Remedies of the Association
SECTION 7.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, or in Section 7.03 of this Agreement
shall occur and shall continue for the period, if any, therein
set forth, then at any subsequent time during the continu-


﻿13
ance thereof, the Association, at its option, may by notice
to the Borrower declare the principal of the Credit then
outstanding to be due and payable immediately together
with the service charges thereon a-id upon any such declara-
tion such principal and service charges shall become due
and payable immediately, anything to the contrary in the
Development Credit Agreement notwithstanding.
SECTION 7.02. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are
specified:
(a) BNT shall have failed to perform any covenant,
agreement or obligation of BNT under the Project Agree-
ment;
(b) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen which
shall make it improbable that BNT will be able to perform
its obligations under the Project Agreement;
(c) The Borrower or any other authority having juris-
diction shall have taken any action for the dissolution or
disestablishment of BNT or for the suspension of its
operations;
(d) Any part of the principal amount of any loan to
BNT having an original maturity of one year or more
shall, in accordance with its terms, have become due and
payable in advance of maturity as provided in the relative
contractual instruments, or any security for any such loan
shall have become enforceable;
(e) The BNT Articles of Agreement (Statuts) shall have
been amended or repealed so as to affect materially and
adversely the operations or financial condition of BNT; and
(f) A subsidiary or any other entity shall have been
created or acquired or taken over by BNT, if such creation,
acquisition or taking over would adversely affect the con-
duct of BNT's business or BNT's operations or financial
situation.


﻿14
SECTION 7.03. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are
specified:
(a) the events specified in Section 7.02 (a) and (f) of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period
of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by
the Association to the Borrower and BNT;
(b) any other event specified in Section 7.02 of this
Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VIII
Effective Date; Termination
SECTION 8.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 10.01(b)
of the General Conditions:
(a) The Project Agreement has been duly executed and
delivered on behalf of BNT;
(b) The Subsidiary Loan Agreement referred to in
Section 3.01(b) has been duly executed and delivered on
behalf of the Borrower and BNT, respectively;
(c) The division within DSP referred to in Section 3.04
of this Agreement has been established;
(d) The experts and the personnel referred to in Section
3.05(a), (b) and (d) of this Agreement have been duly
appointed;
(e) The agreement relating to technical appraisals for
BNT between the Borrower and BNT referred to in See-
tion 3.07 of this Agreement has entered into full force and
effect;
(f) The personnel, within BNT, specialized in fisheries
credit referred to in Section 3.01 of the Project Agreement
has been duly appointed; and


﻿15
(g) The legal action referred to in Section 3.08 of this
Agreement has been duly taken and made effective by the
Borrower.
SECTION 8.02. The following are specified as additioail
matters, within the meaning of Section 10.02(b) of the
General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opin-
ions to be furnished to the Assocciation.
(a) That the Project Agreement has been duly author-
ized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of,
BNT and constitutes a valid and binding obligation of BNT
in accordance with its terms; and
(b) That the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on
behalf of, the Borrower and BNT, respectively, and con-
stitutes a valid and binding obligation of the Borrower and
BNT in accordance with its terms.
SECTION 8.03. The date November 24, 1971 is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 10.04 of the General
Conditions.
SECTION 8.04. The obligations of the Borrower under
Section 4.02 of this Agreement and the provisions of para-
graphs (c), (d), (e), (f) and (g) of Section 7.02 of this
Agreement -shall cease and terminate on the date on which
the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a
date sixteen years after the date of this Agreement, which-
ever shall be earlier.
ARTICLE IX
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
SECTION 9.01. The Ministre dele'gue aupres du Premier
Ministre charge du Plan of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Sec-
tion 9.03 of the General Conditions.


﻿16
SECTION 9.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 9.01 of the General Conditions.
For the Borrower:
Ministere du Plan
1, rue de Beja
Tunis, Tunisia
Cable address:
Ministere du Plan
Tunis
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have
caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective
names and to be delivered in the District of Colunmbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
By /s/ SLAIEDDINE EL GOULLI
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ J. BURKE KNAPP
Vice President


﻿17
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1. The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation
of the amounts of the Credit to each Category and the
percentage of eligible expenditures so to be financed in
each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated      Percentage of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category                Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
I. Disbursements actually     1,637,000    90% of such disburse-
effected by BNT on                       ments (representing the
account of sub-loans                     estimated foreign
for investments in fishing               expenditure component)
boats and gear
II. Supporting Services,         113,000    100%o of foreign
overseas training by                     expenditures
FPD and Vehicles
III. Marine Diesel Engine          70,000    100/o of foreign
Spare Parts                              expenditures
IV. Unallocated                   180,000
TOTAL          2,000,000
2. For the purposes of this Schedule the term "foreign
expenditures" means expenditures for goods produced in,
or services supplied from, the territories, and in the cur-
rency, of any member of the Bank (other than the Bor-
rower) or of Switzerland.
3. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above,
no withdrawals shall be made in respect of :
(a) expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement;
and
(b) payments for taxes imposed under the laws of the
Borrower or laws in effect in its territories of goods or
services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement
or supply thereof.


﻿18
4. Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the
Credit set forth in the second column of the table in para-
graph 1 above:
(a) if the estimate of the expenditures under any Cate-
gory shall decrease, the amount of the Credit then allo-
cated to such Category and no longer required therefor will
be reallocated by the Association by increasing correspond-
ingly the unallocated amount of the Credit; and
(b) if the estimate of the expenditures under any Cate-
gory shall increase, a corresponding amount will be allo-
cated by the Association, at the request of the Borrower, to
such Category from the unallocated amount of the Credit,
subject, however, to the requirements for contingencies, as
determined by the Association, in respect of any other
expenditure.
5. Notwithstanding the percentages set forth in the third
column of the table in paragraph 1 above, if the estimate
of total expenditures under Category I shall increase and
no proceeds of the Credit are available for reallocation to
such Category, the Association may, by notice to the Bor-
rower, adjust the percentage then applicable to such ex-
penditures in order that further withdrawals under such
Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.
6. If any surplus funds are left in the Credit account they
shall be applied toward additional credit for fishing boats
after agreement between the Borrower and the Association.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following parts:
A. Provision of about 335 motorized fishing boats and fish-
ing gear to qualified fishermen through a credit program
to be administered by BNT.


﻿19
B. Staffing and equipment of FPD, including recruitment
of specialists to provide know-how in modern inshore
fishing techniques and design and construction of fish-
ing boats, and to carry out technical appraisals of loan
applications and supervision of sub-loans.
C. Provision and equipment of fisheries credit staff and
of their supporting services within BNT to carry out
financial appraisals of loan applications and to super-
vise sub-loans.
D. Provision of training for skippers and overseas training
for selected staff of FPD.
E. Provision of spare parts for marine diesel ongines.
F. Provision of additional fishing boats if any surplus
funds are left in the Credit Account.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
1. With respect to any contract for the bulk procurement
of about 335 fishing boats:
(a) If bidders are required to prequalify, DSP shall,
before qualification is invited, inform the Association in
detail of the procedure to be followed and shall introduce
such modifications in said procedure as the Association
shall reasonably request. The list of prequalified bidders,
together with a statement of their qualifications and of the
reasons for the exclusion of any applicant for prequalifica-
tion, shall be furnished by DSP to the Association for its
comments before the applicants are notified and DSP shall
make such additions or deletions from the said list as the
Association shall reasonably request.
(b) Before bids are invited, DSP shall furnish to the
Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents,
together with a description of the advertising procedures
0


﻿20
to be followed for the bidding, shall make such modifica-
tions in the said documents or procedure as the Association
shall reasonably request. Any further modification to the
bidding documents shall require the Association's concur-
rence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(c) After bids have been received and evaluated, DSP
shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Association of the name of the bidder to whom it in-
tends to award the contract and shall furnish to the Asso-
ciation, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report
on the evaluation and comparison of the bids received, to-
gether with the reasons for the intended award. The Asso-
ciation shall promptly inform DSP whether it has any
objection to the intended award on the ground that it would
be inconsistent with the Guidelines for Procurement under
World Bank Loans and IDA Credits referred to in Section
2.03 of this Agreement or with the Development Credit
Agreement, and shall state the reasons for any objections
it may have.
(d) If the contract shall be awarded over the Associa-
tion's reasonable objection, or if its terms and conditions
shall, without the Association's concurrence, materially dif-
fer from those on which bids were asked, no expenditure
thereunder shall be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit.
(e) DSP shall handle all contracts for the bulk procure-
ment of the fishing boats on behalf of sub-borrowers.
(f) Two copies of the contract shall be furnished to the
Association promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect
of any such contract.
2. DSP shall invite bids for motorized fishing boats on
behalf of fishermen participating in BNT's fisheries credit
program under the project as follows:
(a) under a bulk tender bids shall be invited for the de-
livery of about 335 motorized fishing boats spread over a


﻿21
period of about three years according to expected inflow of
loan applications by fishermen as estimated at the time of
tender issue;
(b) in order to qualify a bid submitted by any supplier
shall be for not less than 10 boats for a delivery period
spread over twelve months;
(c) at the time of tender issue, firm bids shall be invited
for a total of not less than 50 motorized fishing boats.
3. DSP shall invite the following tenders, all at the same
date:
(a) internationally (including from Tunisian suppliers)
for complete fishing boats, including installed marine diesel
engines, but excluding fishing gear;
(b) from Tunisian boatyards only, for fishing boat hulls.
excluding engines and fishing gear, but including cost of
installing engines; and
(c) internationally (including from Tunisian suppliers)
for marine diesel engines to be installed in fishing boat
hulls.
4. For the purpose of evaluating bids for fishing boats and
engines, included in Category I of the table set out in
paragraph 1 of the Schedule 1 of this Agreement, bids
shall be determined and bid prices compared in accordance
with the following rules:
(a) The term "Tunisian Complete Boat Bid" means a
bid submitted by a boat builder established in the terri-
tories of the Borrower for fishing boats manufactured or
processed to a substantial extent (as reasonably determined
by the Association) in such territories, complete with in-
stalled marine diesel engines, fully rigged but excluding
fishing gear, tested and made ready for fishing operation;
any other bid for complete boats shall be deemed to be a
"Foreign Complete Boat Bid".
(b) The term "Tunisian Boat Hull Bid" means a bid
submitted by a boat builder established in the territories
of the Borrower for fishing boat hulls manufactured or


﻿22
processed to a substantial extent (as reasonably determined
by the Association) in such territories, excluding marine
diesel engines and fishing gear, but including cost of in-
stallation of marine diesel engine, rigging and making
ready boats for fishing operation; no bids for fishing boat
hulls shall be accepted except from such Tunisian boat
builders;
(c) The term "Tunisian Marine Engine Bid" means a
bid submitted by a manufacturer established in the terri-
tories of the Borrower for marine diesel engines manufac-
tured or processed to a substantial extent (as reasonably
determined by the Association) in such territories; any
other bid for marine diesel engines shall be deemed to be
a "Foreign Marine Engine Bid";
(d) The bid price for a " Tunisian Complete Boat Bid"
shall be the ex-boatyard price of such fishing boats, fully
rigged, but excluding fishing gear, tested and made ready
for fishing operation;
(e) The bid price for a "Foreign Complete Boat Bid"
shall be the sum of the following amounts:
(i) the c.i.f. price of such fishing boats;
(ii) the amount of any taxes on the importation of such
fishing boats into the territories of the Borrower
which generally apply to non-exempt importers, or
15% of the amounts specified in (i) above, which-
ever shall be the lower; and
(iii) the cost of rigging, testing and making ready for
fishing operation such fishing boats at the ports of
entry.
(f) The bid price for a "Tunisian Boat Hull Bid" shall
be the sum of the following amounts:
(i) the ex-boatyard price of such hulls;
(ii) the cost of installing marine diesel engines; and
(iii) the cost of rigging, testing and making ready for
fishing operations motorized fishing boats.


﻿23
(g) The bid price for a " Tunisian Marine Engine Bid"
shall be the cost, at-site boatyard, of such engines, includ-
ing accessories and ready for installation.
(h) The bid price for a "Foreign Marine Engine Bid"
shall be the sum of the following amounts:
(i) the c.i.f. price of such engines, including accessories;
(ii) the amount of any taxe- on the importation of such
engines into the territories of the Borrower which
generally apply to non-exempt importers, or 15%
of the amounts specified in (i) above, whichever
shall be lower; and
(iii) the cost of delivery of such engines from the port
of entry to the site of a boatyard.
(i) Bids shall be compar ad solely on the basis of com-
plete fishing boats, including installed engines, fully rigged,
but excluding fishing gear, tested and made ready for fish-
ing operation.
(j) There would he four types of bids to compare for
complete fishing boats:
(i) "Tunisian Complete Boat Bid"
(ii) "Foreign Complete Boat Bid"
(iii) "Tunisian Boat Hull Bid" with "Tunisian Marine
Engine'' installed; and
(iv) "Tunisian Boat Hull Bid" with "Foreign Marine
Engine" installed.
5. Purchases of imported fishing gear and nets and im-
ported vehicles for supporting services shall be made
through normal commercial channels or local agents of
overseas suppliers.
6. In respect to the imported narne diesel engine spare
parts the suppliers shall have offered DSP reasonable as-
surances that they shall maintain an adequate spare part
stock located and available within the territories of the
Borrower and that they shall provide satisfactory after-
sales service.


﻿24
SCHEDULE 4
Responsibilities of FPD under the Project
FPD shall be responsible for:
(a) the preparation of detailed fishing boat designs and
tender documents, the prequalification of the fishing
boat builders, the tendering and awarding of bids
under international competition and the supervision
of fishing boat construction;
(b) the technical examination and approval of loan ap-
plications from sub-borrowers;
(c) the technical supervision of use and maintenance of
fishing boats and gear provided under the project;
(d) the organization of a program of training courses
for the sub-borrowers, including inter alia a course
setting forth the responsibilities and obligations of
the sub-borrowers under the Project; and
(e) the testing of improved fishing boat designs.


﻿25
SCHEDULE 5
Eligibility of firms partly owned or controlled, directly
or indirectly, by the Borrower to supply marine
diesel engines under the Project.
The specific conditions under which firms partly owned
or controlled, directly or indirectly, by the Borrower would
be eligible to supply marine diesel engines under the Proj-
ect shall be as follows:
(a) the firms shall be financially autonomous and oper-
ated on a commercial basis;
(b) the firms shall not benefit from special governmental
protection or subsidy during the execution of the
Project;
(c) the firms shall participate in bidding under the same
conditions as any other commercial enterprise; and
(d) the representation of the Government on the Board
of Directors of the firms shall be exercised by indi-
dividuals having no connection whatsoever with the
management and the operations of the Ministere de
I 'Agriculture.


