Documnt of
The World Bank
FOR OFFCIAL USE ON14LY
Rtsut N. P-3667-A
a
rZC AND 5a
OF TM
PRETIPBT OF TME
INTEU_ATI~35AL DWVEL  C mEN  C
ClX A
PROPOS   IDA CREDIT
OF SDR 37.8 NILLIO0 .
AMD AN DA SPECIAL PUND CREDIT
OF SDR 56.8 MahLION
TO TIM
PEOPLE S rMPUBLIC OF CHINA
FOR A
RUBBER DEVELOPT PRiOJECT
November 7, 1983
Iltdecimmt h a rielBd dhldbim mud a" be wed by vuIV' .b muly is the peufeui.c of
tI  .chIk duk. lbm emmum  me u'he-whp be diudmsui whidnot Wiadi B=k uughdzmtiu..



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Calendar
1982      Sept. 1983
Currency Unit - Yuam (Y) Y
US$1      Y        1 1.89         1.98
1i             - US$0.53          0.50
The Staff Appraisal Report uses the following currency equivalents:
US$1  - Y 1.90
Y 1    = US$0.53
FISCAL YEAR
January7-1 to December 31
ABJREVITAIONS AND ACRONYMS
CGr   -  Central General- Bureau of State Farms and Land
Reclamation
DCA.  - Development Credit Agrecuent
IDA   - International Development Association
MAAF - Ministry of -Agriculture, Animal Husbandry and
Fisheries
MOF  - Ministry of Finance
PGB  -  Guangdong Provincial General Bureau of State
Farms and Land Reclamation
PMO  - Project Management Office
SPCA -  Special Fund Credit Agreement
UNDP - United Nations Development Program



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
CHINA
RUBBER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:                  People's Republic o' China
Amount:                    IDA Credit:  SDR 37.8 ($40.0 million equivalent)
IDA Special Fund Credit: SDR 56.8 million
($60.0 million equivalent)
Terms:                      Standard
Project Description:       The project consists of the new planting and
replanting of 40,000 ha of rubber, of which
36,000 ha would be on state farms and 4,000 ha on
nearby communes. It would provide for the plant-
ing of windbreaks in typhoon-prone areas and
intercropping in immature rubber. It would also
include modernization of machinery and transport
fleets on state farms, construction or upgrading
of sawmills and timber utilization facilities,
construction of housing, administrative and
service buildings and the construction or
upgrading of road links within state farms.
Technical assistance would be provided for
training and for coasultant services
(26-man-months) in estate management, wood
processing, and rubber and windbreak development.
At full development the project would produce
about 72,000 tons of rubber annually to meet
growing internal demand. The forestry and wood
processing components would increase output of
timber products which are in strong demand within
China. During the early years intercropping
wou'ld add to supplies of sugarcane, pineapples,
groundnuts and sweet potatoes. The project faces
no significant technical or administrative risks.
Th document has a restkri  distrbution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their ofica duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disdosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Cost:
Local     Foreign      Total
- -- - $ million
Rubber establishment                     103.6         19.7        123.3
Commune development                       11.2          2.1         13.3
Windbreak establishment                   12.1          1.3         13.4
Buildings and utilities                   33.7         11.3         45.0
Rural roads                                7.7          1.8          9.5
Equipment and vehicles                     0.0         16.7         16.7
Sawmills and wood processing               2.4          9.0         11.4
Training and research                      2.1          1.1          3.2
Technical assistance                       0.0          1.1          1.1
Base Cost                            172.8        64.1       236.9
Physical contingencies                      10.7        3.4         14.1
Price contingencies                        38.0        12.0         50.0
Total/a                              221.5        79.5       301.0
Financing Plan: la
IDA                                         8.2        31.8         40.0
IDA Special Fund                           12.3        47.7         60.0
Central Government                         84.2         0.0         84.2
Participating farms                       116.8         0.0        116.8
Total                                221.5        79.5       301.0
Estimated Disbursements:   IDA FY:   1984  1985  1986  1987  1988   1989
-------$ million---
Annual                               2.0  30.9  26.4  20.9  13.6    6.2
Cumulative                           2.0  32.9  59.3  80.2  93.8  100.0
Rate of Return:              17%
Staff Appraisal Report:    No. 4521-CRA, dated November 7, 1983
/a Including $2.7 million equivalent in import duties.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED IDA CREDIT AND AN IDA SPECIAL FUND CREDIT
TO THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
FOR A RUBBER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
IDA credit and an IDA Special Fund Credit to the People's Republic of China
to help finance a rubber development project. The IDA credit, for SDR 37.8
million ($40 million equivalent), and the Special Fund credit, for SDR 56.8
million -`$60 million equivalent), would be on standard IDA terms.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An introductory economic report, entitled "China:  Socialist
Economic Development" (No. 3391-CHA), was distributed to the Executive
Directors on June 1, 1981. A country economic memorandum, entitled "China:
Recent Economic Trends and Policy Developments" (No. 4072-CRA), was
distributed to the Executive Directors on March 31, 1983. Basic data on the
economy are given in Annex 1.
Background
3.        Following a period of major institutional changes in the 1950s,
including land reform and the eventual establishment of communes in rural
areas and the extension of public ownership to cover almost all of the modern
sector, development efforts in China have been directed toward the major
objectives of industrialization and poverty reduction. Despite sharp oscil-
lations in policy and political upheavals like the Great Leap Forward
(1958-61) and the Cultural Revolution (1966-76), China has made substantial
progress toward achieving its objectives. Industrial growth since 1949 has
averaged more than 12Z p.a. (compared with under 5% for agriculture); the
current share of industry in GDP (around 44%) is similar to the average for
middle-income developing countries; and the country now produces a far greater
variety of industrial goods than most other developing countries. Per capita
GNP (with adjustments for international comparability) grew at 2.5-3.0% p.a.
in 1957-81, significantly above the average for other low-income developing
countries. In terms of basic education, nutrition and health the Chinese
population is much better off than its counterparts in other low-income
developing countries.
4.        However, China remains a very poor country, with a GNP per capita of
only $300 in 1982 and about 200 million people or 20% of the population with
unacceptably low incomes. The economy is also inefficient: past growth has
come mainly from massive mobilization of resources. For a country that faces
significant domestic resource constraints, inefficiency is a particularly
serious problem.



- 2 -
5.        To address these problems and ensure rapid growth and improvements
in living standards, the Government initiated a Drogram of reform and
adjustment in 1979. Economic reform, aimed at improving the efficiency of the
economic system, involves: (a) restoring and improving the aualitv of central
planning and policy coordination; (b) devolving more decision-making authority
to lower level units; (c) establishing more direct links hetween incomes and
the performance of economic units and individuals; and (d) relying more on
market mechanisms and economic instruments and less on administrative
directives, to influence economic activitv. Structural adiustment, aimed at
speeding improvements in living standards, has involved readiusting the
relative shares of consumption and investment in national income, some
sectoral and subsectoral readjustments, and greater emphasis on foreiRn trade.
In 1981, Droblems with inflation and large budgetarv and current account
deficits resulted in short-term stabilization temporarily receiving the
highest priority, but by 1982 the Government was again pushing ahead rapidly
with adjustment and reform.
Economic Reform
6.        Reforms have now affected all sectors of the economy and institu-
tions from the central government down to rural households. A major Rovern-
ment reorganization has strengthened the core planning and management agencies
(especially the State Planning Commission and the State Economic Commission)
and reduced the number of commissions, ministries and agencies under the State
Council from 98 to 52. Reorganization within ministries also has occurred,
while that of provincial and local governments is now under way. Economic
management has been decentralized: provincial and local authorities have been
given more autonomy in investment decision making and use of credit to finance
investmnent has increased; provincial and local governments have been granted
greater budgetarv flexibility and more incentives to expand revenues and/or
economize on expenditures; and ministries, new local trading companies and
some enterprises now have authority to engage directly in foreign trade.
7.        Reforms have been most far-reaching in rural areas, where introduc-
tion of various types of the "production responsibility system" has given
small groups and households more autonomy in production and investment
decisions and linked incomes directly with output. By the end of lQ82, 92%
of production teams in China had implemented such a system; 78% had imple-
mented a household responsibility system, whereby collective ownership of
farm land and major equipment is maintained but plots of land are contracted
out to individual households, which can retain whatever they produce beyond
their obligations to the state and to the collective (which account for about
one third of production). The number and types of rural markets have also
increased.
8.        Economic reform has not proceeded as far or as fast in urban areas,
but significant systemic changes have occurred.  Reforms in the management of
state enterprises have aimed at improving incentives through profit retention
schemes and more flexible payment and employment practices. There have also
been experimental changes in the organization of state enterprises, a greater



variety of marketing channels, some price flexibility and adjustment of
relative prices, and greater autonomy for state enterprises in production
decisions. The scope for cooperative and individual economic activities has
also been enlarged.
9.        Many economic reforms, especially those in rural areas, have
already had a positive impact on efficiency, while others will take longer to
have a significant effect. There are also some emerging issues with economic
rerorm that the Government will need to address. In rural areas, there is a
potential conflict between enhanced economic incentives and equity in income
distribution, continued provision of basic services, and mobilization of
labor. In the state enterprise sector, many units are still inclined to
overinvest and overproduce, since substantial decentralization of decision
making and control over resources has not been accompanied by necessary
reforms in the pricing system. More use Is being made of the market, but
information and transport systems are still weak, markets are fragmented and
competition is limited. It has also been difficult to develop effective
indirect fiscal and monetary policy instruments.
Adjustment, Stabilization and Growth
10.       During the past four years, the Government has followed a strategy
of setting relatively modest targets while implementing economic and admin-
istrative meas:res that contribute to adjustment and stabilization as well as
to economic grco-th. The various measures have included: major increases in
agricultural procurement prices; strict controls on many other prices;
rationing and other administrative measures to improve efficiency of resource
use; cutbacks in state capital construction investment; fiscal measures to
limit the budget deficit; increases in interest rates; moderation of currency
and credit expansion; and the introduction of an internal settlement rate for
.oreign exchange transactions and other measures to encourage exports and
economize on imports.
11.       These economic and administrative measures, combined with systemic
changes, have played an important role in the impressive performance of the
Chinese economy in recent years. Gross agricultural and industrial output at
constant prices grew by 7.3% per year between 1978 and 1982 - agriculture by
7.5% and industry by 7.2% (heavy industry by 3.4% and light industry by
11.8%). Net material product (NMP) at constant prices grew by an estimated
6.3% p.a. duting the same period. Net investment has stagnated in real terms,
while material consumption grew by over 9% p.a. between 1978 and 1982. The
share of investment in NMP was reduced from 36% in 1978 to 29% in 1982.
Domestic consumption of energy rose by less than 2% p.a. during 1978-82.
12.       Structural adjustment and rapid overall economic growth, combined
with a low population growth rate (1.3% p.a. between 1978 and 1982), have led
to rapid increases in per capita incomes. In urban areas, real per capita



- 4 -
incomes increased by 4.8% p.a. between 1978 and 1982; in rural areas the
real increase in per capita incomes was about 12% p.a. TJhile more
prosperous areas and households may lhave henefitted the most and income
differentials at a local level mav have increased, manv poor areas and
households have also enjoyed substantial income imDrovements.
13.       The high rate of investment in 1978 and the low returns to muclh
of this investment made a cutback in the investment rate a prioritv for the
adjustment program.  But achieving such a cutback has proved difficult.
necentralization of investment decision making has permitted a rapid growth
in investment financed from retained earninRs or local resources. As a
result, most of the ctutbacks in investment have been in large centrally
financed projects (in 1981 even the priority sectors of energy and
transportation were affected), though some of these were revived in 1982.
14.       Government policy measures have helped restore domestic economic
stability by lowering the rate of inflation from 6% in 1980 to 2.4% in 1981
and 2% in 1982, and by reducing the budget deficit (adjusted to eliminate
finar.cing items) from 7% of NMP in 1979 and 5% in 19R0 to less than 2% in
1981 and 1982. The restoration of fiscal stabilitv was achieved mainlv bv
sharp cuts in expenditures on investment. Subsidies (mainly on daily livinR
necessities) rose dramatically from about 7% of total expenditures in 1978
to 26% in 1982, when they were 9% of NMP.
15.       China's external position has also changed greatly in recent
years; the current account deficit of $2.4 billion in 19n was converted
into a $2.0 billion surplus in 1981 and an estimated S6 billion surplus in
1982, an improvement far greater than anticipated. The real growth of
merchandise exports has been very impressive, averaging over 15% p.a. during
1978-82, mainly because of a rapid growth in manufactured exports. The
growth rate has been declining steadily, however. Meanwhile the volume of
imports declined in both 1981 and 1992, due in part to the lagged effect of
contract cancellations and suspensions, but also to delays in equipment
deliveries and to problems in obtaining high technology goods. A
substantial increase in imports is expected in 1983 and 1984 as China
expands its investment program and imports more machinerv and equipment.
16.       A major consequence of the Government's conservative balance of
payments strategy has been reduced foreign borrowing. In 1980 and 1981 the
Government cut back sharply on interhank borrowinR and in 1981 and 1982 took
advantage of the unexpectedly strong current account Dosition to repav
commercial bank and other loans. In 1981 China's deht service ratio was
7.8%, due in part to accelerated loan repayments. At the end of 19R1 total
reserves (excluding gold) were $5 billion; by the end of 1Q82 thev had
increased to over $11 billion (equivalent to about seven months of 19Y2
imports).
BEST COPY AVAILABLE



-5-
Medium-Term Prospects
17.       During the remainder of the 1980s, the Government's efforts to
improve living standards should be helped considerably by continuation of a
relatively lows population growth rate; by opportunities to make greater and
more efficient use of foreign technology and capital; and by the possibilities
for improving efficiency through economic reform. Rapid and equitable econ-
omic development is constrained by a number of factors, however. There are
serious shortages of skilled manpower (current enrollment in universities and
technical and vocational schools is one quarter of the average rate for other
developing countries'. With limited possibilities for expanding the
cultivated area and with cropping intensities and yields already quite high,
the growth rate for agriculture is unlikely Lo average more than 3-4% p.a.
during the 1980s. Energy availability will continue to constrain industrial
growth, and there are capa^ity constraints in the transport and commercial
sectors. Large investments will be required in energy and transport at a time
when competing demands from other sectors, especially housing, are very great.
domestic revenues have not been growing rapidly, and decentralization has
weakened government control over investment.
18.       In recognition of these difficulties, the Government's Sixth Five-
Year Plan (SFYP) (published in December 1982 but covering the period January
1981 December 1985) emphasizes continuation of the program of "adjustment,
reform, consolidation and improvement of the national economy." The plan
period is essentially viewed as an interim period during whi:h the foundation
will be laid for more rapid economic development under subsequent plans.
Modest targets are set for production and income growth (4% p.a. for gross
agricultural and industrial output and for NMP), consumption is expected to
grow faster than investment, prices will be kept basically stable, the budget
deficit will be kept low, and a significant expansion in foreign trade is
forecast, with imports growing more rapidly than exports. Priority will be
given to measures improving efficiency rather than maximization of output, but
the Government expects most production targets to be surpassed, as they have
been in the first two years of the SFYP.
19.       Reform implementation will be speeded up during the next three
years. Rural reforms will be broadened and strengthened, with the production
responsibility system extended to new spheres of activity, new types of orga-
nization (including joint ventures between rural and urban units) encouraged,
and the administrative functions of communes separated from their economic
functions. In state-owned industry, taxation will replace profit remittance
as the primary means of raising government revenue, industrial administration
will be streamlined, and more inefficient enterprises will be closed down.
The commercial system will be reformed and cooperative and individual
commerce, particularly in rural areas, will be promoted. In investment
planning, the Government is striving for more effective implementation of
existing administrative regulations, but improving the structure and
efficiency of investment will be a long and difficult process, dependent very
much on progress on other aspects of reform. Measures to introduce formal
BEST COPY AVAILABLE



- 6 -
economic analysis (including use of shadow prices) into investment decisions
and to make producing units more economically and financially responsible for
their decisions through appropriate pricing and incentive schemes are
especially important. Price reform itself is recognized as being crucial, but
in view of the complexities and magnitude of the changes required, the
Government has decided that ii cannot implement comprehensive price reform
until after 1985. However, appropriate upward or downward adjistments in the
most distorted prices are being made, and the prices of many minor commodities
are being allowed to fluctuate according to market conditions.
20.       During the remainder of the 18Rns, China's develonment and moderni-
zation programs are expected to result in rapid growth of imports of canital
and intermediate goods. By the late 1M8Os, some imports of energy are also
likely to be necessary before new domestic enerRy production capacitv is
established. China's temporary current account surpluses are expected to
change quickly to moderate deficits. But the overall rate of import expan-
sion, the size of the current account deficit, and the magnitude of foreign
borrowing requirements are very sensitive to assumptions about economic trends
and the effectiveness of gcvernment programs. For example, even a slight
acceleration of economic growth without significant improvements in effi-
ciency, especially energy efficiency, could result in large current account
deficits and debt management difficulties by the end of the 198ns. In fact, a
relatively high rate of economic growth of 6-7% p.a. during the rest of the
1980s (which is the growth rate used in the projections in Annex 1) will
probably be feasible only if major improvements in energy efficiency continue.
21.       China's access to concessionary capital to finance its development
and modernization program is limited: apart from Bank Group funds, a signi-
ficant amount of concessionary capital is likely to come only from Japan and a
few other bilateral donors and will probablv average only A500-6no million a
year during the 1980s. If China is to maintain a reasonable growth rate and
manageable debt service payments, it will need to obtain the necessary foreign
capital at an average interest rate below the market rate. China also has a
strong claim to concessionary lending because it is still one of the poorer
countries in the world.
22.       For China, as for many other developing countries, the 1i9qns will
be a difficult decade. But looking further ahead, China's economic prospects
appear favorable. By 1990, most new entrants into the labor force will have
received some secondary education, and the skilled manpower deficit will have
been reduced. Further progress will have been made in tapping China's large
energy potential and in using it more efficiently. Continuation of recent
manufactured export trends should generate additional foreign exchange,
enabling the Government to use foreign capital more freely and be less
concerned about its terms. If the country's imimense wealth of hunan talent,
effort and discipline can be combined with policies that increase the
efficiency of resource use, China will be able to achieve continuing
substantial increases in the living standards of its people.  Whether this
potential can be realized, however, will depend crucially on the success of
the Government's program of reform and adjustment in the 1980s.
BES3  CrtAA-LAeLE



PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN CHINA
23.       In view of the particular circumstances of China and the economic
transition now under way, the Bank's relationship with China should have
several broad objectives. Firstly, the Bank should offer China its con-
siderable development experience and institutional knowledge. Moreover,
working with the Bank represents one means for China to re-establish its
position in the world community after its lengthy isolation. Secondly, the
Bank should assist China in removing the major constraints on development -
the shortages of energy, transport infrastructure, skilled manpower and
modern technology. Even more important, the Bank should help the authori-
ties to use these and other inputs more efficiently, by improving project
analysis and investment control, as well as overall economic management and
planning. Finally, the Bank should help the Government identify ways of
reducing China's remaining poverty. Since the Government has been
successful in meeting the basic needs of most of -ts people, these efforts
should concentrate on the poorest rural areas.
24.       Since China's change of representation in the Bank Group in May
1980, ten projects involving lending of about $968 million have been
approved. Three have been in education (University Development,
Agricultural Education and Research and Polytechnic/TV University), two in
energy (Daqing Oilfield Gaotaizi Reservoir Development and Zhongyuan-Wenliu
Petroleum), two in agriculture (North China Plain and Heilongjiang Land
Reclamation), one in transport (Three Ports), one in industry (Industrial
Credit), and one in technical cooperation (Technical Cooperation Credit).
Annex II contains a summary statement on these loans and credits as of
September 30, 1983.
Economic and Sector Work
25.       The Bank's economic and sector work was initially designed to pro-
vide a basis of knowledge on the development and functioning of the Chinese
economy. This work resulted in completion of a nine-volume introductory
economic report in June 1981. A follow-up country economic memorandum
(Report No. 4072-CHA) analyzing developments over the past two years was
distributed to the Executive Directors on March 31, 1983. In addition, the
Bank has undertaken studies in several areas important for our understanding
of the Chinese system, including rural finance and urban planning and
management in Shanghai.
26.       Other economic work is designed to assist China in its present
effort to promote efficient use of investment resources, and more generally
to introduce new methods of economic management and planning. As preparation
for the Industrial Credit Project, an appraisal manual has been developed
with Bank assistance by the new financial intermediary, the China Investment
Bank. The Bank is now helping to develop a similar manual for the
Agricultural Bank of China. A program of economic research on China's
BEST CPY AVAIUABDE



- 8 -
development problems, aimed at the application of advanced analytical tech-
niques, has begun in collaboration with Chinese economic research insti-
tutions in the areas of enterprise incentives and analysis of structural
change.
27.       Sector studies will help inter alia to identify and prepare future
investments. Some have been included in Bank Group-financed projects, e.g.,
agricultural development in Shandong Province under the North China Plain
Project, containerization under the Three Ports Project, and agricultural
manpower and research under the Agricultural Education and Research Project.
A health sector review is reporting on rural health care delivery systems
and health manpower development.
Near-Term Lending
28.       Work has begun on a range of projects, with emphasis on improved
management and efficiency as well as on technical assistance and training.
Several are in the key sectors of energy and transportation. In energy, the
Bank's efforts will help to increase the supply of fuel and power. Future
petroleum projects will, like the first two, emphasize the introduction of
modern technology, staff training and studies. Other operations will
support hydropower generation in southwest China and the development and
management of large underground coal mines in Shanxi province. In trans-
portation, work is proceeding on two railway projects and a second ports
project to provide additional capacity at several major ports.
29.       In view of China's shortages of manpower with higher or technical
education, the Bank will continue its support of education through a second
agricultural education project and another university development project.
Support of agriculture would continue through this proposed project to
develop rubber cultivation in Guangdong Province, as well as others to
provide rural credit in two provinces with emphasis on improved project
appraisal and institution-building, provide further assistance in agri-
cultural research, and assist the Government in forestry. In industry,
further loans will be made to the China Investment Bank, and there will be
projects for technical renovation and modernization in industries such as
fertilizers and machine tools. In health, a project will help improve rural
health care services and medical education. Bank assistance is also planned
for a water supply project. To provide an assured and flexible soirce of
financing for technical assistance for the preparation of orojects proposed
or expected to be proposed for financing by the Bank Grc_, a technical
cooperation project has been approved.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Recent Performance and Development Strategy
30.       Agriculture accounts for some 35% of the country's GDP and is the
main source of livelihood for the rural population of neatly 800 million.
Only about 100 million ha of China's land area of 960 million ha are arable.
Nearly half of the cultivated land is irrigated and more than half of the
BEST COPY AVAILABLE



- 9 -
area grows at least two crops per year. Foodgrains occupy 80% of the croplnre
and account for 65% of total agricultural output. Grain yields are about 502
greater than those in most other developing countries. Agricultural
production is carried out in communes, state farms and privately managed plots
which account for about 87, 5, and 8%, respectively, of the arable land and
80, 4 and 16%, respectively, of the gross value of agricultural production.
31.       Agricultural development has been accorded high priority by the
Government for more than 30 years. Despite declining per capita supplies of
arable land, efforts to develop China's agriculture have been broadly
successful_ The agricultural sector grew by 3.2Z p.a. in the period
1955-79, and by more than 5% p.a. on average since 1979. Industrial crops,
livestock and sideline production have expanded even faster than crop
production. Increases in food production have more than kept pace with
population growth and almost all Chinese nce have access to adequate
supplies of food. Reflecting population and income growth and diversion of
larger quantities of grain to livestock feeding, net imports of grain have
risen in recent years to about 15 million tons p.a., or less than 5% of
total consumption. Exports of raw and processed agricultural products
contribute about 80Z of all foreign exchange earnings.
32.       A major task will be to meet the food and raw material requirements
occasioned by further population growth and gains in per capita income. The
land constraint will require steady increases in yields from already cropped
areas and the growing problem of surplus rural labor will make job creation
an increasingly important development objective. The Government is imple-
menting new policies aimed at giving rural workers more production incen-
tives. Area quotas for particular crops have been relaxed, althoug1- minimum
grain marketing quotas are still maintained. There has been a major
improvement in relative prices for agriculture. Production incentives are
encouraging crop specialization in economically suited areas and the produc-
tion of industrial crops is being fostered by assuring supplies of food
gra-ns to farm workers in those areas. Incentives to workers on both
communes and state farms are being designed to link reward more closely with
work effort. Small-scale industry is being promoted in rural areas.
33.       There is still scope in the next few years for further production
gains from implementation of the responsibility system, increased specializa-
tion and producer response to improved price incentives. However, continua-
tion of recent high growth rates may be difficult. To maintain a reasonable
growth rate and food security, despite constraints on the availability of
inputs, will require further efforts in several areas: use of the few
remaining opportunities to expand the cultivated area, increases in cropping
intensity and yields on existing cultivated areas through relatively quick-
yielding land and water resource projects, increases in the efficiency of
investment, and the long-term development of higher-yielding crop varieties
and practices and their dissemination through research and education. The
present emphasis on improved policies and management will also have to
continue.
BEST COpy A VAIIBLE



- 10 -
The State Farm System
34.       State farms were established to provide food and employment in
less developed areas and subsequently became important sources of
commercialized agricultural production. More than 35% of grain production
on state farms is sold to the state, as compared with about 15Z from the
collective sector. More than 2,000 state farms in China manage almost
29 million ha, of which 4.5 million are under cultivation. Some 8% (170)
are involved largely in rubber production. Farm size averages about 12,000
ha, but varies widely from 2-3,000 ha in the South to 90,000 ha in the
Northeast.
35.       The population on state farms exceeds 11 million and employment is
about 5 million. Output per worker on scate farms is considerably greater
than in the communes, reflecting larger per capita quantities of land,
machinery and equipment. Workers receive a monthly wage, annual wage
bonuses which depend on the financial performance of the fars, and subsi-
dized social services including housing, education and health. As relatively
self-sufficient economic units operating in poorly developed areas, state
farms must finance, construct and maintain a system of social and physical
3¢ufrastructure (health, education, transportation, communication and power)
which is usually the responsibility of central and local governments in
other countries.
36.       In recen: years, state farms accounted for about 2% of the
country's grain production, nearly 6% of sugar output, 3Z of the cotton, and
95% of the natural rubber production. After realizing financial losses for
many years, the state farm system in 1979-81 reported cumulative profits of
Y 1.2 billion. This improved financial performance was due largely to
higher procurement prices for state farm output and, possibly, more efficient
operations growing out of managerial reforms which decentralized decision-
making and enhanced production incentives at the family or production group
level. Forty-six of the 50 farms in the project reported profits in I981.
37.       To meet future production requirements the Government is imple-
menting a major land development program by the state farm system in the
current Five Year Plan (1981-85). Thls calls for the development of 1.1
million ha of unused land for annual field crops, 60,000 ha for tree crops,
and 2.2 million ha for improved pasture.
38.       Central General Bureau of State Farms.  The administrative
structure of the state farm system includes the Central General Bureau of
State Farms and Land Reclamation (CGB) within the Ministry of Agriculture,
Animal Husbandry and Fisheries (MAAF), provincial general bureaus, prefectural
administrative bureaus and the state farms. The CGB helps formulate and
implement national policies regarding state farms and is a conduit for
Central Government budget funds. It is responsible for overall investment
planning, for allocating production and sales quotas to provincial bureaus
and for ensuring the availability of materials for planned investments.
BEST COPY AVAILAIE



- 11 -
39.       Guangdong Provincial General Bureau (PGB).  The PGB is
administratively a part of the Guangdong Provincial Government. It is
responsible to the CGB on matters of national policy and finance, for
carrying out the CGB-approved investment program and for returning to the
center a portion of the profits earned by the provincial state farm system.
It is responsible to the provincial government on matters of personnel and
local policies. The PGB allocates to prefectural bureaus the capital and
operating funds from the state budget and approves their investment
programs. It also sets production and sales quotas for individual farms.
40.       Prefectural Bureaus and State Farms.  The three local administra-
tive bureaus in Guangdong in the project correspond geographically to Hainan,
Tongza and Zhanjiang Prefectures. The prefectural bureaus are the links
between the PGB and individual state farms and provide the farms with
technical and administrative support, including specialized crop production
support, construction and other services including research, processing,
marketing, health and education. A state farm in the project area is
typically divided into administrative headquarters, operational districts
(or subfarms) and specialized production brigades. Support units at farm
headquarters service the specialized production brigades. The production
brigade, consisting on average of about 150 workers, is the basic management
and accounting unit on state farms.
41.       Financial Management.  Financial management within the Guangdong
state farm system provides for downward flows of development funds from the
Government's budget and upward flows of profits remitted by individual farms
and taxes and depreciation charges levied against farm operations. Each
administrative uni. (state farm, prefectural bureau, PGB) is assigned a fixed
target for profits to be remitted to the next higher level; targets have
been established through 1985. If a state farm exceeds its target, it is
allowed to keep 70X of the surplus. In 1981 about 50X of state farm profits
in Gaangdong were remitted to the Central Government, 32% were retained by
production brigades and state farms, and .he balance was distributed to
coimunes, local governments and prefectural bureaus. In 1981 financial flows
from the Central Government to state farms in Guangdong totalled about Y 185
million, as compared with Y 145 million remitted upward by the provincial
state farm system to governmental units at all levels (county, province and
center).
Rubber Production and Utilization
42.       Extensive planting of rubber, largely under the aegis of the state
farms, began in 1952 and was located primarily on Hainan Island and Zhanjiang
Prefecture in Guangdong Province. In 1981 the area under rubber totalled
about 410,000 ha, of which 320,000 were on state farms and perhaps 80,000 ha
were in communes. More than 80% of the planted area is in Guangdong, 15% is
in Yunnan and the balance is in Guangxi and Fujian Provinces. About 41% of
the planted area is immature; 36% is mature seedling rubber; and 23X is
BEST O"PY AVAILABLE



- 12 -
mature budded rubber. China's rubber is grown successfully between 18 and
24 degrees north of the equator, well beyond the latitudes of other major
producers of natural rubber.
43.       In Guangdong Province the rubber area on state farms totals
264,300 ha, of which 14Z is over-age and in need of replanting. Yields
averaged about 670 kg per tappped ha in 1981, as compared with about 1,200
kg in Malaysia, 680 kg in Thailand and 670 in Indoaesia. Yields from old
rubber are in the 350-500 kg/ha range, while yields of improved clones in
the project area have averaged about 1,130 kg/ha in the first nine years of
tapping. The area under commune rubber in the province is about 67,000 ha,
with an average yield of just over 100 kg/ha.
44.       Domestic production of natural rubber has grown by 9.6% p.a. in the
1970s to 115,000 tons in 1981, while output of synthetic rubber has expanded
by 16% p.a. to 125,000 tons. With total imports of rubber (natural and
synthetic) averaging 232,000 tons annually in 1979-81, consumption of rubber
is in the range of 464,000 tons yearly. Annual per capita consumption of
rubber in China (about 0.5 kg) is less than 20% of the world average.
Bank Group Lending for Agriculture
45.       The Bank Group's strategy in agriculture is to assist China in
each of the priority areas for development which were identified in paras.
32-33 above. The first Bank Group operation in agriculture, a $60 million
IDA credit for the North China Plain Agriculture Project (Credit 1261-CHA),
was approved in June 1982 and will provide improved irrigation and drainage
for 200,000 ha in three provinces. Work on this project, the first large
scale approach to problems of soil salinity and water logging in China, is
proceeding well. A second project, the Agricultural Education and Research
Project (Credit 1297-CHA) for $75.4 million, was approved in November 1982
and will help strengthen higher education and research in key agricultural
colleges and research institutes. The Heilongjiang Land Reclamation Project
(Loan 2261/Credit 1347-CHA), approved in April 1983, will develop 200,000 ha
of uncultivated land on state farms in Northeast China to increase
marketable supplies of wheat, maize and soybeans. Three more projects have
been appraised. The proposed rural credit project is to focus on Guangxi
and Hubei Provinces and is expected to include assistance for aquaculture,
livestock and poultry, tree crops and agro-industrial processing including
improved project appraisal methods. A proposed second agricultural research
project will strengthen selected crop-specific and regional research icsti-
tutes and include an extension component. A proposed second agricultural
education project will strengthen institutions at several levels of the
system.  A proposed forestry project will support commercial timber
production and utilization.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
46.       The project was among the early projects proposed to the Bank Group
as a result of the initiative of the CGB (then the independent Ministry of
State Farms and Land Reclamation). It was prepared by the PGB with assistance
from FAO, IDA staff and consultants. A Staff Appraisal Report No. 4521-CHA,
BEST COPY AVnarIn 



- 13 -
dated November 7, 1983, is being distributed separately. Supplementary
project data are provided in Annex III.  Negotiations were held in
Washington from October 11-14, 1983, with a Chinese delegation led by Mr. Ge
Fucun of the Ministry of Finance.
Project Scope and Design
47.       The project offers the opportunity to assist the Government in
expanding the production of an important industrial crop by increasing the
planted area and improving production efficiency. The project focuses on
the state farm sector which is the major organization responsible for new
land development in China and which plays an important role in introducing
improved agricultural technologies. The project also includes a component
to assist communes which account for about 20Z of China's rubber area but
which have lagged behind in replanting of old rubber and in using improved
production technology. A major objective of the project is to improve the
efficiency of China's rubber production systems which have been relatively
isolated from technological developments in other rubber-producing
countries. In pursuit of this objective, IDA staff and consultants pro-
posed a number of refinements which are reflected in the project's design
and technical features. These include adjustments in the mix of rubber
clones to be planted to better match clonal characteristics with weather
conditions, changes in the fertilizer program to lower nutrient costs, wider
spacing of windbreaks to increase timber production, expanded research and
trials in rubber and windbreak development, introduction of improved timber
treatment and processing facilities, expansion of intercroppiug during the
rubber's immature period, and strengthened training programs for staff and
workers on state farms and communes.
48.       The project would be located in Guangdong, a large province in
South China with a population of 59.2 million in 1982 and a land area of
just over 200,000 sq km. The project area comprises parts of Hainan and
Tongza Prefectures, which constitute the land area of Hainan Island, and of
Zhanjiang Prefecture on the mainland (Map IBRD 16867). Rubber is the most
appropriate crop throughout most of the project area when soils, climate and
topography are considered. The average size of the 50 participating state
farms is 9,500 ha, of which 2,700 ha are in rubber. The 16 joint ventures
which involve state farms and nearby communes are expected to average about
250 ha of rubber new planting. Soils in the project farms generally have
deep profiles and, with proper fertilization and land conservation practices,
are capable of sustaining rubber production at relatively high yields. The
southern part of the project area is subject to typhoons, while in its
northern part cool temperatures slow tree growth and reduce the number of
tapping days. The project would assist in overcoming these climatic factors
through the establishment of windbreaks and the planting of cold resistant
rubber clones. Where topography and soils permit, intercropping of young
rubber with sugarcane, pineapples, groundnuts and sweet potatoes would be
practiced.
BEST COPY AVAILABLE



- 14 -
Principal Project Features
49.       The project would include:
(a) new planting of about 21,000 ha and replanting of approximately
15,000 ha on 50 state farms, including intercropping on a gross
area of 9,000 ha;
(b) new planting of rubber on about 4,000 ha and intercropping on a
gross area of 1,000 ha in 16 joint ventures with nearby communes;
(c) establishment of about 12,000 ha of windbreaks on state farms and
communes;
(d) expansion of the equipment fleets of participating state farms
through procurement of trucks, wheeled and crawler tractors, other
agricultural implements, and transportation and construction
equipment;
Ce) upgrading of sawmills on the 19 farms engaged in replanting and
construction of two integrated timber processing facilities in the
project area;
(f) construction of about 765,000 sq m of buildings, including housing
for staff and workers of state farms, service buildings, schools,
health clinics, and training centers;
(g) construction or upgrading of about 780 km of rural roads, and
construction of 400 km of power transmission lines and 780 km of
telephone lines;
(h)  strengthening domestic training programs for staff and workers of
state farms and upgrading of research and training programs in
prefectural research institutes; and
Ci) provision of overseas training and technical assistance in rubber
production, estate management, and wood processing.
Rubber Establishment
50.       Planting.  The project would replant with high-yielding clones
about 15,000 ha. first planted to unselected seedling rubber in the early to
mid-1950s, and new plant 25,000 ha of cut-over or new land on state farms
and communes. Felling and land clearing would be done with a combination of
manual and mechanical methods.  Rubber clones would include proven high-yield-
ing materials which are widely grown locally and a smaller proportion of
promising newer materials grown less extensively in China. Rubber tapping
is expected to commence in the eighth year of planting in Tongza and Hainan
and in the ninth year in Zhanjiang. Rubber yields are expected to be
highest in Tongza (averaging 1,460 kg/ha over 28 years of tapping) and
BEST COIl AVAILABLE



- 15 -
lowest in Zhanjiang (averaging 1,120 kg/ha) and in the joint ventures (about
1,050 kg/ha).
51.       Intercropping and cover crops.  Intercropping would be restricted
to planted areas with gentler slopes and would generally occur in years 1-3
of the rubber planting. On the net intercropped area of about 6,000 ha,
state farms are expected to plant 1,000 ha to pineapple and 1,000 ha to
sugarcane. The remaining 4,000 net ha would be planted by individual families
to annual crops such as groundauts and sweet potatoes.
Windbreak Establishment
52.       In windprone areas, about 0.3 ha of windbreaks would be required
per ha of rubber planted. The current species would continue to be planted,
altFough the project would support field trials to identify other promising
varieties and evaluate alternative spacings which would reduce costs of
establishment. lotal wood production (fuelvood, poles, logs) over the life
of the planting is expected to be about 275 cu m/ha of windbreak.
Cons ruction, Agricultural and Transport Machinery
53.       The project would expand and replace equipment fleets on project
farm3 through procurement of 350 trucks (6-8 ton capacity), 10 crawler
tractors (140-150 hp), 60 wheeled tractors (45-50 hp), 10 utility vehicles
and ancillary transportation, agricultural and construction equipment.
Trucks would be used for on-farm and long-distance (100-200 km) transport of
rubber, chemical fertilizers, logs and sawn timber. Crawler tractors would
be used in land clearing, road building and site preparation to supplement
-bor-intensive methods.  Wheeled tractors would be used for land preparation
and farm transport of rubber latex and chemical and organic fertilizers.
Wood Processing Facilities
54.       The felling of old rubber trees is expected to yield about 30 cu m
of sawlogs per ha and some fuelwood. The project wo.ld introduce proper
chemical treatment to preserve rubber logs and would upgrade sawmills on
state farms to increase throughput, enhance quality of the sawn timber and
reduce waste and work hazards. In addition, two integrated timber complexes,
each consisting of a sawmill, a furniture plant, and a plant to produce
wood-based panels, would be constructed in the project area.  Each complex
would utilize about 30,000 cu m of old rubber wood anrually and would pro-
duce about 2.5 million pieces of furniture and 15,000 cu m of panels.
Building and Utilities
55.       The project would provide for construction of housing for addi-
tional workers needed for the project and service buildings. Housing
designs and standards would be comparable to average housing in rural China
and are reasonable. Fifteen regional training centers, each serving about
BEST CCP?Y AVAILABLE



- 16 -
five nearby state farms, would be created from existing facilities by adding
laboratories, classrooms, dormitories and small libraries. Buildings would be
constructed with local materials to standard designs. About 400 km of 10 kV
transmission lines and 780 km of telephone lines '?ould be added, primarily on
farms engaged in new planting.
Rural Roads
56.       About 780 km of rural roads would be constructed or upgraded to
provide access to state farms from public highways and to link residential
centers within state farms.  Roads would be designed and constructed to the
standards of the PGB, which are acceptable to the Association.
Training and Research
57.       Research.  The South China Academy of Tropical Crops (SCATC) would
play a supportive role in the project by providing research results, planting
materials and technical guidance to the prefectural rubber research and test-
ing institutes. These institutes, which carry on research of an applied
nature, would be assisted through the project by the provision of research
equipment and consulting services on specialized research topics. An impor-
tant research activity would be the establishment on each participating farm
of observation plots containing the new rubber clones being used in the
project. This would permit an early assessment of their suitability for
future large-scale plantings.
58.       Training.  The project would upgrade 15 state farm extension sta-
tions to regional centers in different agro-climatic zones. Administrative
support would be provided by the farms on which the centers are located while
technical support would be the responsibility of the prefectural research
institutes. The project would equip the centers with audiovisual and basic
laboratory equipment to be used in training related to rubber and windbreak
development. Some 10% of training man-days would be made available to commune
members engaged in the joint ventures.
Technical Assistance
59.       Higher level training for prefectural, provincial and CGB staff
would be expanded to include overseas short courses and study tours in rubber
production and processing and degree programs in forestry, genetics, soil
chemistry, and agricultural economics. Consulting services would include
assistance in data managemen,, wood processing and utilization, soil and
fertilizer use, rubber tapping and yield stimulation, forestry development
and project implementation. The project provides for 26 man-months of
consultant services at an average cost of $10,000 per man.-month including
travel, per diem and fees. Assurances were obtained that all consultants
engaged under the project would be employed in accordance with Bank Group
guidelines (DCA and SFCA 3.02).
BEST COPY AVAIIABE



- 17 -
60.       The project would be implemented by the PGB, although the Planning
Office of the CGB would oversee implementation and have primary responsibility
for liaison with the Association. Within the PGB a Project Management Commit-
tee has been established to provide policy guidance and coordinate implemen-
tation. A Project Management Office (PMO), comprised of administrative and
technical staff of the PGB, would handle day-to-day implementation. Similar
groups would be established within prefectural bureaus and on participating
farms and communes. An assurance was obtained that the PMO would be
maintained during project implementation and adequately staffed with
experienced and qualified personnel (DCA and SFCA 3.06).
61.       All construction activities in the project would be carried out by
spezialized units within state farms and communes using designs and standards
developed by the technical divisions of the PGB. Agricultural development,
including land clearing and planting, nursery operations, intercropping and
windbreak establishment would be carried out by production brigades on farms
and communes.
62.       The joint ventures would be located primarily on lands adjacent to
16 participating state farms. Commune production brigades would supply land
and labor while state farms would provide finance, technical advice and
production inputs. A written contract would govern each joint venture which
would be directed by a Project Management Group comprised of managerial and
technical staff of participating communes and state farms. Land ownership
would remain with commune production brigades, while rubber trees and
windbreaks would be jointly owned by the partners. Finance would derive in
large part from retained profits of participating state farms. The rubber
would be processed and marketed through established state farm facilities.
Implementation Schedule
63.       The project would be implemented over five years beginning in late
1983 as part of the PGB's on-going program of rubber development. Some
felling and land preparation for windbreaks was started in 1983. Rubber
nurseries are adequate to meet needs in 1984 and would be expanded to meet
later requirements. Technical specifications for chemical fertilizer and
equipment have been prepared.  Procurement actions for goods and equipment
would begin in late 1983 with first deliveries expected in mid-1984. Rubber
planting would be completed in 1984-87, with annual plantings of 11,300,
13,400, 11,600, and 3,700 ha. PGB has prepared a detailed work plan for the
first year which is satisfactory and assurances were obtained that the work
program and financing plan for the project for the following year would be
submitted for Association review by September 30 of each year until project
completion (DCA and SFCA 3.05).
Cost Estimates
64.       Total project cost, based on mid-1983 prices, is estimated to be
$301.0 million, with a foreign exchange content of $79.5 million, or 26%.
BEST cOPy A. uIBLE



- 18 -
The estimate includes $2.7 million equivalent in import duties. Unit costs
for rubber replanting and new planting, windbreak establishment, roads and
building construction are based on recent expenditures by state farms for
similar activities. Prices for fertilizers and locally available equipment
are based on data provided to the PGB by local suppliers. Prices for large
agricultural machinery and transport vehicles are based on list prices
obtained from manufacturers. Physical contingencies equal 10% of base costs
of construction and 5% of base costs of rubber and windbreak establishment.
Assumed price increases amount to 20% of base costs plus physical con-
tingencies and are based on annual price escalation for goods and services
of domestic and foreign origin in US dollar equivalents of 7.5% in 1984,
7.0% in 1985 and 6% annually in 1986-88.
Financing
65.       Bank Group assistance would be S100.0 million (34% of project cost
net of duties), consisting of an IDA credit of SDR 37.R million ($40.0
million equivalent) and an IDA Special Fund credit of SDR 56.8 million
($60.0 million equivalent) for which the Association woul.1 act as Administra-
tor. The balance of S201.0 million would be met from funds from the Central
Government ($84.2 million), proceeds from a development cess levied on
rubber production ($66.6 million) and retained profits of the state farms
(S50.2 million). The IDA and Special Fund credits would finance the foreign
exchange expenditures as well as $20.5 million of local expenditures.
Procurement
66.       The IDA credit would finance agricultural and construction machinery
and vehicles ($15.6 million), a timber complex ($6.0 million), training and
research equipment ($1.2 million), plantation and windbreak establishment
($15.5 million) and technical assistance (S1.3 million). International
competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with Bank Group Guidelines would be
followed in the procurement of the first three categories above. The IDA
Special Fund credit would finance additional agricultural and construction
machinery and vehicles (S3.3 million), a second timber complex (S5.9 million),
sawmills ($L.6 million), chemical fertilizers (S22.4 million) and plantation
and windbreak establishment ($23.5 million). Under the IDA Special Fund
credit, procurement of items in all categories except the last would be
through ICB limited to suppliers from Part II countries and from those Part
I countries eligible for Special Fund procurement. Domestic manufacturers
would receive a preference of 15% or the applicable customs duty, whichever
is less, in bid evaluation.  Small items of equipment costing not more than
$50,000 each and $1 million in aggregate for the Special Fund credit and
$3 million in total for the IfA credit could be procured on the basis of
three price quotations under procedures satisfactory to the Association.
Establishment of rubber and windbreaks on state farms (S143.9 million) and
in the joint ventures ($13.4 million), and construction of buildings
($54.2 million) and roads ($11.3 million), would be carried out by force
account employing workers on participating farms and communes. Since these
works are relatively small, geographically dispersed, and will be
implemented over the whole project period, they are not suitable for ICB.
BEST COPY AVAILABLE



- 19 -
Disbursements
67.       Disbursements would be at the rates of 100% of the foreign exchange
costs or 100% of the ex-factory price for locally-manufactured equipment,
vehicles and goods from both credits; and 100% of total costs for consultants'
services and for overseas training. Disbursements for rubber and windbreak
establishment on state farms, excluding fertilizer, would be 27% of total
expenditures (11% from the IDA credit and another 16% from the IDA Special
Fund credit), based on statements of expenditure supported by progress reports
showing physical quantities and on unit prices on which an understanding was
reached with the Government. No disbursements would be made against other
project expenditures. It is estimated that disbursements would be completed
by about June 1989, and the Closing Date for disbursements would be December
31, 1989 (DCA and SFCA 2.04).
Accounts and Audits
68.       The PGB employs a comprehensive system of financial administration
in which accounting units at each level (brigade, farm, prefecture and PGB)
submit aggregated financial accounts covering capital construction and pro-
duction expenses to the next higher level. Assurances were obtained that the
PGB would maintain separate project accounts and that they would be audited
annually by independent auditors acceptable to the Association and submitted
within six months of the close of each financial year. The audit report would
certify inter alia that expenditures for which IDA disbursements were claimed
on the basis of statements of expenditure had been incurred for the intended
purposes (DCA and SFCA 4.01).
Environmental Effects
69.       The project is expected to have a positive environmental impact.
No problems are expected from land clearing and planting of rubber and wind-
breaks because of PGB's sound conservation practices developed over some 30
years. Improved windbreak establishment and utilization are expected to
enhance timber and fuelwood supplies and reduce destructive cutting of
forests. The project would provide for proper terracing, retaining natural
cover whenever possible, restricting rubber planting to lands with slopes of
less than 47% and establishing intercrops or protective covers. Agricul-
tural chemicals would be used carefully and in limited quantities. Assurances
were obtained that the Government would ensure that effluents from plants
processing rubber from the project would be treated in accordance with sound
environmental practices (DCA and SFCA 3.07).
Monitoring and Evaluation
70.       Each participating state farm and joint venture would provide
information on project implementation regularly to the PMO. The PMO would
submit twice yearly progress reports to the Association within two months of
the end of each project semester. When disbursements are completed, the
PM0 and the CGB would jointly prepare an assessment of project results
(DCA and SFCA 3.04(d)).
BEST COPY AVAIUBLE



- 20 -
Processing and Marketing
71.       Under the project 85% of the rubber would be processed into
standard block rubber, and the balance into latex concentrate and crepes.
Additional capacity for block rubber processing would be required by the early
to mid-1990s. In the interim, the PGB would carry out a study to determine
the optimum size and phasing of these installations. Rubber production from
the project would be marketed as now through the National Federation of Supply
and Marketing Cooperatives which maintains offices on most state farms.
72.       If rubber consumption in China expands by about 4% annually, as
would be expected on the basis of population and income growth, by the year
2000 it would approach one million tons. Although some expansion of synthetic
rubber production is underway, prospects for future growth are uncertain
because of possible limited supplies of raw materials. A plausible supply
scenario might include synthetic rubber production of about 300,000 tons
annually, leaving a potential domestic market for natural rubber of 700,000
tons. Domestic production of natural rubber in the year 2000, including out-
put from this project of 72,000 tons, could be in the range of 300,000 tons.
It is thus expected that the domestic market will easily absorb project
output.
73.       Marketing of other project outputs should present no difficulties.
Incremental supplies from the intercrops would be relatively small and
would be limited to the early years of the project. Pineapples would be
processed by r.earby canneries. Sugarcane would be milled on nearby state
farms where spare processing capacity exists and then sold in the local
market which has been growing at more than 4% annually. Output of
groundnuts and sweet potatoes would be consumed by producing families or
sold in local markets. Most of the output from the timber complexes (fur-
niture and panels) would be marketed domestically to supply needs of the
expanding housing and construction industries.
Production Benefits
74.       Annual production of rubber from the project would peak at 72,000
tons, equivalent to about 7% of projected total rubber consumption in the
year 2000. The windbreaks would provide 3.3 million cu m of timber, of
which 1.3 million would be sawlogs, over a 32-year period, and felling of
old rubber an additional 0.45 million cu m of sawlogs. The timber processing
facilities would increase supplies of wood products (furniture components
and wood-based panels) which are expected to find ready markets in China.
Intercropping would absorb surplus labor on state farms and communes,
generate early cash flows and increase local supplies of food crops: about
45,000 tons of pineapples, 75,000 tons of sugarcane, 7,650 tons of groundnuts
and 207,000 tons of sweet potatoes. Technology introduced by the project is
adaptable to other rubber growing areas of China and is expected to lay a
sound basis for future production and efficiency gains in rubber and timber
on state farms and communes.
BEST COPY AVAILABLE



- 21 -
Incomes and Employment
75.       The concept of farm income derived from an individually operated
plot is not applicable in the project area where land is owned by the state
and managed by state farms which employ wage labor. Be ause incomes of
state farm workers are already relatively high (about Y 180 p.a., including
various subsidies and bonuses), despite a labor surplus, further increases in
real wages on state farms are not foreseen. Income benefits of the project
are likely to take the form of income and employment gains for commune
members in the joint ventures and greater employment opportunities for the
unemployed or underemployed on state farms.
76.       At full development, the tapping and processing of rubber from
40,000 ha would require an additional 44,800 job equivalents. The joint
ventures are expected to provide supplementary employment opportunities for
commune members equivalent to about 3,400 full-time jobs annually during
implementation. Incremental work requirements on state farms are likely to
be met by new entrants to the labor force, transfers from other farms and,
possibly, additional labor time from those presently underemployed. In view
of existing underemployment, the net new full-time jobs created in rubber
may be fewer than 44,800, but additional employment would result from
intercropping, in forestry and wood processing and among managerial and
technical support staff. Additional distributional benefits would come from
the expected increase in financial assistance to communes from state farm
profits.
Financial and Economic Prices
77.       Farmgate financial prices generally are projected to remain
constant in mid-1983 values, in view of the Government's commitment to
maintain agricultural production incentives and avoid undue inflationary
pressures. Economic prices for rubber and chemical fertilizers are based
on Bank Group price forecasts, adjusted for location and quality differences
and expressed in mid-1983 values. Conversion factors are used to derive
economic prices for items which do not enter into international trade. The
financial wage of Y 1.50/man-day paid in the project area is considered to
substantially exceed the value of labor's marginal product and contains
welfare elements. The economic cost of labor is considered to be in the
range of Y 0.50/man-day. This relatively low economic value for labor in
the project area takes into account current substantial surplus labor (about
12% of the work force on project farms) as evidenced by overt unemployment
and underemployment on both state farms and communes, limited possibilities
for out-migration, and the likelihood that the increase in the state farm
labor force during project implementation (1984-88) would be more than twice
the net full-time jobs expected to be created by the project at full
development.
78.       The current financial price for rubber is more than twice the
economic (world) price projected for 1983. This reflects efforts to stimulate
rubber production and the need for state farms to finance social overhead
BEST C5PY AVAILABLE



- 22 -
costs and exercise other governmental functions. In view of expected
increasing domestic demand for rubber, and given China's potential for
expanded rubber production at satisfactory economic rates of return, a
favorable economic environment for rubber production should be maintained.
Financial prices are therefore assumed to remain greater than economic
prices, although this differential is expected to decline as world prices
for rubber are projected to rise in real terms. An understanding was
reached that the Government would, over the next two years, examine its
production and management systems in natural rubber, with a view to further
increasing efficiency. This examination would cover major cost categories
such as labor, material inputs, and infrastructure, the possibilities for
cost reductions, yield prospects and their effects on production costs, and
recommendations for cost reductions. Continued productivity gains should
permit some reduction in producer prices, although this would best be done
over time as part of a general price reform. A reduction in the financial
price in the short run would reduce or eliminate the flow of profits which
rubber farms now remit to the central government. Over time lower prices
probably would encourage the use of less labor in rubber, although
employment for displaced labor would be difficult to find.
Financial Analysis
79.       Financial rates of return after taxes for rubber and timber pro-
duction in the three prefectures and the joint ventures are in the 13-16%
range. The financial return for the timber complexes is about 22%. Income
from the felling of old rubber and from wood processing would make a
sizeable contribution to cash flows during project implementation, although
a cumulative cash deficit of about Y 145 million in 1989-92 would renuire
funding from state farm earnings or reserves and the rubber development
cess. Upon completion of the project, the Government would provide che
funds, services and other resources necessary to maintain, bring into
production and exploit effectively the rubber plantings, and install
necessary processing facilities (DCA and SFCA 4.02). Beginning in 1993,
project income would regularly exceed costs.
80.       The Central Government would recover its capital grants and
proceeds from the IDA and Special Fund credits through a combination of
agricultural taxes, profit remittances, and the replanting cess. In present
value terms, with all annual values discounted at 12X over the 35-year
project life, the charges would be equivalent to 78% of project rent. On
this basis, the cost recovery index for the contribution from the Central
Government (Y 160 million) and the IDA and Special Fund credits (Y 190
million) would be 166%. Rent and cost recovery indexes also may be
calculated to reflect the additional cost which the Central Government pays
to obtain project output locally rather than from foreign sources. Treating
this cost, measured as the difference between foreign and domestic prices
for project output, as revenue foregone, the rent recovery index declines to
about 30% and tne cost recovery index to 70%. These figures are considered
reasonable.



- 23 -
Economic Analvsis
81.       In the economic analysis, project costs of S36.2 million for
construction of housing, schools and health facilities were excluded, as
were costs (and possible benefits) of S1.6 million for the sawmills on state
farms. Discounting costs and benefits over 35 years, the project's economic
rate of return is about 17%. This rate of return is relatively high for
long gestation tree crops such as rubber and reflects the contribution from
intercropping and wood processing in the early years of the project. At a
discount rate of 12%, which is considered to approximate the oppportunity
cost of capital in China, the net present value of the project is S106
million. Sensitivity of the economic rate of return was tested to cost
overruns, implementation delavs, shortfalls from projf.zted yields or prices
and variations in the economic value of farm labor.  No single variant
proved crucial to the project's economic viability. An economic wage of
Y 3fman-day, or about twice the expected market wage for casual labor, would
have to be assumed to reduce the ERR to 12%. Economic prices of both rubber
and timber at full development would have to fall simultaneously bv about
39%, which is unlikely, to reduce the economic rate of return to 12%.
Risks
82.       The project faces no significant technical or organizational risks.
The major clones to be used in rubber planting have been proven through
local cultivation; the newer clones have shown promise in smaller plantings
in China and would be limited to less than 20% of the area. Basic cultural
practices in windbreaks have been used for a number of years in the project
aLea; improved practices in windbreaks .aid rubber have been proven in other
countries and will be intrcduced through project-supported research and
training activities. The implementing agency (PGB) has considerable
experience in rubber cultivation and the annual new planting and replanting
program in the project is within its achievements in 1977-81. The PGB's
industrial experience is less extensive, although it manages a number of
industrial operations, including a hardboard factory. A possible uncertainty
relates to full implementation of the joint ventures, where experience is
limited. This uncertainty is expected to be kept within acceptable bounds
through control and close su -rvision by state farm management.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUXENTS AND AUTHORITY
83.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the People's
Republic of China and the Association, the Special Fund Credit Agreement
between the People's Republic of China and the Association as Administrator
of the Special Fund, and the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in
Article V, Section 1 (d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Association,
are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
,er n.9y        AR.g..!ABLE



- 24 -
84.       An additional condition of effectiveness of the proposed credits
would be that China's State Council shall have approved the Development
Credit Agreement and the Special Fund Credit Agreement (DCA and SFCA,
Section 6.01).
85.       Special conditio's of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III.
86.       I am satisfied that the proposed credits would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOHMENDAIION
87.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credits.
A. I. Clausen
President
November 7, 1983
Washington, D.C.



BEST COPY AVAILABLE
- 25 -
ANNEX I
Page 1 of 6
CMUHA. EEOFLES REP. OF - SuCIAL IMED WAtS DA%TA SHEET
CWIA*. EoLE-zsK REF.                 REFPESUE  OUPS [(IEIGU     AIAS) I
rOST                      (MST RECESr ESTL'ATE) lb
/          b  RECEST               LW IIC£               !mIDDLE -SCrrE
1960-     1970-M ESTfr,fEL           ASTA & PACIFIC          AStA £ PACIFIC
TOTAL                             956t10      9561.0      9561.o
AGRICULTURAL                      3176.3      3213.0      3182.9
<i M   CAl (US$)                       40.Of      90.0       300.o              Z7.7 .1O:.5
v  WomDrnauprm  CAfl
cxaLoGRAs OF CAL.E 4UITALrar)      340.0       427.0       618.0              w8.4                      792.e
OPAINx AMVrviL sM%tTC&
P`PULATION.MID-ihAR CTli0CDSU    683400.0   838000.0   991300.D
URAM POPULATIOK (: OF TOTAL)        t8.4d         ..        20.6               21.5                     32.9
PoPaLATIos PRORCnoIs
POPCLATIO  T5 YEAR  2000 (WELL)                         119727
SrArrOBARh  POPULATrIO1 (CEL)                           1*34-6
YEAR STATIOSAR  POP- REACfl                             2040
POPuLTog DENmSI
PER SQ. &-.                       71.5        B7.7       102.5              161.7                    260.7
PER sq  M  ACtl. LARD            215.2       261.1       307.8              363.1                   1696.5
POPULATION ACE STRICTURE CZ)
0-14 I S                         38.9        37.7        32.2               36.6                     39.4
15-64 nS                          56.3        57.2        62.4               59.2                     57.2
65 An sOV                          4.8         5.1         5_4                4.2                      3.3
POPMLATTIo  CR0M  RATE (:)
TrOAL                              1_-         2.1         1.3                1.9                      2.3
URBN                                 ..         .._         ..                4.0                      3.9
CEDE BIRTH RATE (PER T90)           35.9/e      34.1        20.9               Z9.3                     31.3
CSRUD DEATH RATE (PER   0Us5)       2 3.77;      9.8         7-8               10.9                      9.5
GRtSS RESRODUCTotr RAE               2.5T7;      2.6         1.4                2.0                      Z.8
FAMILY PLASNInC
ACCEPrmS A       (THWI CTM;
USERS C: OF lARRIED AE)             ..          .-        74.0/f             68.1                     46.6
woeo An muoraim
INDEX OF FOOD PROC. PER CAPITA
(1969-fl-100)                                  100.0       117.0              11t.4                    125.2
PER CAPITA SILY OF
CALORIES (: OF RRJUlbRP!ETS)      73.8/.      88.7       107.0               98.1                     114.2
PROTIS (CGMS PER DAT)             49.47;      53.0       65.0               56.7                      57.9
OF li:RCR AUS!AL AND PULSE         . .       12.7        15.0               13.9                     14.1
CHLD (AES 1-4) DEATH RATE           26.1/e      10.7         7.2               12.2                       7.6
HEALTH
LTFE EXPECT. AT BITH CTEA3S)**      40.54       57.9        67.2               59.6                      60_2
TERAST NORT. RATE (PER THOIUS)*    165-07e      90_0        71n0              96.6                      6a.1
ACCSS TO SAFE WATER (`POP)
TUrAL                                                                        32.9                      37.1
MtBAS                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~70.8          4.
RURAL                               ..          ..           .               22.2                     26.4
ASS TO EICRETA DISPOSAL
(:?OF POPMLATIO)
TOTAL                                                                        IsF1.                    41.4
URBAN                                .           .           .                .                       47.5
RURAL            ..         ..          ..               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4.7  33.4
POPCLAcOr PEa PlYSIC              8330.0/b   3800.0/b    1920.0/h           3506.0                    7771.9
POP. PER NURSINC PERSOS           4020.0      2840.0      184.C              6797.9                   2462.6
POP. PER HOSPIAL BO
TOrAL                           1010.0       760.0       490.0             1100.6                   1047.2
URBAN                            210.0          ..       160.0              298.4                    651.1
RURAL                          10140.0          ..      1010.0             5941.6                   2591.9
ADISSIONS PER HOSpTA  3E              ..          ..          ..                 ..                     27.0
AVERAGE SIZE OF HmSEHQO
TOTAL                               ..          ..         5.2
URBAN                                                      4.2
RURAL                                                      5.5
AVERACE NO. OF PEHSOWS/Ro
TOTAL
UR8Ws
RMRAL
ACCESS To ELECT. (E or DwELINGS)
TOTAIL
URBA,.
RURAL



1ts5l COPY AVAILABLE
- 26 -                                     ANEX I
Page 2 of 6
RA. PEOES RP. OF - SOCM I 1An AS urA SHEE _
A.KKA, PEO      I- .                R S             C.Muo A'EUGS) la
!oS                      QOesT RICES? u    r) lb
LOW IIICWE           ltOLE 1ICG
1960.      197ZO    StEAThL         ASIA 4 PACIFC          ASIA & PACIF
AJD.S?aO EOLINEI   R=OS
PRThAUR-  TOTAL ..O                         tlO,O      117.0              96.1                    101.2
LE                       ..         ..       16.007.                                    106.0
FEs-LE                   ,,         ,,       106.0              82-9                     975
SECO110ARY: TOTAL                21.0       23.0        34.0              30.2                     ".9
FJILF                             4~~~0.0           37.3                     50.0
FEMALE                                        Z7. 27.0          22.2                     50.6
VOCATIONAL (: OF SECAWW)             ..          ..        2.2               2-3                     18.5
PUPfl-TI.ACKER RArIO
pKL-AR                                                  26_0              34.4                     32.7
SECONDARY                          ._                   17.0              18.4                     23.4
ADULT 3.ItERACY RATE (E)           43.0/d       .-        69.011            53.5                     72.9
PASSEOER CARsllW5A5D POP             I. --                  --               1.6                      9.7
RDIO RECEIVERSJOUSARD POP            ..         ..       150.6              96.F                    l13.7
TV RECEIVEUsITFWSAND POP             .           *        15.8               9.9                     50.1
NE,APER. (DAILY GENERAL
MERESTr ) CIRCLATICO
PER TR=AWD POPULATOI                 .          .          ..              16.4                     54.0
CINA ASUL ATIMA CAPITA,               .         ..          ..               3.6                      34
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOCS)     319589.0-  377495.0   463348.0                  -
FESEALE [PERCERN)                38.3       38.0        37.2              33.3                     33.6
AURICILTURE (PERCElA                           -        68.9              69.0                     50.9
INDUSTRY (PERCET)                                       18.7              15.8                     19.2
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TorAL                            46.8J      45.0        46.7              42.5                     38.6
'IALE                            15.9J      54.5        57.0              54.4                     50.7
FLME                             37.O0      35.0        35.9              29.8                     26.6
ECONt2C DEPEPOERCY RATIO           0.9L       1.0         0.J               1.0                      1.1
IQS D54313010
paEr  CF PRnltE Ircf
RECEIYI BY
RlCUES  : OF RDIISEILDS            ,,          ,        12.5/k            16.5                     Z2.2
EfFXGST 20 OF H0USE5OLDS           ..         ..        39.37x            43.5                     48.0
LouEs 2G OF HDOSEDS                ..         -6 S8                        6.9                      6.4
LOCS 402 OF HOUSEM.DS             ..          .-       18 47             17.5                     15.5
ESrInATED ASOSOTE POVRTE I1COE
LEM. CMS p  CAPITA)
URUJ                               .1 ..                  ..             t33.9                    194.5
RURAL                              -          --          --             111.6                    155.0
ESMIATED RELATIE POVERTY IIEllQ
LEVEL CUSS PER CAPITA)
02Psm                              -..                     ..                                     178.0
RURAL                                                                                             164.8
ESTEATED POP. 8N.W AlSOLtUE
POVERTr ISCOI!E LEVEL  (:)
URBPS                                                                     43.B                     24.4
RURAL                                          -           -               517                    *1.1
NOT AVAILABLE
NOr APPLICABLE
RO TE s
In The group arages for each indicator are population-weigbted aritdmetle mans  Coeraee of countrtes ao  tehe
lndicators depends on  a.illblty of data and Is not wilfors.
t  Unless otherwise noted. -Data for 1960- refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; 'Data for 1970- between 1969 and
1971; and data for Most lcent Estimte between 1979 and 1981.
/c  Interpolated 1957-62 data; /d 1964; /e 1955-65 average; Jf Percentmge of wmen of reprwodotive age; tg 1955.64
average: th Senlor doctor of westerrod5icine; /i 19D2; a 1957; fk Dlscribotlon of peopte ranked by bouseholds per
capita -cone.
* All data exclude TaItfn. Cbhis.
*  All population and vital statistics are BUsk esteites wbich differ from Chinese officist statistics.
Formta eduwction only; non-for_l enrollset is substantial.
Definition mg cocerage differ from those of Chines official sttisties.



BEST COPY AVAILABLE
-27 -                                                                ANINEXKI
Page 3 of 6
w70lzo01o or esCrt. Dat-tes
hats:Littoth  h, dta ea drs.a Ie. enat  aa-dLy Ca-u th   -    .earttta. sa  tall..u  -.at  aLas-   Sla_d that ti!  a  -   he teartmss Kr
oa.ersta bast. atttalat  at.tadsrttaddufattan se cuttt.  aadby CL  attt-trt  Lare Irtetct.dt.Is dataare -.-L.atlas   -utut W
daorhaar.s  t  ..atua.ta ts. ra-,sa   hsaca.a  canal.uas  dlfrse    .ae   saelt
Tha eferaa. jrase_ar  LI   t        .atytoro   h   ejc    .-try  ad12aostrgspatha.de   tluratase...tateCtAter.puth
tajt  .tee  err  o   la,   raAaI  uatrss-  agt ftd-elt   orharLsattdi   C.'Lacershtae   !.lsar..h-ctus
sttaet.  -7  l.eoaroo  tuedaaet   ueci.ar   urtst.. thtd  ttte i ga. a  sc.tdia.. sd.lu  al,ae.ssr                     h -a teeaatt.   a
seaba   at   arta  tetctr.Ot  t-,          "dsrs at1 "a.art         ,  Pn    h   atsaedpaae  h    allbtt   !dt  a   eglttea    tatly ath
esrloaad   . raatte  a-trn c   tsdoata  Ca  atlir.  ~e.a  eeraea at asy stId L rasarta  theaah.  it ea tdita.,t  t. tn anCtheos _ty sa
GPPfl.CdTats  -L~ tacast  ofWrl    l.rlae   adtauatra   e'aael                                     aesaOeasat   sss   etta   asrLaa. ptlete-.                       autta a-
tarereo. aht.ea. erhe  sa  atobu a- daa  - taIt  ta.7ie: -Lel.)                          bI tat ll aattilrtaa
-                      COP~~~~~~M  COtrd,    1~170 C-F, - Otrt  at                     PIiro   e  etu   are   er           aealube i, peIt  sad retest  -t"a.rs   sa  aaialae  haptta. asi
-attta   taPIaet.gts   I-   n   hart arIa. rtt,l-tl h -.to)                                                                                                              I.attat.,Sat   Sslsaaeatbiut   ouaal   tt
t     Pa U. .   o:daa                                                                       sa IlaaaI-.ee        ".~ -  etau.lsa   Caehlttnts -raedte  orctlall  satuta
ta -SL-taLsdad.          P...a .  IIsptst -ameet  Cgla    eatha
1.50  Ih77. se toa daa.                                                              sbaa   supiala  galaI ,      s rreelelltaaralhasptal.  as  tra
aealr.aldtsa.tld-aartthasaida -le   flat fer1  SQtT.adll                                  ttaa        r Isrelet, A- ha           heratatstI'd t  lthas
data.                                                               Ire. haapttala dtatdad~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1-  ho the   -arLat hedt
trba  Pea!atatfrotaa  attate! -tata a  aras  a ttetIsPaI     owIaOtsa;                                                                -    -~        I.
ens ertta   lIs. 351. sa  tat   d ta.wse   t.atla.aadI aca  sat -r".W                    P.-.at.ald) - totl.-aat. tdrua
fatala    las.1sad fatal      Z. -. lI.asotar   ttatitotg  t  7                       4... -ts.raatooaet.1 4-eltast etld   esa1-po.teretr
atar.  7. yratta fr fCe ItIt.      I rat. alts   La.tthos    stattlatptpt.
saa-tr  daltris  att Ctt   ittarl   to. Lacas  laa  sa   atfal                      raat   lattt.(n.    ti.laet-ttl   rs.sdtn
Ptsaa.   tdte  - Ia a    .tat.a.r   p l-a?. than   -La-a COttaSt                                                                             -.-r    PCI
-att-l  ratetf aeS.    o ! tStt Sat rotade-tlsarat.. IOt .Cca .taal -tatal tair arC fe `al. - Cag plet! Sata   ea
asl asraL. a?      t r-Cla It,It  -ucl. tsaslmayerL-aa   a     seat_ at th                                                       -Itar   Leatl sa p atg.d .1  raptt
rotit-     aec.-    otate   -te  el.a  the  Praj-t               - thZsa-                               -rnt  al.,&ls.  Pa.lhaa   atiLy It.laS  t.ldta   a5d 
trelstlI alsal   e  tta.Sacter  acl%l-   ttl  aesisftl    Ct-Igl-d -  aba.;agadr
tuts. aas: IhLo 107. sad  5111 dIs.                                           lts assLly-I   -E I  ta 17 Yeasa   g;eat.adee  are   r
guly;  ost. Ita  -  zCy   dat.                                                       ra.atta.al at.a_le.t ta-.tcM  atsradpt   ttta              rlLeatui
tte.lstls kaStraeora(ret5 t  -d fllta  t- P. year.). Erhl-t  (1d        -                  taiuLa  -etato      .      tdsrta.arohr  rsanfIe&aetdaYd
- prt,  S  to ea  lb  ptsaMSta)      tta-ssaatuldye-                                     tt v      s  deursot.at  aery         vsttrtlsa
paplstat;104. tt. aC) L:dat.          -taa-tLsheeratt  ersu t. agtsde      otltaltsarate
eea-  LeI= Iatr  094. lOh;tt as  1970.42.                                                      run       tatIctta
ftapotaeu   rsi  aelars)-uta-ags   e-bna   tshaAutltre  rsta Ctroest) - l.l-teett  adut. (able to  oa   -Mant) Pu
VIPtiatsa  tr.  LS5-go  IOaI.            004-1                                                 a  orera  ta; adut itpwalaLa  aged 1) waa   sser
Puetstta; ll0~  570 sad10(  data                                                       ta1a-lg   e   ne-  aLeht parsuh  ostad.4                       bI-eIPI a a  ag
tetlt   ats   -gly  Iesersaed.  ela   . OO  iL,.sbuaese                                                                              L.e.slrbIlpe hasa   t  salta: aluu 
fell rIsala  - icaper. --Lt ftha-saadt)    seaI           . at  -atp-s                   t.e      . Isette; daLe tat raau  Year Sa  -   haCupsal  tC   au
pragre.                                                                      It tecuttur~~~~~PI-ft. LeaPtuast IEC-tultui-Y   aeea.trtalat
tsulePla.i.a- t.r lrrettat seia  ns.!- trceog.  t  rrl$                arralpatt  C.rt-tusotso-eluia..;               Pt auLdsE-ltra -d I  rrla
u atttt.Ost..sate 1t.  ausul        ag  OLtO-rett  dstoeuts  o rasct.s  id  l asrt deeralstrttesat  t st. as L  .frtt
sflaarrtod..o.aleaaaaa.tta.r                        .as...artrtgiafls..prrtt.gaa.4oa,siato.l-tI.altaaoeras
tEaS tO, t~a!?5                                                         cifOtat tatat  till  toserl tataro eaast..or~.datisadsa a rrtudiI            a
cott. ai  eattreagoldut)   sgr-a. pru&artLa  at  -h ou lty L.                          Satl  a-Let..
basa  a.  utLss  s-aag  rr-desa  rrtrt s ha  lL-ti. 1970. sadI MI4
datu.                                                                       Idart rout.~~~c.__   PF- f~dl    t-l,17                -                         -
!eT. reti s            1,ae a   raara.tr.raa   t aotrgat.     Curoa  taslau  Ita  trr  ths-oel  pa.sLaLyeate  prua.  seadeLIts
day.  bsIlatle appflas cuaprlt        1etulerr dto -Ls tpsrt  lae                         a           -.stes   al sasL. hater- '  La artas   totl. ar  us E -
aS  bsga.LuasaL.Sa raupplia  esi PhItots a  load.  Sas.                          osptsf   taLC.IWO -i LollP,C dta.   - -f                ty PIt Pi
t Iqt"aaa      _atLatlh  ttbaa    ahrtatsttl uad   -lfarSaas                                 flLrstar _Veese    -  t-h9fat  LaE tesatge.  t          *ru Wtry.  heett ee
ale.15-  dutrbatag   t Ppelfls. sd a1Iets La ptrueta   utottoet(oeet  - :Ithet tar.  It utiu,   eatatlg   a2atr
eatasyl  a! ta   pr day. ha! usppy at fastIs dsttaa&d as atute                              tatLLtaht  (toroe) - eats. -uLa. ..d fata. - ferLopti..  -
IIarest  u   l  ceartas areulshd by 17025 praede far titia                            etleity rat.  art ea t-ff as t-al. -si.. sa. r...le tatu  fsret
al.psa.of  -krl LO Wta   .-eId h. saise  toa-t-    Cht                                  OS   90  a   tidr-Teestbn                         tsttttsst-
a      .sls   rlLu._asatl  ts  th  aid-  rap-ea  y7FA teaI  tiels  -ttlta                               -tr.eLasanau
Pet         -.1. tart usetLu fra  autaa sa  ru        rt-taaer5rtu                               the toa-    su   a
Darea.  Cr-  sE.lt. ag  pains 15 seas  Mr la;  94:         0  107 M P 397
Otl   e.141 tuat haeeo   taad                    trt   e   b ta                         trtaatat  atrtae   e            (gore ta tat   WaS hIS) a tn-Its  by etoha.e I,
rastr..daa drtott    Its. ebia-: 1MC0. 1970 sa!Ll dat.                                  b.O,iu
se birh lOW C.. 19-0 a  totif daaPheed ha tat-tretta   uti  eAutrahla rag-a
Isfate ..r-tste     Atafa the-sad) - lo,ldth   tit.salrEstLuatd sbsslge  Ieua igsu  best (CU er eaett) - uratasras  a
yea   t  g   arPC ussa  l      bIhrtta;  MO41) 1970 sad LONt ets                                  aueP-..tY L.aa   lat  ia t     Isoan lean  halt CLftz5  LttSa
mra aspLy CLutIsla  tratd tarta. aC-ta.a   arse   a                                         atoa   eaLaPertitt   nl(5   e  tta  - urtut aSne
aseeesalaeadastr tah aseba  Etg  pruttta  tabala.. uPna[.d                              P__uIa rL_et  paan  I-a _       L-tl L. au-titId at starag   "arttt
ses   eaapbl I. faat    a. .tsatpa  lutt   -s au-  thub0_          aa                    ,a   tbadatrefrhge   n  ut I 1.1toeItrausa.
fru -he.sy he  -Isadaa  u    loattblt  -,esblr --ea  at nt                            talsta  Psglete e    Sb-lte teeteto  Zta    nl(erae      r
saaa  tehaatt       etga Is aputa a dlspoaItertlsa   part. at                                  pear't                                  - 
the da  Lu totbLo  the-L Cattle'. tater eaudt
dca     -hh tinstata!Cettatetttat-sti an.s
tas! - -ab    at MreIesi.ha,n nal                   ttdhsret
aisuga  s   ranttst at their  rapotl-1uelela. trtadau
-,  ease  te  siatls  ad  stasl.edb . Iltbuat - trulas. a                                                                oa.t         allLesttot
prietat as tlullar laatallstluua.-    ,                                                                                         Way7.t   291



BEST COPY AVAILABLE
- 28 -                                             ANNEX I
Page 4 of 6
Population: 1,008 million (mid-1982)
GNP per capita:  US$300 (1982)
CHINA - ECONOMIC IUDICATORS
Annual Growth (X) at Constant Prices
l957-70   1970-77   1978   1979   1980   1981   1982
Production
Gross Output
Agriculture                     2.2       3.4      9.0    8.6    3.9    6.6   11.0
Light industry                  8.3       7.8     10.8    9.6   18.4   14.1    5.7
Heavy industry                 11.6       9.3     15.6    7.7    1.4   -4.7    9.9
Net Material Product (NNP)         5.2      4.8      12.4    7.0    6.1    4.8    7.4
1957    1970    1917    1Y/8   199    1910    1981   1982
Prices
Retail price Index (E190-100)  92.2   100.0   102.7   103.3    l05.4   111.7   114.4  116.6
NHP deflator        (1970-100)  90.7   100.0    99.1   100.5    104.5   108.4   110.5  110.9
Exchange rate       CY/0US)      2.46    2.46    1.86    1.68       1.55    1.50    1.71   1.89
A3ount                                                    Average Annual Growth
1982                 Shares of GDP (Z)                   (t) at Constant Prices
National Accounts            (S billion)   19Y7    19/9    1982    1945    L990  1957-70  1970-79  1979-82  1982-90
to       /9
GDP                          Z60.4       100.0   1UU.D   100.0   100.0   10U.0    5.8        5.8       6.0      6.5
Agriculture                 9b.1          ..    32.5    36.9    32.4    27.9    1.6        3.2      5.8       3.2
Industry                   105.4          ..    43.5    40.5    44.4    4.1   12.1        8.9      7.4       8.2
Other                       58.9          ..    24.0    22.6    23.2    24.0    3.5        4.3       1.2      7.1
Consumption                  181.6        76.4    68.4    69.7    73.8    76.7    2.7        5.4       5.7      7.4
Investment                    13.2        23.2    32.5    28.1    27.5    25.0    9.8        6.8       2.3      4.8
Exports CNFS                  24.9         3.7/b   6.0      9.6     8.7     8.1    1.6/b    8.0/b   14.1        4.3
Imports CNFS                  19.3         3.5/b   6.8      7.4    10.0     9.8    2.3/b    9.4/b    2.7        7.9
National savings              79.6        23.6/c  31.9    30.6    26.4    23.0
As Z of GDP
Public Flanrce                                 1957          1979          l981
Current revenue  (exciluding toreign         28.7          27.4         22.6
borroving)
Current expendItures                         16.1          17.7         14.6
Surplus (+) or deficit (-)                  +12.6           9.7     .   +8.0
Capital expenditures                         11.9          15.1          8.8
Foreign borrowing Id                          0.7           0.9          1.b
Other Indicators                             1957-79   1979-82   1982-85   1985-90
/a
GDP growth rate (Z)                          5.4       6.0        5.7        7.0
GDP per capita growth rate (2)               3.5       4.6        4.4       5.8
Energy consumption growth rate (C)           8.3
ICOR                                         5.4         ..        ..       3.8
Marginal savings rate                        0.42        ..        ..      0.16
Import elasticity                            0.95     0.45       1.82      0.93
/a  NHP basis.
Tb Goods only.
/T  GDS.
Td  Gross.



BEST COPY AVAILABLE
- 29) -ANNEX I
Page 5 of 6
Pnli lation: 1,008 million (mid-1982)
GrNi per capita:  USS3UU t198L,
qMINA - EtTERNAL TRADE
Amount                               Annual Growth Rates (t)
(million USS at                           (at constant 1980 prices)
Indicator                     current prices)                     Actual                          Projected
1982            19/8   1Y/   l980   1981   1982   1983   1984   IY85   1986
External Trade
Merchandise exports              Z2.416           10.1   25.5   16.8   15.9    6.2    3.3    3.3    3.3    3.0
Energy                          5,353             ..     ..      ..      ..     ,.  -15.1  -15.1  -15.1  -32.4
Other primary                   5,110                                                  1.9    1.9    1.9    5.0
Manufactures                   11,356             ..     ..      ..      ..     ..   10.5   10.5   10.5    9.0
Other                             657             ..     ..      ..      ..     ..   28.2   28.2   28.2    5.0
Merchandise imports              11,113           32.6   21.7   16.7   -8.6   -1.1   14.7   14.7   14.7    4.5
Food                            4,003             ..     ..      ..     ..      ..    6.4    6.4    6.4    3.0
Petroleum                            0            ..     ..      ..      ..           0       0      0 Oa
Machinery and equipment         3,405             ..     ..      ..      ..     ..   2/.7   27.7   27.7    5.0
Other                           9,/U5             ..     ..      ..     ..      ..  -ZO.3  -20.3  -20.3    4.9
Prices
Export price index (19/8-100)         ..        100.0  113.3  131.3  134.9  129.6  +20.3  +20.3  +20.3  180.9
Import price index (1978-100)         ..        100.0  119.4  139.2  145.5  124.1  148.6  164.1  179.1  192.5
Terms of trade Index (1978-100)    ..           10.0   95.2   94.3   92.7  104.5   92.7   93.1   93.6   94.0
Composition of Merchandise Trade (2)                  Average Annual Increase (2)
(at current prices)                             (at constant prices)
1978   1979   1980   1981   1_ 2   1985   1990   1957-70  1970-79  1979-82  1982-85  1985-90
Exports               100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0         1.6      8.0      14.8       3.3       5.1
Energy              13.8   19.5   25.1   22.9   23.8   10.9    0             ..       ..        ..    -15.1         /a
Other primary       39.7   34.1   28.4   24.1   22.8   24.2   23.8           ..       ..        ..       1.9       5.0
M4anufactures       4b.5   46.4   46.5   4/.8   50.5   59.5   70.9           ..        ..       ..      10.5       9.1
Other                0       U      0       5.2    2.9    5.4    5.3         ..        ..       ..      28.2       5.0
Inports              100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0          2.3      9.4       1.8      14.7       6.3
Food                   ..     ..      ..   19.6   21.5   20.0   16.8         ..       ..        ..       6.4       3.0
Energy               U       0      0       0       a      0       8.2       ..      O         0         0          /a
Machinery and       17.5   25.2   2/.5   24.2   18.2   26.7   25.1           ..        ..       ..      27.7       5.0
equipment                                                                           ..        ..    +ZU.3       4.9
Other                  ..     ..      ..   56.2   60.3   53.3   49.9
Share of Trade With
Share of Trade With          Share of Trade With             Countries with Centrally
Industrial Countries (T)   DevelopinR Countries (Z)             Planned Economies (Z) /b
Direction of Trade            1978            1981          1978            1981              1978            1981
Exports                     3/.3            45.9         61.6            50.2               11.1             3.9
Imports                     13.3            76.8         17.5            18.7                9.2             4.5
/a  China is expected to become a net importer of petroleut  between 1985 and 1990.
fb Includes the Soviet Union. Eastern Europe, Cuba, North Korea and Mongolia.



-30 -                     ANNEX I
rage oT 6 of 6
Population: 1,008 sillion (mid-1982)
GRP per capita: US$300 (1982)
CHINA - BALANCE OF PAYMENTS. EXTE2NAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(millions US$ at current prices)
Actual                       Projected
Indicator                         19/8    19 9    1980    1981       1982    1985    1990
(estimate)
Balance of Payments
Exports oT'goods 'nd services        10,606  15,351  20,901  25,157   25,989  37,064  69,551
of which: Merchandise f.o.b.       9,607  13,658  18,492  22,027   22,476  32,110  59,684
Imports of goods and services       11,912  17,582  23,946  23,628   20,096  42,209  86,018
of which: Merchandise c..i.f.     10,745  15.619  21,243  20,292   17,113  37,298  72,684
Net transfers                           597     656     640      467      471      767   1,017
Current account balance               -705  -1,575  -2,405   1,996    6,364  -4,378 -15,450
Private direct investment                 -       -      57      265      359      465     715
MLT loans (net)                       -830      822   1,756      769      202   3,913  16,840
Official                                                                 ..   3,231   5,546
Private                                                         ..               682  11,294
Other tapital                           822   1,362  1i,82    -787       -250
Change in net reserves ("- -
lncrease)                            708    -609    -490  -2,243   -6,675         0  -2,105
International reserves               6,283   6,892   7,382  10,096   16,245  16,842  24,158
of which:  gold                        ..      ..   5,120   5,120    5,120   5,120   5,120
Reserves as months imports              6.3     4.7     3.7      5.1      9.7      4.8     3.4
External CaPital and Debt
Gross disbursements
Concessional loans                     ..
DAC                                  ..      ..
OPEC                                 ..      ..
IDA                                   .       .       .        .        -
Other                                ..      ..
Nonconcessional loans
Official export credits              ..      ..
IBRD                                  .       .
Other multilateral                  ..       ..
Private                              ..      ..
External debt
Debt outstanding and disbursed         ..      ..   5,433   5,785    6,058
Official                             ..      ..
Private                                      ..           ..      ..
Undisbursed debt                       ..      ..
Debt service
Total service payrnents                ..      ..
Interest                            ..       ..
Payments as Z exports GNFS             ..      ..     5.0      7.8/a   10.0/a
Average interest rate on new
loans (X)
Average maturity of new loans
(years)
/a Including some early repayment of principal.



5Nl~ CUPY AVAILABLE
ANNEX I1
- 31 -
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
A. STATEHENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(as of September 30, 1983)
Loan or
Credit
Number  Year      Borrower           Purpose             Bank   IDA   Undisbursed
2021    1981   People's Republic   University
1167             of China              Development      100.0  100.0      155.9
1261    1982   People's Republic   N. China Plain
of China             Agric.               -   60.0       55.6
2207    1982   People's Republic   Ports                124.0      -      124.0
of China
1297    1982   People's Republic   Ag. Ed. and
of China             Research             -   75.4       74.0
2226    198Z   People's Republic   Industrial
1313             of China              Credit            40.6   30.0       70.6
2231    1983   People's Republic   Daqing
of China             Petroleum        162.4      -      162.4
2252    1983   People's Republic   Zhongyuan
of China             Petroleum        100.8      -      100.8
2261    1983   People's Republic   Heilongjiang Land
1347             of China             Reclamation        35.3   45.0      80.3
-      1983/a People's Republic   PolytechnlTV          -
of China             University           -   85.0       85.0
=      1983/a People's Republic   Technical
of China             Cooperation          -   10.0       10.0
Total                                   563.1  405.4      918.6
Total now held by Bank and IDA          563.1  405.4
Total undisbursed                       563.1  355.5
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(as of September 30, 1983)
None
/a Credits approved on September 13, 1983 (not yet signed).
Notes: The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a
separate report on all Bank/IDA financial prolects in execution,
which is updated twice yearly and circulated to the Executive
Directors on April 30 and October 31.



BEST COPY AVAILABLE
- 32 -
ANNEX IIT
CHINA
RUBBER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:          12 mouths
(b)  Project prepared by:                   Guangdong Provincial General
Bureau of State Farms and
Land Reclamation, assisted by
FAD, IDA staff and consultants
(c) First presentation to IDA and
first mission:                       April 1982
{d)  Departure of appraisal mission:        March 1983
(e)  Completion of negotiations:            October 1983
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:         March 1984
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Action
Assistance in drafting specifications for chemical fertilizers,
machinery and equipment.
Section III: Special Conditions
Special condition of effectiveness:
State Council to improve Development Credit Agreement and Special
Fund Credit Agreement (paragraph 84).
Other special conditions:
(a) Preparation of work and financing plans for following year by
September 30 for Association review (paragraph 63).
(b) Proper treatment of effluents from rubber processing plants to be
assured (paragraph 69).



BEST COPY AVAILABLE
IBRD 16867
ilk,                                                                                    ;# r ^ - *" h                                                 JANUARY 1BI1
GUA NGXI                                                              . o.   ,   GUANGDONG
*~ ~~~                          ~   .    -;Y,a,,: 
O.ZhW~~~~~~I4p
Z/A NJ/ANG
CHINA
,.~ -   ,    /-t- - --RUBBER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT AREAS
. Hm k                    -                                  ,,  PROIECT FARS ENGAGED IN:
REPLANTINIG
NEN PLANTING
.    STATE FARM HEADQUARTERS
- _'-;.ROADS
RAILWAYS
--RIVERS
F4 PORTS
PREFECTURAL BOUNDARIES
,' :1 ._PROVINCIAL BOUNDARIES
71*                                         - t:4 - -  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
20L
South Ch,nrc  Sea
iQ   - 4*N AN A 'Al
x             . -~~~~~~~-<-u -;  -'- 7 ,
* ~ ~~ ~~~T             IV 4r   Z  AvGz 8          -\..r.ys .....................                                 rALOETERS °.   n  7D  30   *D40 SO
Sc                          .a     ;         <                                                MILES
0    10 20 II  4 61
i                                                    Ii?~~~~~~~~~~~~~C I
*            GutCIBIoC -                          .  .                    /               --
''S '"' - -~~~~~~~~~~~~N  - -                                 0 n       C '\. .  -                    '  -S   - , . ' F- /w, .
+ _.~~~~~~~~nn 1.                                                                                                             *






