Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
C(v@I C'< co>py                                  Report No.10984
Aut 16   Up.&o   84  Cf' Jj)jj
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
RUBBER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 1417/ Special Fund 005-CHA)
Anigust 3, 1992
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department II
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their ofricial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENT
Currency Unit        -  Yuan (Y)
Rate of Exchange:   Appraisal            US$1.00 - Y1.90
1984           US$1.00 - Y2.40
1985           US$1.00 - Y3.00
1986           US$1.00 - Y3.20
1987-88        US$1.00 - Y3.70
1989-90        US$1.00 - Y4.70
1991           US$1.00 - Y5.20
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)          -  3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)     -  0.62 miles
1 hectare (ha)          15 mu
1 -on  (t)           -  1,000 kg
2,205 pounds
1 kilogram (kg)      -  2.2 pounds
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
CGB             -    Central. General Bureau of State Farms and Land Reclamation
EDI             -    Economic Development Institute
FA0Q/CP         -    Food and Agriculture Organization/Cooperative Program
GIS/MIS         -    Geographical Information System/Management Information
System
PCR             -    Proj zt Completion Report
PGB             -    Guangdong Provincial General Bureau of State Farms and Land
Reclamation
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFCIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD SANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Directt,-Genetal
Opetations Evauation
August 3, 1992
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:    Project Completion Report on China - Rural
Development Proiect (Credit 1417/SF 005-CHA)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on China - Rural Development Project (Credit 1417/SF 005-CHA)"
prepared by the East Asia and Pacific Regional Office with Part II of the report
contributed by the Borrower.  No audit of this project has been made by the
Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance  I
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OFFICIL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
RUBBER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 1417/SF 005-CHA)
Table of Contents
Page No.
Preface           .    .    .    .    ...     .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .
Evaluation  Summary    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .
I.  PART I - PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE  . . . . . 1
Project  Identity  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 1
Background  ..1
Project Objectives and Description   . . . . . . . . . . .   2
Project Design and Organization  . . . . . . . . . . . . .   3
Project Implementation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   3
Project  Results  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  7
Project Benefits and Sustainability  . . . . . . . . . . .   8
Bank  Performance  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    10
Borrower Performance.       . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   11
Conclusions: Summary and Lessons Learned   . . . . . . . .  11
Project Relationships  . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . .  13
Consulting Services  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  13
Project Documentation and Data   . . . . . . . . . . . . .  13
II.  PART II - PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE . . .  14
Borrower's Experience for Project Implementation   . . . .  14
Project Identification, Appraisal and Agreement Signed     14
Project Costs and Financing  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  14
Rubber Establishment                 .15
Farm Sawmills and Timber Complexes   . . . . . . . . . . .  16
Procurement of Materials and Equipments  . . . . . . . . .  16
Infrastructure Construction  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  17
Training, Consulting Services and Study Tours  . . . . . .  17
Project  Benefits  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    17
General Assessment   ..19
Summary and Lessons Learned  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  19
Problem and Suggestion   ..20
Opinions to Part I of the Project Completion Report   .    21
Opinions to Part III of the Project Completion Report  .    22
Role of the World Bank   ..22
Support, Direction and Help from Related Depts   . . . . .  24
Relation with Other Units   ..24
III. PART III - STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1.  Related Bank Loans and Credits   . . . . . . . .  25
Table 2.  Project Timetable  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  26
Table 3.  Loan/Credit Disbursements  ... . . . . . . . . .  27
Table 4.  Project Implementation   . . . . . . . . . . . .  28
Table 5.  Project Costs and Financing  . . . . . ... . . .  29
Table 6.  Project Results  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  30
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfomrance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table 7.  Statt.s of Covenants  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  33
Table 8. Use of Bank Resources  . . . . . . . . . . . . .  34
ANNEX 1. BACKGROUND DATA FOR PART I
Table 1. Cost Estimate   ..35
Table 2.  Statistical Indicators   . . . . . . . . . . . .  37
Table 3.  Planted Rubber Clones  . . . . . . . . . . . . .  38
Table 4.  Rubber Yield Projections   Hainan  . . . . . . .  39
Table 5.  Rubber Yield Projections - Zhanjiang   . . . . .  40
Table 6.  Projected Rubber Production  . . . . . . . . . .  41
Table 7.  Rubber Yield Projections with New Techniques     42
Table 8.  Cost per ha of Planting and Replanting   . . . .  43
Table 9.  Cost per ha of Planting Windbreak  . . . . . . .  44
Table 10. Economic Price of Rubber   . . . . . . . . . . .  45
Table 11. Hainan New rlanting - Financial Analysis    .    46
Table 12. Zhanjiang Ne% Planting - Financial Analysis  .    48
Table 13. Hainan Replanting - Financial Analysis   . . . .  50
Table 14. Zhanjiang Replanting - Financial Analysis  . . .  52
Table 15. Hainan New Planting - Economic Analysis  . .. .  54
Table 16. Zhanjiang New Planting - Economic Analysis   . .  56
Table 17. Hainan Replanting - Economic Analysis  . . . . .  58
Table 18. Zhanjiang Replanting - Economic Analysis   .. .  60
Table 19. Cash Flow Huali Furniture Factory  . . . . . . .  62
Table 20. Cash Flow Serya Timber Complex - Scenario #1 & #2 63
Table 21. Cash Flow Zhanjiang Presswood Factory  . . . . .  65
Table 22. Cash Flow Xilian Sawmill   . . . . . . . . . . .  66
MAP: IBRD 16867R -Rubber Development Project Areas



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
RUBBER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 1417/SF 005-CHA)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Rubber Development
Project in China, for which Credit 1417-CHA and Special Fund 005-CHA in the
amount of SDR 94.6 million were approved on November 29, 1983. The Credit and
Special Fund were closed on December 31, 1990, one year behind schedule. It
was fully disbursed and the last disbursement was on May 10, 1991.
The ?CR was jointly prepared by the Agriculture Operations Division of
the East Asia and Pacific Regional Office (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts
I and III), and the Borrower (Part II).
Preparation of this PCR was started during the Bank's final supervision
mission of the project in June 1991, and is based, inter alia, on the Staff
Appraisal Report; the Credit, Special Fund, and Project Agreements;
supervision reports, correspondence between the Bank and Borrower; and
internal Bank memoranda.



- {iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
RUBBER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 1417/SF 005-CHA)
EVALUATION SUMARY
Project Objectives
1.   The project was intended to increase the production of natural rubber by
assisting the Borrower's program of new planting and replanting in Guangdong
Province. An underlying objective was to improve the efficiency of China's
rubber production system, which had been relatively isolated from
technological developments in other rubber-producing countries. The project
consisted of the new planting of about 25,000 ha and replanting o!
approximately 15,000 ha and establishment of about 12,000 ha of windbreaks on
state farms and communes.  Ir. addition, the project included vehicles and
equipment; upgrading of 19 farm sawmills (for rubberwood), construction of two
integrated timber processing facilities, and provision of infrastructure
(buildings, utilities, roads and bridges), training, research and technical
assistance in rubber production, processing and estate management.
Implementation Experience
2.   Credit 1417/Special Fund 005 was approved on November 29, 1983, signed
on January 5, 1984 and became effective on April 13, 1984. The project was
expected to be implemented over a five-year period beginning in late 1983,
with rubber planting in the period 1984-87, completion by June 30, 1989 and
closing on December 31, 1989. The SAR target for planting was achieved by
1988, but implementation of the timber complexes lagged behind schedule, and
the closing date was extended by one year. The estimated cost at apprai3al
was US$301.0 million (Y572.2 million) and the final cost was US$218.5 million
(Y765.2 million)'. Implementation of the main part of the project, rubber
establishment, was carried out with very good physical progress, and planting
targets were increased to 52,354 ha and completed on time.
3.   The project was an unqualified success in achiev'ing its major target of
increasing production of natural rubber; however, the secondary objective--
improving the efficiency of the system by transfer of technology from other
rubber-producing countries--was less thoroughly achieved. There was a
reluctance to adopt many of the new technologies envisaged at appraisal mainly
due to the conservative style of management practiced at the farm level.
Project Results
4.   The project generated considerable benefits as a result of productive
tree plantings, institution building, technology transfer and social-economic
inputs. The planting of 52,354 ha of rubber and 16,061 ha of windbreaks
/I 'he Borrower reports a final cost of Y764.2 niillion.



-  iv   -
increased rubber, timber and cash crop production; created 62,800 new Jobs,
40% of which are held by women; and at project completion in 1990, farm income
had increased from Y900 to about Y2000 (in nominal terms) per worker. The
quality of the planting achieved was excellent due largely to (a) planting of
quality materials derived from sound nursery management; (b) good field
preparation and establishment, including adequate maintenance in weed control,
nutrition, application of organic manure and green mulching; (c) appropriate
practices in water and soil conservation including establishment of legume
covers to improve soil fertility and mitigate soil erosion; and (d) effective
pest and disease management and prevention of damage by domestic animals. The
ERRs for the project were estimated to be 15% for new planting, 21% for
replanting, and 16% overall. The shortcomings of the project were that the
diversity of planted clones was less than expected; the use of advanced
planting materials was not readily adopted; windbreaks were occupying land
which could be used more suitably for rubber planting; operational inputs were
not as cost effective as could have been achieved; and research pr3grams were
constrained by requirements for research institutes to generate income and by
lack of coordination. The timber complexes, though initially lagging in
establishment and later in operational efficiency, gave indications of being
financially and economically viable at the time of the PCR.
Sustainabil1_t
5,    Two significant factors will have bearing on reaching the projected
yields: a) provisior of adequate budgets to sustain normal immature phase
development until all the plantings reach maturity in 1993/94 and b)
maintenance of the same high management standards after 1990, as provided
during project implementation from 1984 to 1990. If maintenance slips, either
due to lack of budget or for any other reason, ultimate yields would be
affected. Other possible problems that could affect the sustainability of the
projected benefits are the overdependence on RRIM 600 and the seasonal
typhoons and strong winds, which could reduce the number of tappable trees and
constrain latex production. There is potential to enhance rubber yields by
adapting new nursery production techniques, increasing the availability of
other high-yielding clones, improving the protective effectiveness of
windbreaks, and strengthening tapping management with a well defined tapping
policy.
Findings and Lessons Learned:
6, The main findings and lessons learned are: (a) for a tree crop project
with a long gestation period, arrangements are needed to guarantee adequate
financing until plantings reach maturity; and to plan phasing of interrelated
components in detail; (b) research funded by a project should be coordinated
by the project management entity and experimental designs reviewed by a
competent body; (c) when innovations are expected to have a major impact on
project results, supervision missions will have to focus on this aspect and
the Bank may need to use its leverage to insure that these recommendations are
adopted; (d) equipment maintenance standards might be included in contractual
arrangements; (e) when procuring advanced technology equipment, ample time
should be allowed for installation and training of operators; (f) linking the
provision of technical assistance and coordination of study tours through



V    -
having one supplier provide both services was shown to be effective; and (g)
both FRRs and ERRs are higher for replanting than for new planting, mainly as
a result of commercial value of old rubberwood.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
RUBBER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 1417/SF 005-CHA)
PART I:  PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
Proiect Identity
Project Name:        Rubber Development Project
Credit No.:          Cr. 1417/SF-005-CHA
RVP Unit:            East Asia and Pacific
Country:             China
Sector:              Agriculture
Subsector:           Treecrops
Background
1.   At the time of appraisal in 1983, agriculture accounted for some 35% of
China's GDP and was the main source of livelihood for the rural population of
nearly 800 million. Only about 100 million ha of the country's land area of
960 million ha was arable; nearly half the cultivated land was irrigated and
more than half of that area grew at least two crops per year. Foodgrains
occupied 80% of the cropland and accounted for 65% of total agricultural
output. Agricultural production was carried out in communes, state farms and
privately managed plots, which accounted for about 87, 5 and 8 %,
respectively, of the arable land and 80, 4 and 16%, respectively, of the gross
value of agricultural production. Agricultural development had been accorded
high priority by the Government for more than 30 years, and despite declining
per capita availability of arable land, development efforts had been broadly
successful. The sector had achieved annual growth rates of 3.2% in the 1955-
79 period and more than 5% between 1979 and 1983. Industrial crops and
livestock and sideline production had expanded even faster than crop
production. Increases in food production had more than kept pace with
population growth, and nearly all Chinese had access to adequate food
supplies. It was recognized that the major task of agricultural development
would be to meet the food and raw material requirements expected from further
population growth and gains in per capita income. The land constraint would
require steady increases in yields from already cropped areas and the growing
problem of surplus rural labor would make job creation an increasingly
important development objective. The Government was implementing new policies
aimed at giving rural workers more incentives, and major improvements in
relative prices for agriculture had been introduced.
2.   State farms, having been established I  the 1950s to provide food and
employment in less developed areas and particularly in difficult climates k..i
sensitive border areas, had subsequently become important sources of
commercialized agricultural production. About 35% of their grain production
was sold to the state, as compared with about 15% of the collective sector's.
More than 2,000 state farms were managing almost 29 million ha, of which 4.5
million ha was under cultivation. About 8% of the farms were involved largely
in rubber production and accounted for 95% of the natural rubber production.
As relatively self-sufficient economic units operating in poorly developed



-   ~      ~      ~     ~      2
areas, state farms had to finance, construct and maintain a system of social
and physical infrastructure (health, education, transportation, communication
and power) which is usually the responsibility of central and local
governments in other countries. To mset future production requirements, the
Government was in the process of implementing a major land development program
by the state farm system in the 1981-85 Five Year Plan, calling for
development of 1.1 million ha of unused land for annual field crops, 60,000 ha
for tree crops, and 2.2 million ha for improved pasture. The pro'ect was
among the early projects proposed to the Bank Group as a result of the
initiative of the Central General Bureau of State Farms and Land Reclamation
(CGB).
3.   The Bank Group's strategy in agriculture was to assist China in the
priority areas for development. Since May 1980, when China resumed its seat
in the Bank Group, ten projects had been approved, two of which were in
agriculture--the North China Plain Project (Credit 1261-CHA) approved in June
1982 and the Heilongjiang Land Reclamation Project (Loan/Credit 2261/1347-CHA)
in April 1983. The latter project was intended to develop 200,000 ha on state
farms in Northeast China for production of wheat. maize and soybeans. This--
the third agricultural project--offered the opportunity to assist the
Government in expanding the production of an important industrial crop by
increasing the area planted with improved high-yielding clones, and improving
production efficiency on state farms in South China.
Project Objectives and Description
4.   The project was intended to increase the production of natural rubber by
assisting the Borrower's program of new planting and replanting in Guangdong
Province. An underlying objective was to improve the efficiency of China's
rubber production system, which had been relatively isolated from
technological developments in other rubber-producing countries. The project
consisted of the following:
(a) new planting of about 21,000 ha and replanting of approximately
15,000 ha on 50 state farms, including intercropping during part of
the rubber's immature phase on a gross area of 9,000 ha;
(b) new planting of rubber on about 4,000 ha and intercropping on a
gross area of 1,000 ha on nearby communes;
(c)  establishment of about 12,000 ha of windbreaks on state farms and
communes;
(d) expansion of the equipment fleets of participating state farms
through procurement of trucks, wheeled and crawler tractors, other
agricultural implements, and transportation and construction
equipment;
(e) upgrading of sawmills on the 19 farms engaged in replanting, and
construction of two integrated timber processing facilities in the
project area;



-3
(f)  construction of about 754,000 sq m of buildings, including housing
for staff and workers o2 state farms, offices, &torage facilities,
workshops, schools and health clinics;
(g) construction or upgrading OL bridges and culverts, about 780 km of
rural roads, about 400 km of power transmission lines and about 780
km of telephone lines;
(h) strengthening domestic training programs for staff and workers of
state farms and upgrading of research and training programs in
prefectural research institutes; and
(i) provision of overseas training and technical assistance in rubber
production and processing and estate management.
Project Design and Organization
5.   The project concept was relatively ztraightforward and understood by all
the releva.it parties--China needed to produce rubber so as not to be totally
dependent on imports, and production would have to take place at latitudes
well beyond those of major producers. China, in the eazly 1980s, was
dependent on imports for about 50% of total domestic consumption of rubber.
In 1981. the total area under rubber was about 410,000 ha, with some 75% of
this on State Farms and 80% in Guangdong province. The project was prepared
by the Cuangdong Provincial General Bureau of State Farms and Land Reclamation
(PGB), which had a well-established organizational hierarchy at the
provincial, prefectural, county and farm levels. The farms had been
established and settled in the 1950s, and management and workers were in
place. Even though it was the Guangdong PGB's first expe:ience witn an
international lending agency, it had a decided advantage from design stage to
implementation in that it was an already existing entity, with competent,
experienced staff, carrying out responsibilities similar to those it had
normally undertaken prior to the project. Approximately 85% of the project was
located on Hainan Island, separated from Guangdong Province to form a new
province in 1988, while 15% was on the Zhanjiang Peninsula of mainland
Guangdong. Major Bank contributions to project design during the appraisal
process were adjustments in the mix of rubber clones to be planted to bette::
match clonal characteristics with weather conditions, changes in the
fertilizer program to lower nutrient costs, widen spacing of windbreaks to
increase timber produccion, expanded research and trials in r'Abber and
windbreak development, introduction of improved timber treatment and
processing facilities, exspansion of intercropping during the rubber's immature
phase, and strengthening of training programs for staff and workers.
Project Implementation
6.   Credit 1417/Special Fund 005 was approved on November 29, 1983, signed
on January 5, 1984 and became effective on April 13, 1984. The project was
expected to be implemented over a five-year period beginning in late 1983.
Rubber planting was expected to take place in the period 1984-87 and the
pro,ect was expected to be completed by June 30, 1989 and closed on December
31, 1989. The SAR target for planting was achieved by 1988, but



-4-
implementation of the timber complexes lagged behind schedule, and the closing
date was extended by one year. The estimated cost at appraisal was US$301.0
million (Y572.2 million) and the final cost was US$218.5 million (Y765.2
million2), as showni in Part III Table 5A and Annex l,Table 1. This
represents a 34% over-run in Yuan and a 27% under-run in $ terms. However,
between appraisal and completion of the project the Yuan was devalued from
Yl.9/$ to Y5.2/$. Disbursements, projected to total US$100 m actually ran to
US$108.1 equivalent. The legal agreements were amended in September 1984 to
increase the disbursement rates for rubber and windbreak establishment.
7.  At appraisal, the main focus of the project was establishment of rubber
through replanting and new plantings. The upgrading of farm sawmills and the
establishment of a timber complex to utilize old rubber trees were of
secondary importance. Based on an FAQ investigation, the Bank had agreed at
negotiations to the Government's request to include a second timber complex;
the cost of both was expected to be about 3% of the total project cost.
During the course of implementation, the Bank agreed to include in the project
the expansion of a particle board plant in Zhanjiang and major upgrading of a
sawmill at Xilian. With these additional works, the cost of the timber
complexes absorbed almost 22% of the total project cost. It should be noted
that the use of rubberwood for more than rough timber and poles was in its
infancy at the time of project appraisal. The CGB early on recognized the
potential benefits of developing a rubber wood industry, but the SAR was
correct in identifying as a possible risk the Guangdong PGB's lack of
industrial experience.
8.  The other risk that was ideatified in the SAR and which materialized was
the uncertainty relating to full implementation of the state farm-commune
joint ventures, which was acknowledged to have limited precedents3.
Examination of the history of the relationship between the state farms and
adjacent villages shows that on Hainan there was a long-standing antipathy
between the two groups. The state farms felt that they were opening up a
wilderness area and producing a high priority commodity, while the best lands,
i.e. lowlands that can be developed for rice production, were given to the
villages, and the villages felt that the state farms, i.e. the "outsiders",
had encroached on local grazing land, provided higher wages for their workers,
and had the attention of the central government in satisfying their needs.
Developrent of commune rubber was stopped in 1984, and funds designated for
this purpose were used to expand the rubber area on the state farms.
9.   Implementation of the main part of the project, rubber establishment,
waF carried out with very good physical progress and planting targets were
completed on time. During the period from 1988 to 1990, the planted rubber
area was further increased from 49,289 ha to 52,354 ha. The implementation
Z Toe Borrower's Part [1 gives the total cost in Yuan as 764.2 million.
" The Borrower's explanation (Part 11. parm 65) is that 'dispute on the problem of land utilization between some of the state fanrm and their
nearby villages in Hainan Island in the past existed, but during the implementation period, i.e. at the beginning of 1985, according to the
decision of Ministry of Agriculture and Guangdong Provincial Government, villages under land dispute were merged into state farms, adu'ta
of the villages became the farm members. The dispute was basically settled.'



-5-
success was largely due to effective coordination and administration of the
project management agencies; adequate supervision and monitoring by the PGB;
effective management of individual participating state farms; adoption of the
responsibility (incentive) system through the organized production brigades;
and expanded state farm involvement as a result of increased participating
units from 40 to 65.
10. Technical Issues: The project, although well executed, was slow to
adopt all the new technologies envisaged at appraisal mainly due to the
conservative style of management practiced on the farms. The diversity of
Rlanted clones was less than the SAR recommendation as RRIM 600 remained the
dominant choice of material planted particularly in Hainan; there was,
however, greater diversity of planted clones in Zhanjiang (Annex 1, Table 3).
As old ways of nursery management took time to change, the new innovations4
in young green budding and polybag usage and high stump as advanced planting
materials, although acknowledged as being practical, cost-effective and
reducing the immaturity period by up to two years, were not readily adopted as
mainly bare root, budded stumps continue to be propagated for field planting.
The windbreaks (for protection against typhoons) have been well established,
but are occupying land which could be used more suitably for rubber planting.
The windbreak to rubber ratio remained high, in the order of 1:3, while in
some locations the ratio was estimated even higher at 1:2. To improve cost-
effectiveness, increase timber value and enlarge suitable land for rubber
planting, project management has been advised by the Bank to plant windbreaks
at a lower density and with new tree species (Casuarina, Eucalyptus
camaldulensis, E. exserta, E. erandis and E. saligna); reduce the ratio of
windbreak to rubber from 1:3 to 1:4; and plant at wider spacing to increase
timber value and reduce cost of establishment without sacrificing its wind
protection capacity. Field operational inputs were not as cost effective as
could have been achieved because labor inputs remained excessively high for
all field activities; clean clearing with destumping, considered technically
unnecessary, continued to be practiced; fertilizer inputs including organic
fertilizer, although costly, are important for tree nutrition but the large
dosages applied among participating state farms were not rational in terms of
appropriate type (some state farms applied fish meal) and quantity of
material. As a result, production costs were considerably higher than
originally appraised.
11. Site relocation and cost saving: During implementation, planting sites
were chosen in locations adjacent to existing plantation establishments with
sufficient infrastructural amenities. This action resulted in substantial
saving in establishment cost as the requirements for access roads,
communication, power and housing were significantly reduced. In Zhanjiang,
the project area was shifted further inland from the typhoon-prone south to
the central and north eastern regions.
4Young green budding refers to the technique of bud-grafting seedlings under four months of age contrary to th. traditional practice of
bud-grafting at one year. Polybag usage refers to placing seedlings in polybags. rather than transplanting stump buddings in polybags after initial
growth in the ground. High stumps refer to transplanting direct from the nursery and grafting in the field.



-6-
12.  Mechanization:  Project implementation benefitted from the introduction
of farm mechanization. The acquisition of trucks, tractors and crawler
tractors improved the pace and quality of project development, but management
did not give adequate attention to maintenance and proper record keeping of
vehicle operations. During supervision, the Bank drew attention to these
shortcomings and urged project management to administer a properly organized
system for equipment maintenance on a regular basis to ensure efficient
utilization of machinery and reduce down-time. Regular maintenance programs
are gradually being adopted on the participating state farms.
13. Research component: The research programs carried out by the South
China Tropical Crop Research Institute, Baoting Tropical Research Institute,
and Weishan Rubber Research Institute were not up to SAR expectations; design
and implementation of research programs were constrained by requirements for
research institutes to generate income. There does not appear to have been
coordination of the research efforts and field trials carried out on the state
farms, resulting in frequent repetition. Dissemination of results and
adoption by farm management in their planting and maintenance programs were
slow, reflecting aversion to risk. To strengthen research activity and
collaboration among state farms, there is a need to give greater attention to
(a) formulation of research objectives and priorities and (b) better
understanding of current achievements and current problems in order to promote
meaningful research in progeny and clone testing, intercropping, windbreak
development (in collaboration with the Provincial Forestry Department),
pruning, fertilizer rates and application (including organic fertilizer
usage), planting density and pattern, tapping system and management
justification for predawn tappings, use of stimulants, and pest and disease
management.
14. Sawmills and Timber complexes: During the early years, implementation
lagged to the point where the Bank seriously questioned the viability of this
component. Logyard management at the farm sawmills was disorderly, control of
blue stain was unsuccessful because of early infestation after felling, output
at the timber complexes was characterized by low-quality of products, poor
furniture design and lack of sales. Delays in accepting equipment and startup
of the major complexes were jeopardizing financial and economic viability. As
a condition for extension of the closing date, the Guangdong PGB agreed to
engage consultants to provide technical assistance in preservation and drying,
sawmilling and lumber yard management, particle board technology and
production, paper impregnation and overlay technology, and furniture design
and mass production techniques. Between October 1990 and June 1991,
significant improvements were made in quality of management and production, as
reflected by increasing domestic and export sales. The PCR mission made the
following recommendations: (a) further training and/or consultants should be
arranged for sawmilling and sawdoctoring, panel furniture production, and
establishment of a Ceographical Information System/Management Information
System (GIS/MIS), and if the sawyer and saw-doctor skills cannot be improved,
the PGBs should look for buyers in order to recoup at least part of the cost
of the equipment; and (b) the timber complexes would benefit from further
exposure to international markets through participation in furniture fairs and
exhibitions.



15. Technical Assistance: The technical assistance component included
degree programs, short courses and study tours, and visits by foreign experts.
The project did not unduly suffer from the general reluctance to use foreign
exchange for TA, as noted in some other Bank-assisted projects; in total, 82%
of the person months were utilized, albeit at only 49% of the expected cost.
In addition, technical expertise was provided by an exceptionally talented
rubber production specialist at no cost to the project other than his local
expenses.
16. Procurement: The procurement actions followed Bank guidelines. The
scheduling of procurement of some sawmill and timber complex equipment was not
coordinated with building construction, and er 'ment had to be stored for
months in temporary shelters.  There were nr  drx is repercussions from this,
as suppliers agreed to extend their guarar_ee periods.  In several cases,
retention money was released before all operational difficulties were
resolved; this left the buyer in a precarious position to negotiate for
additional visits by the sellers' technical staff. Start-up delays might have
been avoided, or at least diminished, by allowing equipment sellers more time
for installation and training.
17. Progress ReDorts and Audits: Progress and audit reports were always
submitted to the Bank at the required times. An interesting aspect of the
audit reports, performed by the Guangdong Provincial Audit Bureau, has been a
"Note to Management", which was along the lines of an internal management
audit, calling attention to details of project implementation which would
certainly not have been obvious to Bank supervision missions. Examples
include materials unaccounted for in construction, survival rates of trees
being less than the expected amount on certain state farms, etc. This
information was useful to subsequent supervision missions in following up.
Project Results
18. Targets and OLalitv: The project successfully completed or surpassed
the SAR targets (Annex 1, Table 2). Principally, it achieved the planting of
53,254 ha of rubber and 16,061 ha of protective windbreak, exceeding the
planned targets by 31% and 34%, respectively. Priority was given to new
planting with 34,639 ha completed--exceeding the SAR target of 25,000 ha by
38%. Replanted area totalled 17,715 ha exceeding the SAR target by 18%.
Altogether 65 state farms participated in the project, instead of 40 as
envisaged at appraisal. The quality of the planting achieved was excellent
due largely to (a) planting of quality materials derived from sound nursery
management; (b) good field preparation and establishment, including adequate
maintenance in weed control, nutrition, application of organic manure and
green mulching; (c) appropriate practices in water and soil conservation
including establishment of legume covers to improve soil fertility and
mitigate soil erosion; and (d) effective pest and disease management and
prevention of damage by domestic animals.
19. Rubber Yield: The PCR yield projections (Annex 1, Tables 4 - 6) differ
from the SAR estimates: in Hainan, the projected yield is 12% less, due to
80% monoclonal planting with RRIM 600 and potential adverse effect of strong
winds, but the projection in Zhanjiang is increased 5%, in consideration of



-8-
the positive impact of multi-clonal planting and relocation of plantings to
less typhoon prone sites. Average yield over the 27-year tapping period is
projected to be 1,159 kg/ha in Hainan and 1,174 kg/ha in Zhanjiang. Based on
these revised yield trends, the project's rubber output will increase
substantially from 1994, peaking at more than 80,000 t/annum from 2002 to 2007
(Annex 1, Table 7). No processing problems are anticipated as there is ample
capacity to pLacess the additional rubber crop among the state farms.
20. During project implementation, a few sites were planted with materials
obtained with nursery techniques recommended in the SAR--green budding in
polybags and high budded stumps. These plantings were well established and
attained good girth increments that would allow tapping to start one to two
years earlier than plantings with bare root budded stumps. This advantasge is
reflected in the output projections detailed in Annex 1, Table 7. During the
tapping period (1991-2018), the project will represent about 20% of total
Chinese natural rubber production. Apart from the advantage of early
maturity, the cumulative yields are expected to exceed conventional plantings
by more than 7%. The impressive results of these small-scale field plantings
are expected to have a positive impact on future rubber development programs.
21. Financial and Economic Analysis: The overall economic rate of return of
the project is estimated at 16%, compared to 17% at appraisal. At completion,
FRR's and ERR's were reestimated for the rubber planting and replanting
subcomponents and FRR's were calculated for the timber complexes (Part III,
Table 6). ERR's for the establishment of rubber plantations were about 15%
for new plantings and 20-21% for replantings; phe more favorable results for
the latter are mainly attributable to the high economic value of the old
rubberlogs. Despite comparatively low (constant 1990) rubber prices, the
overall performance of the rubber component is very satisfactory, due
interalia to adoption of profitable intercropping and the high value of the
timber harvested from windbreak plantings. FRR's were in the range of 14-15%
for new plantings and 16-17% for replantings. Financial labor costs were
chosen conservatively at Y6/day to account for all social and welfare
components. The economic cost of labor was estimated at Y3.25/day (compared to
YO.5 at appraisal). Two of the timber complexes showed acceptable FRR's of
11% and 14%, while Sanya Timber Complex still performs below expectations with
a FRR estimated at 3.4%. However, with the exception of Sanya Timber Complex,
which has had a lengthy start-up period and where further improvements are
likely to be implemented within the next few years, all components show
healthy financial flows. Switching values (reduction of rate of return to 12%)
in the rubber component are an increase of financial labor costs of 42%
(economic labor cost 74%) or a decrease of the financial rubber price of 29%
(economic rubber price 46%), indicating a low risk project.
Project Benefits and Sustainability
22. The project generated considerable benefits as a result of productive
tree plantings, institution building, technology transfer and social-economic
inputs. Highlights are:
(a) the planting of 52,354 ha of rubber and 16,061 ha of windbreaks
increased rubber, timber and cash crop production as shown in Part



-9-
III Table 8 and created 62,800 new jobs, 40% of which are held by
women;
(b)  the impressive achievements and success of the rubber development
project have strengthened the confidence of international lending
agencies in the PGB's capacity to undertake complex projects;
(c) the organizational features - project preparation, implementation
process and management methods - have been successfully proven
under project implementation conditions--these could be adapted for
the design of other projects;
(d) the participating state farms gained considerable field experience
during project implementation and increased their technical
knowledge from interaction with technical specialists from the
Bank's support program to enable them to further improve managerial
competence;
(e) the project's inputs in housing, roads, schools, clinics,
telecommunication, water and electricity supply have markedly
improved the working and social environment of the farm workers.
23. To further improve benefits, project management has been advised to
focus on uRgrading of field research in clone testing, pruning, tree
nutrition, tapping systems, and pest and disease management. ImRroving
cultural _ractices would allow for better aeration and air movement in the
very humid atmosphere under the dense canopy to mitigate potential disease
infections on tapping panels, branches and foliage that could restrict tree
growth and reduce rubber yield. Yields could be optimized on a sustained
basis by enforcement of an aRproDriate taRDing policy to be formulated by a
team of experienced managers. Improved management of farm equipment
maintenance and inventory recording could sustain operational efficiency and
reduce costs and delays as a result of down-time.
24. Two significant factors will have bearing on reaching the projected
yields: a) provision of adeauate budgets to sustain normal immature phase
development until all the plantings reach maturity in 1993/94 and b)
maintenance of the same high management standards after 1990, as provided
during project implementation from 1984 to 1990. The project is not without
risks. If maintenance slips, either due to lack of budget or for any other
reason, ultimate yields would be affected. Other possible risks that could
affect the sustainability of the projected benefits are: (a) overdeRendence on
RRIM 600 (which presents some uncertainty due to its inherent susceptibility
to Pink Disease, Phytophthora, corynespora leaf fall, its poor response to
wounding, its weak development under very high density planting, and possible
Oidium infections due to sustained high humidity) could reduce the high-yield
potential expected of this clone; and (b) tree damage or canopy defoliation
caused by seasonal tvohoon and strong winds could reduce the number of
tappable trees and constrain latex production; production estimates have
already been reduced about 15% to take account of these risks.



- 10
25.  Environmental ImRact:    The project had a positive impact on the
environment.  Utilization of appropriate planting techniques--terracing,
planting legume cover crop, adequate fertilizer input, organic manure
application and green mulching--improved soil tilth and sustained fertility,
conserved soil moisture and controlled soil erosion. The establishment of
windbreaks permitted rubber planting in a typhoon-prone environment and
provided timber and fuelwood, thus reducing the depletion of natural forests.
During supervision, particular attention was given to ensure proper treatment
of rubber effluents at state farm processing factories.
Bank Performance
26. During the period when the project was under review, Bank management
raised numerous doubts about the appropriateness of Bank involvement with
state farms and rubber development in China. Responses included the fact that
the state farm management was one of the first agencies to propose projects to
the Bank, they were recognized as having a key role in introducing new
technologies into agriculture and having responsibility for generating
marketable surpluses of high priority commodities, and they had proven their
willingness to work with the Bank in adopting technical improvements and
making managerial improvements. Assistance with rubber development was
considered to be one of the best oppertunities to assist China in development
of a crop which had been neglected in the past and where the Bank had
considerable experience and access to a wide range of international expertise
and technology.  Bank management also had some concern about domestic rubber
prices which were above world market prices and at negotiations, "it was
agreed that the Government would, over the next two years, examine those
factors which affect production with a view to encouraging efficient
production." While this did not result in a formal study, producer prices
were not increased during the project implementation period and with each
devaluation of the Yuan, the domestic price came closer to the world market
price. In retrospect, the Bank's decision to proceed with the project appears
to be correct.
27. It was expected in 1983 that the Bank's lending program would
increasingly support agriculture outside of the state farms; this has proven
to be the case. The Bank declined the Government's request for a follow-up
rubber project in Yunnan Province, in view of the higher priorities attached
to other projects in China's agricultural sector.   However, subsequently,
about $115.0 million of the Third Rural Credit Project (Cr 1871-CHA) was
earmarked for tree crops, mostly rubber, in Yunnan, with a significant portion
on state farms5. The Bank has continued to deploy technical specialists for
supervision of that component. It remains to be seen whether subsector
development can be accomplished more effectively through credit lending or,
alternatively, through direct project lending, with its associated
infrastructural components such as technical assistance and upgrading of
management.
6 The November 1991 Supervision mission reported that total investment for rubber planting/replanting to date was Y24.4 million or about
USSO million and that progress in implamentation was satisfactory.



- 11 
28. In addition to refinements in project design, the Bank and the FAO/CP
made considerable inputs into the project during implementation by writing
technical specifications and preparing bid documents for equipment and
providing the first consultants to advise on rubber establishment. EDI also
contributed to the success of the project by their relationship with the PGB's
Cadre Management Colleg?; EDI assisted in preparation of a case study of the
project which served as the basic document for in-service training on
administration and economic management for staff in eight southern provinces.
The main weakness of the Bank performance might be considered to be the late
intervention in improving the highly industrialized wood processing component,
which eventually absorbed about 25% of the total investment instead of about
5% as projected in the SAR. However, in the event, it was the Bank that noted
the poor technical and management performance of the complexes, ralzed the
problems and associated solutions (including recruitment of foreign wood
processing management consultants) to project, bureau, Ministry of
Agriculture, and central government levels (through both supervision and
country implementation reviews), eventually resulting in an impressive
turnaround in performance.
Borrower Performance
29. Guangdong PGB played the leading role in preparing the project and in
project implementation. In 1988, Hainan Island became a separate province and
its two prefectural level bureaus serving Tongzha and Haikou were merged into
one provincial bureau for the whole island. While it was agreed that the
Guangdong PCB would retain responsibility for project implementation, its
authority was somewhat eroded as the previously lower level organization
gained status as an equal. This did not present a problem for successful
implementation, h-owever, because the CGB stepped up its role as overseer for
the whole project, and the Hainan PGB proved that they could adapt to their
additional responsibilities. The success of the project is in large measure
due to the strengths of the Guangdong and Hainan PGBs. The project happened
to coincide with a period of profound reforms in Chinese agriculture. The
PGBs managed to introduce the new incentives for individual performance, and,
at the same time, retain the corporate strengths of the state farm system.
Conclusions: Summary and Lessons Learned
30. The project has successfully completed the major specific goals
identified at appraisal. The planting of productive trees will provide an
additional 58,800 tons of rubber a year to China's rising demand for this
strategic commodity, expand Aimber and fuelwood availability and increase the
supply of a variety of cash crops as a result of intercropping. The technical
program has helped strengthen the PGBs and state farms to become more
effective in their administrative and agronomic practices. In addition, the
project made positive contributions to enhance the social and economic
development of farm workers and improve their incomes. The impact on the
environment is positive as the project promotes economic land use, controls
soil erosion and ameliorates soil fertility. The project has achieved a
satisfactory rate of return and has been successful in creating 62,800 new
jobs, 40% of which are or will be held by women. The successful completion of
the project demonstrates positively that the PGB has the managerial capacity



- 12 -
to undertake complex projec;s and the aptitude to work as a team with
international aid organizations. There is potential to enhance rubber yields
by adapting new nursery production techniques, increasing the availability of
high yielding clones with desirable growth characteristics, improving the
protective effectiveness of windbreaks; and strengthening tapping management
with a well defined tapping policy.
31. Key lessons learned as a result of the project are:
(a) for a tree crop project with a long gestation period (about 8 years),
the implementing agency should (i) insure the availability of adequate
financing to sustain maintenance and fertilizer inputs until the plantings
reach maturity; and (ii) plan in advance the phasing of interrelated
components in detail to avoid interruptions and delays in project completion;
(b) research funded by a project should be coordinated by the project
management entity and experimental designs reviewed by a competent body to
insure that research is focussed and to avoid needless repetition;
(c) when innovations, e.g. new clones, new nursery practices, are expected
to have a major impact on project resu'Lts, supervision missions will have to
focus on this aspect in addition to general implementation progress and the
Bank, if it is absolutely positive of its recommendations, may need to use its
leverage to insure that these recommendations are adopted;
(d) proper equipment maintenance might be assured through building in
maintenance requirements in the contractual arrangements between the project
entity and the end-users;
(e) when procuring advanced technology equipment, ample time should be
allowed for installation and training of operators; cost savings attained
through minimizing time spent by the seller's representatives are negated by
delays incurred as a result of technical problems in equipment operation;
(f) linking the provision of technical assistance and coordination of study
tours through having one supplier ?rovide both services was shown to be an
effective method of technology transfer and provided a focus for overseas
visits (para 34); and
(g) both financial and economic analysis indicate that replanting is more
viab:.e that new planting, mainly on account of the added benefit of old
rubberwood.
32. It is interesting to compare several aspects of rubber production--
yields, planting density and labor requirements--in this project with that of
a major producer, e.g. Malaysia. Yields in the project are expected to be
lower, averaging about 1.16 t/ha (calculated on a 27 yr tapping period),
compared to present estate production in Malaysia of about 1.5 t/ha. In the
future, this difference may widen as new Malaysian clones, which have field-
tested yields of 1.8 - 2.0 t/ha, come into bearing. The Chinese have adopted
a planting density of 600 trees/ha, compared to 460 trees/ha in Malaysia, to
help compensate for the lower yield/tree and for the expected wind damage from



-  13  -
typhoons. Besides clonal material, the other major factor in yields is the
number of tapping days; in the project area, tapping takes place for eight to
nine months each year; no tapping is done when temperatures reach lower than
150 C. (even though it has been shown in Bangladesh that tapping can continue
down to 10). In contrast, the Malaysian climate allows tapping to be
carried out year-round.   Another significant variance is in the labor
requirement for tapping. In China, the average work load for a tapper is 125
trees/day; in Malaysia, each tapper averages 500 trees/day (this is for young
trees; when double cuts are initiated, the average drops down to 300/day). In
China, rubber plantations are mostly in the state farm sector, and this lower
tapping assignment generates more employment. Under current conditions (world
market prices and production), the project is both financially and
economically viable. Based on Malaysian experience, it appears that China has
the potential to improve labor productivity by adopting tapping systems such
as reduced tapping intensity from alternate daily to third-daily or fourth-
daily or even once a week. However, if world productiol: increases to the full
potential of the latest Malaysian clones, which would likely result in lower
rubber prices, and China does not adopt the improved clones and mainta.Lns high
production costs, by allowing inefficient labor use, the economic viability of
this and future projects could be jeopardized. China's main comparative
advantage continues to lie in its low labor cost. Also, the government should
consider investing their resources in the more financial and economically
attractive replanting rather than new planting programs; ideally, for a 35-
year tree crop, replenting should take place at the rate of about 3% per year-
-the age structure of existing plantings indicates a heavy imbalance toward
old, low-yielding trees.
Proiect RelationshiPs
33. There was always an compatible working relationship between the Bank and
the central and provincial bureaus and amongst the different levels of the
state farms system.
Consulting Services
34. Both local and external consultants were engaged in carrying out the
project. The performance of consultants is considered satisfactory,
particularly the consultants provided near the end of the implementation
period for the industrial component. In this case, a prime contractor
recruited individual technical specialists and engaged a Malaysian rubberwood
processing firm (an international market leader in solid rubberwood products)
to provide managerial expertise at the project sites and subsequently to
organize and host a study tour by the project'F key personnel to Malaysia to
inspect similar rubberwood processing installations and related industrial
activities.
Project Documentation and Data
35. For the rubber production side of the project, detailed project data,
costs and physical work quantities were kept at all levels. For the
industrial side, the lack of management data has been cited as one of the
potential problems and the borrower has been advised to address this issue as
a high-priority task.



- 14 -
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
36.       The Borrower agrees to the assessment on the Project Completion
Report of China Rubber Development Project prepared by the World Bank Mission.
Project Identification. Agpraisal and Agreement Sitned
37.       Establishment of using the World Bank loan for China Rubber
Development Project was based on "Report of Using World Bank Secondary
Prepared Projects" prepared jointly by the State Planning Commission, the
State Import & Export Committee and the Ministry of Finance, and approved by
China State Council on Jan. 9, 1982.  The officials and experts from the World
Bank visited Guangdong State Farms to identify the project from April 8 to 18,
1982. The project was preappraised by a World Bank mission of World Bank from
October 14 to 30, 1982, and appraised from March 30 to April 13, 1983. After
identification, preappraisal, appraisal, technical demonstration and economic
analysis, the project was defined to be reasonable in utilizing resources,
technically feasible would beneficial; therefore, establishment of the project
was given a positive attitude.
38.       Invited by the World Bank, the Chinese Government sent a delegation
to Washington to have negotiations from October 11 to 18, 1983. Credit
1417/Special Fund 005-CHA was approved by the Executive Board of Directors of
the World Bank on November 29, 1983. The credit and special fund agreements
were signed on Jan. 5, 1984. The credit/special fund totalled SDR94.6 million
SDR, equivalent to US$100 million or Y190 million (RMB) then, of which SDR56.8
million was Special Fund (SF-005-CHA and SDR37.8 million was the IDA Credit
(Credit 1417-CHA). The estimated cost of the project was Y572.2 million, of
which the Bank Group financing was Y190 million yuan, accounting for 33.2% and
the domestic fund was Y382.2 million, accounting for 66.8%. The legal
agreements (Credit 1417/SF 005-CHA) were approved by the Chinese State Council
on March 31, 1984 and became effective on April 13, 1984. The project was
expected to be completed by June 30, 1989, but based on the actual
construction and use of loans and through the approval by the World Bank in
advance, the project completion was postponed until Dec. 31, 1990.
Proiect Costs and Financing
39.       From 1984 to the end of 1990, the actual total project cost was
Y764.179 million, equivalent to US$218.518 million, of which the Bank Group
financing was US$108.128 million, equivalent to Y366.834 million (RMB),
accounting for 48% of total cost; the domestic fund was Y397.345 million,
accounting for 52%. The actual total project cost in RMB was 133.6% of the
total estimated cost of Y572.2 million at appraisal.



- 15 -
Period cost utilization (Yuan million)
Rubber establishment            344.762        45.1 %
Joint venture                     2.922          0.4 %
Windbreak establishment          39.284          5.1 %
Buildings and utilities         125.302         16.4 %
Rural roads                      13.233          1.7 %
Equipment and vehicles          44.788           5.9 %
Sawmills and timber complexes 193.888          25.4 %
The actual total project cost covered in USD was 72.6% of t;'e
estimated cost at appraisal.
Rubber Establishment
40.       The SAR target for rubber planting was 40,000 ha (including new
planting and replanting), and actual planting on 65 project state farms
amounted to 52,354 ha which was 130.9% of the SAR task. Rubber is a major
crop and economic mainstay on Guangdong and Hainan State Farms, the project
design was mainly on developing rubber which is suitable for our main irndustry
and economic development.
41.       Before the project establishment, Guangdong and Hainan State Farms
had a large area ,f unreclaimed land but suitable for growing rubber;
unselected seedlings and low-yield clones planted in 1950s, which were ready
for being replanted as they were overage and incompletely damaged by three
decades, natural calamities. The project has completed new planting of 34,639
ha and replanting of 17,715 ha and the rubber production potential on State
Farms have been exploited.
42.       Establishment of high standard plantations.  A man-made ecosystem
with windbreak-rubber-cover crop had been established in the plantations after
comprehensive planning and popularizing "four technical measures" (planting
improved clones, planting windbreaks, building terraces and planting legume
cover plants). For instance, based on the local conditions and characters of
clones, some high-yield and fastgrowing clones had been planted; an area of
18711 ha of cover crops had been planted in the plantations with a slope over
10 degrees; a gross area of 22,143 hc had been intercropped with peanut, sweet
potato, pineapple, medicinal herbs, tea, coffee, etc. in the plantations with
a slope below 10 degrees, the actual intercropping area was 123% of the SAR.
As a result of the project, profit in the early period had been increased as
well as the land efficiency.
43.       The windbreak planted area was 16,061 ha, accounting for 30.7% of
the rubber plantation area; actual planted area was 133.8% of the SAR.
Originally grown on Amazon River regiorns in South America, rubber trees prefer
to grow in a tropical rain-forest climate with high temperature, moisture,
less wind and fertile soil. The establishment of the windbreak system has not
only created a nice environment for rubber growing and important protection
against typhoons, but also ensured rubber growing successfully on a large-
scale and will provide a considerable quz.ntity of timber for the future.



16  -
Farm Sawmills and Timber Compiexes
44.       The project planned upgrading of 19 farm sawmills and construction
of three timber complexes in Hainan and Zhanjiang; as the farms undertaking
replanting increased late on, the actual upgrading was 21 sawmills and all
were put into production one after another since 1987. Four complexes
equipped with advanced technology and equipment were also put into trial
operation by the end of 1990.
45.       The plan and decision of upgrading sawmills and building timber
complexes were quite right. There will be 7,000 ha of rubber to be replanted
every year on Guangdong and Hainan State Farms and about 200,000 cubic meters
of logs and branches would be created. In the past, most of rubberwood from
replanting was used as firewood except a part of logs for processi..g. After
establishment of sawmills and timber complexes, rubberwood has been fully
utilized and profits created.
46.       The reasons the implementation of the timber complexes lagged
behind schedule were:
(a) Guangdong and Hainan State Farms Bureau, mainly growing rubber, were
lacking in industrial experience. The large timber complex would spend
a large investment so the Guangdong Bureau was careful in making the
decision about product direction and scale during project appraical in
1983. And therefore, we still spent more time to study and compare
several different programs for confirming the investment, product
direction and scale for Zhanjiang, Huali and Xilian complexes in project
implementation.
(b) Sanya timber complex should have completed commission by September
1989, but Bison's experts from Germany left for home presumptuously in
June 1989 and the experts on site were not complete in specialties so
that the commission schedule was restrained. In the meantime, the glue
making expert could not make qualified glue after a long time's testing
so that the specifications of produced particle board could not meet the
contract requirements. As a result the commission had not been
completed until September 1990, delayed for one year.
Procurement of Materials and Equipments
47.       The imported agricultural, engineering equipment and vehicles have
increased the quantity of the state farms, equipment, and have improved
efficiency of transport and mechanization level. More than 90,000 tons of
imported chemical fertilizer ensured the supply for planted rubber. With
excellent maintenance, the rubber trees are growing well and become one of the
best in the rubber planting history in Ouangdong and Hainan State Farms.
48.       Used in research institutes, colleges and clinics on State Farms,
the 740 imported sets of instruments for research, training and medicine, most
of which are of advanced technology, proper function, easy operation, fully
equipped and efficient, have improved the works in the research, training and
teaching. Especially the medical instruments have been put into operations



- 17 -
effectively to improve the medical treatment and health of the people on the
state farms and nearby villages.
Infrgg g.rcture Construction~
49.       The infrastructure such as rural roads, b:idges/culverts, telephone
lines, hydropower, power stations, power transmission lines and all kinds of
buildings have played an important role in improvement of transportation,
communication, power supply and 'nousing on the project state farms. In
project implementation, the number of newly established production teams was
less than the SAR target, because the project made use of unused land in the
existing production teams instead. This acticn resulted in fully using the
land in the existing production teams, reducing construction of power
transmission lines, rural roads, telephone lines, housing, and decreasing the
investmenc in the infrastructure. With an increase of tapped trees and
expansion of rubber processing capacity, power stations will be increased in
the coming years. In implementation, the actual unit cost in all the housing
construction was higher than at appraisal.
Training. Consulting Services and Study Tours
50.       The implementation of technology training, consulting services and
study tours had been completed based on the equipment contracts and the
project plans. The training, consulting services and study tours included:
training at home 16,627 person/months; training at abroad 60 persons or 367
person/months, of which 8 tersons trained in colleges in USA and 3 of them
have obtained Mast^r's degree; 34 atudy tour groups visited abroad with 207
persons of 104 person/months; foreign experts or consultants serviced on site
with 16 persons or 361 person/days; domestic experts or consultants services
on site with 6 persons or 102 person/days. After the training, consulting
services and study tours a number of technical and managerial personnel who
are engaged in project implementation, construction, management, equipment
installation, testing and production have grown up. Those personnel trained
by ths World Bank project have become the leading m-anagerial and technical
personnel in all levels on the State Farms. They will play an important role
in the modernization construction on Guangdong and Hainan State Farms.
Project Benefits
51.       The project has derived the benefits expected on the SAR targets.
From 1991 on, 52,354 ha of replanted and newly planted rubber will be put into
production year by year. Total output in the project cycle will be 1.589
million tons (1.458 million tons in the Appraisal). Average annual output
will be 58.85 thousand tons (54 thousand tons in the Appraisal), increasing by
9% compared with thE target. The planted 16,061 thousand ha of windbreak can
not only create a suitable environment for the rubber growing and against
typhoon, but also will provide a large quantity of timber by commercial
thinning and clear felling at the end of the project. During the rubber
immature phase, the intercropped area totaled 22,143 ha. with varied kinds of
crops. Up to now, the output of intercrops are as follows:



- 18 -
Sugarcane 165,000 T;     Sweet potatoes       162,000 T;
Pineapple  66,900 T;     Groundnuts             5,100 T;
Tea         1,896 T;     Medicinal herbs          420 T;
Coffee, pepper and other cash crops             7,800 T.
Annual output of timber complexes and all the sawmills on the project state
farms is expected as follows:
Treated sawn wood         60,000 cubic m;
Particle board            30,000 cubic m;
Furniture                295,000 pieces
Furniture components     500,000 pieces
Transport Pallets        400,000 pieces
Building components      280,000 sq.m;
Other wood products are plywood, parquet, finger-joint board, blockboard and
so on. These factories have expanded a wide utilization of rubberwood and
logs of windbreak wood on state farms.
52.       Financing and economic profits.  According to the calculations
based upon the planted rubber, windbreak, intercrops and rubberwood products
during the 34 years project period, FRR's and ERR's are estimated at 15.27%
and 16% respectivel- (15% and 16% at the.Appraisal respectively). The project
will generate the expected profit of the SAR targets, and be able to pay back
the World Bank loan and the domestic loan.
53.       The project's social economic benefit was remarkable and definite.
In the 65 project state farms and complexes, the project created 62,800 new
jobs for the unemployed youngsters on the state farms and nearby villages
among which, more than 25,000 jobs are for women. This has created the job
opportunity for women. Annual income had increased fr;.:- 879 yuan in 1983 to
2035 yuan in 1990 per worker on the project state far.n with an increase of
130%. On the improvement of school, hospital and research, the project had
completed building housings of 104,300 square meters, i';rchasing instruments
and a_ilities of 740 sets. All of that have not only improved the conditions
of research, Lcaching and medicine and promoted the levi- of research,
education and medicine cn state farms, but also made an "moortant contribution
to more than one million people on the state farms and nea-by villages. The
project had completed 466,800 sq. m housings fcr staff and workers. About
13,000 households or 60,000 people moved into these new hu-s.  The completed
power station, power transmission linus, rural roads, briGces/culverts have
improved the conditions of production and living standards of the staff and
workers on state farms. The project establishment had promoted economic
development in the remote countryside. During the project implementation
about 100,000 villagers with their land nearby State Farms merged into state
farms. These adult farmers have received the same treatment as workers on
state farms. This action resulted in fully developing unused land, improving
the living standard of the villagers, and promoting the relationship between
state farms and villages.  Some remote area farms got away from poverty.
_____ ____ ____ ____ ____ ____ ____ _   _l



- 19 -
General Assessment
54.       During seven years of implementation, the project had successfully
completed all the main production tasks and the SAR targets. The 52,354 ha of
new planting and replanting rubber are growing well and will become an
important productivity in the coming years. The timber complexes and farm
sawmills have not only expanded utilization of rubbetwood and windbreak, but
also have become an important income source and strengthened economic vitality
or. State Farms.
55.       In the project implementation, a whole set of modern managerial
program and method introduced from the World Bank had been used and generated
a considerable result in controlling the project operation effectively. It
also helped leaders and economic managerial personnel on Stat4 Farms to
improve their ability in project management, strategic decision and
supervision, to reduce and avoid blindness and mistakes in project
construction.
Summary and Lessons Learned
56.       The project identification and appraisal must be discussed
sciei.tifically and repeatedly, and compared with several plans. The project
must meet the specific conditions of the project area or sector, and combine
with the economic development. As we had made a great deal of preparation and
survey, also comparison with several plans before the appraisal, the project
had been implemented and completed based on the correct identification,
complete demonstration and date, and combined closely with Guangdong and
Hainan State Farms, economic development.
57.       Setting up a perfect project management office system with full-
time personnel. From late of 1983 to the beginning of 1984 on, project
management offices with personnel in different specific field were set up in
Cuangdong PGB, prefectural bureau and project state farms. It continues to
work now. The offices formed a new comprehensive business system from the
General Bureau to state farms and have ensured the successful implementation
of the project.
58.       To make up a set of strict management regulation is keeping with
the demands of the World Bank and our reality. During the project
implementation we have set up 11 management regulations or implementation
methods in fields of planning, statistics, financing, operation technique,
etc., besides carrying out the World Bank's regulations and domestic relative
regulations. In practice those regulations and methods have played a very
important role in project operation and management.
59.       Strengthening the project management and personnel training.  After
setting up the project management organizations and the regulations, it is
important to upgrade the knowledge of managerial personnel for ensuring the
project management efficiency. In the project implementation, we had
conducted some training courses including project management, planning,
statistics, financing, material management, production technique, etc. for



- 20 -
project management officers in different levelc. After training the officers
have been qualified on their duty.
60.       The different professional departments in the bureau or on the
state farms should do well in coordination and cooperation. During the
implementation there was a lot of work dealing with diffcrent professional
departments and to be done by the departments, such as planning, finance,
production, scientific research, industrial machinery, material Lnd equipment
supplying, etc. In carrying out the project, the project managetaent office,
as a leading department, had cooperated with other relative departments, and
relative departments had tried their best to carry out the project as their
duty, and supported each other as well as made cooperation closely. We
strived for obtaining the support and instruction from the relative department
of the central government and the provincial government.  We had also
cooperated well with the World Bank. All of these had played an important
role in carrying out the project successfully.
61.       For ensuring the quality of the project construction and carrying
out the regulations strictly, we strengthened the project inspection and
acceptance. Three level inspection and acceptance systems were set up
respectively in Guangdong PGB, prefectural bureau and farms. In rubber
establishment, the qualified plantation could be accepted and the
establishment fund allocated only after checked and signed by the inspectors,
and the unqualified plantation had to be done over again till qualified. The
use, storage and financial account of project materials and equipment were
checked every year by the project management office of the bureau and
provincial audit bureau. The inspection and acceptance system had not only
sped up the project construction, but also ensured the quality of engineerings
and managerial regulations could be carried out strictly.
Problem and Susestion
62.       Rubber production is the most important task of the project.
Rubber trees, which had been planted in a total area  of more than 50000 ha,
are growing well because of the high-standard maintenance. During the period
of 1991-1996, a lar6e quantity of rubber trees will still have not reached the
age of tapping and are still in the maintenance stage. Therefore, it is
necessary to make out enough fund budget for continuously maintaining at tha
high standard. Only by doing this, an expected output target will be surely
reached. The project executive units in reclamation area shall raise their
own funds which will be used to the later stage of rubber maintenance by
themselves; besides, we hope the State will also supply a certain amount of
allowance. It is estimated that rubber output of the project will be much
higher than that of original rubber production on state farms area, but a
certain gap will exist by comparing with other rubber-producing countries with
advanced rubber production techniques. It is necessary to continuously work
hard from now on, to learn techniques from the advanced rubber producing
countries, to strengthen scientific research, to build closer experimentally
cooperation relations between the rubber research departments and farms, and
pay more attention to the spread of research results, to improve tapping
system and further enhance the level of rubber production.



- 21 -
63.       A bigger gap exists between present output and originally designed
production capacity at the timber complexes owing to the postponed
construction time, equipments being in the testing-run state and imperfect
internal management and marketing systems. Especially Sanya Timber Complex,
in 1990, because of the quality problems of equipment design and manufacture
supplied by foreign sellers, the main axle of shaving-board dr!ar broke four
times, leading to production stop over 200 days and lost output nearly 16,000
cubic meter and 15 million yuan RMB in economy. From now on, various internal
management systems in plants must be further set up and perfected. Training
for technical and management personnel should be strengthened. We should
continuously invite experts both at home and abroad for providing consulting
services, so as to raise the level of production and management, strengthen
centralized management under the Wood Group Co., increase sales network
centers, join products exhibitions both at home and abroad, enlarge the
products advertising, strengthen the exchange of information and open up sales
channels. The carriage band saws both in Sanya timber complex and Xilian
sawmill should be treated soon because their power, power consumption and cost
are too high to be suitable for processing small diameter rubberwood.
64.       Maintenance systems for vehicles, agriculture engineering machinery
and equipments purchased for this project are still not perfect, without
driving and working records about vehicles and tractors in a few units. Each
project unit should check up all the project's property, such as equipments,
automobiles, instruments, tractors as well as other agriculture engineering
machinery, make property lists, set up post responsibility and maintenance
systems and make notes of the driving and working matters about each vehicle
and machinery. Some of the spare parts which were selectively purchased along
with the imported equipment, vehicles, agriculture engineering machinery in
their project have been used up. Some more spare parts were purchased in the
implementation period of the project. From now on, enterprises under the
project should strengthen equipment maintenance, especially the vulnerable
parts maintenance, so as to extend their service life. We should use spare
parts made in China if they can be replaced, or after technical innovation
they can be replaced with the domestic products. A small quantity of spare
parts which we have to import from abroad should be planned in advance and the
channels of application and approval for importing those goods also should be
in a regular way.
ORinions to Part I of the Project Com2letion Rt   _
65.       Consent to the analysis results and conclusion in Part I of the
report, additional remarks to the following two sections are given:
a. In Section 8, dispute on the problem of land utilization
between some of the state farms and their nearby villages in Hainan
island in the past existed, but during the implementation period
i.e. at the beginning of 1985, according to the decision of
Ministry of Agriculture and Guangdong Provincial Government,
villages under land dispute were merged into state farms, adults of
the villages became the farm membe.s. The dispute was basically
settled. Our Government consistently takes the policies of side by
side developing rubber both in state farms and rural area. Total



- 22 -
49,000 ha of rubber plantation area, including new planting and
replanting had been finished from 1984 to 1990 only in rural areas
of Hainan island. Local Government appropriated specific funds for
developing rubber production every year. State farms take 7%
profit from their own income to support those areas, besides the
support of planting materials, techniques, machinery, chemical
fertilizer and so on. Rubber production in rural areas have been
developing step by step.
b. In section 15, we express hearty thanks to the World Bank for
their support on the funds of technical assistance. We also
express deep gratitude to Mr. Poh Loh Lim, the former senior
adviser in FAO, who made a great contribution to the state farm
rubber development, especially to the construction and technical
advice of this project.
ORinions to Part III of the Project ComRletion Report
66.       The following figures in this report should be revised:
a. On table 4 of part III, "project implementation", the practical
finished area of rubber planting should be 52354, not 53254 ha.
b. In the Annex 1 of table 6, table titling "Project Rubber
Production", the average estimated output of rubber products from
1992 to following year should be 54000 tons annually, but "5400
(kg/ha.)" in the Report.
c.  Figures of rubber replanting by project closing date shown at
Point 3, Table 6 "Project Results" shall be 17,715 ha instead of
16,377 ha. Yearly schedule for new planting and replanting is
shown below
1984 1985  1986  1987  1988 1989  1990 total
Rubber Planting (ha.)    12541 18572 7894 7233 3049 2192  873 52354
of which:replanting:  4699 6704 2386 2156  1067  352  351 17715
Hainan (planting):       10883 14867 6950 6126  1801  1993  873 43498
of which:replanting:  3793 4342 1749  1338      172  351 11745
Zhanjiang (planting):    1658 3705 944  1107  1248  194     8856
of which:replanting:       906 2362 637  818  1067  180       5970
d.  For figures of intercropping at point 5, Table 6 "Project
Results" by closing date, we suggest to use the figures at section
51 of Part II, which are the actual ones.
Role of the World Bank
67.       Establishment of the project on the rubber development in China is
under the support, help, supervision and direction from the World Bank. The
Appraisal for China Rubber Development Project by the World Bank is scientific
and in accordance with the practical situation of China's rubber development.



- 23 -
The Appraisal Report is the basis of directing China Rubber Development
Project. The project provides the modernized model for the 2nd generation
establishment of rubber plantation in China. The successful construction of
this project has established a close cooperation between us and the World
Bank.
68.       During the seven-year period of implementation,  Mr. Joseph
Goldberg, Chief of China Agricultural Division, Mr. Smith, former Chief of
China Agricultural Division, Mr. James Goering, former senior official of the
World Bank Resident Mission in China and all staff in charge of this project,
especially Ms. N. Kay Hill, Ms. Nancy C. Hwang and other staff in Disbursement
Department gave us a great support, cooperation and help on project
identification, appraisal, purchasing, calling for tenders, evaluating
tenders, technical and equipment importing, contract awarding, loan/credit
disbursement, credit adjustment, supervising etc. Officials and experts like
Mr. Kheng Hoe Yeow in the World Bank often introduced to us the up-to-date
scientific techniques and management experience of advanced rubber production
in the main rubber-producing countries in the World, helped to find the
consulting company, and experts, made contact with the places visited and
inspected and introduced the working guide, regulation, systems and procedure
of the World Bank. All these made the project implementation smooth.
69.       In the project implementation, EDI of the World Bank also gave a
great support and help to the project, especially Messrs. Bob Lee and Janson
C. Chang who helped us to conduct many training and studying courses on
project economic management and helped to connect and admlt Guangdong
Reclamation Management College as the training center in China. Experts from
aboard coming to give a talk in China often were invited to teach us in
Guangdong Reclamation Management College. A remarkable achievement was made
in training economic management personnel.
70.       This project lasted a total of nine years from the beginning of
preparation to the completion of implementation. During that long period,
many great changes had taken place in project areas and China agriculture
situation. These changes could not be foreseen in the SAR, however, the World
Bank understood and permitted to do some adjustment on the contents of
project, such as to increase the numbers of project farms, upgrading farm
sawmills and building timber complexes, to enlarge the planting area of rubber
and windbreak, to pay the labor service fees related to maintenance of rubber
and windbreak together with the payment of planting labor services fees in one
time, rather than pay them in each year, to adjust the purchased quantity and
types of agricultural engineering machinery and vehicles, to increase
purchasing medical apparatus and instruments. microcomputers, chemical
fertilizer and steel products. All those adjustments were in accordance with
the practical requirements and played an important role in the construction,
production and management of this project, keeping the staff, workers and
peoples in project area fit.
71.       The cooperation between the World Bank as well as EDI of World Bank
and China Rubber Development Project are successful. The achievements are
remarkable, with a far-reaching significance. We wish continuously to develop
this kind of cooperation.



- 24 -
Support, Direction and Help from Related Departments Within China (including
the departments of local government)
72.       Leaders and staff in the departments concerned within China such as
State Planning Commission, Ministry of Finance, Audit Administration, Ministry
of Foreign Economic Relations and Trade, Agriculture Investing Co., Customs
Head Office, Machinery and Electrical Equipment Import Inspecting Office, Bank
of China, People's Construction Bank of China, Agriculture Bank of China and
other departments (including those of provincial and municipal governments)
paid attention to the construction of the Rubber Development Project from the
beginning of preparation to the completion of the project. These departments
concerned provided us many kinds of support and preferential conditions for
examination and ratification, training and visiting in abroad, approving of
purchased materials and equipments, declaring at customs, tax revenue,
commodity inspection, credit disbursement, loan repayment and local loans, as
well as gave the direction, supervision and help to the project
implementation. All those works have ensured the completion of this project.
73.       Ministry of Agriculture, Central State Farms Bureau and its project
Office as well as other relative departments perfectly carried out and
accepted all responsibility on the project implementation, which ensure the
set-up of the project smoothly. Ceneral Bureau of Guangdong and Hainan State
Farms, based on the decision of Ministry of Agriculture, perfectly carried out
the project implementing and leading, making policies, supervision and
coordinating role to the project implementation. The project offices under
Guangdong and Hainan State Farms Bureau, led by the leaders of the two
bureaus, perfectly fulfilled various construction tasks, cooperated with all
the staff in bureau's relevant departments, section offices as well as those
prefectural bureaus, farms and factories through the hard working, studying,
continuously carrying out the reform and open policy and consulting the
requirements of the SAR.
Relation with Other Units
74.       China Rubber Development Project got the support of FAO, which sent
Mr. Poh Loh Lim, the world renowned rubber expert to our project area,
carrying out inspection, direction work, making great achievements on the set-
up of this project and the development of Chinese rubber projection. We
express admiration and hearty thanks to FAO for its assistance and Mr. Poh Loh
Lim for his enthusiastic work. Besides the financial aid, FAO also sent wood
experts Messrs. Charles Bengough, Louis Marenzi to assist us to draw up the
project proposal report for the timber complexes. We did not know so much
about wood processing before. Their work here provided us the basic knowledge
and data on the feasibility study and construction of wood processing
factories.



PART III
-  25  -                                                   Table I
PART III - STATISTICAL INFORMATION
CHINA                                                               .
RUBBER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
..........................
(CREDIT 1417/SF005 - CHA)
....I......................
Related Bank Loans and Credits
..............................
Loan/Credit Title                    0'urpose                      Year of             Status            Comments
Approval
Rural Credit III           Provision of medium and                 FY88                Under             Satisfactory progress.
long-term Loans in six                                     implementation   By 09/30/91, 35 subtLans
provinces (Guizhou, Sichuan,                                                  (Y52.8 m) had been mace
Yunnan, Anhui, Henan and                                                      in Yunnan for rubber
Hubei) for investment in                                                      production and processing.
tree crops, livestock,
aquaculture and agro-
processing and also for
institutional devetopment
of ABC



- 26 -
PART III
Table 2
CHINA
RUBBER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
............. .......................................... 
(CREDIT 1417/SFOO5 - CHA)
Project Timetable
Item                  Date           Date          Date
Planned       Revised       Actual
Identification                                                        04/08/82
Preparation                                                           10/14/82
Appraisal Mission                                                     03/30/83
Loan/Credit Negotiations                                              10/11/83
Board Approval                                                        11/29/83
Loan/Credit Signature                                                 01/05/84
Loan/Credit Effectiveness                                             04/13/84
Loan/Credit Closing                       12/31/89                    12/31/90
Loan/Credit CompLetion                    06/31/89                    12/31/90



- 27 -
PART m
Table 3
CHINA
RU3BER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
..........................
(CREDIT 1417/sFOOS - CNA)
.........................
Loan/Credit Disbursements
................................................................. .......................................................................................  
--------Cumuative Estimate and ActuaL Disbu-sements CUSS m)  --------
Bank Fiscal Year               1984       1985       1986        1987       1988       1989      1990       1991
..................................... ..........................................................................  
Appraisal Estimate                 2.00     32.90       59.30       80.20      93.80    100.00
Actual                             2.55      31.82      51.17       57.71      77.50      89.64  104.40    108.11
Actual as X of Estimate             u28         97         86          72         83         90       104         108
Date of Final Disbursemnt                May 10. 1991
................................................................................................



28                            PART III
Table 4
CHINA
RUBBER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
{CREDIT 1417/SFOO5 - CHA)
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Indicators                         Unit      SAR      Actual      Actual/SAR E
A. Participiating State Farms        no.     40         65              163
B. Planted Area
(i)   Rubber                     ha       40,000    53,254          131
(ii)  Windbreak                  ha       12,000    16,061          134
C. Timber Factories
(i)   Farm sawmill               m2          -      24,757
(ii)  Timber complex             m2                 55,036
D. Transiport & Communication 1/
(i)   Rural Roads                km          780       583           75
(ii)  Bridges & Culverts         km         3864      3864          100
(iii) Telephone lines            km          780       378           49
E. School. Clinic and Research Buildinas
(i)   School and Clinic          m2      39,000   101,590           261
(ii)  Research                   m2        6,000     2,724           45
F. Houses 1/
(i)   Dwellings                  m2      648,000   466,801           72
(ii)  Offices, stores            m2       72,000    56,646           79
(iii) Others                     m2          -     135,825
G. Electric Power
(i)   Hydropower                 kw        5,000     7,020          140.4
(ii)  Thermal power              kw        3,000     1,379           46.0
(iii) Voltage line 1/            kw          400       269           67.3
1/  Comment:   Relocation of original planting sites to nearby existinig
plantation establishment with amenities had reduced actual
requirement compared with SAR targets.
I



29                                                        PART III
Table 5
CHINA
RUBBER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
...........................
(CREDIT 1417/SF005 - CHA)
Project Costs and Financing
A. Project Costs (USS m)
Appraisal Estimate                  Actual
Item                                          Local  Foreign    Total          Local  Forslgn    Total
Costs Ex. Costs                 Costs Ex. Costs
Rubber establishment                           103.6      19.7    123.3         83.9      16.0      99.8
Commune devc 3pment                             11.2      2.1      13.3          0.7       0.1       0.8
Windbreak establishment                         12.1       1.3     13.4    -   10.4        1.1      11.5
Buildings and utilities                         33.7      11.3     45.0         29.4       9.9      39.3
Rural roads                                      7.7       1.8      9.5          3.5       0.8       4.3
Equipment and vehicles                           0.0      16.7     16.7          0.0      11.3      11.3
Sawmills end wood-
processing                                     2.4      9.0      11.4         10.0      37.4      47.3
Training and research                            2.1       1.1      3.2          2.4       1.3       3.7
Technical assistance                             0.0       1.1      1.1          0.0       0.4       0.4
Base cost                                 172.8      64.1    236.9         140.3      78.2    218.5
Physical contingencies                          10.7      3.4      14.1
Price contingencies                             38.0      12.0     50.0
Total Project Cost/a                           221.5      79.5    301.0        140.3      78.2    218.5
B. Project Financing (USS m)
Source                                 .......... Planned -----.---  ---- Revised ----                      ----.-  Final  -------
.sDR m)   (USS m)   X Fin.    (SDR m)        Z Fin.               (SOR m)  (USS m)   X Fin.
IDA Credit 1417
(1) Rubber & windbreak establishment
excluding chemicaL feitiLizer           14.65    15.50         11        14.65        22                 15.21    17.00        22
(2) Equipment, vehicles and goods for
(a) Part B (Equipment)                    14.74    15.60        100        14.24       100                  9.92    11.10        100
(b) Part C.2 (Timber complexes)            5.67      6.00       100         5.67       100                  9.12    11.90       100
Cc) Part 0. (Buildings)                     1.13     1.20       100         0.50       100                  1.06      1.30       100
(d) Part F. (Training and Research)                                         1.13       100                  1.53      1.78       100
(3) Consultants' services                       0.31      0.30      100         0.31       100                  0.14      0.19       100
(4) Overseas training                           0.93      1.00      100         0.93       100                  0.25      0.34       100
(5) Unallocated                                 0.37     0.40                   0.37
Currency exchange fluctuation                                                                               0.57      0.77
Total                                     37.80    40.00                   37.80                           37.80    44.38
Special Fund Credit 005
(1) Rubber & windbreak establishment
excluding chemical fertilizer           22.25    23.50         16        22.25        31                 22.75                 31
(2) Equipment, vehicles and goods for
(a) Part A (PLanting)                      21.2    22.40        100         21.2       100                 12.20                 100
(b) Part B (Equipmen )                     3.12      3.30       100         3.12       100                  2.62                 100
Cc) Part C.1 (Sawmills)                     1.52     1.60       100         1.52       100                  1.14                 100
(d) Part C.2 (Timber complexes)            5.59      5.90       100         5.59       100                 17.37                 100
(e) Part D (Buildings)                                                      0.15       100                  0.10                 100
(3) Unallocated                                 3.12     3.30                   2.07
Currency exchange fluctuation                                                                               0.62
Total                                     56.80    60.00                   56.80                           56.80    63.73
Domestic                                                201.00                                                          110.39
Total                                                  301.00                                                           218.50



- 30 -
PART III
CHINA                                                   TABLE 6
RUBBER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                        Page 1 of 3
Project Results
A. Direct Benefits
SAR          Estimated at            Estimated at
Indicators                           Estimate           Closing Date             Full Development
1.   Average cumulative production
Rubber planted area (ha)                40,000                  52,354                   52,354
Average cumulative yield from
1992 to 2018 (kg/ha)                    54,000                                           58,846
2.   Employment and Income
Number of jobs                          44,800                  62,800
Income per worker (Y)                      879                   2,035
3.   Rubberwood from Replanting
Replanted area (ha)                     14,000                  17,715                         -
Rubberwood tm3)                        450,000                                          490,000
4.   Timber from Windbreaks
Windbreak planted area (ha)             12,000                  17,715
Timber (m3)                          3,300,000                                        4,200,000
5.   Production from Intercropping (t)
Pineapple                               45,000                  66,900
Sugarcane                               75,000                 165,000
Ground nut                               7,600                   5,100
Sweet potato                           207,000                 162,000
/1   Assumptions:  Intercropping is conducted on 20X of rubber area.  PCR yield assumptions
are as follows:  pineapple - 25 t in 3 years, sugar cane - 60 t in 3 years,
ground nut - 4.5 t in 3 years, sweet potato - 60 t in 3 years.



- 31 -
PART III
CHINA                                                   TABLE 6
RUBBER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                        Page 2 of 3
...........................
Project Results
...............
B.   Economic Impact
SAR Estimate                                     PCR Estimate
Economic Rate of Return                                                                 X
Total project                             17.2                                              16.0
Hainan new planting                                                                        15.2
Hainan replanting                                                                          21.1
Zhanjiang new planting                                                                      15.2
Zhanjiang replanting                                                                       20.8
C.   Financial Impact
SAR Estimate                                     PCR Estimate
Financial Rate of Revuen               X                                                X
Total project                                                                             15.27
Hainan new planting                                                                         14.8
Hafnan replanting                                                                          16.6
Zhanjiang new planting                                                                      14.6
Zhanjiang replanting                                                                       16.4
Hua8l  Furniture Factory                                                                   14.4
Sanya Timber Complex                                                                        3.5
Zhanjiang Presswood Factory                                                                16.4
Xilian Samtill                                                                                25
Assuwptions:
1 PLanted area is taken from Annex 1, Table 2.
2 Yield assumptions are outlined in Annex 1, Tables 4 and 5.
3 Rubber prices are taken from Annex 1, Table 10.
4 Costs of planting and windbreak establishment are taken from Annex 1, Tables 8 and 9.
5 Windbreak area was assuned to be 31.5 ha/100 ha rubber, reflecting actual percentage planted.
6 Rubber sawlogs were assumed to be priced at Y120/m3.
7 Sugarcane was chosen as a representative intercrop, planted on 20X of rubber area,
starting from the year after planting for a period of 6 years.
8 Average annual sugarcane yield of 20 t/ha was assumed.



_ 32 -
9
PART m
TABLE 6
CHINA 
RUSS  -';;;ENT PROJECT                Page 3 of 3
.                  ~~~~~RUBBER DEVELOPMENT PROJECt
..........................
Project ResuLts
..............
D.   Sensitivity anaLysis: Hafnan RepLanting
FinanciaL          Switching      Economic                  Switching
Rate of          values          Rate of                  values
Return          fRR to 12%       Return                 ERR to 12X
Basic scenario                                16.62                             21.07
Rubber price (Y/kg)
* 20X                                   18.99                            23.65
- 20X                                   13.62              29%           17.86                   - 46X
Timber price (Y/m3)
*20X                                   16.83                            21.92
- 202                                   16.41              100X          20.19                   - 100%
Rubber SawLog price (Y/m3)
* 20%                                   17.82
202                                   15.63            - 100%          18.36                   - 1002
Sugarcane price (Y/ton)
* 202                                   16.99                            22.12
- 20X                                   16.27            - 100X          20.12                   - 100%
Labor cost C(/day)
* 202                                   14.18            + 422            17.71                  + '42
- 202                                   19.82



- 33 
PART m
TABLE 7
CHINA
RUBBER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
...... ........... _ _ ...
Status of Covenants
Original Revised  Description of                Comments
Agreement                Section            Status  Date      Date   Covenants
Credit Agreement /a          3.05           OK         -        -    Governmenzt l  prepara        Received
annual work program          annually.
and financing pLan
by September each year.
3.07          OK                  -    Government to treat
effluents from rubber
plants in accordance
with sound environ-
mental practices
4.01 (c)           OK                       Annual audit report to        Received
be submitted by June 30      annually.
every year.
3.02          OK                       Employment of consul-
tants satisfactory to Bank.
3.06          OK         -        -    Staffing of Project Management
Office of Provincial
Generat Bureau with experienced
and qualified personnel.
/a              Refers to Development Credit and Special Fund Credit Agreements
Key:
OK              Covenant complied with.
SOON   :        Compliance expected in reasonably short time.
NYD    :        Net yet due.
ACT            -Needs use of formal remedies to bring about compliance.
RVS             Needs to be revised.



- 34 _
PART 111
Table 8
CHINA. .
RUBBER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
..........................
(CREDIT 1417/SFOOS   CHA)
Use of Bank Resources
A. Staff Inputs
....................................................... ............................................................................ 
Stage of Project Cycle                  Planned            Revised             Final
......A........... Staff  W     --IS
Through Appraisal                                                                  90.6
Appraisal through Board Approval                      -                             20.4
Board Approval through Effectiveness                                                5.6
Supervision                                                    -                   90.6
...................................................................................
TOTAL                                                                        207.2
...................................................................................
B. Hissions
............................................................................................................................
Stage of                Month/   Number   Days in   Specialization    Performance Rating              Types uAf
Project cyete              Year     Persons  Field       Represented /a         Status b/               Problems /c
........................................................................................................................,..,,,
Through appraisal
.................
Identification                         04/82             2       10  Econ, Ag Econ
Preparatmon/Pre-appraisat               10/82            5        20  Econ, Ag Econ C2)
Forester, Agr
Appraisal                               03/83            5        16  Econ, Ag Econ,
For, Agr (2)
Board approval through Effectiveness
.....................................
Supervision                             02/84            2        30  For. Agr                   1
Supervision                             01/85            4        12  Agr Econ, Engineer         1
Rub spec, Pr Off
Supervision                             01/86            3        10  Agr Econ,                  1
Rub spec, Pr Off
Supervision                             04/87            4        14  Agr, Egr, Ag Econ          I
Supervision                             05/8U            2        10  Rub spec, Pr Off           1
Supervision                             10/89            3        11  Rub spec, Pr Off           I
Wood industries spec
Supervision                             10/90            3         7  Rub spec, Pr Off           2         Project Development Objectives
Wood industries spec                 Project Management Performance
Supervision/PCR mission                 06/91            3        10  Rub spec, Pr Off           I
Wood industries spec
.................... .......................................... ___.....   _  _...............................
/a Specidlties represented: Agricultural Economist CAg Econ), Agriculturist (Agr), Economist CEcon),
Forester (For), Rubber specialist (Rub spec), Project Officer CProj Off),
Wood industries specialist (spec)
/b Performance Status: 1   M Minor or no problems, 2 - Moderate problem, 3 - Major problems
/c Performance of timber complexes was not achieving production potential



CHINA
RaA*er Development Project
cost Estimate (1 '1000)
1984            1985             1986           1987            1988            1989             1990            1991 ~,     TOTAL
unit     Sty   Value      Sty   Value    Sty   Value   Oty   Value       Oly   Value      Qly   Value     Sty   Value  Sty Vattue      Sty   Vatue
1.   ther Establishmet
Clearing mai  land prep      ha   15,218  25,417  16,141  27.125  6.181  10,127  5,877   7.896                      6,500o  9.316   1.404   2,012               51,525  1,89
field planting               ha   11,558  15,961  18,424  25.047  7,547   9,622  6,124   7,281                      6.500   8,527   1,40'.  1,842               51.557  69,086
Maintenance                  ha                    12,353   7,623 30,779  19.155 38,329  22,459  43,803  28,726  4.3,803  26,155  50,949  36,715               220,016 140,633
field Roads                  ha      209      871     135     243       9      16      9      54                                                                   362.  1,1I90
cattle pens aWnd mmir  pit$ no.        19       2       4      101    321      32    140      (64)                                                                 484       71
SiMoatat                               4.2.257  47,059  60,939 4S.039  38,952 50,479  37,632  43,801  28,726  56,803  43,99   53,757 40,569         0     0 323,944 293,073
2.   Joint Venture 0evetopment
Clearing and land prep       ha      639   1,164                                                                                                                   si9  l1U16
field plant ing              ha      797      815                                                                                                                  797     515
"ttotal                         1,636   1,979                                                                                                                 1,636   1,979
3.  Vindbreak Establishmnt
Clearing and lasu prep       ha    4.742   6,951   4,667   6,193  1,951   2,631  2,368   2,899                      1,950   2,78                                15,678  21,463
Naintenaflce of waindbreak    ha                    5,125   1,522  9,790   3,722 11,743   3,602   8,986   2,781   4,319   1,757  4,225   1,922                  4'.,188  15,306
S.btotal                        4,742   6,951   9,792   7.715S 11,741   6,353 14,111   6,501   8,986   2,781   6;269   4,546   4,225   1,922                 59,866  36,769
4.  vindbrak Estabilsment an Joint Venture
Clearingp and planting       ha      383      409                                                                                                                  383     409
S.   Agricultural machinery andEquipment 
tractors                     set      16     272       25     135     69   3,911       2      28                1
vehicles                     se        6      165     384  18,091      7S   2,277      I     (56)    257      461       4     357        1      19                 728  21,314
construction machinery       set       a      120      55   3,892      (6)    180      1     165                                                IT                  58   4,368
getting machinery            aet      16      164               S      17      16                                                                                   33     185
Chain sone                   set                      231     144    130       74     44      27               29             219                                  405     493
Agr. machinery S lxisl    tentseat                                    287   1,693     10     164                               10               (9)                297   1,858
others                       set     Its      187     231   1,493   274)   (854)    38      328       73     653      18-   391.        2      Is                 263   2,213
sdthtotat                         221     906      926  23,760    298   7,367      96     656     330   1,144       22     977       3      3'1               1,896  34,848
6.  Wooad Processing Facilities
Equip. lor tuaber up1xs.                      74              (74)                        42.965          40,686           20,605          43,155       3,730       0 151,341  ,
Eqip. for (arm samills                        144             119           1,734          2,635              124          15,130           (9,027)                     10,859 I
"tMotal                    -218                             45           1,734         45,600          40,610           35,935          34,128       3,730          162,200 
7.   Building construction                                                                                                                                                          I
limber complexes            sq..               79             344             328 24,617   4,207     648   3,460  24,064   3.489   5,687  15,289                55,036  271961I 
farm smaills                sq.      925      159  17,3538   2,405  1,103     329    247      79   4,075   1,081  15,464   4,600 (14,395) 4,137)               24,757   4,516  -
Housing            sq.. ~~~~163,617  16,673 126,791  14,514 80,246  10,650 51,049   7,217  26,131   4,654  14,050   4,024   4.916   1.205             466,801  58 997  0)
schools and clinics         sq..  10,238   1,076  20,96O   2,822 15,316   2,211 29,619   4, 1 1'  20,893   3,819      294     198   4,217     893              101,590  15:?25 
olUice, stores and garages sq.  11,930   1,414  12,520   1,561  7,515   1,673 15,924   3,365   7,656   1,584   1,101   1,567                  260               56,646  11,430 
lies/tre buildings         s"p.      240       21   1,401    1I5                     770     127                                      313      100               2,724     423
other buildings             sq..  36,597   3,125  43,055   5,346 17,227   3,390 20,775   3,705  16,455   3,682   1,714        844               4              135,822  20,016
Saibtotal                              22,547           27,173          18,641         22,933          18,200           14,722          13,614                      137,830  'd
00
B.   Transpot and commeiceat ion                                                                                                                    73
Rural roads                  130     29    2,605      120   1,250     39      234     S7     510      55   1,715       13     86253                                583   7,672 _
scidges wnd culverts          a    1,812   1,830      546   8,073    291      S0l   469      913     410      542      36     III             439                3,564   5,421



1984            19BS             1986           1987            1988            1969             1990            1.91        TOTAL
Unit    Oty   Value       Guy   Value    oty   Value    Qty   Value      Oty   Value      ty   Value     Qty   Value  Oly Value       lty   Value
Telephone lines              km      193     472       84     189      59      41     29      32       10     185              (5)       4     102                 379   1,016
Sthtotal                        2,304   4,907      750   2,512    389      782    555   1,455     475   2,442       49     940       4   1,271                       14,309
9.   Electric power establishment
Small hydroelectric station ku       310      272     140      71                  2,910   2,677   1,110   2,250   2,690   2,040                                 7,160   7,310
Thermal power stations       kuw     699      350     160      76                    520      168              20              36                                1,379     650
High voltage line            km       124   1,215      61     442      30     437     32     679       20     665       2   1 098              101                 269   4,637
Subtotal                                 1,837             589             437          3,524            2,935           3,114              10!                      12,597
10. Training, Research and Extension
Domestic training           ptdy 174,998      722 118,161      708 98,758     389 34,297      294  1`1,898    688     493       1S      65       2             445,670   2,818
Res/trg e"uipment            set                      274   1,473    (19) 2,125       49     450       83   3,461        1  2,416       (1)    65                  387   9,990
Subtotal                                  722            2,181           2,514            144            4,149           2,431               6?                      12,ioa
11. Other Structures
Wetls                        no.      31      361      29     428      14    262       5      44                                                                    79   1,095
Others                                        381             537             410            315            1o811             566.   -         696                       4,116
Subtotal                           31      742      29     965      14    672       5     359            1,811             566             696                        S,811
12. Chemical Fertilizers
N                             t    3,152   1,579   8,541   4,780 13,102   6,338 13,718   6,996  11.528   6,284   8,671   4,533  14,835   9,983                  73,547  40,491
P205                          t    2,478      415   1,000   2,641  3,466   1,190  2,949   1,256   2.619       840   1,805     609   2,033      624              22,350   7,51S
I20                           t      386      131     926     242    859      295    570     31I   1,250      636     539     302   1,065     535                5,595   2,454
Subtotal                                2,125            7,663          7,823           8,563           7,762            5,444          11,142                       50522
13. Technical Assistance                                                                                                                                                                   a
overseas trg. for degree                                                                                                                                   456             456
Sbort courses A study tours                                                                  300              143             189                           s3       0     715
Visits by foreign experts                                                                     39                                                           826       0     865
Subtotal                            0       0        0       0      0       0       0     339       0      143       0     189       0       0     0 1,365        0   2,036
TOTAL                                     85,602          133,t42          85,27S        12a8306          110,903         11Z,922          103,546       5,09'         765,191
USs exchange rate                            2.40            3.00            3.20           3.70             3.70            4.70             4.70        S.a0
UsS equivalent (USS '000)                  35,668          44,514          26,648         34,677           29.974          24,026.          22,031         980         218,518
CHINA
Rubber Development Prolect
Cost Estimate (USS *000)
Susmry                                       1984            1985            1986           1987             1988            1989             1990        1991          lAotL    1 
Rubber Estabtlshment                       18,493          22,867          14,617         12,485            9,862          10,520           11,00?           0          99,846
Coneurw development                           025               o 7                            0                0 o             o                            0825. 
Wilndbreak Estabilshment                    3,067           2,572           1,9B5          1,757              752             967             409            0          11,508   a.
suildings ard utilities                    10,567           8,722           5,979          6,098            5,024           2,206              715           0          39,312   Pl
Rural road                                  1,841             774             232            385              610             201             249            0           4 298    F
Equipment and vehicles                        378           7,920           2,302            177              309             208               a            0          11,303    g
smwmils ard wood processing                   190             931             747         13,483           12,257           9,367           9,634          717          47,326
Training and research                        301              727             786            201            1,121             517              14           0            3,667
Technical assistance                                            0 0             0             92               39              40               0         263              433   ,
35,668          44,514          26,648         34,677           29,974          24,026          22,031          980         218,518    f
SQ
N



CHINA
RUBBER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STATISTICAL INDICATORS: AREA PLANrED. SURVIVAL RATE. GIRTH MEASUREMENTS AND WINDBREAK DATA
A        C        T        U        A         L
Indicators                         SAR         Total       Actual        1984       1985       1986       1987       1988       1989        1990
SAR X
Planted Area
Project               ha           40000       52354         131         12541      18572      7894       7233       3049        2192        873
Hainan                ha           33967       43498        128          10883      14867      6950       6126       1801        1998        873
Zhanjiang             ha            6033        8856        147           1658       3705       944       1107       1248         194
New Planting 1/
Project               ha           25000       34639        139           7842      11868      5508       5077       1982        1840       522
Hainan                ha           23667       31753        134           7090      10525      5201       4788       1801       1826        522
Zhanjiang             he            1337        2886        217            752       1343       307        289        181          14         -
Re lantino                                                                                                   *
ProJect               ha           15000       17715        118          4699        6704      2386       2157       1067        352        351
Hainan                ha           11000       11745        107          3793       4342       1749       1339         -         172        351
ZhanJiang             ha            4000        5970        149           906        2362       637        818       1067        180         -
Surylval Rate 2/                                                                                                                                              4
Project               %                         87.5         -           88.7        85.9      86.1       86.8       91.8        94.2      92.9
Hainan                X              -          85.7                     87.8       83.3       84.7       84.9       88.2        93.9      92.9              1
ZhanJiang             X                         95.4                     93.9       95.1       95.7       96.1       96.6        96.9        -
Girth Measurement
at 100 cm height 3/
Project               cm             -          27.5         -           37.3        31.3      24.3       18.6       14.8         8.2       3.5
Hainan                cm             -          26.6                     36.3       30.3       23.4       17.1       13.2         7.9       3.5
ZhanJlang             cm             -          31.5         -           42.4       34.3       31.2       25.4       16.8        11.1
Uindbreaks
Project               ha           12000       16061        134          5125       46i6       1951       2369         -         1950
Hainan                ha           10200       13376        131          4505       3867       1637       2002         -         1365
ZhanjTang             ha            1800        2685        149           620         799       314        367         .          585
1/ included 4000 ha of village farms (incorporated into State Farms in 1985).
2/ Wind damage incidence Is greater in Hainan than in Zhanjiang.
3/ Tree development Is better In Zhanjiang than Hainan because of less wind damage.
mxH



- 38 -
ANNEX 1
Table 3
CHINA
RUBBER DEVELOPMENT
PLANTED RUBBER CLONES
INDICATORS
Project                           Hainan                  Zhaniiana
Clones            Area                     Area          %        Area         %
RRIM600           34714        66.3        34581        79.5        133        1.5
PR 107             8756        16.7         7569        17.4      1187        13.4
GT 1               2849         5.4          130         0.3      2719        30.7
Haiken 1           1330         2.5          391         0.9        939       10.6
New Clones 1/      4750         9.0          827         1.9      3878*       43.8
Total       52354                   43498                   8856
1/  Includes more than 50% IAN-897.  IAN-897, Dafeng 95, TCRI-88-13, Nantiual,
Weisham RRI-126, Haiken2, RK125, 126, 127, 154, 155, 156, 157, 158.



39                                  ANNEX 1
Table 4
RUBBER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
RUBBER YIELD PROJECTIONS - HAINAN
PCR PROJECTIONS
Planting     Tapping      SAR    Density      Number of        Gm/tree/      Kg/ha      Kg/ha
Year         Year         t/ha   Trees/ha    Tapping Days   'Tap Day         Year       Cummulative
9              1        0.42        380           90            12            410          410
10              2        0.70        450           90            14            567          977
11              3        0.95        480           90            16            691         1668
12              4        1.17        500           90            20            900         2568
13              5        1.35        510          90             22           1010         3578
14              6        1.51        510          90             26           1193         4771
15              7        1.65        510           90            30           13'7         6148
16              8        1.75        510          90             34           1561         7709
17              9        1.83        500           90            34           1530         9239
s8            10         1.89        500           90            36           1620        10859
19            11         1.93        490           90            40           1764        12623
20             12        1.95        480           90            40           1728        14351
21             13        1.94        480           90             38          1642        15993
22             14        1.92        460           90             38          1573        17566
23             15        1.89        450           90             36          1458        19024
24             16        1.84        440           90             36          1426        20450
25             17        1.77        420           90             34          1285        21735
26             18        1.69        400           90             34          1224        22959
27             19        1.61        390           90             34          1193        24152
28             20        1.51        380           90             34          1163        25315
29             21        1.40        370           90             34          1132        26447
30             22        1.29        360           90             32          1037        27484
31            23         1.17        350           90             32          1008        28492
32            24         1.05        340           90             30          864         30274
33             25        0.92        320           90             30          864         30274
34            26         0.79        310           90             26          725         30999
35             27        0.66        300           90             26          702         31701
Average                   1.34                                                              1174
PCR/SAR %       88%
Comments:  Apart from the normal agronomic inputs, rubber yields are sustainable provided:
a) Loss of tappable trees is maintained at levels indicated in the table.
b) Number of tapping days are not affected by adverse weather conditions.
c)  Latex loss cu.ring tapping is minimal.



_ 40 -
Table 5
RUBBER DEVELOPMNT. PROJECT
LUBER YIELD PROJECTIONS - ZHANJIANG
PCR PROJECTIONS
Planting      Tapping      SAR     Density      Number of        GM/tree/      Kg/ha      Kg/ha
Year          Year         t/ha   Trees/ha    Tapping Days   .Tap Day         Year    Cummulative
9              1         0.33       400           90             12           432           432
10              2         0.55       480            90            12           605          1037
11              3         0.75       500            90            16           720          1757
12              4         0.92       520            90            18           842          2599
13              5         1.07       540            90            20           972          3571
14              6         1.19       540            90            24           1166         4737
15              7         1.30       530            90            28           1336         6073
16              8         1.38       520            90            30           1404         7477
17              9         1.45        520           90            32           1498         8975
18             10         1.49       520            90            34           1591        10566
19             11         1.52        510           90            36           1652        12218
20             12         1.53        500           90            36           1620        13838
21             13         1.53        290           90            37           1632        15470
22             14         1.52       480            90            37           1509        17068
23             15         1.49       460            90             36          1490        18558
24             16         1.45       450            90             36          1458        20016
25             17         1.40        430           90             35          1355         21371
26             18         1.34        420           90             35          1323         22694
27             19         1.27        400           90             34          1224         23918
28             20         1.19        380           90             34           1163        25081
29             21         1.10        370           90             32           1066        26147
30             22         1.01        360           90             32          1037         27184
31             23         0.92        350           90             30           945         28129
32             24         0.82        340           90             30           918         29047
33             25         0.72        320           90             28           806         29853
34             26         0.62        310           90             26           725         30578
35             27         0.52        300           90             26           702         31280
Average                    1.120                                                              1159
PCR/SAR %                105%
Commentg: Apart from the normal agronomic inputs, rubber yields are sustainable provided:
a) Loss of tappable trees is maintained at levels indicated in the table.
b) Number of tapping days are not affected by adverse weather conditions.
c) Latex loss during tapping is minimal.



_41 -                        ANM_
Table 6
CHUN
RUBBER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECTED RUBBER PRODUCTION
(mt)
RAINAN g-g;^X
Year       New PlantinQ     Rgglantint     New Plantinz     Replanting        Total
1992           2,906.9          1,5554 1        324.9           391.4         5,178.3
1993           8,335.3          3,930.9       1,035.1         1,568.5        14,869.8
1994          12,999.3          5,800.0       1,486.6         2,356.5        22,642.3
1995          19,114.4          7,405.7       1,910.7         3,202.3        31,633.1
1996          24,439.1          8,947.3       2,335.8         4,283.9       40,000.2
1997          29,772.4         10,555.1       2,764.4         5,200.9       48,292.7
1998          35,579.5         12,410.9       3,251.1         6,149.5       57,391.1
1999          41,131.1         14,304.2       3,651.4         6,993.5       66,080.3
2000          45,570.4         15,386.9       3,946.9         7,666.9       72,571.2
2001          48,606.0         16,007.7       4,250.0         8,386.0       77,249.7
2002          52,263.1         16,960.6       4,502.8         8,992.7       82,719.2
2003          54,564.5         17,702.6       4,631.1         9,347.1       86,245.3
2004          55,252.4         17,568.1       4,660.7         9.509.9        86,991.4
2005          54,754.5         16,929.3       4,610.3         9,572.5       85,866.5
2006          52,952.6         16,047.7       4,437.6         9,328.0        82,765.8
2007          50,874.7         15,362.7       4,378.8         9,162.4        79,778.6
2008          48,371.9         14,532.1       4,242.4         8,887.e        76,034.3
2009          45,284.4         13,605.1       4,001.1         8,450.6        71,341.2
2010          43,115.2         12,934.0       3,837.0         8,151.1        68,037.3
2011          41,091.6         12,534.9       3,608.2         7,719.8        64,954.5
2012          39,648.7         12,187.0       3,387.9         7,282.9        62,506.5
2013          38,918.9         11,604.1       3,108.7         6,855.0        59,558.7
2014          36,127.6         10,967.4       3,006.8         6,480.1        56,581.9
2015          33,974.9         10,102.4       2,813.5         6,057.6        52,948.5
2016          31,599.7          9,410.4       2,638.0         5,695.5        49,343.7
2017          29,444.3          8,615.5       2,385.2         5,216.8        45,661.7
2018          26,694.2          7,897.5       2,199.9         4,807.8       41,599.3
Total      1,002,387.6        321,265.2      87,478.8       177,717.2    1,588,842.8
PCR Avg.      37,125           1l,899         3,240           6,582          58,846
SAR Avg.                                                                     54,000



42 -
Table 7
RUIBER DEVELOP)MNT PROJECT
LOBBER YIELD PROJECTIONEi V1T  ADOPT!OI- 0  NEV NURSERY TECHNIOUES /I
Planting        Tapping       Density        Number of        GM/tree/      Kg/ha       Kg/ha  2/
Year            Year          Trees/ha       Tapping Days    Tap Day        Year       Cumulative
7               1           200           , 90              12            216          216
8               2           400              90             14            504          720
9               3           500              90             16            720         1440
10               4           510              90             18            826         2266
11               5           510              90             20            918         3184
12               6           510              90             24           1102         4286
13               7           510              90             28           1285         5571
14               8           500              90             30           1350         6921
15               9           500              90             34           1530         8451
16              10           500              90             36           1620        10071
17              11           490              90             38           1676        11747
18              12           490              90             38           1676        13423
19              13           480              90             40           1728        15151
20              14           470              90             40           1692        16843
21              15           460              90             38           1573        18416
22              16           450              90             38           1539        19955
23              17           460              90             36           1426        21381
24              18           430              90             36           1393        22774
25              19           420              90             34           1285        24059
26              20           400              90             34           1224        25283
27              21           390              90             34           1193        26476
28              22           380              90             34           1163        27639
29              23           370              90             32           1066        28705
30              24           360              90             32           1037        29742
31              25           350              90             30           945         30687
32              26           340              90             30           918         31605
33              27           320              90             28           806         32411
34              28           310              90             26           725         33136
35              29           300              90             26           702         33838
Average                                                                                    1167
1/ Green budding and polybag and/or high stump planting materials.
2/ Cumulated yield exceeded by 8.2% and 7.0% compared with Hainan and Zhanjiang.
Comments: Apart from the normal agronomic inputs, rubber yields are sustainable provided:
a) Loss of tappable trees is maintained at levels indicated in the table.
b) Number of tapping days are not affected by adverse weather conditions.
c) Latex loss during tapping is minimal.



CHNA
RUBBER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PCR COST PER HA OF PLANTING AND REPLANTING
Innature Phase                      Nature Phase
Financial Costs           Unit      Unit Cost    Land Clearing         Ptanting                    Maintenance                     Maintenance & Tapping
& Preparation                             2- 4 yrs        5 - 8 yrs          9 - 13 yrs        14 - 35 yrs
Qty       Cost     Qty    Cost          Otv     Cost    Oty       Cost      oty     Cost       Oty    Cost
Labour                    Monday   Yuan 3.25    300         975        150    488          97      315      92       299       250    812        230    747
Planting Material
(rubber)                  Each      Yuan 0.6      -         -          AO    396                    -                 -
Planting material
(trees)
Fertilizers
N                     Kg        Yuan 1.22      -                   50      61          150     183     200       244       300     366       300     366
P20A                  Kg        Yuan 0.8       -                   150    120          150     120     150       120       150     120       150     120
K20                    Kg       Yuan 0.6       -                                        75      45       75       45       100       60      100       60         JS
Organic Fertilizer        Kg        Yuan 0.3      -                  3000      90        3000       90    4000      120       6000     180      6000     180
Other naterials           Yuan                              200                25
Tools & equipment         Yuan                               50               10                   10                20                300               300
Fuel & transport          Yuan                               80               40                                                       140               140
Pestfcfdes                Yuan                               -                                     20                40                 60                60
Indirect cost (10X        Yuan                               98               49                   32                30                 81                75
of labor) a/
overhead (20X of
labour)                 Yuan                              195               98                   63                60                162              150
Total                                                      1597              1378                 878               979                                 2198
Cost to reach maturity, Y9876.
a/ For welfare/social charges.                                                                                                                                    0 X



CHINA
RUBBER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
COST PER HA OF PLANTING WINDBREAK
Financial Costs          Unit           Unit Cost          Clearing          Haintenance 2-4 years           Harvest cost/rne
+                                             (8 year:.'harvest)*
Planting
Labour + Welfare              day             3.68                743                   260
Planting material             Yuan             0.36               1840
Fertilizer                    Yuan                                  32                    34
Other materials               Yuan                                   10
Tools & equipment             Yuan                                  19                     9
Harvesting - felling          Yuanm'                                                      -                                45
transport        Yuan/in                                                                                      S 
loadingl
untloading      Yuan/rn                                                                                       3
overhead         Yuan/rn                                                                                      10
Overhead                      Yuan                                219                     76
Total                                                            2914                    379
*Timber yield:  1st harvest 30 a?/ha                    3rd harvest  80 3/ha
2nd harvest 50 m'/ha                   4th harvest   115 m3/ha
I F3



_45 -                        ANNES I
Table 10
RUBBER DEVELOP  'EN QJECT
Ecoonomic Price of Rubber
(in constant 1990 prices)
Rubber in bales RSS#1, spot, Singapore  (US$/ton) /a   870
+ Freight to China Mainland Port (US$/ton)                50
- CIF China Mainland Port (US$/ton)                      920
* 5.2 (exchange rate)  (Y/ton)                      -    4784
- Freight from Haikou to Mainland Port (Y/ton)             40
- Port charges and handling Haikou
(9% of CIF value + 25 Y/ton for handling)/b             483
- Transportation from Hainan farr to Haikou (Y/ton)        95
E Economic Farm Gate Price (Y/ton)                      4166
Financial Farm Gate Price (Y/ton)                      7000
/a Historically, 85% of New York price
/b Adopted to be consistent with SAR



OCHIt: RU_ DEV6ELOPMENT PR.JECT
HUAINA NeA PLANT!NQ
Financial Analysis
Description                 1983       1904      1985      1986      1987      1988       1989      1990      I"9       I92       1993      1994      1995       1996      9197      1998
0                   2         3         4          5         6         7         8         9        10        11         12                            isIL 1
Rubber: Planted Area (be)                   0      7090     10525      5201      6126       1801      I826       522
Rubber Yield Asusp6iona (kg/ha)                                                                                                    410       567        691       900      1010      1197      13'7
ORC Production (ill)
1984 Planting                                                                                    0         0          0   2906900  402030   4099190   63el0O0   7109Q00   8457C   " 9727 3;.
1985 PlantIn:                                                                                    0         0          0         0   4315250   5967675   7272775   9472500  10630250  12M563S
1986 Plantn                                                                                      0         0          0         0         0   2132410  2948967   3593891   4680930  525010
1987 Plantin0                                                                                                         0         0         0         0   2511660   3473442   423306   Sf13400
1988 Plning0                                                                                                                    0         0         0         0    738410   1021167   124A4491
1989 Pnt0                                                                                                                                 0         0         0         0    748660   1035342
1990 Planting                                                                                                                             0         0         0         0         0 o   14020
Total CRC Productn (kg)0                                                                                         0         0   2906900   8356280  12999275  19114402 24439143  2977241- :-57951B
Rubber: Financial Prki (Yg)            7.00
Reenau  from rubbr (Y )                   0         0         0         0         0         0          0         0         0  20348300  58346960  90994925 133800614 171074001 208406o91 249056t26
Windbroeks: Planted Area (ha)               0      2233      3315      1638      1930       567        575       164         0         0         0         0          0         0         o         0
Windbreaks: Yield Aaau_tione (0/ha)                                                                                       30
Ti br Production (d):
1984 Planting                                                                                    0         0     67001          0         0         0         0         0         e'        0
19lft Planting                                                                                   0         0         0      99461         0         0         0         0         0         0
1906 Ptlnting                                                                                    0         0          0         0     49149         0                        0              0
1987 Planting                                                                                              0          0         0         0     57891         0         0         0         0
19B8 Planting                                                                                                         0         0         0         0     17019         0         0         0
1989 Planting                                                                                                                   0         0         0         0      17256         0        0
1990 Planting                                                                                                                             0         0         0         0       4933         0
Total Timber Producti'n  d3)                                                                           0         0     67001     99461     49149     57891      17019     17256      4933         0
Thater: Financial "Pria(3                0
Revenue from windbreaks  r)               0         0         0         0         0         0          0         0  13400DlO  19892250  9829890  11578140   3403890   3451140    986580           0
Rubber Sauloga: Yield saw. (eS/a)           0
Rubber Sleog Produotion  113                        0         0         0         0         0          0         a         0         0         0         0          0         0         0         0
Rubber loo. Fin. Price (V/eS)            0
Revenue fro rubber &awl g0                                    0         0         0         0          0         0         0         0         0          0         0         0         0         0
Intercrop: Sugarcune (t/ha/yebr)          20
Sugarcane Prod. 1984 Plant. (t.)                          28360     28360    28360      28360      28360    28360
1985 Planting                                                  42100     42100     42100     42100     42100      42100
1986 Planting                                                            20004     20804     20604     20804      20804     20t04
1987 Planting                                                                      24504     24504    24504       24504     24504    24504
1986 Planting                                                                                 72         7204        204     7204      7204      7204
1989 Planting                                                                                           7304       7304      7304      7304      7304      7304
1990 Planting                                                                                                      2088      2068       06  2088      2     0882G     I0'8
Total Sugarcen, Production (t)                            28380     70460     91264    115768    122972    130276    104. .4    61904    41100        16596      9392      2088
Sugarcane: F'.nancisl Price (lit)       134
Revenue from Int.rcrop    Y/)                           38W240   9441640  12229376  15i12912  16478248  17456984  13936536   8295136   5507400   e223B64  125S528    279792             C         0        0%
TOTAL REViPX (Y)                            0         0   3800240   9441640  12229376  15512912  16478248  17456984  27336636  48535686  73884250 104796929 138463232  74804933 209393471 249056626
Financial coat of labor (I/day)          6.00
Rubber: Financial cost (Y/a)             2578      1914      1224      1224      1224       1309      1309      1309      13D9      3176      3176      3176       3176      3176      302;1     3020
Rubber Devlp/Mlaint. plus other expenditures
(including interest, and overhead)
1984 Planting                18987020  13570260   878160   8678160   8678160   9280810   928O810   9280610   9280810  22517840  22517840 22517840 22517840  2251784,0  21411800 22411800
1985 Planting                          28185950 20144850  12882600  12882600  12882600  13777225  13777225  13777225  13M225  33427400 33427400 33427400  33427400  334274;.0  31785500
1986 Planting                                    13928278   9954714   6366024   6366024   6365024   6808109   6806109   6808109   6o80109  16518376  2658376  16516376  165Ie7   16518376
2987 Planting                                               26405428  11725164   749824   749824   7498224   8018934   8018934   8018934   6018934  29456176  19456176  1945(176  29456176
1988 Planting                                                          4823078   3447114   2204424   2204424   2204424   2357509  2357509   2357509   2357109   5719976  5199976  5719976
1989 Planting                                                                    4890028   3494964  2235024   2235024   2235024   2390234   2390234  2390234   2390234   5799376  5799376
1990 Planting                                                                              1397916    999108    639        6 63 638928    928 28    633298   683298   683298    683298   2657872
Rubber: Total cost (Y)            18987020  41756210  42751288  47920902  44475028  44364O00  44019587  42802924  42963454  56353569  76158954  85913591  97350833 100713300 103016402 102349076
Windbreak Harvesting Coat (Y/e3)           90
Windbreak De../Iaint. Cost (Y/ha)                3113       469       469       469         0         0          0         0         0         0         0         0          0         0         0
Coet 1984 Plantin                             6952419   1047441   1047441   1047441
3985 Planting                                     10320762   1854911   1554911   1554911
1986 Plntingt                                               5100075    768370    76eSTo    768370
1987 Plnting                                                           6007125    905025    005025    905025
1088 Plant!ng                                                                    1766052    266071    266071    266071
1989 Planting                                                                              1790566    269764    269764    269764
1990 Planting                                                                                         511871     77118      77118    77118
Harniating Coat (Y)                                                                                                  6030045   895.513   4423451   5210163   1531751   1553013    443961          0
Wing'reska: Total Coat (Y)               0   6952419  11368204   7702427   9377847   4994357   373032   1952730  6642998   9298394  4L456S   5210163   1531751   153013    43961                  0
Rubber Sanloge Harvest. Cost (Y/eS)        90
Rubberloga Total Cot (Y)                            0         0         0         0         0         0         0
lntercrop Swugrcans Coat (V/ha)         2538
Sugprcan: n otai Coat (1)                0         0  335S284   8236774  10668762  13S33279  34375427  15229264  12158068   7236578   4804590   1940072   1097925    244067             0         0
TOTAL COST (Y)                      18987020 48706629 57434776  63860S103  64521634  62892436  62125045  89984918  61764519  72888541  85464112  93063826  99980s5   102510400 103460363 102349076
NET JICIE  (Financial) (Y)         -18987020 -48706629  538345s36 -54418463 -52292258 -47379524 -45646797 -42527934 -34427883 -24352858 -11779862  11733103 38482724  72294533 105933108 146707550 M      & 
inter"bl Fnncial Rate of Return        14.76 Percent 
__~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0



CHIN4A: IEU6ER DEVELOPI84T PROJECr
IiSINAN MN1 PLANTING
Fms.cisf A..Iysi (continued)
1999      2000      2001      2002      2003      2004       2005      2006      2007      2006      2009       2010      2011      2012      2013      20D4      2015       201C      2017      2018
16        17        18        19        20         21        22        23        24        25         26        27        28        29        30        31         32        33        74        35
1561      1530      1620      1764       1728      1642      1573      1458      1426       1285      1224      1193      1163      1132      1037       10o8       624       864       ?25       702
11067490  10847700  1411458O  12506760  12251520  11641780  11152570  10337220  10110340   9110650   8678160   6458370   8245670   802588    7352330   746720   C1257.0  6125760   SIJ025O   4977180
14492925  16429525  16103250  17050500  18566100  18187200  17282050  16555822  15345450  15008650  13524625  12882600  12566325  1224057S  11914300  10914425  10609200  9s936co   9093600   76325
6204793   7161177   6118761   7957530   8425620   9274564   6987326   8540042  8181173   75183058   7416626   668325   6366024   6204793  8048763   587532   5393437   5242606   4*93664   4493664
6187260   7308318   8435502   9562686   9372780   9924120  1000626.4  10585728  10088892   9636198   8931708   87367    7871910   7498224   7308318   7124538   6934463?   6352662   6175005  5,292864
1620900   1819010   2148593   2479977   2811361   p755530   2917620   3176964   311212e   2957242   2832973   2625858   2588226   2314285   2204424   2148593   2094563  2038732   19C76.7  1816*O0
1261766   1643400   1844260   2178418   2514402   2850386   2793780   2958120   3221064   3155328   2998292   2872298   2662306   2603876   2346410   2235024   2178418   2123638   26e7032   1693562
295974    360702    469800    527220    622746    718794    814842    798680    845640    9200        9Q0216    857124    821106    761076    744372    670770    636828    622746.   70S6   590904
41131108  45570432  48605966  52263091  54564529  55252374  54754454  52952559  S5074687  48371934  45284400  43115211  41091569  39648709  37918917  36127602  33974938  31599746f  24.427? 26694207
2879l7756 31893024 340241762 365841637 381951703 386766618 383281178 370667913 356122809 33860538 3169908  301806477 287640983 277540963 265432419 252893224 237824566 221198=  20C039939 1868e59449
0         0         0         0         0          0         0         0         0         0          0         0         0         0         0         0          0         C.        0         0
so                                                                               so O             V O O         O         OO                          
211668         0         0         0         0          0         0         0    178668         0          0         0         0         0         0         0    2s6835          0         0         0
0    165769         0         0          0         0         0         0         0    265230          0         0         0         0         0         0          0    381268         0         0
0         0     81916         0         0          0         0         0         0         0    131065         0          0         0         0         0          0         0    1 88406        0
0         0         0     96485         0          0         0         0         0         0          0    15437          0         0         0         0          0         0         0    221914
0         0         0         0     28366          0         0         0         0         0          0         0     45385         0         0         0          0         0         0         0
0         0         0         0          0    28780          0         0         0         0          0         0         0     48015         0         0          0         0         0         0
0         0         0         0          0         0      8222         0         0         0          0         0         0         0     13154         0          0         0         0         0
111668    165769     81916     96485     28386    28760        8222         0    178668    265220    131065   154375       45385     46015     13154         0    256835    381268    188406   221914
22333500  33155750  16383150  19296900   5673150   5751900   1644300          0  35733600 83046000 26213040  30875040   90no40   9203040   2630e80              0  51367050  76253625 37681245  44382870
0         0         0         0          0         0         0         0         0         0          0         0         0         0         0         0          0         0         0         0
0         0         0         0         0          0         0         0         0         0          0         0    .   0          0         0         0         0          0         0         0
0         0         0         0         0          0         0         0         0         0         0         0          0         0         0         0         0          0         0         0
81021256 35214674 356624912 38S138537 387624853 392518518 364925476 370667913 391856409 39149538 343203840 332681517 296718023 286744003 26863299 252893214 289191616 297451847 243791164 231242319
3020      3020      3020      3020      3020       3020      5020      3020      3020      3020      3020      3820       3020      3020      3020      3020      3020      3D20       3020      3020
2141' O  21411800  214118C0  21411800  21411800 2141180  2141160o  21411600  22411600  21411600  214118C0  21411800  21411800  21411800 21411800  21411800 21411800  21411800 21411800 21411600
517   -3O 31785500 3176e550   31785500  81785500 31785500 31765500 31765500 31765500  31765500 3176550   31785500 3176550  .317855    81785500  31785500  31785500 3178550o  31785500  31785500
15701020  16707020  15707020  15707020  157070    15707020  15707020  15707020  15707020  15707020  15707020  15707020  15707020  15707020  15707020  15707020  15707020  15707026' 15707020  15707020
19456176  18500520  l8500520  18500520  18500520  18500520  16500520  18500520  1500S520  18500520  18500520  1S65020  15W0020  18002   18500520  18500520  16500520  18500520  1850520  1685520
15719976   5719976   5439020   5439020   5439020   5439020   5439020   5439020   5439020   5439020   5439020   543902    543902    5439020   5439020   5439020   5439020   54390,20   1439020   5439020
5799376   6799376   5799376   5514520   5514520   5514520   5514520   5514520  8514520   5514520   5514520   5514520   5514520  551450   5514520   5514520   5514520   5514520   5514520   5514520
1657872   1657872   1657872   1657872   1576440   1576440   1576440   1576440   1576440   1576440   1576440   3576440   1676440   1576440   1576440   1576440   1576440  1576440   1576440   1576440
1015320 100582064 10001106 100016252  99934820  99934820  99934820 99934620 99934820  99934620 99934820 99934820  99954820  9993480   99346    99934820  99934820 999346    99934820 9993482
0         0         0         0         0         0          0         0         0         0         0         0          0         0         0         0      9725         0         0         0
0
100575  14919189  7372418   8306S   2552918   2586355    739935              0  16060120  23670700  11795868  13893768   4064668   4141368   116366           0 23115173  34314131  16956560  19972292
10050075  14919168   7372416   86683605   2552916   25835      739935         0  1606020  23870700  11795668  13893768   4064668   414136    1183696           0  23115173  34314J31  16958560  19972292
0         0         0         0         0         0          0         0         0         0         0         0          0         0         0         0         0         0          0        0
1115879S 11601252 107673526 108699857 102487738 102523175 1006747S5  99934820 116014940 123605520 111730686 1136286  104019488 104076168 101116716  99934820 123049993  34248951 116691380 11997112
196883461 23645523 248951387 27638680 285137116 289995343 264250723 270733093 275841469 267844018 231473152 218682929 192698535 162667S1S  166944583 152956394 166141624 16320W846 126899804 111335206
-   {21  I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~' 



OCIlNA: WBEIt DEVELOIMJET PROJECT
l4AJIINC tN8 PUNTING
Financial Analysis
De-ceiption                  1983      1984      1985      1986      1987       1988      189       1990      1991      1992      1993       1994      1995      1996      1937      1998
0         1         2         a         4         5          6         7         a         9         so        11        12        1is1                1
Rubber: Planted Area (ha)                   0       752      1343       307       289        181        14
RAbber Yield Aul!tions (kg/hs)                                                                                                     432       605        720       842       972      116f      1236
LUIC Produoction (kg)
1964 Plan,in                                                                                     0         0          0    324884    454960    541440    633384    730944    87,6932  lcC.4672
1985 Paning                                                                                      0         0          0         0    580176    812515    966960   1130806   1305296   116S938
1986 Plantin                                                                                     0         0          0         0         0    132624    185735    2210-40    258494    290404
1987 Plnting                                                                                               0    0          0              0         0    124848    174845    208080    .43338
1988 Pluntn                                                                                                           0         0         0         0         0     78192    109505    130320
1989 Planing                                                                                                                    0         0         0         0         0       604P      8470
1990 pivntot                                                                                                                              0         0         0         0                    0
Total FtR  Pr oduct n (be)                                                                             0         0         0    324864   1035136   1486579   1910727   2335827   276435!   321.1142
Rtubber: FinanilPrice 'g(V/kg)         7.00
Revenue fio   beir (Y)                    0         0         0         0         0          0         0         0         0   2274048   7245952  10406053  13375069  16350789  193504e.  =757994
indbreake: Planted A4        (ha)           0       237       423        97        91         57         4         0         0         0         0          0         0         0                   0
Windbreaks: Y;iel Asautione (/ha)                                                                                         30
Timbar Productio  (e3):
1984 Planking                                                                                    0         0       7106         0         0         0         0          0         C(        0
1985 Plantng                                                                                     0         0          0     12691         0         0         0          0         0         0
1986 Plantnkin                                                                                   0         0          0         0      2901         0         0         0          0         0
1987 Planking                                                                                              0          0         0         0      2731         0         0          0         0
1968 Planing                                                                                                          0         0         0         0       710         0          0         0
1989 Plning                                                                                                                          0              0         0        132         0         0
1990 PlankIng                                                                                                                             0         0         0         0          0         0
Total Timber Produckion (3)                                                                            0         0      7106     12691      2901      2731       1710       132         0         0
Tiuber: Financal PIice  V/)            200
Revenue from  indbeaks  Y)               0          0         0         0         0         0          0         0   1421280   2538270   580230    546210   342090        26460         0         0
Rubber Swaloge: Yield ss.  .3              O 0
Rubber SawIog Productin                                  0         0         0         0          0         0         0         0         0               0         0         0         0         0
Rubeer loge: Fin. Prie   (/ -)           0
Revenu  firo rubber "logo (Y)                       0         0         0         0         0          0         0         0         0         0         0         0          0                  0
Intercrop  Sugarcane (t/ha/year)          20
Sugarcene Prod. 1984P last. (1)                            3008      3008      3008      3008       3008      3008
1985 Plunting                                                   5372      5372      5372      5372      8372       5372
1966 Planting                                                             122       1228      1228      1228       1228      1228
1987 Planking                                                                       115      I1158      1156       1156      1156      1156
1988 Plantiag                                                                                  724       724        724       724       724       724
1989 Planting                                                                                             56         se        56        56        56        56
1990 Planking                                                                                                         0         0         0         0         0         0
Total Sugarcena Production  3t)                            308      8360      9606      10784     11488     11844      8536      3164      1936        780       56          0                          0
Sogarcnen: Finarcial Price (V/k)        134
Revenuo tros Inerorop (Y)                                403072   1122920   1287472   1442376   1539392   1546896   1143824    423976    259424    104520       7504          0          ,        0
TOTAL REVBEE (Y)                           0          0    403072   1122920   1287472   1442376   1539392   1546896   2565104   5236294   8085606  11056783  13724683  16377249  19350485 22757994
Finaeial coot of labor (Y/day)          6.00
Rubber: Financial coet (Y/ha)           2678       1914      1224      1224      1224       1309      1309      1309      1309      3176      3176      3176      3176       3176      3' i      3020
Rubbe DrIp./ Int. plus other sependitare-
(including itreata, andl overhead)
1984 Pnk                      2013858   1439326    920448    920448    920448    984368    984368    984L8    964368   2888352   2388352   2388a32   2388352   23883s2   2271040   2271040
1985 Planting                           3596554   2570502   1643832   1643832   1643832   1757987   1757987   1757987   1757987   4265368   4265368  4265368   4265368   4265368   4055880
1986 Planking                                      822146    587598   375768    375768    375768   401863    401863    401563    401663    975032    975032    975C32    975032    975032
3987 Plantn                                                   773942    553146    353738    353738    353736    37850I    378101    378301    3783403    917864    937864    917864    937584
1988 Pl antin                                                           484718    346434    221544    221544    221544    236929    236929    236929   236929    S74856    574856    574856
1989 Planking                                                                      37492     26796     17136      17136     17136     18326     18326     18326     1e32.    44464       44460
l99OP entlng                                                                                     0         0         0          0         0         0         0         0         0          0
Rubber: Totnl cost (Y)             2013856   5035882   4313096   3925820   3977912   5741630  3720199   3736634   3761199   51SO568   7689139   82623O8  8O01871   9139798   9048624   8839116
Windbreak Harvesting Coatk (V/US0    .     9
Windbreak 0ev./Hunk. Cost (Vh)3113                          469       489       469         0         0         0          0         0         0         0         0          0         0         0
Ceek 1984 Planking                            77407    111097    11097    111097
1985 Planting                                     1316939    198408    19840C8    19840
1986 Pl anking                                                301043     4655      45355     4535
1987 Plunting                                                           28332      42695     42695     42695
ibip Planking                                                                     177488     26740    26740      28740
1989 Pl nking                                                                                13728      2068      2068       2068
1990 Planting                                                                                              0         0          0         0
Horvesting Coat (Y)                                                                                                   69576   1142222    261104    245795    153941       11907         0         0
Windbreaks: Total Cost (Y)               0    737407   1428036    610547    638251    463946    12518       71504    668384   1144290    261104    24S795    153941       11907         0         0
Rubber Savlogp Harvrte. Cost (Y/U3)       90
Rubberlogs Total Cost (Y)                          0          0         0         0         0         0         0
Intercrop Sugarcane Cost (V/ha)         23138
Sugerc" ne: Total Coet (CV               0         0    351635    979622   1123175   1258312  1342947   1349494    997858    369872    226318        91182      6546         '1         0         0
TOTAL COST (Y)                       2013856   5773289   6092767   5615989   573339   5463837   5191665  5157631   5427442   6694729   8176561   8599285  8962358   9151705   9048S24   8839116
lET  ICO1E (Financial) (Y)          -2013856  -5773289  -5689695  -4393069  -4451867  -4021511  -3652273  -3610735  -2862338  -1458435    -90955   2457499   4762325   722r '4  10301961  13918878
Internal Financial Rate of Retour      14 57 Percent                                                                                                                                               aura..1
..                       {! M            '* 



CHI0N: 44 I ER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ZHAtJlANG NE  PLAINtING
Financial Analysis (continued)
199        200        20o1                  2003       2004       200s       2006       2007       20061      2009       2010       2011       2012       2013       2014       2015       2016
16         17         16         19         20         21         22         23         24         25         26         27         28         29         30         33         32         33 -S                 35
1404       1498       1591       1652       l620       1632       1509       1490       1498       1355       1323       1224       116s       1066       1037        945        916        806        7?         702
0osss5    1126496   1196432   1242304   1218240   1227264   1134766   1120480   1126496   1016960    994696    920448    674576    801632    779824    710640    69C36 8                      06112    4r:K.    S27904
1794248  s16572   2011814   2136713   2216636   2175660   2191776   2026567   2001070   2011814   1839765   1776769   1643t32   1561909   1431636   1392691   1269135   1232874   106245S    973675
357962    410152    43:028    459s66    468437    507164    497340    501024    463263    457430    459886    415985    406161    375768    357041    327262    318359    290115    2E18                          247442
280906    S36974    386104    405756    432922    459799    477428    466180    471648    436101    430610    432922    391595    382347    353738    336107    308074    299693    27S1310                      265302
152402    175932    211046    241616    254124    271138    287971    299012    293220    295392    273129    269690    271136    245255    239463    221.44    212603    192946    Is7to-    173045
10060      11766      13606      16324      18704      19656      20972      22274      23128      22680      22848      2W126      20860      20972      16970      18522      17136      16282      14.2       14516
0          0          0          0          0          0          0          0          0          0          0          0          0          0          0          0          0          0                     0
3651408   3946914   4250032   4502799   4631063   46606I8   4610255   4437M57   4376825   4242377   4001134   3638980   3606162   3387883   3180672   3006766   2813543   2638022   : E :J    2199886
255S5656  276283s9   29750224  31519593  32417441  32624767  32271765  31062399  306177S  29696639  28007938  26870a  25257134  23715161  22264704  21047362  19694801  1846t1154  160f.470  35399202
0          0          0          0          0          0          0          0          0          0         0          0          0          0          0                               0           C.        0
s0                                                                                      80                                                                                     115
11844          0          0          0          0          0          0          0      1m950          0          0          0          0          0          0           0     27241           0          0          0
o     21152           0          0          0          0          0          0          0      53844          0          0          0          0          0          0          0      486so           0         0
0          0      4635           0          0          0          0          0          0          0       7736          0          0          0          0          0          0           0     11121          0
0          0          0      4552           0          0          0          0          0          0          0       7283          0     0          0               0          0           0         0      10469
0          0          0          0       2851          0          0          0          0          0          0          0       46s1          0          0          0          0           0         0          0
0          0          0          0          0        221          0          0          0          0          0          0          0        353          0          0          0           0         0          0
0          0          0          0          0          0          0          0          0          0          0          0          0          0          0          0          0           0         0          0
l1844     21352        4835       4552       2851        221          0          0      16950      33844       7736       723        4561        353          0           0     27241      48650       31123     10469
2368800   4230450    96700    910350    570160           44100           0          0   5790060   6768720   1547280   1456560    912240          70560           0          0   5446240   9730035   2224215   20936s0
0          0          0          0          0          0          0          0          0          0          0          0          0          0          0          0          0          0          0          0
0          0          0          0          0          0          0          0          0          0          0          0          0          0         .0          0          0          0          0          0
0          0          0          0          0          0          0          0          0          0          0          0          0          0          0          0          0          0          0          0
27928s66  3185684   30717274  32429943  82967591  32668867  32271785  31062899  3444155  364s5359  295655218  28315280  26169374  23785741  22264704  21047362  25143041  28196189  18920685  1749307
3020       30 a0020              3020       3020       3020       3020       3020       3020       3020       3020       3020       3020       3020       3020       3020       3020       3020       3020       3020
2271040   2271040   2271040   2271040   2271040   2271040   2271040   2271040   2273040   2271040   2271040   227L040   2271040   2271040   2271040   2271040   2273040   2271040   2271040   2271040
4055860   4O% 40554055660   40558           4M60    4055860    4055660   40s556o    4055660    4055860    4055860    4055860    4055860    4055860    4055860    4055860    4055860    4055860    4053860    4015860   4055860
927140    927140    927140    927140    927240    927140    927140    927140    927140    927140    927140    927140    927140    927140    927140    927140    927140    927140    927140    927140
917864    872780    6m2o    872780    672760    672760    872760    672760    872780    672760                  2780    872760    872780    872780    872750    8727o0   872760    872760    8727                872780
57486      574856    546620    546620    546620    546620    546620    546620    546620    546620    546620    546620    646620    546620    546620    546620    546620    546620    546620    546620
44464      44464      44464      42280      42280      42280      42280      42280      42260      42260      42280      42280      42280      42280      42280      42280      42280      42280      42280      42280
0         0      .   0           0          0          0          0          0          0          0          0          0          0          0          0          0          0          0          0          0
6791224   8746140   8717904   8715720   8715720   875720   67150    7182    8715720   8715720    71520   8715720   6                       872    67157   8715720    715        8715720   871520   871520   615720
0          0          0          0          0          0          0          0          0          0          0          0          0          0          0          0       9725          0          0          0
0
1065960   1903703    435173    409658    256568          19645          0          0   1705536   3045924    696270    65E452    410506           31752          0          0   2451706   4378516   100o097    942212
1065960   190o703    435173    409656    256568          19846          0          0   1705556   3045924    696276    655452    41050S           31752          0          0   2451708   4376536   3000697    942212
0          0          0          0          0          0          0          0          0          0          0          0          0          0          0          0          0          0          a1         0
967214  10649843   9153077   9125378   89728   8735565   8716720   8715720  10421256  11761644   9411996    w71172   9126228   6747472   8716720   6715720  11167428  13094236   0716617   9657932
18071472  21209006  21564196  23304566  24015304  23933302  23856065  22347179  2402059   24703715  20143=   18944108 17043146  15038269  13548964  12331642  13973613  15101953   9204068   7835075
y                                                                                                                                                                                   , I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r



CHItN   ffINBB  DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
HAINAN REPLANTING
Financial Analysis
O ecription                 1983      1984       1985      1986      1967      1988      1989      1990       199       1992      1993       994      1995       196       19W       1998
0         1         2         3         4          5         6         7         8         9         10        11        12        13       1         15
Rubbe: Plwated area (ha)                    0      3793      4342      1749         0         0        172       351
Rubber Yild Aeuwptions (kg/ha)                                                                                                     410       567       691       900       1010      1193      1377
86. Produ tiong                                                                                     0         0         0   1555130   2150631   2620963   3413700   3830930   45250.19   S22296
1985 Planting                                                                                    0         0         0         0   1780220   2461914   3000322   3907800   4385420   5180006
1986 Planting                                                                                    0         0          0         0         0    717090   991683   1208559   1574100   1766490
1987 Planting                                                                                              0         0          0         0         0         0         0         0          0
1988 Planting                                                                                                        0          0         0         0         0         0         0          0
1989 Planting                                                                                                                   0         0         0         0         0     70520      97524
1990 Planting                                                                                                                             0         0         0         0         0    1439J0
Total CRC Production (kg)                                                                             0          0         0   15130   3930851   5799967   7405705   8947289  10555O89  12410891
Rubber: Financial Price (V/kg)        7.00
Revenue from rubber (Y)                  0         0          0         0         0         0         0         0          0  10885910  27515957  40599769  51839935  62631023  73885623  88876237
Windbroeak: Plantod Area (ha)               0      1195      1368       551         0         0         54       111         0         0         0         0         0          0         0         0
Windbreaks: Yield Aeswptions (.3/ha)                                                                                      30
Timber Production (m4l):
1984 Planting                                                                                    0         0     35844          0         0         0         0         0         0          0
19S8  Planting                                                                                   0         0         0      41032         0         0         0         0         0          0
1986 Planting                                                                                    0         0         0          0     16528         0         0         0         0          0
1987 Planting                                                                                              0         0          0         0         0         0         0         0          0
1988 Planting                                                                                                        0          0         0         0         0         0         0          0
1989 Planting                                                                                                                   0         0         0         0      1625         0          0
1990 Planting                                                                                                                             0         0         0         0      3317          0
Total Timber Production (m*)                                                                          0          0     35844     41032     16528         0         0       1625      3317         0
Timber: Financial Price (Y/m3)         200
Refenue from windbreaks  T)               0         0         0         0         0          0         0         0   7168770  8206380   3305610          0          0    325080    663390         0
Rubber 5awloge: Yield a'a  .3ha)           30
Rubbebr  Saw loeg 9 ProductIon  .^33           149634    171292     88998         0         0       6785     13847         0         0         0         0          0         0         0         0
Rubber loge: Fin. Price ( /  )          ISO
Rovenue from rubber eswloge (Y)              22445078  25693765  10349708                   0 O   1017810  2077043         0         0         .0        0          0         0         0         0
Intercrop: Sugarcane (t/ha/year)          20
Sugercan. Prod. 1984 Plant. (t)                           15172     15172     15172      15172     15172     15172
1985 Planting                                                  17388     17368     17368     17368      17368     17388
1988 Planting                                                             6996      6996      899$  6996      6     996      6996
1987 Planting                                                                          0         0         0          0         0         0
1988 Planting                                                                                    0         0          0         0         0
1989 Planting                                                                                            688        6         688      s688       688       "8
1990 Planting                                                                                                      1404      1404      1404      1404      1404       1404                         Ij
Total Sugarcane Production (t)                            15172     32540     39536     39538      39536     40224     26456      908S      2092      2092       2092      1404                          0
Sug rcena: Financial Price  Y'/t)       134
Renue from Intercrop (;                                 2033048   4380360  5297824   5297824   8297824   8390016   3545104   1217792    280328    280328    280328    188138            0         0
TOTAL REVJEN  (Y)                           0  22445078  27726833  14710066   5297824   5297824   6-15634   7467059  10713874  203 O02  31101895  40880097  52120263  63144239  74549013  86876237
Financial coat of labor (Y/day)             8
Rubber: Financial cost (V1ha)            2678      1914      1224      1224      1224       1309      1309      1309      1309      3176      3176      3176       3176      3176      3020      3020
Rubber D vl. /;hint. plus other *ependitur.
(ncluding interests and overhead)
1984 Planting                10157664   7259602   4542632   4642632   4642632   4965037   4965037   4955037   4965087  12046568  12046568  12046568  12046568  1204656S  11454860  11454860
1985 Planting                          11627876   8310588   5314608   5314606   5314608   5683678   5683676   5683678   5683678  13790192  13790192  13790192  13790192  13790192  13112840
1986 Plarting                                     4663822   3347586   2140776   2140776   2140776   2289441   2289441   2289441   2289441   5554824   5554824   3554824   5554S24   5554824
1987 Planting                                                      0         0         0         0         0         0          0         0         0         0         0         0          0
lq98 Planting                                                                0         0         0         0         0         0          0         0         0         0         0          0
1989 Planting                                                                     46066    329208    210528    210520    210528   225148    225148    225148    225148    546272    546272
1990 Planting   '939978    671814    429624    429624    429624    459469    459459    459459    459459   1114776
Rubbr: Total coet (Y)              10157634  16887678  17637042  13304626  12098016  12861037  14058677  13820498  13678306  20659839  28780973  32076191  32076191  32076191  31805607  31783572
Windbreak Flrveatin, Coest CY/U)           90
Windbreak Dev./l#s.nt. Coet (Y/ha)               3113       469       469       489         0         0         0          0         0         0         0         0          0         0         0
Coet 19854 Plenting                          3719397    560359    560359    560359
1985 Planting                                     4257743    6.41488    641488    641465
1966 Planting                                                1715061    258389    25S389    258389
1987 Plantine                                                                0         0         0         0
1988 Planting                                                                          0         0         0         0
1989 Planting                                                                               168662     25410     25410     25410
1990 Planting                                                                                         344189     51855     51855      51855
tHrveeting Coat (Y)                                                                                                  3225947   3692871   1487525         0         0    146286    298526          0
Windbreak-. Tot l Cost (Y)               0   3719397   4818102   2916885   1460213    899854    427051    369599   3303212   377O136   1539379           0         0    146286   298526           0
Rubor Sawloga Harest. Cout (Y/*3)         90
Rubbarloge- Total Cost (Y)                   13467047  15416271   6209825         0         0    610686   1246226
Intercrop Sugarcane Coat (V/ha)         2338
Sugarcana: Total Cost (V)0                         0   1773607   3803926   462175S   4621758   46217SS   4702186   3092706   1062387    244555    244355    244555    164128            0         0
TOTAL COST (Y)                      10157654  36074121  39645022 26235461  18179987  18402649  19718172 20138508  19974226 25492363  30564907  32320746  32320746  32386606  32104133  31783572
NET IICE  (Financial) (Y)          -10137654 -13629044 -11918189 -11525394 -12882163 -13104825 -13402538 -12671450  -9260352  -5182281    536988   8559351  1979517  30757634  424AA881  55092468
Intrnal Financial Rote of Return       16.62 Percent                                                                                                                                               *U_



CHINA: 1A8M  DEVELOP,Et  FROJECT
"Alt"4 RE5LANTIIC
Financial Analysi. (contin.od)
1999      2000      2001      2002      2003      2004       2005      2006      2007      2008      2009       2010      2011     2012       2D3       2014      2015       2016      2017      2016
16        17        18        19        20        21         22        23        24        25        26        27         26        29        30        31        3-         a?        34        35
sS61     1is5       1620      1764      172       1642       1573      1450      1426      1285      1224       1193      1163      1132      1037      1006       86A        964        2s       702
5920673   5803290   6144660   6690052  6554304   6228106   5966389   S530194   5406818   4874005   4642632   4525049   4411259   4293676   3933341  3823344   3277152   327713   2;4q921   26(2666
5978934   6777662   6643260   7084040   76592s8  7502976   7129564   6029966   6330636   6191692   5579470   5314600   5180006   5049746   4915144   4502654   4376736   3751486   37t1488e   147950
20s6057   2406373  2730189   2675970   2833380   3005236   3022272   2871850   2751177   2550042  2494074   2247465   2140776   2086557   2034087   1979860   1813713   1762992   I!,11136   1511136
0         0         0         0         0         0          0         0         0         0         0          0         0         0         0         0         0          0         0         0
0         0         0         0         0         0          0         0         0         0         0          0         0         0         0         0          0         0         0         0
118852    154800    173720    205196    236844    268492    263160    278640    303406    297216    202424    270558    250776    245272    221020    210538    20-5196    200036    104704    178364
199017    242541    315900    354510    418743    403327    547911    537030    5020    619164    606528    5784          552123    511750    5028    451035    429(24    41874 413    397332
14304233  15386066  160o0729   6960568  17702559  17568137  16929296  16047668  IS362659  14532119  13605128  12934020  12534940  12107009  11604118  10967429  10102421   9410411  Bs f!-6f   7897466
100129631 1077w062 112054103 116723976 123917913 122976959 118505072 112333816 107536613 101724633  95235896  90538140  67744580  65309063  81228026  767,.003  707lt947  65S72677  .030G262  55282276
0         0         0         0         0         0          0         0         0         0         0          0         0         0         0         0         (0        C'         C         0
60                                                                               80                                                                               l15
59740         0         0         0         0          0         0         0o    9s54          0         0          0         0         0         0         0    137401          0         0         0
o     683S7         0         0         0         0          0         0         0    1 09418        0         0          0         0         0         0         0    157289          0         0
0         0     27647         0         0         0          0         0         0         0     44075         0          0         0         0         0         0          0     63356         0
0         0         0         0         0         0          0         0         0         0         0          0         0         0         0         0         0          0         0         0
0         0         0         0         0          0         0         0         0         0         0          0         0         0         0         0         0          0         0         0
0         0         0         0         0      2709          0         0         0         0         0         0          0      4334         0         0         0          0         0         0
0         0         0         0         0         0       552          0         0         0         0         0          0         0      8645         0         0          0         0         0
59740     6s67    27547          0         0      2709       5528         0     955S4    109418     44075         0          0      4334      8645         0    137401    15729       63358         0
11947950  1367730    550935o         0         0    541600   1106650          0  19116720  21883680   8814960         0          0    866680   1769040         0  27480285  31457790  12671505          0
0         0         0         0         0         0          0         0         0         0         0         0          0         0         0         0         0          0         0         0
0         0         0         0         0         0          0         0         0         0         0         0          0         0         0         0         0          0         0         0
0         0         0         0         0         0          0         0         0         0         0         0          0         0         0         0         0         0          0         0
112077681 121365362 117563453 118723976 123917913 123516759 119610722 112133616 126655333 123600513 104000856  9038140  6774450   86175943  s2997866  7677203  98197232  97330667  72979767  55282276
3020      3020      3020      3020      3020      3020       3020      3020      3020      36        3020      3020       3D20      32        30        3020      30        302        3020      3020
1145486   11454860  114540860  11454860  11454860  11454060  11454860  11454860  11454860  11454860  11454860  11454860  11454060  11454660  11454860  11454860  11454660  11454860  11464860  1z'54860
13112540  13112640  1311840  13112840  13112840  13112640  13112840  13112840  1312640  13112840  13112840  131120  13112640  13112640  13112640  13112840  13112840  13112640  13112840  13112640
5281980   6251980   521900   528198    5281980   5281980   521980   5281980   5281900   5281980   5261980   52011960   5281960   5281980   5261980   52811980   5281980   5281980   r1261980   5281980
0        0          0         0         a         0         0          0         0         0         0         0         0          0.        0         0         0         0         0          0
0         0         0         0         0         0         0          0         0         0         0         0         0          0         0         0         0         0         0          0
546272    546272    646272    519440    519440    619440   6519440    69440    519440    619440    519440    519440    519440    519440    519440    519440    519440    519440    519440    519440
1114776   1114776  21114776   1114776   1060020   106002    1060020   106002D   1060020   106002    1060020   1060020   1060020 10 1060    10602    106002    1060020   106002    1060020   1060020
81510726  31510728  31510728  31488896  31429140  31429420  31429140  31429140  31429140  31429140 31429140  31429140  31429140  31429140 31429140 31429140  31429140  31429140  31429140  31429140
0         0         0         0         0         0          0         0         0         0         0         0         0          0         0         0      9725         0         0          0
8376578   6154755  2479206          0         0    243810    497543         0o   602524   9847656   3966732          0          0    390096    796060         0  12366128   4156006   5702177          0
5376578   6154785  2479206          0         0    243610    497543          0   e602524   9647656   3966732         0          0    390096    796060         0  12366128  14156006   5702177          0
0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0          0         0         0         0         0          0         0         0         0         0         0         0
867306  37665613  539s9936  31483896  31429140  31672950  31926683  31429140  40031664  41276796  35395872  31429140  31429140  31819236 3222s206  31429140 43795268  45305146  3713131?  31429140
7519027   86719649  8383516  67240080D 9248873  91045009  0766040D 9090676  6562369  8231717  68654904  5910900   56315440  54356707  507726568 45342863  54401964  5174552  35848450 2383313
0 -E
gafl



INA: RUAIEE DEVELDPME1T PRO JECT
ZH4JIAJC REPLANTING
Financial Malysi.
Oeacription                  1983      1984      1985      1986      1987       1988      1989      1990      1991      1992      1993       1994      1995      1996      1097      1998
0         1         2         3          4         S         6         7         8         9         10        11        12        13        14        IS
Rubber: PlanLod Area (ha)                  0        906      2362       637       a81       1067       180
Rubbor Yield Assumptions, (kg/ha)                                                                                                  432       605       720        842       972      1166      1336
CRC Production (kg):
1984 Planting                                                                                    0         0         0    391392    548130    652320    762852    88062   1056396   1210416
1985 Planting                                                                                    O         0          0         0   1020384   1429010   1700640   1988804   2295864   2754092
1986 Planting                                                                                    0         0         0          0         0    275184    385385    458840    536354    619164
1987 Planting                                                                                              o         0          0         0         0    353376    494890    S8896O    688756
198 Planting                                                                                                        0          0         0         0         0    460944    645535    768240
1989 Planting                                                                                                                   o         0         0         0         0    77760    108900
1900 Planting                                                                                                                             o         0         0         0          0         0
Total DRC Production (tg)                                                                             0          0         0    391392   1568S14   2356514   3202253   4263910  5620869  (349586
Rubber? Financial Price  YV/hg)       7.00
Reveue from rubber (V) -0                           0         0         0         0         0         0          0         0   2739744  10978598  16495598  22415771  29987370 36406083  43046976
Windbreasb Planted Area (ha)               0        285       744       201       258       336        57          0         0         0         0         0          0         0         0         0
Windbreaks: Yield Assumptions (e3/ha)                                                                                     30
Tiber Production (e3):
1964 Planting                                                                                    0         0       s62          0         0         0         0          0         0         0
1965 Planting                                                                                    O         0          0     22321         0         0         0          0         0         0
1986 Plant;ng                                                                                    0         0         0         0       620          0         0          0         0         0
1987 Planting                                                                                              o         0          0         0      7730          0         0         0         0
IND Plnting                                                                                                          o          0         0         0      10063         0         0         0
1989 Pl nting                                                                                                                   o         0         0          0      1701         0         0
1990 Planting                                                                                                                             0         0          0         0         0         0
Tatal Titer Production  i)                                                                            0          0      8562     22321      6020      7730      30063      1701         0         0
Tiber: Financial Price   /da)          200
Revenue fru_ eindreae )                  0         0          0         0         0         0         0          0   1712340   4464180   1203930   1546020   2016630   340200           0         0
Rubber Sa.loge: Yield aea. (m3/he)        30
Rubber Saul og Production (a3S                 35742      93181     25130     32270     42093      7101          0         0         0         0         0          0         0         0         0
Rubber loge: Pin. Price(/S             150
Revenue from rubber sasloga (Y)              5361255  13977135   3769448   4840515   6313973   1065150           0         0         0         0         0          0         0         0         0
intercrop: Sugarcane (tIbha/year)         20
SugTerae- Prod. 1984 Plant. (t)                            3624      3624      3624      3624       3624      3624
1985 Planting                                                   9448      9448      9448      9448      9448      9448
1986 Pleting                                                              2546      2548      25S4      2548      258        2548
1987 Planting                                                                       3272      3272      3272       3272      3272      3272
1988 Planting                                                                                 4268      4268       4268      4268      4268      4268
1989 Planting                                                                                            720        720       720       720       720       720 
19'l0 Planting                                                                                                       o          0         0         0         0         0
Total Sugarcene Production (t)                             3624     13072     15620     18B92     23160      23880     20256     10880      8260      4988        720         0
Sugarcane: Financial Price (lit)       134
Revenue from  Intercrop (Y)                              485616   1751648   2093060   2531528   3103440   3199920  2714304   1448272   1106640    668392        96480         0         0         0
TOTAL REYBIE (Y)                           0   5361255  14462751   5521096   6933595  8845501   4166590   3199920  4426644   8652196  1329036B  18710010  24628881  30327570 36406083 43046976
Financiel cost of labor (V/day)            S
Rubber: Financial c,ost (Y/ha)          2678       1914      1224      1224      1224       1309      1309      1309      1309      3176      3176      3176       3176      3176      3020      3020
Rubber Doelp./Neint. plus other supendituree
(Including intereets and overhead)
1984 Plant;ng                 24262b8   1734084   1108944   11O8944   1108944   1185954   118S954   1185954   1185954   2877456   2877456   2877456   2e77456   2877456   2736120   2736120
195 Plnting                             632i436   452068(   2891088   2891088   2891088   3091858   8091858  3091888   3091858  7501712   7501712   7501712   7501712   7501712   7133240
1986 Planting                                      170586   1219218    779688    779668    779688    833833    833833    833833    833833   2023112   2023112   2023112  2023112   2023112
1987 Planting                                                2190604   1565652   1001232   1001232   1001232   1070762   1070762   1070762   1070762   2597966   2597968   2597968   259796
198 Planting                                                           2857426   2042238   130600    1306006   13060068  1396703   1396703   1396703   1396703   3388792  3388792   3388792
1989 Planting                                                                     482040    344620    220320    220320    220320   235620   235620    235620   235620    571680    571688
1990 Planting                                                                                    0         0          0         0         0         0         0         0          0         0
Rubber: Total cost (               2426268   8059520   7335698   7409854   9202798  8882240   7709260   7639205   7706735   9490932  13916086  15105365  16632571  18624660  18819384  18450912
Windbreak Hervsetlnq Cost (V/a3)          go9
Windbrebk Dmn./Mamnt. Cost (Y/ha)               3113        469       469       469         0         0          0         0         0         0         0          0         0         0         0
Cost 1984 Planting                            808419    133848    133848    133848
1965 Planting                                     2316165    848950    348950    348950
1986 Pi nting                                                 624639     94107     94107     94107
1987 PlInting                                                           802127    120847    120847    120B47
1986 Planting                                                                    1046295    157683    157633    157633
1989 Planting                                                                               176507     26592    26592       28592
1990 Planting                                                                                              0         0          0         0
Hiarvesting Cost (1)                                                                                                  770553   2006081    641769    695709    907484    153090          0         0
Windbreeks: Total Coat (Y)               0    886419   2450013   1107437   1379032   1610199    549095    30573    954779   2035478    541769    695709    907484    153090             0         0
Rubber Sawloga Harveet. Cost (Y/e3)       90
Rubberlogs: lotsl Coat CY)                   3216783   836261   2261669   2904309   3788384    639090            0
Intmrcr.p Sugarcane Cost (V/he)         2388
Sugarcene: Total Cost (Y)                0         0    42S646   1528117   1825978   2206475   2707404   2791672  2367926   1263455    965594    5dS097         84168         0         0         0
TOTAL COST (Y)                       2426268  12164692  18595638  12307076  15332117  15989298  11604849  10735850  11031440  12789861  15423449  16384171  17624223  187M75   18519364  18450912
PET INCOE (Financ;al) (Y)           -2426268  -6803437  -4132887  -6785981  -8378522  -7143797  -7436259  -765S930  -6604796  -4137665  -2133061   2325839   6904659  11549820  17586699  24596064
Internal Financial Rats of Return      16.38 Percent
iap 



CHlINA: RUBER DEVEL.OPMENT PmJ80lC
ZHANJIAC SEPLANT1IN
Finacial Anlysis (continued)
1999      200o      2001      2002      2003      2004       2005      2006      2007      2006      2009       2010.    2011       2012      2013      2014      2015       2016      2037      2018
16        17        18        19        20        21         22        23        24        25        28         27        29        29        30        31        32         32        34        35
1404      1498      1591      1652       1620      1632      1509      1490      1458      1355       1323      1224      1163      1066      1037       945       918        806       725       702
1272024   135718S   1441446   1496712   1467720   1478592   1367154   1349940   1320948   1227630   1198568   1106944   1053678    965796    939522    E56170    831706    73CC36    sfSf-    63G012
3155632   3316248   3538276   3757942   3902024   3826440   3ss4784   3564258   3519380  3443796   3200510   3124926   2891088  2747006   2517892   2449394   2232090   2166316   1902772   1712450
742742    851032   894348    984226   1013467   1062324   1031940   1039584    961233    949130    928746    863135    842751    779688    740831    679042   660569    601985    SS1765    513422
795096   9s3788   1092848   1148472   1225364   1301438   1351336   1325160   1334976   1234362   1218820   1192644   1106390   1062214   1001232   951334    871988    e42ff6    77301          750924
989414   1037124   1244122   1425512   1498068   1598366   1697597   1762684   1728540   1741344   1610103   1589830   1555686   1445785   1411641  1306008   12440921   1137422   1105479   1006315
129600    151560    174960    209880    240480   252720    269640    286380    297360    291600    293760   271620    268200    262440    243900    238140   220320    209340    191860.   18660
0         0         0         0          0         0         0         0         0         0          0         0         0         0         0         0          0         0                   0
693508   7666940   8386000  8s92744   9347123   9509880   9572451   9326006   9162437   8S87862   8450577   8151099   7719793   7282929   6858018   6480083  0057596   5695545   _2iC.7E.  4807783
48954556  53668580  5702000 6294920   65429861  66569160  67007157  65296042  64137059  62215034  59154039  57057693  64058551  50980503  47985126  45360616  42403172  39868816  36 .172?9 33654481
0    0         0         0         0          0         0         0         0         0          0         0         0         0         0         0          0         0              0         0
so                                                                               so o           O O O O         O                                                  O. 
50                                                                               80                                                                               115
14270         0         0         0         0         0          0         0     22831         0         0          0         0         0         0         0    32820           0         0         0
0     37202         0         0         0          0         0         0         0      59522         0         0         0         0         0          0         0     85563         0         0
0         0     1O0S3         0         0          0         0         0         0         0      16052         0         0         0         0          0         0         0     23075         0
0         0         0     12884          0         0         0         0         0         0          0     20614         0         0         0          0         0         0         0     29632
0         0         0         0      16805         0         0         0         0         0          0         0     26888         0         0          0         0         0         0         0
0         0         0         0         0       2835         0         0         0         0          0         0         0      4536         0         0          0         0         0         0
0         0         0         0          0         0         0         0         0         0          0         0         0         0         0          0         0         0         0         0
14270     37202     10033     12884     16806      2835          0         0     22831     59522      16052     20614     26888      4536         0         0     32820      65563     23075    29632
2853900   7440300  2006550   2576700   3361050    56700D           0         0   46S6240  11904480   3210480   4122720  5377680    907200           0          0   6563970  17112690  461SO65   5926410
o         o         0         0         0          0         0         0         0         0          0         0         0         0         0         0          0         0         0         0
0         0         0         0         0          0         0         0         0         0          0         0         0         0'        0         0          0         0         0         0
0         0         0         0          0         0         0         0         0         0          0         0         0         0         0         0          0         0         0         0
51808456  61108880  60708550  65525908  68790911  67136160  67007157  85296042  68703299  74119514  62364519  61180413  59416231  51887703  47985126  45360616  48967142  56983505  41332364  395S0891
3020      3020      3020      3020       3020      3020      3020      3020      3020      3020       3020      3020      3020      3020      3020      3020       3020      3020      30        3020
2736120   2736120   2736120   2736120   2736120   2736120   2736120   2736120   2736120   2736120   2736120   2736120   2736120   2735120   2736120   2736120   2736120   273612    2738120   2736120
7133240   7133240   7133240   7133240   7133240   7233240   7133240   7133240   7133240   7133240   7133240   7133240   7133240   7133240   7133240   7133240   7133240   7133240   7133240   7133240
1923740   1923740   1923740   1923740   1923740   1923740   1923740   1923740   1923740   1923740   1923740   1923740   1923740   1923740   1923740   7923740   1923740   1923740   3923740   1923740
2597968   2470360   2470360   2470360   2470360   2470360  2470360   2470360   2470360   2470360  2470360   2470360   2470360  2470360   2470360   2470360  2470360   2470360   2470360  2470360
3388792   3388792   3222340   3222340   3222340   3222340   3222340   3222340   3222340   3222340   3222340   3222340   3222340   3222340   3222340   322340   3222340   3223340   3223340  3222340
571680    s71680    571660    543600    543600    543600    543600    543600    543600    543600    543600    543600    S43600    543600    543600    543600    543600    543600    543600    543600
0         0         0         0         0          0         0         0         0         0         0          0         0         0         0         0          0         0         0         0
18351540  18=932  18057480  12400  18029400  18029400  18029400  10029400  18029400  10029400  1eO29400  18029400  18029400  1802940D 18029400  18029400  18029400  18029400  182400  18029400
0         0         0         0         0          0         0         0         0         0         0          0         0         0         0         0      9725          0         0         0
0
1284255   3348135    902948   1189515   1512473    255150         0          0   254806   5337016   1444716   1855224   2419956    408240           0         0   2953787   7700711   2076779   2666885
1284255   33U135    902948   1159515   1512473    255150           0         0   20548o   5357016   1444716   3355224   2419956    408240           0         0   2953787   7700711   2076779   2666e88
0         0         0         0         0          0         0         0         0         0         0          0         0         0         0         0          0         0         0         0
19635795  21572067  18960428  19188915  1954L873  18284550  18s29400  16S29400  20084200 23388416  19474116  19884624  20449356  18437640  1829400  18029400  20983187  25730111  20106179  20696285
32172661  39S36813  41748123  46W36993  49249039  48831610  48977757  47266642  48619091  50733098  42890403  41295789  3896687s 33450063 29955726  27331216  27983956  3l251305  21026185  Is184607
'  o-



OCII4A   lJBER OEWLOPIdT  PROJdIT
HAMN  ted PLAOTIN
Ecenoic Analysis
Deacription                 19e3       1994       96       19e6      1987       19M8      1909      1990      1991      1992      1993      1994  -1995          1996      197       1996
0         1         2         3         4          5         6         7         8         9         10        11        12        13        1A        is
Rubber: Planted Area (ha)                   0      7090     10525      5201      6126       1801      1826       522
Rwbber Yield Auptions (kg/ba)                                                                                                      410       567       691        900      1010      1197      1377
ORC Produetion (kg):
1964 Planting                                                                                    0         0         0   29069C0   4020030  4899190  6381000   71G0900  8458370   9762930
1965 Planting0                                                                                              0         0         0   4315250   5967675   7272775   9472500  10630250  12556325
1986 Plnting                                                                                     0         0          0         0         0  2132410  2946967   3593691  4690900   5253010
1967 Planting                                                                                              0          0         0         0         0   2511660   3473442  4233066   5513400
1988 Planting0                                                                                                                  0         0         0         0    738410   1021167   1244491
19069 Planting                                                                                                                  0         0         0         0         0    748660   1035342
199  Panin                                                                                                                                0         0         0         0          (-   214020
TotalCR  Product9io(k                                                                                  0         0         0   2906900   83352860  1299275  191144002 24439143  29M741   35579518
Rubber: Economie Pric  (/11)          4.20
Revenue frm rubber (Y)                   0          0         0         0         0         0          0         0         0  12208960 35006176  54596955 80280488 102644401 125044135 149433976
Vindbreak. Planted Arso (ha)                0      2233      3315      1638      1930        567       575       164         0         0         0         0          0         0         t         0
Windbraks: Y;-Id Anumeptimn  (.3/ha)                                                                                      30
Timber Production (.3):
1964 Plnting                                                                                     0         0      67001         0         0         0         0         0         0          0
los  Planting                                                                                    0         0         0      99461         0         0         0         0         0          0
1966 Planting                                                                                    0         0         0          0     49149         0         0         0         0          0
1987 Pln6ing                                                                                               0         0          0         0     57891         0         0         0          0
1988 Plnig0                                                                                                                     0         0         0     17019         0         0          0
1989 Planting                                                                                                                   0         0         0         0      17256        0          0
1990 Plnting                                                                                                                              0         0         0         0      4933          0
Total Timber Productien (3)                                                                           0          0     67001    99461      49149     57891      17019     17256      4933         0
Tiae  Economc Price (Y/de)             400
Revenue fro  uindbrenl  (T)              0          0         0         0         0         0          0         0  26900200  a9784500  19659780 23156280   6807780   6902280   1973160           0
Rubber Sealog: Yield a". (j3/ha)           0
Rubber Salog Production (a)                         0         0         0         0         0          0         0         0         0         0         0          0         0         0         0
Rubber log: Ecoom. Price (Y/d)           0
Revenue fromrubber aortas (Y)                       0         0         0         0         0          0         0         0         0         0         0          0         0         0         0
Intercrop: Sugprcan. (t/ha/year)          20
Suprcane Prod. 194 Plalnt.  t)                            28360     28660     280       260       28360      28360
1965 Planting                                                  42100     42100     42100     42100     42100      42100
1986 Panting                                                   4         20604     20804     20804     20804    20604       20604
1967 Planting                                                                      24504     24504     24504     24504      24504     24504
1968 Planting                                                                                 7204      7204      7204       7204      7204      7204                                             w
1969 Planting                                                                                           7304       7304      7304      7304      7304      7304
1990 Planting                                                                                                      2068      2068      2086      2066      2088       20688
Totel Sugarcane Production (t)                            28360     70460     91264    115768    122972    130276      04004     619074    41100      16596      9392      2068
Sugarcan: Economic Price (Y/t)          134
Revwee from Intercrop (Y)                               3600240   9441640  1M9376  15512912  16478248  17486984  13936836   6295136   5507400  2223864   12528    279792                0         0
TOTAL RiV?LE (Y)                            0         0   3800240   9441640  12229376  15512912  16478248  17456984  40736736  60266616  60175356  79977099  88346796 109826473 127017295 149433976
Econmic coat of labor (Y/day)           3.25
Rubber: Economic cot (/ha)               1597      1378       878       878       878        979       979       979       979      2282      2282      2282       2202      2282      2196      2196
Rubber Devlp /Maint. plue other *epnditures
(including interests and o.*rhead)1343
1984 Planting                11255 9768248   621475   6221475   6221475   6941110   6941110   6941110   6941110  161.81153  16181153  16218153  16181153  16181153  15562048  15582048
1985 Planting                          16611056  14500619  923556      9235668   9235688  10503875  10303975  10303975  10303975  24020661  24020681  24020681  24020681  2402068   23131319
1966 Planting                                     8307297   7165678   4563678   456378   4561878   5091779   5091779   5091779   5091779  1185996   11869982  13869982  11869982  118689982
1987 Planting                                                9784754   8440097   5375565  5375565   5375565   5997354   5997354   5997354   5997354  13961064  13983064  139I6104  13981064
1988 Plnting                                                           2876647   2481328   1580378   1550378   1580    1763179   1763179   1763179   1763179   4110332  4110332   4110332
1969 Planting                                                                    2916579   2515772   1602315   1602515   1602315   1787654   1787654   1787654   1787654   4167389   4167389
1990 Planting                                                                               833765    719186    456065    456065    458O05     511038    511038    511038   511038   1191335
Rubber: Total cost CY)             11324503  26579304  2902951l 32407594  31337784  31514146  32114441  31614307  31974966 41397810  65299855  62131041  70114751  72461904  74242533  74033467
Vindbreak lbrveating Coat (Y/ds)           63
Windbraki0Dv ./1Mant. Cot (Y/b)                  2558       274       274       274          0         0         0         0         0         0         0          0         0         0         0
Coat 1984 Planting                            5711793    611380    611380    611380
1965 Planting                                     8479072    907584    907584    907584
1966 Planting                                                4189991    446489    446489    448489
1967 Planting                                                          4935182    528283    528253    528253
1968 Pl,anting                                                                   1450906    15530      155302    155302
1909 Planting                                                                              1471040    157458    157458    157458
199  Planting                                                                                         420530     45013      45013     45013
Hrvesting Coat (1)                                                                                                   4187531   6216326   3071841   3618169   1063716   1078481    308306          0
Windbreaks: Tot l Cost (Y)               0   5711793   9090451   5708954   6902634   3335233   2603092   1261643   4545s3s  6418799   3116853   3618169   1063716   1078481    306306             0
Rubbor Saelogs Harvest. Coat (Y/eS)       63
Rubbsrloga: Total Coat (Y)                          0         0         6         0         0         0          0
Intercrop Sugarcane Coat (Y/ba)         1761
Sugarcane: Total Cost (Y)                0          0   2496389   6202242  8033514  10190478  10624610  11467645   9154952   5449100   3617828   1460863    826731    183796            0         0
TOTAL tOS  (Y)                     1l24503 32291096  40616431  44318789  46273932  45039856  45542144  44343395  45675222  53265706  62034536  67210073  72005197  73724181  74550940  74033467
MEr iNt    (Financial) (Y)         -11324503 -32291096 -36816191 -34877149 -34044556 -29526946 -29063896 -26886411  -4938466   7022908  -1659180  i2767026  16341599  36102291  S2466455  7S400506
Internal Econeic Rate of Return        15.18 Percent                                                                                                                                            ai  6.
o   b2
'                                        "                                   Oul X~~~~~~~~~



CHIIN:  RSUSER OEVELObET PROJECT
HAINAINEW PLANTI*C
EUoic Analysis  ccntcciuod)
1999      2000      2001      2002      2003       2004      200c      2006      2007      200c       2009      2010      2013      2012      2013      2014      2015       201f      2;17      2016
16        17        16        19        20         21        22        23        24        25         26        27        28        29        30        31        32         33        S4        35
1561      1530      1620      1764      1728       1642      1573      1458      1426      1285       1224      1193      1163      1132      1037      1008       884      e64         725       702
11067490  10847700  11485800  12506760  12251520  11641760  11152570  10337220  10110340   9110650   8678160   8458370   8245670   8025880  7352330   7146720   6125780   (.12!7&0   514*r-5,  497.180
1444292S  16429525  16103250  17050500  18566100  18187200  17282050  16555825  15345450  16008650  13524625  12882600  12556325  12240575  11914300  10914425  10609200   9093600   909360C   7630625
6204793   7161777   8118761   7957530   8425620   9174564   8987328   8540042   6181173   7583068   7416626   6683285   6366024   8204793   6046763   5s87532   5393437   5242608   4493664   4493664
6187260   730e318   8435502   9562686   9372780   9924120  10606264  10585728  10058892  9636198   8931708  8735676   7871910   7498224   7306318   7124538   6934632   6352662   617500P   2928"4
1620900   1819010   2148593   247e977   2811361   2755S53    2917620   3176964   3112128  2957242   2832973  2625858  2568226   2314285   2204424   2148593   2094583  2038732   IP'ff;.  1816406
1261766   1643400   1844260   2178418   2514402   2850386   2793780   2958120   3221064   5155328   2996292   2872298   2662308  2600876  2346410   2235024   2278418   2123638  20f'^3   1893562
295974    360702    469800    527220    622746    718794    814842    798660    845640    920608    902016    857124    821106    761076    744372    670770   (f38928    622746         t6    9o904
41131108  45570432  48605966  52263091  64s64529  5252374  84754454  52982559  56874687  48371934  45264400  43115211  41091596  39648709  37918917  36127602  33974938  3.19974C  :f444:t:  26to4207
172750654 191395814 204145057 219504982 229171022 232059971 22996e707 222400748 213673685 203162123 190194480 181063686 172564590 166524578 159259451 151735928 142894740 132718933 12.33(596? 112115669
0         0         0         0         0          0         0         0         0         0          0         0         0         0         0         0         0          0         C.0
50                                                                               60                                                                               115
111668         0         0         0         0          0         0         0    176668         0         0          0         0         0         0         0    256835          0         0         0
0    165769         0         0         0          0         0         0         0    265230          0         0         0         0         0         0          0    381268         0         0
0         0     86196         0         0          0         0         0         0         0    131065          0         0         0         0         0         0          0    188406         0
0         0         0     96485         0          0         0         0         0         0          0    154376         0         0         0         0          0         0         0    221914
0         0         0         0     28366          0         0         0         0         0          0         0     45365         0         0         0          0         0         0         0
0         0         0         0          0     28760         0         0         0         0          0         0         0     46015         0         0          0         0         0         0
0         0         0         0         0          0      8222         0         0         0          0         0         0         0     13154         0          0         0         0         0
111668    165769     83916     96485     28366     28760      8a            0    178668   265230    131066   1s537         45385     46015     13154         0    256835    381268    188406   221914
44667000  66307500  32766300  38593600  11346300  11503800   3288600          0  71467200 106092000  52426060  61750060  18154060  16406060   521760           0102734100 152507250  75i32490   7665740
0         0         0         0         0          0         0         0         0         0          0         0         0         0         0         0          0         0         0         0
0         0         0         0          0         0         0         0         0         0          0         0         0         0         0         0          0         0         0         0
Ul
0         0         0         0          0         0         0         0         0         0          0         0         0         0         0         0          0         0         0         0
217417654 25703314 236911357 25698e782 240517322 243563771 23327307 222400748 265140W8s 309254123 242620560 242833966 190736670 184930658 164521211 151735928 245428540 285226183 299028453 200681409
2198      2198      2198      2198       2198      2198      2198      2198      2198      2198       2198      2198      2198      2198      2198      2198       2298      2198      2198      2198
15582048  15582048  15582048  15582048  15582048  165s2048  15582048  18582048  16582048  15582048  16582048  1SS82048  15582046  16582048  15582048  15582048  1556e2048  1562048  1ss82048  iSS82048
23131319  23131319  23131319  23131319  23131319  23131319  23131319  23131319  23131319  23131319  23131319 23131319  23131319  23131329  23131319  23131319  23131319  25131319  23231319  23131319
11430498  11430498  11430498  11430498  11430498  11430498  11430498  11430498  11430498  11430498  11430498  11430498  11430498  12430498  11430498  11430498  11430498  1143CA98  11430498  11430498
13981064  13463417  13463417  13468417  13463417  23463417  13463417  13463417  13463417  13463417  13463417  13463417  13463417  13463417  13463417  13463417  13463417  13463417  346341?  13463417
4110332   4110332   3958148   3958148   395s848   3958648   3958148   3956848   3958248   3958148   3958148   3958148   3958148   3958248   3958148   3958148   395U848   3958148   3958248   3958148
4167389   4167389   4367369   4013092   4013092   4013092  4013092   4013092   4013092  4013092   4013092   4013092   4013092   4013092  4013092   4013092   4023092  4013092   4023092  4013092
1191335   1191335   1291335   1191335   1147226   1147226   1147226   1147226   1147226   1147226   1147226   1147226   1147226   1147226   1147226   1147226   1147226   1147226   1147226   1147226
73593983 73076336  72924151  726854  72725745           72725745  7275745  72725745  72725746  72725745  72725745 72725745  72725745 72728745 72725745  72725745  72725745 72725745  72725745 727545
0         0         0         0         0          0         0         0         0         0         0          0         0         0         0         0      9725          0         0         0
0
6979219  10360547   5119734   6030281   1772859   1797469    513844          0  11166750  16576875   8291S75   9648460   2836s75   2875950   822150           0  16052203 23829258  12775389  23869647
6979219  1036047   5119734   6030281   1259   1797469    513844              0  11166750  18576875   629157S  9648450   2636575   2875950   6215              0  16052203  23629258  11775389  23869647
o         0         0         0         0          0         0         0         0         0         0          0         0         0         0         0         0          0         0         0
80573202  63436888  76043e86  78800136  74498605  74523214  73239589  72725745  83892495 89302620  80917320 82374195  75562320  75601695  73547895  72725745  867T7948  96555003 84501134 86595392
16644452 174268432 Is1S7472 179298647 166018717 169040557 160017718 149675003 201248390 219951503 161703240 16045977  115176350 109328963  90973316  79010163 156650691 188671180 11527319 114266017
? 3
6. 
e-r



CnNA  RUSS DEVEOPMU     W PROJECT
ZH4ANJIANG me.t PLAN4TING
Economic Analysis
Description                 1903       1984      3985      196       1987      1988       19569    M1O        I991      1992      1993      I994       1995      1996      19;7      lo8
0         1         2         3          4         5         6         7         8          9        10        13        12        1s         1A        is
Rubber: Planted Area (hb)                  0        752      1343       307       289        181        14
Rubbr Yield Amauj tions (kg/ha)                                                                                                    410       567       691        900      1010b     1111       1377
UK Production (kg):
1984 Plantin                                                                                     0          0         0    308320   426384   519632    676800    7!9520    897136   1035S04
1985 Planting                                                                                    0          0         0         0    550630   761481    928013   1208700   13SS430   1602199
1986 Planting                                                                                    0          0         0         0         0    125870    174069    212137    276330    310070
1967 Planting                                                                                               0         0         0         0         0    118490    163863    19989    2G0100
1988 Planting                                                                                                                  0         0         0         0      74210    102627    125t71
19B9 Planting                                                                                                                            0         0         0         0       5740      7938
I19  Planting                                                                                                                             0         0         0          0         C         0
Total ORC Production (kg)                                                                              0         0         0    308320   977014   1406983   1697372   2418430   283793.  3-40032
Rubober:. Economic Price ('1/kg)      4.20
Rarenu, fbrm  rubber ('1)                 0         0         0         0         0         0          0         0         0   1294944   4103459  5909329   7968962  10157408  11919314  24031704
Windbreaks. Planted Area (ha)               0       237       423        97        91         57         4         0         0         0         0          0         0         0                   0
Windbreakm: Yield Aasumptions (aS/ha)                                                                                     30
Timber Production (a):
1984 Planting                                                                                    0         0       7106         0         0         0         0          0         0         0
198S Planting                                                                                    0          0         0     12691         0         0         0          0         0         0
1986 Planting                                                                                    0          0         0         0      2901         0         0         0          0         0
1987 Planting                                                                                              0          0         0         0      2731         0         0          0         0
1968 Planting                                                                                                         o         0         0         0       1710        0          0         0
1989 Planting                                                                                                                   0         0         0         0        132         0         0
1m    Planting                                                                                                                            o         0         0         0          0         0
Total Tiuber Production (ad)                                                                           0         0      7106     12691      2901      2731       1710       132         0         0
Tl;bar; Economic Price (Y'J1)          400
Ruvenue from  indbreaks (Y)              0          0         0         0         0         0          0         0   2842560   8076540   1150460   1092420    684180      52920         0         0
Rubber Samlog: Y;ild now. (m3ha)           0
Rubber Salog Production (m)                         0         0         0         0         0          0         0         0         0         0         0          0         0         0         0
Rubber logn Eonoic Price (V/mS           0
Reraue trom rubber waga(V                           0         0         0         0         0          0         0         0         0         0         0          0         0         0         0
Intercrog: Sugarcana (t/ha/year)          20
Sugarcano Prod. 1984 Plant. (t)                            3008      3008 3008           3008       3008      3008
1985 Planting                                                   5372      5372      5372      5372      5372       5372
1986 Pl nting                                                             1228      1228      1228       1228      1228      18IS
1987 Planting                                                                       1186      1156       1156      1156      1156      1156
1988 Planting                                                                                  724        724       724       724       724       724
1989 Planting                                                                                              S6        56        56        56        56         56
1m    Planting                                                                                                        0         0         0         0          0         0
Total Sugarcane Production (t)                             3008      8380      9608      10764     11488     11544      8536      3164       1936       780        56         0                         a
Sugrerane: Economic Price ('1/L)        134
Re,enue from Intercrep (Y))                              403072   1122920   1287472   1442376   1539392   1546896   1143824    423976    259424    104520        7504         0         0         0
TOTAL R2E1B3  (Y)                          0          0    403072   1122920   1287472   1442376   1539392   1546896  3986384   6795460  5523343   7106269   B660646  10210326  11919314  14031704
Economic coat of labor (V/day)           3.25
Rubber: Economic coat (/ha)             31597      1378       878       878       878       979        979       979       979      2282      2282      2282       2282      2.26      219e      2194
Rubber Dvlp./Fxaint. plus other expenditures
(including interesta and overhead)
1484 Planting                 1201132   1036068    659880    669880    6s9880    736200    736208    736208    7362D8   1716252   1716252   1716252   17162    1716252   1652708   3652708
1985 PlInting                           2145107   18SO318   1178483   1178483   1178483   1314797   1314797   1314797   1314797   3065062  3065062   3065062   306S062  30650C2   2951578
1986 PI:.iting                                     490356    422969    269393   269393    269393    300S53    3D0855    300553   30053S   700651    700651    700651    7006S1    700651
1981 Planting                                                 461605    398170   253598   253598    253598    282931    282931    282931    282911   659570    659570    659s70    65f970
1968 Planting                                                           289102   249373    15i828    158828    158828    17719    17799    177199    17719    413087    413087    413067
1909 Planting                                                                      22362     19289      12285     12285     12285     13706     13706     13706      13706     31952     31952
I99O Planting                                                                                    0         0         0          0         0         0         0         0          0         0
Rubber; Total cost (Y)             1201132   3181175  3000554  2722937   2795027   2709415   2752111   2776268   28056O2   380017   55S570S   59S58o1   6332440   6568328  6523030  6409546
Windbroak throvstin, Coat (Y/m3)   .      63
Windbrak Dev./Hant. Cost (Y/ha)                 2558        274       274       274         0         0          0         0         0         0         0          0         0         0         0
Coat 1984 Pelnting                            606821      64846     64846     64846
1985 Planting                                      1081938    11560     115809    115809
1986 Planting                                                 247323     26473     26473     26473
1987 Planting                                                           232822     24921     24921     24921
1988 Planting                                                                     145616     1560i     15606      15608
1989 Planting                                                                                11279      1207       1207      1207
1m   Planting                                                                                              0         0          0         0
kHrveating Coat (Y)                                                                                                   444180    793209    181322    170691    106903       8?69         0         0
Yindbreakm: Total Cat (Y)                0    605821   1146783    427978    439949    313018      78280      41736    460965    794417    1813      170691    106903       8269         0         0
Rubber Sacloga Harvest. Coat (Y/mxS)      63
Rubberloga: Total Coat (Y)                         0          0         0         0         0         0          0
Intioerop Sugaroane Coat (V/ha)         1761
Sugarcana: Total Coat (Y)                0         0    264779    737650    845744    947501   1011231   1016161    751381    278511    170416    68660         4929         0          0         0
TOTAL COST (y)                       1201132   3786995   4412117   3888564   4080721  3969934   3841622  3834165   4017948   4876945   5907441   619151   6444272   6576597   6523030   6409546
NET INCOME (Pinancial) (Y)          -1201132  -3786995  -400904   -2765644  -2793249  -2527558  -2302230  -2287269    -31564   1918515  -384098    911118   2216374  3633729   53962GS   762218
Internal Econoic Rate of Return        15.19 Percent                                                                                                                                             'Wa-i
0.  



CIINA: RaA5 DEVELOFPMENT PFOJECT
2HANJIANl NB PLANTING
Econ  c Analysis  (co-tinwl.d)
199       2000      2001      2002      2003      2.34      2005      2006      2D07      2008      2009      2010      2011      2012      2013      2014      2015      2016      2017      2018
16       17        18         19        20        21        22        23        24        25        26        27        28        29        30        31        32        33        34        35
1s61      s530      1620      1764      1728      1642      1573      14S5      1426      1285      124       1193      1163      1132      1037      2006       864       864                 702
1173872   1150660   1218240   1326528   1299456   1234784   1182896   1096416   1072352   966320   920448    897136    874576   851264    779824    758016   649n28   (49728    "E:1(    5217904
1849311  2096423   2054790  2175660   2369052   2320704   2205206  2112539   1958094   1915118   1725755   1643832   1602199   1561909   1520276   1392691   1353744   11603I2   1 1 0S2    973675
366251   422739    479227    469710   497340   S41548    530496    504094    482911   447606   437782    394495   375768   366251    357041   347524    318359    309456   26-248   265248
291890    344777    3e7953    451129    442170    468180    S09796    49392    474538    454597    421362    412114    371365   353736    344777    336107    327148    299693   291-12    249696
162900    182810    215933    249237    282541    276930   293220    319284    312768    297202    284713   263898   258106   232585    221544    215933    210503    204892   107i07    182448
9674     12600     14140     16702     19276    21854      21420    22680    24696    24192    22988    22022    20412           19964     17990    17136      16702     16282    1546e    14538
0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0        C'0
3853898   4209909   4380283   468966   4909837   4864000   4743034   4554405   4325359   410038S  3613048   3633497   3S02426  3385709   3241452  3067407  2876184   2640403  :46f6f-  2213489
16186372  17681618  18397189  19693857  20621315 20428800  19920743  19128501  1816656  17241147  16014802  15260687  14710189  14219978  13614098  12883109  1207973  110689693  lO35!7!9   92-6i754
0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0                   0         0        C.0
0                                                                                D 0                                                                           115
11844        0         0          0        0         0         0         0      18950        0         0         0         0          0        0         0     27241         0         0         0
0    21182          0         0         0         0         0         0         0     33844         0         0         0         0         0         0         0     488so        0          0
0        0       4835         0         0         0         0         0         0         0      7736         0         0         0         0         0         0        0      11121        0
0        0          0      4552         0         0         0         0         0         0         0      7283         0         0         0         0         0        0         0      10469
0        0          0         0      2851         0         0         0         0         0         0         0      4361         0         0         0         0        0         0         0
0        0          0         0         0       221         0         0         0         0         0         0         0       353         0         0         0        0         0         0
o         o         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0        0         0         0
l1844    21152      483S       4552      28S1       221         0         0     18950    33844       7736      7283     4361        353        0         0     27241     48650    11121      10469
4737600   8460900   1934100   1820700   1140300     88200         0         0   7800160  13537440  3094560  2913120   1824480    141120           0        0  10695480  19460070  4448430   4187610
0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0        0         0          0
0        0          0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0        0          0        0         0          0
0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0
20923972  26142518  20331289  21514357  21761615  20517000  19920743  19128801  25746668 3077887  19109362  18173807  16S34669  14361098  13614098  12883109 22976453 30549763  14804189  13484264
2198      2198      2198      2198      2198      2198      2198      2198      2198      2198      2193      2198      2198      2198      2198      219e      2198      2198      .198      2198
1652706   1652708   1652706   1652708   16S2708   1652708   16S2708   165270    165S2708   16S2706   1652708   16S2708   1652708   1652706   16s2706   1652706   1852706   1652706   1652708   1652706
29s5s78   2951678   29S5157    2951578   2951578  2951578   2951578   2951578   2951578   2951578   2951578   2951578   2951578   2951578   2951578   2951578   2951578   2956578  2915S76   2951578
674709   674709    674709    674709    674709   674709    674709    674709    674709   674709    674709    674709   674709   674709    674709   674709    674709   674709   674709    674709
659570   635150    635150    635150    635150    635150    635150    635150    635150    635150    635150    635150   635150    635150    635150   635150    635150    836150   635150    835150
413067    4186067    397793    397793    397793    397793   397793   397793    397793   397793   397793   397793   397793   397793    3977           93   397793     37   397793   397S93      9
31982     319s2     51952     50769    30769    30769    30769    30769         30769    30769    30769       30769    30769    30769       30769    30769      30769    30769    30769    30769
0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0
63s3605   6359184   6343890   6342707   6342707   6342707   6a42707   6342707   6342707   6342707  8342707   6342707  8342707  6342707  6342707  6342707   6342707   6342707  6342707   6342707
0 0            0         0              0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0      9725         0         0         0
740250   13016    302208    284484    178172       13781         0         0   1184400  2115225    483525    455175   285075    22050            0         0   1702575  3040636   695067    654314
740250   1322016    S0228    284484    178172      13781         0         0   1184400  2115225    488525    455176   265075    22050            0        0   1702S7S  3040638    695067    654314
0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0        0          0         0        0          0        0         0         0
712865   7688200   664608   6627191   6520678   635848e   6342707   6342707   7527107  8457932  6826232   679768           ns2   6364757   6342707   6342707   8045282   9383342  703m4   697021
13800117  18461318  13685196  14087168  15240737  14160512  13578038  12785795  18219561  22320686  12283130  1l375926   9906868   796341   7271392  6540403  14931171  21166420  7766416   64243
t.3



CHINA: F.JB86  DEY8E09188T PROJECT
HAZINAN AtEPLArINT26
Economic Anal;ysi
tlscription                 1C83      1984       198S      1986      1987      1988       1989      1990      1991      1992      1993      1994       2910      1096      j01       1998
0         1         2         3         4          5         6         7         8         9         10        11        12        13        14        1S
Rubber: Planted Ares (ha)                   0      3793      4342      1749         0         0        172       351
Rubber Y;ild Aa"u tions (kg/ha)                                                                                                    410        567       691       900      1010      1193      137
OK Preduction (kg
1984 Planting                                                                                    0         0          0   1555130  2150831   2620963  3413700   3830930   4525(49   f-9= 1
1985 Planting                                                                                    0          0         0         0   1780220  2461914   3000322   3907800   4365420   515000S
1986 Planting0                                                                                             0          0         0         0    717090    991683   1206559   1574100   176tJ490
1987 Pla0                                                                                                             0         0         0         0         0          0         0         0
1988 Plantin                                                                                                          0         0         0         0         0          0         0         0
1989 Planting                                                                                                                   0         0         0         0          0     70520     97524
1990 Plantin                                                                                                                              0         0         0         0          0    143910
Total e1c Productio  (kg)                                                                             0          0         0   IS5S130   3930cSI  579e967   7405705  89472B9  10555089  12430891
Rubber: EconoicPrice (Y/kg)           4.20
Revenue fran rubber (Y)0                            0         0         0         0         0          0         0         0   6531546  16509574  24359863  31103962  37578614  44331374  52125742
Windbreak: Planted Area (ha)               0       1195      1368       551         0         0         54       111         0         0         0         0         0          0         0         0
Windbreak.: Yield Asptilon  (m3/ha)                                                                                       30
Tilber Productimn (-3):
1984 Planting                                                                                    0         0     35844          0         0         0         0         0          0         0
1985 Planting                                                                                    0         0          0     41032         0         c         0         0          0         0
1986 Planting                                                                                    0         0          0         0     16528         0         0         0          0         0
1987 Planting                                                                                              0         0          0         0         0         0         0         0          0
1988 Planting                                                                                                         0         0         0         0         0         0         0          0
1989 Planting                                                                                                                   0         0         0         0       1625        0          0
1990 Planting                                                                                                                             0         0         0         0      3317          0
Total Tidber Production (63)                                                                          0          0     35844     41032     16528         0         0       1625      3317         0
Timber- Econosic Price (Y/l3)          400
Revenue from windbreak. tY)              0         0          0         0         0         0         0          0  14337540  16412760   6611220         0         0    650160   1326780          0
Rubber Sacloge: Yield  *a. (.3/he)        30
Rubber Sa log Production (,1)                  149634    171292    68998          0         0      6785      13847         0         0         0         0         0          0         0         0
Rubber logs: Econon. Price (VYj3)      150
Revenus fre  rubber ssslog. (Y)             22445078  25693785  10549708          0         0   1017810   2077043          0         0         0         0         0          0         0         0
Intercrop: Sugarcane (t/ba/year)          20
Sugarcoan  Prod. 1984 Plent. Ct)                          15172     15172     15172     15172      15172     15172
1985 Prlanting                                                 17368     17368     17368     17368     17388    17366
1986 Planting                                                             6996      696       6996      6996      6996       6996
1987 Planting                                                                          0         0         0         0          0         0
198e  Planting                                                                                   0         0         0          0         0         0                                                 Ut
1989 Planting                                                                                            688       GM8    68 68         888       688       688
1990 Planting                                                                                                      1404      1404      1404      1404      2404       1404
Total Sugarcan  Production (t)                            15172     32540     39536     39536     39536      40224     26456      9088      2092      2092      2092       1404
Sugarcane: Econsaic Price (Y/t)        134
Revenue fro  Intercrop (Y)                              2033048   4360360   5297824   5297824   5297824   5390016   3545104   1L27792    280328    280328    280328    188136           0         0
TOTAL REV84E  (Y)                          0 22445078 27726633  14710066   5297824   5297824   6315634   7467059  17882644  24162098  23401122  24640189  31384289  38416910 4565;154  52125742
Econm0ic coat af labor (Y/day)          3.25
Rubber: Economic coat (Y/ha)             1597      1378       878       878       878       979        979       979       979      2282      2282      2282       2282      2282      2198      2198
Rubber oevip./lhint. plus other enpedituree
(including 'interests and overhead)
9854 Planting                 6058369   5225806   3328358   33283      33285    3713347   3713347   3713347   3713347   8656574   8656574   8656574   8566574   8656574   8336066   83366
1985 Plaonting                          6938260   5982191   3810105   3810105   3610105   4250818   4250818   4250818   4250818   9909530   9909530   9909530   9909530   9909530   9642831
1985 Planting                                     2793890   240968    1534748   1534748   1534748   1712271   1712271   1712271   171221   3991655   3991655   3991655   3991655   3991655
l987 Plonting                                                      0         0         0         0         0          0         0         0         0         0          0         0         0
l88 Planting                                                                 0         0         0         0         0          0         0         0         0         0          0         0
1989 Planting                                                                     274727    236973    150930    150930    150930    16886      168388    168388    168388    392,47    392547
1990 P'lanting                                                                              560635    48359     30800      308003    306003    343629    343529    343629    343629    601070
Rubber: Total coat (V)             6058369  12181065  12104138   9548147   8673210   9332927  1029650b  10310956  10135389  15078596  20754765 23069776 23069776  23069776  22973427  23063968
Windbrek Htrvesting Coat (Yl/3)            63
Windbrea  Dev./Maint. Cot (Y/la)                2568        274       274       274         0         0          0         0         0         0         0          0         0         0         0
Caot 1984 Planting                           3055688    327075    327075    327075
1985 Planting                                     3497969    374416    374416    37416
1986  Planting                                               1409016    150818    150818   15081
1987 Planting                                                                0         0         0         0
1988 Planting                                                                          0         0         0         0
1989 Planting                                                                               138565     14832      14832     14832
1990 Planting                                                                                         282770     30267      30267     30267
Harvesting Coat (Y)                                                                                                  2240241   2564494   1033003         0         0    101588    207309          0
Windbreaks: Total Coat (Y)               0   30s5658    3825045   2110507    852810    525235    289384   297602   2285340   2609593   1063270           0         0    101588   207309           0
Rubber Saeloga Harvest. Coat (Y/l3)       63
Rubberloge: Total Cot (Y)                    9352116  10705744   4312378          0         0    424068    865434
Intercrop Sugare n Coat (V/h)           1761
Sugarcane: Totl Coet (Y)                 0         0   1335515  2864334   3480156   3480156  3480156   3540718   2328789    79971    184148    184148    184148    123587               0         0
TOTAL COST (Y)                       60568369  24566869  27970442  18835388  13005676  13338317  14490148  15014710  14749497  16488160  22002184 23253924  23253924  23294951  23180736  23063968
PET INCOME (finane;l) (Y)           -6058369  -2123792   -243609  -4125299  -7707852  -8040493  -8174514  -7547651   3133147   5673938   139838   1386265  8130365  15121959  22A77A16  2906177'
Internal Econmic Rate of Return        21.07 Percent                                                                                                                                            ,
i.



UM:  W8e"  k9LAt7Nei SKujm.
HAINAN REPLANTING
Eceono.c Analysis (continwed)
199       2000      2001      2002      200O      2004      2006      2006      2007      2006      2009      2010      2011      2012      2013      2034      2015      2016      2017      2018
16        17        18        19        20        21        22        23        24        25        26        2?        28        29        30        31        32        33        34        35
1561      Is0      1620      1764      1.28      1642      1573      1458      1426      1285      1224      1193      1163      1132      1037      1008       864       864       -2S       702
5920678   5803290   614460O  6s90852   6654304   6228106   5966189   5830194   8408818   4874005  4642632   4525049   4411259  4293676   3933341   3823344   3277152   327.15    746C?25  2862686
5978934   6777862   6643260   7034040   7659288   7502976   7129564   682e966   6330636   6191692  5679470   5314606   5180006  5049746   491S144   4502654   437S73f   371148e  37E 34S$   214795C
20e6557   2408373  2730189   2675970   2833380  3085236   3022372  2871856  2751177   2550042  2494074   2247465  2140776  2086557   2034087   1979868   1813713   1762992   15.11131  1511136
0    0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0              0
0    0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0              0
118852    164800    173720   205196    236844   268492    263160   276640   303408    297216   282424   .270556    250776   245272   221020   210626    20539(   200036    11'7X4    178364
199017    242541   315900    354610    418743    483327    547911    537030   568620    619164    606528    576342   552L23   511758    500526   451035    429624    418743   4(en13    397332
14304233  16386666  16W7729  16960568  17702559  17568337  16929296  16047688  15362659  14532119  13605128  12934020  12534940  12187009  11604118  10967429  1010C422   9430411   Ff iW    7897468
60077779  64624837  67232462  7123438   74350748  7376175  71103043  67400290 645236s  61034900  57141538  54322884  52646748 61L85438  46737296  46063202  42430168  39523726  ( 14A9   13169366
0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0        0         0
50                                                                              80                                                                            l1s
69740         0         0         0         0         0         0         0    95584          0         0         0         0         0         0        0    137402          0        0         0
0     66387         0         0         0         0         0         0         0    1 09418        0         0         0         0         0         0         C    157289         0         0
0         0    27547          0         0         0         0         0         0         0    44075          0         0         0         0        0         0          0    63358         0
0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0        0         0
0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0        0         0
0         0         0         0         0      2709         0         0         0         0         0         0         0      4334         0         0         0         0        0         0
0         0         0         0         0         0      5528         0         0         0         0         0         0         0      8845         0         0         0         0        0
69740     68387    27547          0         0      2709     s55s2         0        84    109418    44075          0         0      4334      8845         0    137401    157289    63338         0
23895900 27354600  11018700          0         0   1OS300  221130o           0  38233440  43767360  17629920         0         0   1733760   3538060        0  54960s70  62915580 25843010          0
0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0
0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0
0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0        0         0          0         0         0         0        0         0
83973679  91979437  78261162  71234386  74350748  74869775  73314343 67400290 102756608 104802260  74771458  54322884  52646748 82919198  s2275376 46063202 97390738 102439306  61 27967  33169366
2198      2198      2198      2196      2196      2198      2198      2198      2198      2198      2198      2196     2198      2196       2190      2198     2198 2198           2198      2198
8336066   8336066  8336066  8336066  8386066   8336066  8336066  8336066  833066   83306    83606  833 6   83306    60                      8336066  8336066  8336066          M     63066   8336066
9542631   9542631  9542631   9542631   9542631  9542631  9s52631   9542631   9542631   9542631   942631   9542631  9542631   9542631   9542631   9542631   9542631   9542631   9542631   9542631
3843865   38435   3843866   3843865   3843865  3843865   3842W*  384388   38865   343865  343865    43885  3843865   3435    843865  384385   3843865   3843865  3843865   384365
0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0        0         0          0        0          0         C.       0         0
0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0        0         0          0        0          0         0        0         0
392547    392547   392547    378013    378013   378013    378013   378013   378013    378013   378013   378013    376013   378013    376013   378013   378013    376013   376013   378013
801070    601070    601070    801070    771410   771410    771410   771410   771410    771410   771410    771410    771410   771410      771410   771430   771410    771410   771410   771410
22916178  22918178  22916178  22901644  22B7198  23871984  2387198  23871984  22371984  22871984 23871984   271984   271984  22871984  2371964  22871984 22571984  '2871984  22571984 22871904
0         0         0       .0          0        0          0        0          0        0         0         0         0         0         0         0      9725          0        0         0
0
3733734   4274156   1721672         0         0    169313    345516        0   8973975   683885    2754675         0         0    270900    552825         0   8587589   9830559  3959845          0
3733734   4274156   1721672         0         0    169313    345516         0  5973975   6838850   2754676         0         0    270900    552825         0   858759   9830559  3959845           0
0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0        0         0          0        0         0          0        0         0
26M412 2719034  24637880 290144  22871964  2304129   23217500 22871984  28845959  2971063   25626659  22871984  22871984  23142984  2542489 22871984  31459573  2702544  2683180  22871984
87323766  64789103  88612 4332742  51478764   s8279  50s 6843  44828           73910649  75091626  49144798  31450900 297747o4  29776314  2850563 23191218  65931165  69736763  34696138  10297308
...



CHINIA: UBEaS 06VEL0PHENT PROJECT
ZHANJIANG REtPLANING
Economic Analysis
Description                 1963       1984      1905      1986      1907      1988      1989       1990      1991      1992      1993      1994      1995       1996      197       1998
0         1         2         3         4         5          6         7         8         9         10        11        12        13        la        IS
Rubber: Planted area (ha)                   0       906      2362       637       818       1067      1t0
Rubber Yield Asavnpt6ioe  (kg/ha)                                                                                                  432       605       720        842       972      1166      1S36
7RC ProducPion ttg)                                                                                   0         0          0    391392    546130    652320   762852    8t0632   i056396  121C416
1965 Planting                                                                                    0         0          0         0   1020384   1429010  1700640   1988804   2295864  2754092
196 Planting                                                                                     0         0          0         0         0    275184    385385    458640    536354   (19364
1967 Planting                                                                                              0          0         0         0         0    353376    494890    586960    688756
1966 Planting                                                                                                         0         0         0         0         0    460944    645535    766240
1969 Planting                                                                                                                   0         0         0         0         0      77760   106900
1990 Plenting                                                                                                                             0         0         0          0         0         0
Total DOC Production (kg)                                                                              0         0         0    391392   1566514   2356514   3202253   4283910   5200S69  6149568
Rubber: Economic Price (Vjkg)          4.20
Revenue from rubber (Y)                   0         0         0         0         0         0          0         0         0   1643846   6567759   9897359  13449463  17992422 21843650 25828186
Vindbrea ks Planted A-. (ha)                0       268       744       201       258       336         57         0         0         0         0         0         0          0         0         0
Windbreaka: Yield A-,umptionc (ms/ha)                                                                                     30
Tiber production (in)
1984 Planting                                                                                    0         0      6562          0         0         0         0         0         0          0
1905 Planting                                                                                    0         0          0     22321         0         0         0         0         0          0
1966 Planting                                                                                    0         0          0       .0       620          0         0         0         0          0
19087 Planting                                                                                             0          0         0         0      7130         0         0         0          0
1908 Planting                                                                                                        0          0         0         0     10063         0         0         0
1969 Planting                                                                                                                   0         0         0         0       1701        0         0
1990 Planting                                                                                                                             0         0         0         0         0         0
Total Timber Production (US)                                                                          0          0      6562     22521      6020      7730     10063       1701         0         0
Tiber: Econmic Price (V/aS)            400
Revenue from windre*ak  (Y)               0         0         0         0         0         0         0          0   3424680   8928360   2407860   3092040   4033260    560400          0         0
Rubber Seeloga: Yield ae. (d/ha)          30
Rubber Sawlog Production (a)                    35742     93181     25130     32270     42093      7101          0         0         0         0         0         0          0         0         0
Rubber logse  Economic Price (V/U       150
Revenue from rubber eawlogs (Y)               5361255  13977135   3769448  4840515   6313973   1065150           0         0         0         0         0         0          0         0         0
Intercrop: Sugarcane (t/ha/year)          20
Sugarcane Prod. 3964 Plant. (t)                            3624      3624      3624      3624      3624       3624
1965 Planting                                                   9448      9446      9448      9448      9448       9446
1906 Planting                                                             2548      2546      2548      2548      2548       2548
1987 Planting                                                                                 3272                3272       3272      3272
19089 Pl nting                                                                                4268      4266       4266      4266      4268      4268
1969 Planting                                                                                            720        720       72        720       72        720                                  0
1990 Planting                                                                                                       0          0         0 0            0              0                         0
Total Sugaran Production (t)                               3624     13072     15620     18892     23160    23880       20256     10608      8260      4988       720          0
Sugarcane: Economic Price  (Y/t)        134
Re"venu  from Intfrcrog (Y)                              486616   178164    2093060   2531526   3103440   3199920   2714304  18272   1106640    668392        9U80           0         0         0
- 'YAL RtEVB.E (Y)                         0   5361255  14462751   5521096   6933895   8848801   4168590   3199920   6130984  12020478  10102459  13657791  17579203  18672822  23843650 25628186
Economic coat of labor (Y/day)          3.25
Rubber: Economic coat (Y/ha)             1597      1376       878       878       878        979       979       979       979      2282      2282      2282      2282       2282      2198      2190
Rubber Devlp./Hlint. p1us other eapenditures
(including Interasta and overhead)
1964 Planting                 1447109   1248242    795015    795015    795015   48669741   666974    686974    886974   2067719   2067719   2067719   2067719   206,7739   1991162   1991162
1985 Planting                           3772705   3254246   2072655  2072655   2072655   2312398  232398   23123960   2512396   5390675   5390675   5390675   5390675   539075   5191086
1986 Planting                                      1017448   877627    558968    558966    55896    623623    623623   625623    623623   1453793   1453793   1453793   1453793   1453793
1987 Planting                                                L306551   1127000    717795    717795   717795    800622   800822   800822    800622   1866881   1866881   186681   168668B1
1988 Planting                                                          1704266   1470059    936293    936293    936293   1044593   1044593   1044593   1044593   2435361   2435161   2435161
19809 Planting                                                                    267505    247995    157950    157950    157950    176220    176220    176220    178220   410O0S    410605
1990 Planting                                                                                    0         0          0         0        *e)        0         0          0         0         0
Rubber: Total coat (Y)              147109   6020946   5066709   505147   6257903   5993956   5660422   5635033   5716060   7007105  10103651  10933821  11999880  13390448  1354U476  1334887
Windbreak hlrveatint  Coat (Y/U3)          83
Windbreak Dan./Mrint. Coat (Y/ha)                2558       274       274       274          0         0         0         0         0         0         0          0         0         0         0
Coat 1784 Planting                             728855    78126      78126     78126
1985 Planting                                      1902657    203678    203676    203676
1988 Planting                                                 513175     64929     84929     64929
1987 planting                                                           658991     7037      70537     70537
1988 Planting                                                                     659589     92009     92009      92006
1989 Planting                                                                               145010      15522     15522     15522
199  Pl anting'                                                                                            0          0         0         0
lbrveating Comb CV)                                                                                                   535106   139505     376226    483131    630197    106313          0         0
Wilnbraaska Tota  Ct CV)                  0    72985   1980962    794979    995724   11887S3    362485    178066    642637   1410578   376228    483131    630197    106313             0         0
Rubber Saeloga H1o est. Coat (Y/US)        6S
Rubberlogs: Total Coat (Y)                    2233856   5623806   1570603  2016881   29S0822    44381S           0
Intercrop Sugarcane Cost (Y/ha)         1761
Sugarcans; Total Coat (Y)                0          0    819003   1150663   1374951   166296   2036659  2102037   1783084    951374    727067    439069        63378          0         0         0
TOTAL COST (Y)                        1447109   7984487  13190500   656802  10645459  11476479   6505379   7915137   8143731   9369057  11206966  11856021  12693465  13496760  13548476  13348887
MT INCOIE (Financial) (Y)           -1447109  -2623432   1272251  -3046997  -3711864  -2630979  -4336769  -4715217  -2004747   2651422  -1104507   1801770   4865746   5176062  629517d  124792'9
Internal Economic R-te of Retur        20.64 Percent
-   -~~~~



0C1HNA: RWeM DEVELOPMENT PROJCT
ZIANJIAIN  REPLANTINO
Ecoqmic Anlysis (continued)
1999      2000       2001      2002 -     2003      2004       2005       2006      2007       2006       2009      2010       2011      2DI2       2013      2014       2331       2016      20w -  2018
l6        17         le        19         20         21        22         23        24         25         26        27         26        29         30        312        32         33        74         35
1404      1496       1591      1652       1620       1632      1509       1490      1458       1355       1323      1224       1163       1066      1037       945        916        806       '2!        702
1272024   1357188   1441446   1496712   1467720   1478592   1367154   1349940   1320948   1227630   1198638   1108944   1053678    965796    939522    856170    831706    730236    ,see!,    636012
3158632   3316248   3538276   3757942   3902024   3826440   38547s4   3564258   3519380   3443796   3200510   3124926   2891008   2747006   2517892   2449394   2232090   2168315   1i0e77   1712450
742742    851032    894348    954226   1013467   1052324   1031940   1039584    961233    949130    926746    863135    842751    779688    740831    679042    660569    601965    53466(.   513422
795096    953788   1092648 13 48472   1225364   1301438   1351336   1325160   1334976   1234362   1218820   1192644   1106390   10814   1001232    951334    873988    848280    772030    7-0924
896414   1037124   1244122   14255L2   1498068   1S98366   1697S97   1762684   1728540   174134    1610103    569S830   Is55686   1445785   1411641   23060C8   1240921   1137422   IIC-647" 1i0816
129600    151560    174960    209860    240480    252720    269640    2S63e0    297360    291600   293760    271620    268200    262440    243900    238140    220320    209340    1938F90    15S6660
0         0          0         0          0          0         0          0         0          0          0         0          0         0          0         0          0          0         1.0
699350    7666940   8386000   8992744   9347123   95sos98      957245l   9328006   9162437   6887862   8450577   8151099   7719793   7282929  6855016   648o0e8   6057596   8C-95545    I-C--7   4P07783
29372734  322114e  3S221200  37769525  39257917  39941496  40204294  39177625  38482235 37329020  35492423  34234616  32423131  305s8302  28791076  27216370  25441903  23921289  ^1C27>i  20192689
0         0          0         0          0          0         0          0         0          0          0         0          0         0          0         (          C.         0                   0
50                                                                                  so                                                                                  115
14270         0          0         0          0          0         0          0       22831        0          0         0          0         0          0         0      32820          0         0          C.
O     37202          0         0          0          0         0          0         0      b5922          0         0          0         0          0          0         0     85563          0          0
0         0      10033         0          0          0         0          0         0          0      16052         0          0         0          0         0          0          0     23075          0
0         0          0     12684          0          0         0          0         0          0          0     20614          0         0          0         0          0          0         0     29632
0         0          0         0      16805          0         0          0         0          0          0         0      26888         0          0         0          0          0         0          0
0         0          0         0          0       2es3         0          0         0          0          0         0          0      4536          0         0          0          0         0          0
0         0          0         0          0          0         0          0         0          0          0         0          0         0          0         0          0          0         0         0
14270     37202      10033     12884      16805       283S         0          0     22831      59522      16052     20614      26888      4536          0         0      32820      s5863     23075     29632
6707800  14890600   4013100   S153400  6722100   11340O0             0          0   9132480  23o660   6420960   824540  1075S360   1814400                0         0  13127940  34225380   9230130  11852820
0         0          0         0          0          0         0          0         C.         0          0         0          0         0          0         0          0          0         0         0
0         0          0         0          0          0         0          0         0          0          0         0          0         0          0         0          0          0         0         0
0         0          0         0                     0         0          0         0          0         0          0          0         0          0         0          0         0          0         0
380O0634  47061748  39234300  42922925  4898001   41075496  40204294  39177625  47614715  61137980  41913383  2480056  43178491  32402702  28791076  27216370  38589843  58146669  31140509  32045509
2198      2198       2196      2196       2198       2196      2198       2198      2198       2198      2198       2188       2198      2196       2198      2196       2196      2198       :1398     2198
1991162   I199162   1991162   1991162   1991162   1991162   1991162   1991162   1991162   1991162   1991162   1991162   1991162   1991162   1991162   I199112   399116  21991102   1991182   1991162
5191086   5191066   5191086   5191066   5lOeS191086   5191088   53    91066   5191068    5191086   5191086 519306    6   5191086   5 19106 6   5191068 9308    5191086   5191086   5191086   5391086   5191068
1399987   1399987   1399967   1399967   1399967   1399967   1399967   1399967   1396967   1399967   1399967   1399967   1399967   1399967   3399967   1399967   1399967   1399967   13t99907   1399987
1886881   1797760   1797760   1797760   3797760   1797760   1797760   1797760   1797760   1797760   1797760   1797760   1797760   1797760   3797760   1797760   3797760   17977f00   1797710   1797760
2435161   2435161   2344999   2344999   2344999   2344999   2344999   234499    2344999   2344999   2344999   2344999   2344999   2344999   2344999   2344999   2344999   2.44999   2344999   2344999
410605    410805    410805    398595    395595    39559        395595    395595    395595    395595    395595    395595    39559         395595   '395595    395595    395595    395895    395595    395595
0         0             0      0          0          0         0          0         0          0         0          0         0          0          0         0          0         0          0         0
13295060  13225939  13135778  13120568  13120568  13120568  13120586  13120568  131208  13120568  13120568  13120568  13120568  13120668  13120568  13120568  13120568  13120568  13120588  17312086
0         0          0         0          0          0         0          0         0          0         0          0         0          0         0          0       9725         0          0         0
891844   23W4        627047    1021       050328    177188          0          0   1426950   372015    1003275   1268350   1680325    2813500            0         0   2051241   5347716   1442206   1852003
891844   2325094    627047    805219   1030328    177188            0          0   1426950   372015    1003275   1288350   1680525    283500             0         0   2051241   5347716   1442208   1852003
0         0          0         0          0         0          0          0         0          0         0          0         0          0         0          0          0         0          0         0
14186904  15551033  13762824  13925706  14170896  132776   13120668  13120588  14547518  16840718  14123843  14408918  14801003  13404068  13120568  1,3120668  15171806  1846828   34862775  149725A
20s93630  31530715  25471476  28997132  31609121  27M741  27083727  26057058  83067198  44297263  27789541  28071138  28377398  1899834  15670508  1409s802  2339803S  39678386  1657773A  17072938
co



CHINA
27-Sep-91                     RUBBER DEVELOPNENT PROJECT (CR 1417/SF 005-CHA)
Cash Flow Huali Furniture Factory
------Actual-----
Year                     1      2      3      4       5       6      7      8      9    10    11    12    13    14    1s    16    17    18    19    20
1989  1990   1991  1992   1993   1994   1995  1996  1991  1998  1999  2000  2001  2002  2003  2004  2005  2006  2007  2008
CASH INFLOW
U  Loan              11.34  3.22   0.17
Govern ent funds      9.28   2.92    1.10
Local bank loans      0.00  2.60   0.00                                                                                                                   7.01
Workifng capital             0.15   1.85  5.00                                                                                                            7.00
Sales inco-e (see below)            9.99  15.16  23.56  23.56  23.56 23.56 23.56 23.56 23.56 23.56 23.56 23.56 23.56  23.56  23.56 23.56 23.56 23.56
Total inflow         20.62  8.89   13.11  20.16  23.56  23.56   23.56 23.56 23.56 23.56  23.56  23.56 23.56 23.56 23.56 23.56 23.56 23.56 23.56 37.57
CASH OUTFLOW
Inmestment + wk cap  20.62  8.89   3.12  5.00
Operating Cost               0.60   6.39  10.30   16.79   16.79   16.79  16.79  16.79 16.79  16.79  16.79  16.79  16.79 16.79  16.79  16.79  16.79  16.79 16.79
Variabte                         5.60  8.99   15.48   15.48   15.48  15.48  15.48  15.48  15.48  15.48  15.48  15.48  15.48  15.48  15.48  15.48  15.48 15.48
Raw material                    3.00  5.79   9.08   9.08   9.08  9.08  9.08  9.08  9.08  9.08  9.08  9.08  9.08  9.08  9.08  9.08  9.08  9.08
wages                           1.16  1.43   2.85   2.85    2.85   2.85  2.85  2.85   2.85   2.85   2.85   2.85  2.85   2.85   2.85   2.85   2.85  2.85
Others                          1.44  1.77   3.54    3.54   3.54  3.54  3.54   3.54   3.54   3.54   3.54   3.54  3.54  3.54  3.54  3.54  3.54  3.54
Interest                  0.60   0.79   1.31   1.31   1.31   1.31  1.31  1.31  1.31  1.31  1.31  1.31  1.31  1.31  1.31  1.31   1.31   1.31   1.31
Total cash outflow   20.62  9.49   9.51  15.30   16.79   16.79   16.79  16.79 16.79  16.79  16.79  16.79  16.79  16.79  16.79  16.79 16.79  16.79 16.79  16.79
NET CASH FLOW         0.00 (0.60)  3.60  4.86   6.77   6.77   6.77   6.77  6.77  6.77  6.77  6.77  6.77  6.77  6.77   6.77  6.77  6.77  6.77 20.78                  1
FINANCIAL ANALYSIS                                                                                                                                                 c
Investment + wk cap  20.62  8.89   3.12   5.00   0.00   C.00                                                                                            (12.25)   bt
sates-var cost-tnt    0.00  (0.60)  3.60  4.86   6.77   6.77    6.77  6.77  6.n7  6.77   6.7   6.77  6.77  6.77   6.77  6.77   6.77  6.77  6.77   6 77
(20.62) (9.49)  0.48  (0.14)  6.77   6.77   6.77  6.77  6.77  6.77   6.77   6.77  6.77  6.77  6.n7  6.77  6.77  6.77   5.n7  19:02
FRR               14.43X
wPV                5.57
. ---.1991 .*     .. M1992----  ----- 1993-----
Produrt             Unit  Unit  OuantityGross QuantityGross  QuantityGross
Price /1      Value         Value           Value
................. ................................ ........... .................... ... ... .. .... ... ...... ........ . ... .......... ....... .............
Furniture
Solid            pc        65 117.000  7.61 175,000  11.38 250.000  16.25
Panet type /2    pc        127 10,500   1.33  16,000   2.03  30.000  3.81
Flooring /3         d3        35 30,000   1.05 50.000    1.75 100,000  3.50
Total                                   9.99           15.16         23.56
/1 Average unit value at June 1991; 20 furniture pieces equal to about 1 .3
/2 For pa&l furniture, 2/3 particle board (Sanya) a Y850/m3 and 1/3 NDF (from thirds) a Y11100J3
/3 Nosaic parquet
Source: Cash flow provided by Huali and modified to reflect output provided by Kehr's report, p 2-19.
Note that sales slightly Less than Nuali anticipates
! o



CHINA
27-Sep-91                                 RUBBER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (CR 14177SF 005-CHA)
Cash Flow Sanya Timber Cosplex - Scenario 91
--Actual--.--
Year                        1      2      3         4      5      6       7      8      9     10      11     12     13     14     15      16     17     18     19      20
1988   1989   1990     1991   1992   1993   1994   1995   1996   1997   1998   1m9   2000   2001   2002   2003   2004   2005   2006   2007
CASH INFLOW
UB Loan                 40.46   2.06   9.87      1.03
Goverr_ent funds        20.07  8.25   0.17       5.87
Local bank loans         0.00   0.00   0.00
working capital                        3.80      1.P0   1.80   1.80                                                                                                  9.20
Sales income                           2.88    i:.24  .'2.48   4.97  44.97 44.97 44.97 44.97  44.97 44.97 44.97 44.97 44.97 44.97 44.97 44.97 44.97  44.97
Total inflow           60.53  10.31  16.72    19.93  24.28  46.77  44.97  44.97 4.97  44.97  44.97 4.97  44.97 44.9t 44.97 44.97 4.97  4.97  44.97 54.17
CASH OUTFLOW
Investment + wk cap    60.53  10.31  13.84      8.69   1.80   1.80   0.00   0.00   0.00
Operating Cost           0.00   0.42   3.32     9.38  16.92  37.48  37.48  37.48  37.48  37.48  37.48  37.48  37.48  37.48  37.48  37.48  37.48  37.48  37.48  37.48
Variable costs                      2.88     8.29  15.63  35.98  35.98  35.98  35.98  35.98  35.9e  35.98  35.98  35.98  35.98  35.98  35.98  35.98  35.98  35.98
Raw material                      2.31     7.46  12.51  30.58  30.58  30.58  30.58  30.58  30.58  30.58  30.58  30.58  30.58  30.58  30.58  30.58  30.58  30.58
Wages                             0.08     0.36   0.49   0.51   0.51   0.51   0.51   0.51   0.51   0.51   0.51   0.51   0.51   0.51   0.51   0.51   0.51   0.51
Others                            0.50     0.47   2.64   4.89   4.89   4.89   4.89   4.89   4.89   4.89   4.89   4.89   4.89   4.89   4.89   4.89  4.89  4.89
Interest                    0.42   0.44      1.09   1.29   1.50   1.50   1.50   1.50   1.50   1.50   1.50   1.50   1.50   1.50   1.50   1.50   1.50   1.50   1.50
Total cash outflow     60.53  10.73  17.16    18.07  18.72  39.28  37.48  37.48  37.48  37.48  37.48  37.48  37.48 37.48  37.48  37.48  37.48  37.48 37.48 37.48
NET CASH FLOW            0.00  (0.42) (0.43)    1.86   5.56   7.49   7.49   7.49   7.49   7.49   7.49   7.49   7.49   7.49   7.49   7.49   7.49   7.49   7.49  16.69
FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
Investment + wk cap    60.53  10.31  13.84      8.69   1.80   1.80   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00 (31.14)
Sales-var cost-int       0.00  (0.42) (0.44)    1.86   5.56   7.49   7.49   7.49   7.49   7.49   7.49   7.49   7.49   7.49   7.49   7.49   7.49   7.49   7.49   7.49          w
Net Benefits       (60.53)(10.73)(14.27)   (6.83)  3.76   5.69   7.49   7.49   7.49   7.49   7.49   7.49   7.49   7.49   7.49   7.49   7.49   7.49   7.49  38.64
FRR                  3.49X
NPV                  (46.8)
. ----1994-----
Output               Unit   Unit  Quantity Gross
Price           Value
. ... ... ... ..... ....... ... ............
Particle board (raw) .3        1,043 21,250    22.16
Part. bd (overlay)   .3        2,210  3,750     8.29
Sawnwood             13          700 6,10D      5.67
FurmitUre            A3        3,818  1,100 /I 4.20
Others /2                                       4.65
Total                                       44.97
/1 Equals 15,000 pieces furniture
/2 Furniture parts, custon tailed dimensional particle board, etc.
Source: Cash flow provided by Sanyo, output provided by Kehr's report, p 2-12.



CHINA
27-SepW91                        RMBER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (CR 1417/SF 005-clA)
Cash Flow Sanya Timber Coaplex - Scenario Q2
- A Actuat...
Veer                      1      2      3       4      5      6      7      8     9      10    11    12    13    14    15    16    17    18    19    20
1985  1989  1990    1991   1m     1993  1994  1995  1996  1997  1998  1999  2000  2001  2002  2003  2004  2005  2006  2007
....................................................................................................................................................................
CASH INFLOW
WB Loan               40.46  2.06  9.87    1.03
Govenest fu.md        20.0?  8.25   0.17    5.87
Local bnk ltons        0.00  0.00   0.00
Working capitat                      3.80     1.80   1.60   1.80                                                                                          9.20
Sales Incm                           2.86    11.24  22.48 4.97  44.97 53.00 61.00 69.9S 69.95 69.95 69.95 69.95  69.95 69.95 69.95  69.95 69.95  69.95
Total Inflow          60.53  10.31  16.72   19.93  24.26  4.77  4.97  53.00 61.00 69.95 69.95 69.95 69.95  69.95  69.95 69.95 69.95 69.95 69.95  79.1
CASh OTfLOW
Inwestmnt * uk cap   60.53  10.31  13.84    8.69   1.80   1.80  0.00  0.00  0.00
Operating Cost                       3.32    9.38  16.92  37.48 37.45  40.54 42.07 43.60  43.60  43.60  43.60 43.60  43.60 43.60 43.60 43.60  43.60 43.60
variable costs                    2.85    8.29  15.63 35.98 35.98 39.04  40.57 42.10 42.10 42.10 42.10 4210  42.10 42.10 42.10 42.10 42.10  42.10
Raw mterial                     2.31    7.46  12.51  30.58 30.58 33.64  35.17 36.70 36.70 36.70  36.70 36.70  36.70 36.70 36.70 36.70 36.70 36.70
vags                            0.08    0.36  0.49  0.51  0.51  0.51   0.51   0.51  0.51  0.51   0.51  0.51   0.51  0.51  0.51  0.51  0.51  0.51
Others                          0.50    0.47  2.64  4.89  4.89  4.69  4.89  4.89  4.89  4.89  4.89  4.89  4.69  4.89  4.89  4.89  4.69  4.89
Interest                   0.42  O.4      1.09   1.29  1.SO   1.SO   1.50  1.SO   1.50  1.50  1.50   1.50   1.50  1.50  1.50  1.SO  1.50  1.50  1.SO
Total cash outflow    60.53  10.31  17.16   18.07  18.72 39.28 37.48 40.54 42.07 43.60 43.60 43.60 43.60 43.60 43.60 43.60 43.60 43.60 43.60 43.60   Gb
NET CUSH FLOW          0.00  0.00  (0.43)   1.86  5.56  7.49   7.49  12.46  18.93 26.36 26.36 26.36  26.36 26.36 26.36 26.36 26.36 26.36 26.36 35.56   b
FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
Investment * uk cap   60.53  10.31  13.84    8.69   1.80  1.80  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00   0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00 (31.14)
Sates-var cost-lnt     0.00  (0.42) (0.44)   1.86  5.56  7.49  7.49  12.46  18.93 26.36 26.36 26.36 26.36 26.36 26.36 26.36 26.36 26.36 26.36 26.36
net Benefits      (60.53)10.73)C 4.27)   (6.83) 3.76  5.69  7.49  12.46  18.93  26.36 26.36 26.36 26.36  26.36 26.36 26.36 26.36 26.36 26.36 57.50
FUR                11.34X
WPV                 (5.3)
. ....1994   . ... ..1997 ....
Output              Unit   un t  Quintity Gross Unit  Oty   Gross
Price          Value Price /3       Value
I          ~~~...................................... ...................................
Particlo board (raw) *3      1.043 21.250   22.16  1,043 21.250  22.16
Part. bd (overlay)  .3       2.210 3,750    8.29 2,210 3,750  8.29
Sowiood             *3         700 8.100    5.67   700        0  0.00
Furniture           *3       3,818  1,100 /1  4.20  9,400  1,100  10.34
Furniture prts /2  g3                        4.65  3,600  8,100  29.16                                                                                            -
Totsl                                    U.97                 69.95                                                                                         ae.
/1 Equatl 15.000 plces furniture                                                                                                                              O O 
/2 Furnituro parts. custon tailed dImeional particle board, etc.                                                                                                  4 
n3 Furniture prices adjusted to International market prices
Source: Cash flow provided by Sanp, output provided by Kehr's report, p 2-12.



CNINA
02-Aug-91                        RIUeER DEVELOPNENT PMOJECT (CR 1417/SF  0S-CHA)
Cash Flow Zhanjiang Presswood Factory
-..------- --Actu l.-
Year                       1      2       3       4       5       6        7      8      9      10    11      12     13      14     15     16     17      18     19     20
1987   1988    1989   1990    1991    1992    1993   1994   1995   1996   1997   1998   1999   2000   2001   2002   2003   2004   2005   2006
CASN INFLOW
WO Loan                       33.89    0.99   4.72    1.25
Goverwient funds        1.52   1.60    1.00   0.14
Locat bnk lo nu         1.54   1.01    1.50
Self-raised funcd                                       1.8
Wrking capital                                 2.00    5.88
Sales Income                           0.24   6.07   24.25   41.25   41.25  41.25  41.25  41.25  41.25  41.25  41.25  41.25  41.25  41.25  41.25  41.25  41.25  41.25
Total Inflow            3.05  36.50    3.73  12.93   33.18   41.25   41.25  41.25  41.25  41.25  41.25  41.25  41.25  41.25  41.25  41.25  41.25  41.25  41.25  41.25
CASN OUTFLWJ
Investment + uk cap    3.05  36.50    3.49   6.86    8.93    0.00    0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00
Operating Cost                         0.24   3.57   17.40   27.92   27.92  27.92  27.92  27.92  27.92  27.92  27.92  27.92  27.92  27.92  27.92  27.92  27.92  27.92
Variable costs                      0.24   2.75   15.82   25.81   25.81  25.81  25.81  25.81  25.81  25.81  25.81  25.81  25.81  25.81  25.81  25.81  25.81  25.81          at
Raw _terisl                       0.14   1.78   11.14   17.97   17.97  17.97  17.97  17.97  17.97  17.97  17.97  17.97  17.97  17.97  17.97  17.97  17.97  17.97          tn
wages                             0.02   0.22    0.57    1.29    1.29   1.29   1.29   1.29   1.29   1.29   1.29   1.29   1.29   1.29   1.29   1.29   1.29   1.29          1
Others                            0.08   0.75    4.11    6.55    6.55   6.55   6.55   6.55   6.55   6.55   6.55   6.55   6.55   6.55   6.55   6.55   6.55   6.55
Interest                                   0.82    1.58    2.11    2.11   2.11   2.11   2.11   2.11   2.11   2.11   2.11   2.11   2.11    2.11    2.11    2.11   2.1
Total cash outflow      3.05  36.50    3.73  10.43   26.33   27.92   27.92  27.92  27.92  27.92  27.92  27.92  27.92  27.92  27.92  27.92  27.92  27.92  27.92  27.92
NET CASH FLOSW          0.00   0.00    0.00   2.50    6.8S   13.35   13.35  13.35  13.35  13.35  13.35  13.35  13.35  13.35  13.35  13.35  13.35  13.35  13.35  13.35
FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
IJ,estment + wk cap    3.05  36.50    3.49   6.86    8.93    0.00    0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00 (20.17)
Sales-var cost-int     0.00   0.00   (0.00)  2.50    6.85   13.35   13.35  13.35  13.35  13.35  13.35  13.35  13.35  13.35  13.35  13.35  13.35  13.35  13.35  13.35
(3.05)(36.50)  (3.49) (4.36)  (2.08)  13.35   13.35  13.35  13.35  13.35  13.35  13.35  13.35  13.35  13.35  13.35  13.35  13.35  13.35  33.51
FRR                16.41X
EPV                15.40
Sales reveum  from 1992 based on estileted output valued at current International prices.
II



CHINA
02-Aug-91                      RUNBER DEVELOPNENT PROJECT (CR 1417/SF 005-CHA)
Cash Flow Xilian Saimill
..- -Actuatl
Year                     1      2       3     4       5      6       7     8      9    10    11    12    13    14    15    16    17    l8    19    20
1989  1990   1991  1992   1993   1994   1995  1996  1997  1998  1999  2000  2001  2002  2003  2004  2005  2006  2007  2008
CASN INFLOW
WO Loan              11.260 3.389
Goverment fund       3.300  1.300
Local bui toans      0.800 4.360                                                                                                                       4.812
lorking capitaL                     1.930                                                                                                              1.930
Sates incoe                 1.676  12.800 14.800  14.800  14.800  14.800 14.800 14.800 14.800 14.800 14.800 14.800 14.800 14.800 14.800 14.800 14.800 14.800 14.800
Totat inftow        15.360 10.725  14.730 14.800 14.800  14.800  14.800 14.500 14.800 14.800 14.800 14.800 14.800 14.800 14.800 14.800 14.800 14.800 14.800 21.542
CASH OUTFLOW
Investment cost     15.360 9.049  0.000 0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000 0.000 0.000
Working capital repayment           1.930 0.000  0.000  0.000
Operating Cost              1.508  7.100 8.050  8.050  8.050  8.050 8.050 8.050 8.050 8.050 8.050 8.050 8.050 8.050 8.050 8.050 8.050 8.050 8.050
Variable costs           1.291  6.080 7.030  7.030  7.030  7.030 7.030 7.030 7.030 7.030  7.030  7.030 7.030 7.030 7.030 7.030  7.030 7.030  7.030
Raw material           0.958  4.510 5.215  5.215  5.215  5.215 5.215 5.215 5.215 5.215 5.215 5.215  5.215  5.215 5.215 5.215  5.215  5.215  5.215
Wases                  0.032  0.150 0.173  0.173  0.173  0.173 0.173 0.173 0.173  0.173 0.173 0.173 0.173 0.173 0.173 0.173 0.173 0.173 o.1n                 a
Others                 0.301   1.420  1.642  1.642   1.642   1.642  1.642  1.642  1.642  1.642  1.642  1.642  1.642 1.642  1.642 1.642  1.642  1.642  1.642  0"
Fixed costs              0.217  1.020  1.020  1.020  1.020   1.020 1.020 1.020 1.020 1.020 1.020  1.020 1.020 1.020 1.020 1.020 1.020  1.020  1.020
Interest                    0.090  0.190
Totat cash outflow   15.360 10.647  9.220 8.050  8.050  8.050  8.050 8.050 8.050 8.050 8.050  8.050 8.050 8.050 8.050 8.050 8.050 8.050 8.050 8.050
NET CASH FLOW        0.000 0.073  5.510 6.750  6.750  6.750  6.750 6.750 6.750 6.750 6.750  6.750 6.750 6.750 6.750 6.750 6.750 6.750 6.750 13.492
CUJLATIVE
Investment cost     15.360 9.049  1.930 0.000  0.000  0.000                                                                                           (5.777)
Benefits*            0.000 0.385  6.720 7.770  7.770  7.770  7.770 7.770  7.770 7.770 7.77  7.77  7.770 7.770 7.770 7.770 7.770 7.770 7.770 7.770
(15.360)(8.664) 4.790  7.770  7.770  7.770   7.770  7.770  7.770 7.770 7.770 7.770 7.770 7.770  7.770 7.7    7.M   7.770 7.770 13.547
FRR               25.29x
Nm               22.7625
'Benefits Calculated as Sales mins Variable costs



IBRD 16867R
*  '              6<~~~g                                     1100        ToEnE00,^              l......  1To Vol.UI m o.n
GUANGXI                                                            /.  GLUANGDONG
- Sh           %,,    L'an         lang m              m g . 
_    ___t_>5>   ' *rz !yF5  <    (t   /             ~Wuch.an   ~         >~
Hello~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t
t   X  Zhan,.an  .- -                               CHINA
210                                            t  ~~f -JX    tj                                       RUBBER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT  210
/ 9  Hke9t   'PROJECT AREAS
PROJECT FARMS ENGAGED IN:
\ xe \1 47-",                                                REPlANMNG
Eli]     NEW PLANTING
.     STATE FARM HEAUARTERS
--ROADS
RAILWAYS
-  RIVERS
_     PORTS
-t > - *-  PROVINCE BOLINDARIES
\ < -/                   --- INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
Xuwn    ala
200                                                                                                                                                           200
Jntb,h  Chico  Sea
A ~ ~        ~ ~ ~ HI
lan~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KLMTR 0 10 20 30 aa 0  1so
f-   \  ;     4f9?                                         ~~~~KILOARTERS ._   v  J,b            1
MILES
1120
-  0~~~-          /O~EU.PEO.
> TAtJ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~c H I N1 A 
Yo X                rod.                      The                                 ?~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~bl.   .~AP~
Bank Greoup. The do i   usd andliboune'ert s   ean on iAl i'
mTmi.legal not67;mal efpes ofthny bvi' karoup,aanyoaw o alegfoalce o  MAAOn
This nmap is based on IBRD  6867, Jinnuary 1983.            1-&=1  fayfrtyo n nosotwacpiieo                                         AAr.
PiGs'    IIAGUT 99



