CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1102 PH
Loan Agreement
(Rural Development Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
AND
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
DATED APRIL 16, 1975


﻿CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1102 PH
Loan Agreement
(Rural Development Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
AND
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
DATED APRIL 16, 1975


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 16, 1975, between REPUBLIC           OF THE
PHILIPPINES (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank,
dated March 15, 1974, with the same force and effect as if they were fully set
forth herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements
of the Bank being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Sectirn 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the term "NIA" means the National Irrigation
Administration, an agency of the Borrower established by Republic Act No. 3601,
as amended.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and
conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in various
currencies equivalent to twenty-five million dollars ($25,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule I to this Agreement, as
such Schedule may be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan; provided, however, that,
except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, no withdrawal shall be made on account
of expenditures under Parts A.2, A.3 and E of the Project until the Borrower
and the Bank shall have agreed on the specific plans to carry out the respective
Parts of the Project.


﻿4
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the goods, works
and services (other than consultants' services) for the Project to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the provisions
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1981 or such later date
as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such
later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of eight and one-half
per cent (8-1/2%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semi-annually on
April 15 and October 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan
in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out and operate the Project with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with sound financial, administrative,
engineering, and agricultural practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
(b)   The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, within two years after the
date of this Agreement or such other period as the Bank shall agree, a comprehensive
plan for the design, construction, operation, maintenance and cost recovery of the
communal irrigation systems included in Parts A.2 and A.3 of the Project.
(c)   The Borrower shall update the feasibility study for the Calapan Victoria
section included in Part B.1 of the Project before incurring any expenditure for
its construction and improvement, and the Borrower shall carry out such
construction and improvement only if the Borrower and the Bank agree that such
works are justified in the light of the conclusion of such study.


﻿5
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall,
within three months after the date of this Agreement and until June 30, 1985:
(a)   employ   a qualified  and   experienced  person, with   powers and
responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank, to serve as Project Director; and
(b)   establish, and thereafter maintain, a Project Steering Committee to be
chaired by the Project Director, and consisting also of the Provincial Governors
of Oriental and Occidental Mindoro, and one senior representative of each of the
departments and agencies of the Borrower participating in the execution of the
Project. The Borrower shall cause each of such departments and agencies to furnish
to the Project Steering Committee, at least three months in advance of each fiscal
year, its proposed work program and budget for the coming fiscal year.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall cause (i) a qualified seed technician to
work at each of the laboratories included in Part D.1 of the Project, and (ii) such
additional pest control officers as shall be necessary or desirable, to work in each
of the two provinces in Mindoro.
Section 3.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall:
(a)   cause adequate agricultural supporting services to be made available
to farmers in Mindoro, inter alia by increasing gradually the number of extension
technicians working on Mindoro Island so that by 1980, and thereafter, there shall
be one extension technician to not more than 300 farmers engaged in rice
production in each of the Oriental and Occidental Provinces; and
(b)   establish, and  thereafter maintain, an    agricultural development
coordinating  council in   each  of such   two  provinces, constituted  by one
representative of each of the departments and agencies of the Borrower providing
agricultural supporting services in such provinces, for the purpose of coordinating
the provision of such services.
Section 3.05. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out (i) the feasibility
studies and detailed engineering included in Part B.4 of the Project, and (ii) the
detailed engineering and construction supervision included in Parts B.1 and B.2
of the Project, the Borrower shall employ, within six months after the date of
this Agreement or such other period as the Bank shall agree, engineering consultants
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment shall
be satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the


﻿6
proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation
and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, all goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be used exclusively for the Project
until its completion.
Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly upon
their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, contract documents and work
and procurement schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereif
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b)   The Borrower: (i) shall maintain or cause to be maintained records
adequate to record the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and
to identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, and
to disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Bank's accredited
representatives to visit the facilities and construction sites included in the Project
and to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and any
relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Bank all such
information as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning the Project, the
expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and services financed out
of such proceeds.
Section 3.08. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the general design
standards to be used for roads included in Part B.1 of the Project shall be as
set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, within two years after
the date of this Agreement, a proposal to recover the cost of rodenticides from
farmers.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the mutual intention of the Borrower and the Bank
that no other external debt shall enjoy any priority over the Loan by way of
alien on governmental assets.
(b)   To that end the Borrower (i) represents that at the date of this
Agreement no lien exists on any governmental assets as security for any external


﻿7
debt except as otherwise disclosed in writing by the Borrower to the Bank, and
(ii) undertakes that, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, if any such lien
shall be created, it will ipso facto equally and ratably, and at no cost to the Bank,
secure the payment of the principal of, and interest and other charges on, the
Loan and in the creation of any such lien express provision will be made to that
effect. The Borrower shall promptly inform the Bank of the creation of any such
lien.
(c)   The foregoing representation and undertaking shall not apply to (i)
any lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely as security
for payment of the purchase price of such property, and (ii) any lien arising in
the ordinary course of banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more
than one year after its date.
As used in this Section, the term "governmental assets" means assets of the
Borrower or of any agency of the Borrower including the Central Bank of the
Philippines or any institution performing the functions of a central bank for the
Borrower.
(d)   The Borrower further undertakes that, within the limits of the laws
in force in its territories, it will make the foregoing undertaking effective with
respect to liens on the assets of its political subdivisions and their agencies, and
to the extent that the Borrower is unable within the limits of the laws in force
in its territories to make this undertaking effective, the Borrower will give to the
Bank an equivalent lien satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained
records adequate: (i) to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound
accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the
Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof; and (ii) to monitor the progress and effects
of the execution of the Project.
(b) The Borrower shall cause each such department and agency: (i) to
have its accounts and financial statements in respect of the Project (statements
of income and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with sound auditing principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) to furnish to the Bank through the Project
Director, as soon as available, but in any case not later than four months after
the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of its financial statements for such
year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (iii)


﻿8
to furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the accounts and financial
statements of such agencies, and the audit thereof, as the Bank shall froir time
to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower shall cause the works and facilities included
in the Project to be operated and maintained in accordance with sound agricultural,
engineering and financial policies and practices, and shall provide or cause to be
provided, promptly as needed, all funds, equipment, workshop facilities, labor and
other resources required therefor.
(b)   Without limitation on the foregoing and except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower undertakes to do, or, as the case may be, to cause
NIA to do, the following:
(i)         to make adequate budgetary provision to operate and maintain
the works under Part A.1 of the Project;
(ii)        to take all necessary action to ensure that charges for the use
of irrigation water are levied and collected from the users of
the Project facilities; and
(iii)       gradually to increase the charges for the use of irrigation water
made available with the facilities included in Part A.1 of the
Project, so that five years after the completion of such facilities
such charges will provide NIA with revenues sufficient to cover
all operating and maintenance costs of such facilities, and, in
addition, revenues to recover, within a period not greater than
50 years, the monies invested in such facilities, without impairing
the users' incentives and capacity to pay.
ARTICLE V
Termination
Section 5.01. The date July 31, 1975 is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿9
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
oection 6.01. The Secretary of Finance of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Secretary of Finance
Department of Finance
Manila, Philippines
Cable address:
SECFINANCE
Manila
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed


﻿10
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
By /s / Eduardo Z. Romualdez
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s / Bernard R. Bell
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific


﻿*                                11
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each
Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated              % of
(Expressed in           Expenditures
Category                  Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1)   Civil works
(a)  mobilization              1,200,000          100% of foreign
and construction                            expenditures
equipment for
civil works con-
struction on
national irriga-
tion system
(b)   other                   17,200,000          50%
(2)   Equipment, vehi-              3,800,000
cles and supplies
(a)  direct imports                               100% of foreign
expenditures
(b)  imported goods                               65%
purchased locally
(c)  locaily manufac-                             100% of ex-factory
tured goods                                 cost
(3)   Consultants and                1,100,000         100% of foreign
technical assistance                              expenditures or
60%
(4)   Unallocated                    1,700,000
TOTAL              25,000,000


﻿12
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "foreign expenditures" means
expenditures in the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other than the
Borrower.
3.    The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compliance with the
policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan shall be disbursed on account
of payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods
or services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect of any item
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan decreases or increases, the Bank
may, by notice to the Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage
then applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned
policy of the Bank.
4.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or the disbursement
percentages set forth in the table in paragraph I above, if the Bank has reasonably
estimated that the amount of the Loan then allocated to any Category will be
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Category,
the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category, to the
extent required to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are
then allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are
not needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if such reallocation .-annot fully
meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such Category may
continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.    If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the procurement of any
item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to
in this Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or limiting
any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the Loan Agreement, by
notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable
opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have
been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿13
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of:
A.    Water Control
1.   Improvement of the Pula and Baco-Bucayao national irrigation systems
serving about 10,000 ha, and extension thereof to serve about 2,000
additional ha;
2.   Improvement and extension of about 2,000 ha of communal gravity
irrigation systems in the Oriental Mindoro Province;
3.    Improvement and extension of about 1,000 ha of communal pump
irrigation systems in the Occidental Mindoro Province;
4.    Hydro-meteorological  studies  throughout  Mindoro,  including
construction of a network of river gauging and meteorological stations
to improve the hydrological data base in such provinces;
5.   Establishment of watershed protection programs in four river
watersheds, three in Oriental and one in Occidental Mindoro; and
6.   Procurement of vehicles and equipment for the construction, operation,
and maintenance of national and communal irrigation systems in
Mindoro, and for the carrying out of the studies and programs referred
to in paragraphs 4 and 5 hereof.
B.   Roads
1.   Construction and improvement of about 150 km of national highways
in Oriental Mindoro;*
2.   Construction and improvement of about 115 km of provincial roads
in Oriental Mindoro and 165 km in Occidental Mindoro;
*     See Section 3.01(c).


﻿14
3.    Procurement of equipment for the construction, improvement, and
maintenance of provincial roads in Occidental Mindoro;
4.    Provision of engineering services to assist the Borrower in detail
engineering and construction supervision for the preceding roads; and
5.    Feasibility studies and, if warranted, detailed engineering of the
Paluan-San Jose national highway in Occidental Mindoro, and possible
road links between the Oriental and the Occidental Mindoro Provinces.
C.    Calapan Port
1.   Rehabilitation and upgrading of the existing pier and deck;
2.    Reclamation and upgrading of about 4,000 m2 of land to increase
cargo storage space; and
3.    Construction of a passenger building of about 600 m2, and a concrete
landing stair.
D.   Agriculture
1.   Construction and equipping of a seed testing laboratory at Calapan
and another one at San Jose; and
2.    A rat control program to protect about 90,000 ha of paddy land
in Mindoro.
E.    Schistosomiasis Control
1.   A health education program;
2.    Construction of communal domestic water supplies;
3.    Purchase and installation of about 10,000 water seal toilets;
4.    Drainage and clearing of about 460 ha of swamp land containing snail
colonies, and use of molluscocide after completion of such work; and
5.   A campaign to identify the people who have the disease, and medical
treatment for all active cases.


﻿15
F.   Assistance for Mangyan Communities
1.   Medical services to the Mangyan communities, and establishment of
one mobile medical team therefor in the Oriental and in the Occidental
Mindoro Provinces;
2.    Provision of agricultural inputs, technical advice, and legal assistance
to the Hanunoo-Buid, Alangan, Iraya-Alangan, and Batangan tribes, the
two first in Oriental Mindoro and the other two in Occidental Mindoro,
and establishment of field teams therefor; and
3.    Construction of access roads to the four communities referred to in
the preceding paragraph.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1980.


﻿16
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                               (expressed in dollars)*
April 15, 1982                                         305,000
October 15, 1982                                       320,000
April 15, 1983                                         330,000
October 15, 1983                                       345,000
April 15, 1984                                         360,000
October 15, 1984                                       375,000
April 15, 1985                                         395,000
October 15, 1985                                       410,000
April 15, 1986                                         425,000
October 15, 1986                                       445 ,000
April 15, 1987                                         465,000
October 15, 1987                                       485,000
April 15, 1988                                         505,000
October 15, 1988                                       525,000
April 15, 1989                                         550,000
October 15, 1989                                       570,000
April 15, 1990                                         595,000
October 15, 1990                                       620,000
April 15, 1991                                         645,000
October 15, 1991                                       675,000
April 15, 1992                                         705,000
October 15, 1992                                       735,000
April 15, 1993                                         765,000
October 15, 1993                                       795,000
April 15, 1994                                         830,000
October 15, 1994                                       865,000
April 15, 1995                                         900,000
October 15, 1995                                       940,000
April 15, 1996                                         980,000
October 15, 1996                                      1,020,000
April 15, 1997                                        1,065,000
October 15, 1997                                      1,110,000
April 15, 1998                                        1,160,000
October 15, 1998                                      1,210,000
April 15, 1999                                        1,260,000
October 15, 1999                                      1,315,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a currency other
than dollars (see General Conditions, Section 4.02), the figures in this column
represent dollar equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿17
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums payable on
repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the principal amount of the
Loan pursuant to Section 3.05(b) of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                                 Premium
Not more than three years                                1%
before maturity
More than three years but                            2-1/4%
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but not                              4%
more than eleven years
before maturity
More than eleven years but                           5-1/2%
not more than sixteen years
before maturity
More than sixteen years but not                      7-1/4%
more than twenty-one years
before maturity
More than twenty-one years but                           8%
not more than twenty-three
years before maturity
More than twenty-three years                         8-1/2%
before maturity


﻿18
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.    General Procedures
1.    Except as provided in Part A.3 hereof, contracts shall be let under procedures
consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement under World
Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in April 1972, as revised
in October 1972 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of international
competitive bidding.
2.    Supplementary rules governing international competitive bidding for civil
works:
(a)   Prequalification. Bidders for the works included in Parts B.1 and B.2
of the Project shall be prequalified as described in part 2.2 of the Guidelines,
and not less than 45 days will be allowed for submitting the prequalification
documents.
(b)   Bidding on national highways. For bidding purposes, national highways
included in Part B.1 of the Project will be divided into sections, and qualified
contractors will be invited to bid for one or more such sections. Contracts will
be awarded either on the basis of the lowest evaluated bid for each section or
on the basis of the lowest aggregate total of evaluated bids for the several sections,
whichever is the lower.
(c)   Bidding on provincial roads. For bidding purposes, the provincial roads
included in Part B.2 of the Project will be grouped into packages, and qualified
contractors will be invited to bid for one or more such packages. Contracts will
be awarded either on th basis of the lowest evaluated bid for each package or
on the basis of the lowest aggregate total of evaluated bids for the several packages,
whichever is the lower.
(d)   Non-Philippine contractors. Non-Philippine contractors will not be
required to register in the Philippines as a condition of bidding on a contract.
Where said registration is required of a non-Philippine contractor after he or she
has been awarded the contract, the Borrower shall take such action as may be
practicable to facilitate his or her registration.
3.    Exception to international competitive bidding:
(a)   Equipment and vehicles costing less than $ 10,000 equivalent may be
procured under the Borrower's ordinary procurement procedures, provided that


﻿19
the total cost of the equipment and vehicles so procured shall not exceed $250,000
equivalent.
(b)   Civil works for Parts A. 1 and C of the Project will be procured under
the Borrower's normal competitive bidding procedures, except that up to 40% of
such works for Part A.] may be carried out by NIA by force account.
B.    Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for Domestic
Manufacturers
1.    For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the supply of
goods: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry)
price for imported goods, or the ex-factory price for domestically manufactured
goods; (ii) except as hereinafter provided, customs duties and other import taxes
on imported goods, and sales and similar taxes on domestically supplied goods,
shall be excluded; and (iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland freight and other
expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to the place of their use or
installation shall be included.
2.    Goods manufactured in the Philippines may be granted a margin of
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
(a)   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall clearly
indicate any preference which will be granted, the information required to establish
the eligibility of a bid for such preference and the following methods and stages
that will be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b)   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in one of the
following three groups:
(1)   Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in the Philippines
if the bidder shall have established to the satisfaction of the
Borrower and the Bank that the manufacturing cost of such
goods includes a value added in the Philippines equal to at least
20% of the ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2)   Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured in the
Philippines.
(3)   Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c)   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared among
themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import taxes on goods to be


﻿20
imported and any sales or similar taxes on goods to be supplied domestically, to
determine the lowest evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall
then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this comparison, a bid
from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
(d)   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) above, the lowest
bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids shall be further compared with the
lowest evaluated bid from group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the
imported goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of customs duties and other
import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay for the importation
of the goods offered in such group C bid, or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of
such goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If the group
A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award;
if not, the bid from group C which as a result of the comparison under paragraph
(c) is the lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.    Procurement without Contracting
I.    Civil works for Parts A.2, A.3 and A.4 of the Project will be carried out
by NIA by force account, or by self-help work by farmers under NIA's supervision.
2.    Civil works for roads in the Mamburao and Sablayan districts of Occidental
Mindoro included in Part B.2 of the Project, and for Parts A.5, D.1, E.2, E.4
and F.3 of the Project, will be constructed by the Borrower by force account.
D.    Review of Procurement Decisions by Bank
1.    Review  of prequalifications. The Borrower shall, before qualification is
invited, inform the Bank in detail of the procedure to be followed and shall
introduce such modifications in said procedure as the Bank shall reasonably request.
The list of prequalified bidders, together with a statement of their qualifications
and of the reasons for the exclusion of any applicant for prequalification shall
be furnished by the Borrower to the Bank for its comments before the applicants
are notified, and the Borrower shall make such additions to, deletions from, or
modifications in, the said list as the Bank shall reasonably request.
2.    Review of invitation to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts.
With respect to all contracts for civil works estimated to cost the equivalent
of $100,000 or more and all contracts for equipment or vehicles estimated to
cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more:


﻿21
(a)   Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, for
its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and other
bidding documents, together with a description of the advertising procedures to
be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Bank's concurrence before
it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b)   Promptly after the bids have been opened, the Borrower shall inform
the Bank of the names of the bidders and the respective amounts of the bids.
(c)   After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower shall, before
a final decision on the award is made, inform the Bank of the name of the bidder
to which it intends to award the contract and the reasons for the intended award
and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report
on the evaluation and comparison of the bids received, together with the
recommendation for award and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably
request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the intended award would be
inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower
and state the reasons for such determination.
(d)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the Bank's
concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked or
preqUalification invited.
(e)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the Bank
promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the first
application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect of such
contract.
3.    With respect to each contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan and not governed by the preceding paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Bank, promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect
of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together with the analysis
of bids, recommendations for award and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the award of the contract
was not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the
Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.


﻿22
SCHEDULE 5
Highway Design Standards
National Highways
Class 2
Flat            Rolling       Aountainous
Design Speed (km/h)               60              50                40
Pavement Width (m)             6.10              6.10              6.10
Shoulder Width (m)             2.00              1.50              1.00
Min. Hor. Radius (m)             150              90                50
Stopping Sight Distance (m)       70              60                50
Passing Sight Distance (m)       350             300               175
Maximum Gradient (%)               4               6                 7
Maximum Superelevation (%)       6.5              7.5               8.5
Right-of-Way (m)                  30              30                30


