Documeut of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Repwt No. 11896
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
THAILAND
LAND TITLING PROJECT
.(LOAN 2440-TB)
NAY 21, 1993
Agriculture and Natural Resources Operations Division
Country Department I
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used bv recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Baht per US$)
Fiscal Year                                       Exchange Rate
1985  (Appraisal Year)                     B27.20
1991  (Completion Year)                    B25.44
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 rai           -      0.16 hectare
1 hectare (ha)         6.25 rai
Abbreviations
AIDAB - Australian International Development Assistance Bureau
BIT   - Bangkok Institute of Technology
DOL   - Department of Lands
LDD   - Land Development Department
MOI   - Ministry of Interior
NLAC - National Land Allocation Commission
NS2   - Pre-emptive Certificate
NS3   - Certificate of Utilization
NS3K - Certificate of Utilization based on aerial photography
NS4   - Title Deed or Chanod
CVA   - Central Valuation Authority
OMO   - Organization, Management and Operations
PWD   - Public Welfare Department
RFD   - Royal Forestry Department
RTG   - Royal Thai Government
SK1   - Claim Certificate
UTM   - Universal Transverse Mercator
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
Kingdom of Thailand : October 1 to September 30



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
May 21, 1993
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Thailand
Land Titlino Proiect (Loan 2440-TH)
Attached is the Project Completion Report on Thailand - Land Titling Project (Loan
2440-TH) prepared by the East Asia and Pacific Regional Office with Part 11 prepared by the
Borrower.
Starting in hilly areas of the north and northeast, and in Bangkok and other cities,
the project mapped and valued land, adjudicated claims, and issued more than 2 million titles.
On the whole, implementation was prompt and effective. Technical assistance worked well.
The project was well monitored.
A socio-economic survey found that, compared to control areas, titled landholders
invested more, their land value increased, and government collected more land tax.
The otherwise excellent PCR did not estimate an economic return. However, there
is little doubt that the project outcome was satisfactory, that institutional development was
substantial and that sustainability is likely.
The titling program is being pursued with Bank financing. No audit is planned.
Attachment
This documant has a restricted distibuton and may bo used by recipients only In the performanca of
thei offcldi dutes. Its contents may not othrwise be disdosed without World Bank authoizaion.






FOR OFFICIL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
THAILAND
LAND TITLING PROJECT
(Loan 2440-TH)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .  i
Evaluation Summary   ....  .           .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     .  iii
PART I   PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
Project Identity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1
Background .1...  .         .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     . .
Project Objectives and Description . . . . . . . . . . . .                       2
Project Design and Organization   . . . . . . . . . . . . .                      3
Project Implementation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                       4
Project Results   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                      5
Project Sustainability . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                      13
Bank Performance  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                     13
Borrower Performance ....  .            .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  14
Project Relationship ....  .            .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  14
Consulting Services   ....  .           .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  14
Project Documentation and Data . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                      14
PART II  PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
Comments on Part I . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                      15
Bank Performance ....  .           .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  16
Borrower Performance  ....  .           .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  16
Lessons Learned   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                     18
PART III STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Related Bank Loans  ....  .           .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  21
Project Timetable   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                     22
Loan Disbursements  ....  .           .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  23
Project Implementation
A. Key Indicators   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                    24
B. Title Deed Production and Distribution   . . . . . . .                    25
C. Production Data . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                     26
D. Changes in Output Rates (per year)   . . . . . . . . .                    26
E. Training   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                    27
F. Technical Assistance - Training . . . . . . . . . . .                     28
G. Technical Assistance - Advisers  . . . . . . . . . . .                    29
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Page No.
Project Costs and Financing
A. Project Costs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                 30
B. Project Financing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                 31
Project Results
A. Direct Benefits . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                 32
B. Financial Impact  ...  .         .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  32
C. Studies ....  .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  33
Status of Covenants   ....  .         .  .    . .....  .   .  .  .  .    .  34
Use of Bank Resources . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
A. Staff Inputs   ....  .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  35
B. Missions  ....  .         .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  36
MAP IBRD 17228R



i -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
THAILAND
LAND TITLING PROJECT
(Loan 2440-TH)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) of the Land Titling
Project (LTP) in Thailand, for which Loan 2440-TH in the amount of US$35.0
million was approved on June 12, 1984. The Loan was closed on March 31, 1992,
after a 6-month extension. The final disbursement was made on July 31, 1992 and
an undisbursed balance  of US$1,366,010.05 was  cancelled.   The Australian
International Development Assistance Bureau (AIDAB) financed technical
assistance, human resource development and studies in the amount of
AUD10,853,250.85 on a parallel basis.
Parts I and III of the PCR are based on the findings of a World Bank
mission that visited Thailand in June 1992 and on a Project Completion Report
prepared by the Department of Lands, the implementing agency. It incorporates
information obtained from the Staff Appraisal Report (Report 4627-TH) dated May
18, 1984; the Loan Agreement dated October 11, 1984; the Bank's Supervision
Reports and project files; field visits to selected project sites; discussions
with the Borrower's project staff and AIDAB project advisers; and interviews with
staff of Government Departments, including the National Economic and Social
Development Board and the Fiscal Policy Office of the Ministry of Finance. Part
II was prepared by the Department of Lands.
The Bank wishes to thank officials of the Borrower and AIDAB's
project advisers for their valuable assistance in preparing this PCR.






- iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
THAILAND
LAND TITLING PROJECT
(Loan 2440-TH)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Oblectives
1.          The project aimed at implementing the first 5-year phase of a 20-year
national land titling program and rationalizing cadastral mapping and
documentation for the compilation of a national cadastre. The project was to be
implemented by the Department of Lands (DOL) in nine provinces through: (i) an
accelerated program of cadastral rural mapping; (ii) an accelerated program of
cadastral urban remapping; (iii) a land administration improvement program,
including the issuance of title deeds and decentralization of the land register
from provincial to branch level; (iv) strengthening of the Central Valuation
Authority; and (v) general institution building. Cofinancing was provided by the
Australian International Development Assistance Bureau (AIDAB) on a parallel
basis for technical assistance and training.
Implementation Experience
2.          Project implementation took over six years, against the five years
planned at appraisal. The Bank loan was closed on March 31, 1992, after one 6-
month extension, and an amount of US$1,366,010.05 was cancelled from the loan.
The loan closing date was extended to enable completion of the contracts for
aerial photography and socio-economic impact studies. Proceeds from the loan
were reallocated during implementation to enable the financing of a greater share
of incremental costs of field operations.
3.          Project implementation was  generally smooth.   Except for some
procurement delays and weaknesses in coordination and planning, relatively few
problems were encountered. Allocation of government resources to the project was
adequate.
4.          Delays in the procurement of aerial photography resulted in full
photomap production being reached only in the third year of the project and
affected cadastral mapping. Similarly, the late procurement of the automated map
transformation equipment affected the computer conversion of Certificates of
Utilization based on aerial photography (NS3K), requiring DOL to put more
emphasis on field adjudication to complete the land titling program.   These
delays were caused by difficulties in the technical evaluation of bids and were
resolved by replacing the system of evaluation on the basis of price alone to a
merit point system.  The Organization, Management and Operations (OMO) study
aimed at improving DOL's management and procedures was completed on time, and the



- iv -
main recommendations were adopted by DOL. The technical assistance and training
activities were implemented on schedule.
5.          The Land Titling Project Office, set up in the Planning Division of
DOL to coordinate, plan and monitor project implementation, faced some problems
in performing these functions due to the junior level of its staff.
6.          The  project  has  substantially  achieved  its  overall  original
objectives. However, it is too early to evaluate the socio-economic impact as
most title deeds have been issued only in the past two to three years.  The
institutional development of DOL has been slower, although a substantial training
program has been implemented. The decentralization of land administration to
branch office level has been successful, providing the public with more
accessible, timely and effective land administration services.   The Central
Valuation Authority has been strengthened, and Government revenues from land
transactions have considerably increased as a direct result of the project.
Results
7.          The survey and cadastral mapping components  exceeded appraisal
targets. Cadastral mapping has been completed over the entire project area. At
project completion, some 2,010,764 title deeds were produced, or about 79I of the
currently estimated total number of eligible parcels in the project area (the
total number of eligible parcels was not accurately known at appraisal as only
a gross method of estimation was then available). The eligible parcels not yet
issued with title deeds include those in fringe forest areas where the forest
land classification is unclear, held by families where the owner of land
documents is deceased and inheritance is not resolved, where the holder was
abroad or could not be contacted, whose holder could not prove eligibility as
required by the Land Code, urban land parcels with no documents at all and
parcels in widely dispersed areas where DOL considered systematic adjudication
to be too inefficient.
8.          The lack of a reliable data base affected the planning of project
activities, which had to be based on output rates of field adjudication teams.
The number of field teams had to be continually adjusted in response to parcel
concentrations encountered in the different areas. While the teams visited every
parcel in the project area, title deeds were not prepared for those parcels which
could not be adjudicated readily during the team's presence in the area. These
parcels were left for adjudication at a later stage. This approach inevitably
resulted in a number of eligible parcels in cadastral maps left without title
deeds at project "completion".
9.          The percentage of eligible parcels that have not been issued with
title deeds under the project is at an acceptable level by international norms
for systematic adjudication.   For this project,  systematic adjudication has
proved to be a cost-effective way of providing a land titling service to the
general public. The costs of surveying and issuing titles to individual parcels
outside this system would be several times higher.
10.         Not all the title deeds produced under the project have been
distributed to project beneficiaries due to problems of planning and resource



v 
allocation to land offices. As end of 1991, 77% of the completed title deeds had
been distributed, and DOL approved an action plan to complete distribution of the
remaining titles by the end of 1993.
11.         The decentralization of the land register from provincial to branch
land office level was completed with the establishment of 60 fully operational
branch land offices out of the 62 identified at appraisal. These branch land
offices can perform all land administration functions, including those that could
previously be carried out only by provincial land offices. Thus, the general
public now has ready and close access to land administration services, including
surveying, title deed preparation, and land transactions.
12.         Technical assistance,  focusing on new  technology  introduction,
institution building and studies, was successfully completed. The fellowship
programs for the training of surveyors and valuation staff were also completed.
13.         The direct impact of the project has been the provision of title
deeds to a large number of eligible land owners in the project area. Although
it is too early for the full economic impact of land titling to be felt,
preliminary results of the on-going socio-economic studies indicate a significant
increase in land prices due to titling. In both project and non-project areas,
land prices were directly related to the level of security of the land documents.
Titling also resulted in easier access to and increased levels of commercial bank
lending.   Total farm assets also increased substantially as a result of the
project. Completion of the studies undertaken in 1992 should yield more specific
quantitative data.
14.         The fiscal impact of the project was  larger than expected at
appraisal. Transfer fee collections, which had remained stable at about Baht 2
billion in 1984-86, were originally expected to remain at the 1986 level in 1987
and to increase by a further 10% in 1988. Instead, collections in 1988 and 1989
increased by 173% and 239%, respectively, in constant dollar terms over 1986.
With the impact of Thailand's economic boom experienced over the project years
netted out, the increase in collection was 14% to 278% higher for project areas
as compared with non-project areas. This can be attributed to two factors: (a)
issuance of title deeds under the project; and (ii) adoption of more up-to-date
(higher) property values for assessing the transfer fee, "profit tax", and stamp
duty levied by DOL.
Sustainability
15.         The  project  has  successfully  established  a  decentralized  and
operational land administration capability supported by a cadastral framework and
titling program in the project area. Land administration has been rationalized,
allowing the Government to maximise fiscal revenues from land transactions using
up  to date  property  taxation  data.   The  education and  training program
implemented under the project has produced numbers of trained personnel for the
wide range of skills needed by DOL. In particular, the technical innovations in
surveying and mapping can be fully sustained without further assistance from
external advisers. The program launched under the project is being continued
under the follow-on Land Titling II Project (Ln. 3254-TH).



- vi -
Findings and Lessons Learned
16.         The main findings are:
o    The project has substantially achieved its original objectives of
cadastral mapping, land titling, institution building and improving
land administration services to the public.
O    Original parcel statistics  from land offices were  of variable
quality, mainly due to poor records and lack of information on
undocumented parcels. This affected planning.
O    The systematic adjudication approach used under the project was
appropriate and a cost-effective way of providing titles to large
numbers of land owners.   However,  it left behind a number of
eligible parcels which could not be readily issued with titles and
this had to be undertaken separately at higher cost.
o    Technological  innovations  in  surveying,  mapping,   supporting
computerization, and land administration have been adopted on a
sustainable basis.
o    Decentralization of land administration is complete, except for
further minor needs for staff, equipment and recurrent budget.
However, branch land office opening was not well synchronized with
staff and budget allocations and workplans.
o    Land administration services to the public have been made more
timely, accessible, and effective, but more improvement is required
in the timeliness of surveying and titling services.
o    Organizational  changes  have  been  completed  on  schedule,  but
institutional development change has been slower. In particular,
the formulation and implementation of staff development policies
rewarding technical skills and performance have been slow.
O    The project design focussed on technology and institution building
and inadequately addressed policy issues, including:
(a)   provisions in the Land Code which restricted the scope of
field adjudication;
(b)   lack  of  national  policies  to  address  land  use,  land
classification and boundaries of forest and pro-reserve forest
land and land reform areas; unclear responsibilities of the
Royal Forestry Department, Land Development Department and
DOL, and lack of mechanisms for cooperation between these
agencies; and



- vii -
(c)   lack of policies at DOL level for:
* personnel career development and deployment; staff were,
in fact, penalized while on fellowships as the study
periods did not count in the time of service; deployment
of trained staff was on an ad hoc basis; and
* titling of parcels not completed during adjudication.
O     The lack of a single work unit at DOL headquarters to manage
provincial and branch land offices affected the efficiency of
their operations.
O     Titling increased land prices, access to rural credit, and
farm assets. Fiscal revenues from land transactions were also
substantially increased.
17.         The most important lessons are:
o     For systematic title adjudication,  national land use and
classification policies must be addressed *in an integrated
manner before project implementation (PCR, para 4.3).
3     The provincial and branch land offices need to be integrated
within the management structure of DOL with clear lines of
authority and reporting (PCR, para 4.5).
o     Reliable land parcel statistics are needed to provide a sound
basis for planning (PCR, para 5.3).
3     Sustainability  of  technical  change  requires  parallel
institutional change (PCR, para 6.13).
o     Human resource management is a key aspect of institutional
development.      Incentives   for  career  advancement  and
improvement must be provided to staff to enhance their skills
and to retain them in the positions for which they are trained
(PCR, para 6.13).






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
THAILAND
LAND TITLING PROJECT
(Loan 2440-TH)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.    Prolect Identity
Project Name   :         Land Titling Project
Loan No.                 Ln. 2440-TH
RVP Unit       :         East Asia and Pacific Region
Country                  Thailand
Sector         :         Agriculture
2.    Background
2.1       At  the  time  of  project  appraisal  in  1983,  less  than  13%  of
agricultural land was estimated to be documented by title deed.  Most of the
agricultural land was either undocumented, or covered by a number of pre-
ownership certificates issued by several Government agencies, including a Pre-
Emptive certificate (NS2), a Certificate of Utilization (NS3), and a Certificate
of Utilization based on aerial photography (NS3K). This situation contributed
to a number of well recognized problems, including:
(a) increasing numbers of landless people and tenants, especially in rural
areas;
(b)  increasing  encroachment  of  forest  reserves  and  environmental
degradation ranging from soil erosion to loss of forest cover;
(c) lack of secure tenure for many genuine land owners; and
(d) high rate of squatter settlement in rural and urban areas.
2.2       In 1980 an awareness of the potential seriousness of inadequate land
titling in Thailand led Government to set up a land policy subcommittee of the
National Rural Development Committee.   This subcommittee commissioned a land
policy and use study which recommended, Inter alia, an acceleration of the
issuance of secure rights to land, a general improvement in the mode of operation
of DOL and a rationalization of the entire approach to land rights documentation
and administration.



- 2 -
2.3       The Fifth National Economic and Social Development Plan (1982-1986)
supported the implementation of the recommendations of the land policy and use
study. The main objectives of the Plan for agriculture and the rural sector were
to alleviate rural poverty and redress regional income disparities, and to
increase agricultural productivity while avoiding deterioration of the
environment. This was to be achieved by improving rural infrastructure and by
implementing a land use and incentives policy to promote agricultural
intensification. A key element of the policy was the issuance of title deeds to
all legitimate occupiers of land in the country through the implementation of an
accelerated land titling program. This program included surveying, cadastral
mapping, field adjudication of undocumented parcels and conversion of pre-
ownership certificates to title deeds (chanods or NS4 documents).   The Land
Titling Project (LTP) was proposed as the first phase of this program.
3.    Prolect Obiectives and Description
3.1       The project aimed at implementing the first 5-year phase of a 20-year
national land titling program and rationalizing cadastral mapping and
documentation for the compilation of a national cadastre.   This was to be
achieved by integrating cadastral mapping into the national mapping grid,
converting land documentation into one uniform and simplified system, increasing
DOL's capability to accelerate its rate of issuance of title deeds, and
implementing a systematic field adjudication program. The land register was also
to be decentralized from provincial to branch land office level to improve the
quality of land administration services to the public.
3.2       The project, which was to cover the city of Bangkok, four provinces
in the northeast region (Nakhon Ratchasima, Buriram, Surin and SiSaKet Provinces)
and five provinces in the northern region (Chiang Mai, Mae Hong Son, Phayao,
Chiang Rai and Lamphun Provinces), was to support:
(a) an accelerated program of improved cadastral rural mapping;
(b) an accelerated program of improved cadastral urban remapping;
(c) a land administration improvement program to include adjudication and
issue of full title to undocumented lands or lands held under various
types of pre-ownership certificates, decentralization of the land
register from provincial to branch land offices to be established
under the project, and improvement of the physical facilities of land
offices outside the nine project provinces;
(d) strengthening of the Central Valuation Authority (CVA); and
(e) general institution building, including strengthening of DOL
organization, provision of technical assistance and human resource
development.



-3-
4.    Prolect Design and Organization
4.1       The project concept was clearly understood by all parties.  Coming out
of the recommendations of the land policy and use study commissioned by
Government for the rationalization of land ownership, the project was consistent
with Government's plans to address land use issues. The project also provided
continuity to World Bank support to Thailand under two Structural Adjustment
Loans for the issuance of usufructuary licenses to approved occupiers of land in
selected areas of forest reserves reclassified as suitable for agriculture.
4.2       The project design focused on the introduction of new technology and
issuing title deeds to nine provinces.   It provided for an Organization,
Management and Operations Study (OMO, paras. 6.20-6.22) which would review
institutional issues and make recommendations to DOL on addressing them. The new
technology included surveying and mapping, valuation, computerization and
systematic field adjudication.   The selection of only nine provinces as the
project area was appropriate due to the scarcity of these new technical skills
within DOL and the prior need to train staff in these skills to implement the
project. These provinces also represented a mix of conditions which allowed such
issues as poverty alleviation and market development to be appropriately
addressed. The project was timely due to increasing population and the need to
increase investment in land and raise land productivity.
4.3       As the project was principally concerned with private lands, the
project design did not address public land issues concerning the boundaries of
forest reserve and pre-reserve forest, land reform and other land settlement
areas, and the roles and responsibilities of agencies such as the Royal Forestry
Department (RFD) and the Land Development Department (LDD) in these respects.
The lack of clarity over forest reserve boundaries affected the efficiency of
field adjudication and has resulted in a number of eligible parcels near forest
and settlement areas being left out of the adjudication process.
4.4       The project design did not also sufficiently address some Land Code
policy issues.  While the Code provided an adequate overall policy and legal
framework for project implementation, some provisions of the Code restricted the
implementation of field adjudication in certain situations. In particular, the
Code provided no policy guidance on how to handle absentee landlords, which
resulted in untitled parcels. The role of District Chiefs (Nai Amphur) in the
Land Code was also not addressed. Their continuing role in land administration
constrained DOL's ability in the early stages of project implementation to
rationalize branch and district land office operations by preventing the
integration of these operations. This issue was resolved later during project
implementation.
4.5       The lack of a clear management structure within the DOL hierarchy for
provincial and branch land office administration and operations was a project
design shortcoming. A high level single work unit or authority was required at
headquarters to manage provincial and branch land offices.  However, the OMO
study did address this issue.
4.6       Proiect Orxanization.  The multi-tiered project organization planned
at appraisal worked satisfactorily. At the highest level, a Project Executive
Committee, including representatives of different Government ministries and
chaired by a Deputy Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of Interior, was



- 4 -
responsible  for  policy  direction  and  coordination.           During  project
implementation, this Committee could have been used more effectively to identify
and resolve policy issues. Within DOL, the Project Administration Committee,
chaired by the Project Director (DOL's Director General), was responsible for
overall project planning, implementation and monitoring. Both committees were
well supported by the Land Titling Project Office (LTPO), which was specifically
set up as a section of the Planning Division of DOL for this purpose.  LTPO
played an important part in project management but its effectiveness appears to
have been affected by the junior level of its staff and their temporary status
in the Civil Service.
5.    Prolect Implementation
5.1       Project implementation was judged by DOL to be completed in September
1991, about a year behind the schedule at appraisal of September 30, 1990. DOL
considers titling activities to be complete in a province when: (a) title deeds
have been issued to all the legitimate parcels with appropriate documentation;
(b) the remaining eligible parcels have been identified; and (c) clear policy
directions and an implementation plan have been determined for the completion of
titling for these parcels. This definition was considered to be reasonable for
the systematic adjudication process being implemented under the project.
5.2       The  project  was  implemented  according  to  the  original  design.
However, this visible success of project implementation was achieved with
problems in work coordination and planning. There were instances where title
deeds were being produced for areas where offices were not yet constructed,
resulting in tens of thousands of title deeds piled up in the provincial office
with no staff to distribute them or space enough to store them. Apart from the
stresses this caused in the provincial offices, more significantly it caused long
delays (up to one year) in distributing title deeds to the project beneficiaries.
The situation could have been improved by improving coordination and assigning
responsibility to one unit at the central level for all matters concerning branch
land office establishment. During implementation, such matters were managed by
working committees representing several divisions.  This system did not work
satisfactorily.
5.3       The appraisal estimates for the number of undocumented and other
parcels were greatly in excess of current estimates. However, in most countries,
the estimation of undocumented parcels in a jurisdiction is very difficult.
Several approaches are possible: (a) by subtraction, where the total
administrative area, less the area covered by existing records for forest, public
and private land is divided by some estimate for average parcel size; (b) by the
use of census information correlated to existing land records; (c) by inquiry
through the local administrative network; or (d) by a combination of the above.
There are difficulties with all these methods. However, the subtraction method
which was used at appraisal has the following problem: it does not recognize
areas where documents cannot be issued for a number of reasons (land used for
public purpose, land not occupied, occupier does not satisfy legal eligibility
requirements, land not eligible for documentation, etc.) and which are numerous
in the project area.  To illustrate this problem, the appraisal estimate for
undocumented and NS3 parcels in Mae Hong Son Province was 774,471, while only a
total of 8,620 new titles were issued under the project. The lack of realistic
estimates has constrained DOL's ability to plan and coordinate the various



technical processes involved in the land titling program. Adjudication parties
had to frequently readjust their workplans and move around according to the
concentration and types of parcels encountered in the field.
5.4       Procurement  delays  affected  project  implementation.          Aerial
photography was delayed over a year and, as a result, full photomap production
was not reached until the third year of the project. Similarly, procurement of
the automated map transformation equipment was delayed for nearly two years.
This affected the NS3K certificate conversion program which relied on the use of
the equipment.   However,  this problem was compensated by the fielding of
adjudication teams from project year 1, instead of project year 3 as scheduled
at appraisal. The procurement problems arose when the technical responsiveness
of bids for sophisticated equipment was unclear and bid opening committees found
it difficult to reach a consensus on the acceptance or rejection of borderline
cases (contracts were awarded to responsive bids on the basis of lowest price).
The subsequent change under the project to a merit point system that awarded
points also for technical merits and servicing support eliminated this problem.
According to the Loan Agreement, international competitive bidding (ICB)
procedures had to be followed for contracts estimated to cost above US$250,000,
even though local competitive bidding would have been more appropriate in some
cases.  In many such cases only local firms submitted bids.   ICB procedures
involved substantial additional work for DOL for translation and also took more
time.
5.5       Project implementation was facilitated by amendments to the Land Code
in 1985 allowing office conversion of NS3K certificates to title deeds and
facilitating certification of new title deeds. The scope of the OMO study was
expanded as a result of the AIDAB-funded Project Inception Study carried out by
an Australian consulting firm late in 1984. While some recommendations of the
OMO study were implemented by DOL, others were deferred.   This delayed DOL's
institutional development.
5.6       The technical assistance program defined at appraisal  for AIDAB
cofinancing was significantly revised as a result of the Project Inception Study.
The resultant scope and the terms of reference for the technical assistance
program were accepted by the Bank and AIDAB, and served as the basis for the
technical assistance contract negotiated between an Australian consulting firm
and DOL. During the project period, a number of changes to the scope of services
were agreed, although implementation of changes was constrained by the nature of
the contract between the consultant and DOL, and the need to get prior approvals
from the Bank and AIDAB. This affected to some extent the flexibility to respond
quickly to changing requirements. The original scope of services was extended
when additional AIDAB funding was allocated with the extension of the project
completion date.
5.7       Project risks were correctly identified and assessed at appraisal.
They related mainly to delays in procurement and implementation of the
recommendations of the OMO study.
6.    Proiect Results
6.1       The  project  has  substantially  achieved  its  overall  original
objectives. However, it is too early to evaluate the socio-economic impact as
most title deeds have been issued only in the past two to three years.  The



institutional development of DOL has been slower, although a substantial training
program has been implemented. The decentralization of land administration to
branch office level has been successful, providing the public with more
accessible, timely and effective land administration services.   The Central
Valuation Authority has been strengthened, and Government revenues from land
transactions have considerably increased as a direct result of the project.
6.2       Rural Mappin .  Aerial photography was fully completed for the nine
project provinces at 100Z coverage. Due to the late acquisition of the initial
aerial photography, full photomap production was not reached until project year
3, one year behind the appraisal plan. It was also envisaged that the aerial
photography would be undertaken by the Royal Thai Survey Department (RTSD) under
force account. This was not possible due to the lack of aircraft and experienced
personnel,  other RTSD commitments,  and quality control requirements.   The
contracts were finally awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding.
Subsequently, the contract periods were increased from one to three years to
reduce costs due to the long bidding process, annual aircraft and security
clearances, and the short annual flying season.
6.3       Photomap production has exceeded appraisal targets. About 12,880 maps
were produced for rural areas (against an appraisal target of 11,000 maps) to
serve as basemaps for ground adjudication of parcels and for NS3K certificate
conversion to title deeds.   Implementation of the automated mapping system
planned at appraisal for operation in project year 3 was not fully operational
until project year 5. This delay was caused by a one-year wait for approval by
the National Computerization Committee and a lengthy procurement process due to
the fact that the technology was new to Thailand. During the project period,
sustainable photomap production capacity increased from 200 to 4000 units per
year.
6.4       New technology to improve the productivity of survey control for both
rural and urban mapping was successfully introduced at the beginning of the
project. This included the Universal Transverse Mercator (UTM) coordinate system
and satellite surveying techniques (Doppler and, subsequently, Global Positioning
System). The new technology enabled the survey of ground control points to be
completed ahead of schedule.
6.5       Urban Mapping.  As envisaged at appraisal, the national cadastral
urban mapping program is on target to be completed in year 10. Actual outputs
have far exceeded appraisal targets.  The project target was to produce about
2,000 cadastral maps during the project period, with some 1,400 in Bangkok and
600 in other urban areas, but 4,305 cadastral maps have actually been compiled.
The cadastral mapsheets are now in use in the land offices and, in most offices,
are being continually updated in accordance with DOL regulations.   In other
offices where this is not being carried out, these maps will soon be out of date
and lose their value.
6.6       Land Administration. The land administration component included title
deed preparation and distribution to eligible land owners and the creation of
branch land offices in the project area.  At an operational level, the land
titling and administration component has been successful with most of the targets
achieved, but at the strategic level, progress has been slower (para. 6.15).



6.7       Some 2,010,764 title deeds (about 79% of the final estimated 2,547,700
total eligible parcels) have been prepared, and some 1,538,686 of those were
distributed to the beneficiaries by the end of 1991. Title distribution is aimed
to be completed at the end of 1993.   Sixty new branch offices have been
established (about 97% of the total 62 potential offices identified at
appraisal), staffed with a total of 720 officers, equipped, and made operational
with an average of about 21,000 title deeds each. Also 131 staff houses have
been built in support of the branch offices and other office locations. Strong
rooms were improved both inside and outside the nine provinces. The size of the
adjudication and conversion teams (administered from headquarters) increased from
12 in 1985 to nearly 300 in 1990. These results, shown in Table 4.A of Part III
of this report, represent a considerable achievement, as the offices had to
handle a much higher volume of land transactions (especially in the north) with
the same number of staff in a period of land boom.
6.8       At project completion, about 21% of the total number of eligible
parcels in the nine provinces had not been issued with title deeds.   These
include: (a) parcels in fringe forest areas where the forest land classification
status is unclear; (b) parcels held by families where the owner of land documents
is deceased and inheritance is not resolved; (c) parcels where the holder was
abroad or could not be contacted; (d) parcels whose holder could not prove
eligibility as required by the Land Code; (e) urban land parcels still held in
NS3 or other documents or with no documents at all; and (f) parcels in widely
dispersed areas where DOL considered systematic adjudication to be too
inefficient. A preliminary analysis shows that no income group suffered more
than the others from this lack of completion. DOL has proposed three courses of
action to address the completion of titling for these parcels (Part II, para.
4.4) and parcel holders will have to pay the same price (Baht 90) as under the
project.
6.9       Measures to complete titling in the parcels so far left out will
involve policy changes at the highest level while others are procedural changes
that can be handled by DOL.   A clear land use policy is required for the
classification and field delimitation of forest and pre-reserve forest land.
This policy should also define mechanisms for cooperation between RFD, LDD and
DOL. At DOL level, it is suggested that certain procedural changes be considered
especially in cases where the owner is deceased or absent. The parcel could be
surveyed at the time of systematic adjudication with the adjudication of rights
left to the time when the parties determine they are ready.  The forest land
cases require further resolution at a policy and procedural level, and DOL
efforts are acknowledged here. For cases where evidence is lacking in terms of
the Land Code, policy decisions are required to guide the land adjudication
teams. Several options may be considered. Completion of surveying would take
advantage of the economies of scale in having a survey and adjudication team in
the area and of the efficiency of field adjudication techniques. A title could
also be issued in the names of deceased land owners, leaving inheritance issues
to be addressed at a later stage. It is recommended that DOL take actions that
will reduce the number of cases where no systematic adjudication takes place,
which has resulted in gaps in cadastral maps.
6.10      There have been delays in the distribution of completed title deeds,
which is a time consuming task and has not yet been completed for the project.
Title distribution has been affected mainly by a lack of financial and human
resources at provincial and branch land office level, which can be traced to



- 8 -
deficiencies in planning and coordination at DOL level. DOL did not budget and
provide the resources necessary to carry out the task, but it is now implementing
an action plan to complete distribution by the end of 1993. About 10 to 15% of
the total titles produced have yet to be distributed to the beneficiaries in the
northern areas, while in some north eastern provinces, as many as 401 remained
undistributed.
6.11      While land information system (LIS) activities were not directly
indicated in the appraisal report as an output, the project has laid down a
foundation for the remaining phases of the 20-year program. Before the project,
DOL was not ready for LIS. Records were incomplete, especially in rural areas
where less than 30% of parcels had any records which could be used to form a
satisfactory basis for LIS. There were more registered parcels in urban areas
(e.g., up to 90% in Bangkok), but few cities had up to date cadastral maps (i.e.,
the titled parcels could not be located on maps). The project has established
support systems for LIS, including photomaps and cadastral maps on UTM projection
and title deeds.
6.12      Strengthening of DOL at Central Level.  The project supported several
activities for strengthening DOL's operational capability.  A new Survey and
Mapping  Building  which  housed  modern  survey  and  mapping  technology was
constructed. With the close collaboration of the Civil Service Commission (CSC),
the DOL structure was reorganized to rationalize the division of work
responsibility and process. Six new Divisions, namely Aerial Photography, Urban
Mapping, Supply, Land Business Control, Legal Affairs, and National Land
Allocation Commission, were officially added to the DOL structure, while the
Training Division was upgraded to full Division status. With regard to personnel
structure, the increased responsibilities of land offices resulting from the
decentralization of DOL activities led to the upgrading of the position of
provincial land officer from PC7 to PC 8 in 57 provinces both inside and outside
the project area. In addition, the Cabinet approved the upgrading of CVA to an
autonomous department in response to increased responsibilities in the future.
6.13      Human Resource Management  and Development.    The OMO study also
addressed the important areas of human resource management and development.
While DOL gave appropriate attention to training activities, slower progress was
achieved in career development. In spite of a Government manpower hiring freeze,
the three-year manpower planning exercise was conducted satisfactorily and
enabled functional duties to be restructured. However, human resource management
was affected by the lack of a staff deployment policy which prevented DOL from
deploying scarce specialist staff to key areas, such as new branch land offices,
technical divisions and CVA, in a more rational manner. Personnel policies also
did not address the issue of appropriately compensating technical staff for their
additional specialist skills.   DOL was thus unable to retain many of these
specially-trained staff who left for other positions not related to their skills
and for the private sector. The lack of coordination between the Personnel and
Training Divisions was also a problem.
6.14      The  impact  of training  is not  quantifiable,  but development  of
technical skills and knowledge of technologies introduced under the project has
been significant. Overseas and in-country training and education have laid down
the foundation for technical sustainability in surveying, mapping and valuation.
While the retention of survey engineering graduates from Chulalongkorn University
by DOL has not been so successful, their skills and knowledge are now being used



- 9 -
by the private sector. At project completion, infrastructure facilities for a
permanent training institute are still inadequate. The impact of the training
program has also been limited due to the lack of policy for deployment of trained
personnel. There are 52 fragmented career streams and organization of personnel
development in response to job requirements is difficult.  Fewer and broader
career paths would be more responsive to needs.
6.15      Provincial  and Branch Land  Office Administration.    The  project
provided the base for strategic changes in the later phases of the titling
program.   While several major organizational and management changes in land
administration were made and implemented (e.g., the establishment of new
technical Divisions), many of the other recommendations arising from studies
conducted in project years 1, 2 and 3 (paras. 6.20-6.22) are still under
consideration. An especially important recommendation that was not implemented
concerned the establishment of the Office of Provincial Office Management, and
the associated recommendation to have one executive (aside from the Director
General) responsible for the land registration function in DOL, at least at the
level of policy and systems.  These strategic issues are now being addressed
under the ongoing Land Titling II Project
6.16      Land Valuation Component.  The project provided technical assistance
to assist in supervision and direction of CVA activities, undertake in-service
training, and establish a valuation course at Bangkok Institute of Technology
(BIT).   A total of 73 person-months of long and short term of valuation
consultants, against 72 estimated at appraisal, were utilized. For the valuation
course at BIT, 80 person-months were provided, against 84 at appraisal. For the
overseas valuation fellowships, 35 student-years were taken up, against 27
estimated at appraisal. Short term scholarships amounted to 38 person-months and
152 person-weeks, against 59 person-months estimated at appraisal.
6.17      The institutional development of CVA has been successful as valuation
activities were significantly increased during the project. Staff was increased
from 25 to over 100 trained personnel, enabling CVA to accomplish the tasks
assigned to it under the project. A loose leaf property index has been completed
for Bangkok, totalling 1,162,184 parcels in 24 Khets. The use of photomaps from
the Urban Mapping Division was, however, delayed and CVA had to produce its own
maps,  amounting to a total of 17,615 mapsheets.   Priority areas for CVA
operations were identified by the Cabinet as those areas which had substantial
market price increases. The proposed advice to local authorities was restricted
to work in municipalities and selected sanitary districts and amphurs. CVA is
now able to carry out land and property valuations on a four year cycle, as a
base for the registration of the transfer of rights and juristic acts in Bangkok
and major growth areas of Thailand.
6.18      Technical Assistance.   Overall, the technical assistance has been
effective and relations with the Borrower have been excellent.   The close
cooperation between AIDAB, the Department of Technical Cooperation (DTEC), DOL
and the Bank was significant. The technical assistance benefited by having a
single managing agent, representing a consortium of firms spanning the necessary
skill areas, willing and able to search widely for the specialist input required
to support project activities. Under the project, 47 advisers from all three
industry sectors, private, public and academic, and from virtually all states in
Australia, were assigned on this project for periods ranging from 3 weeks to 5
years. The appraisal document well recognized the requirements for planning and



- 10 -
coordination (4 person-years), management consultancy assistance (about 5 person-
years), and mapping technology (10 person-years). However, the need for land
administration and land registration advice was not recognized.   The other
advisers addressed this area as best as they could in the absence of a full-time
expert adviser.   This issue was resolved in the Land Titling II Project by
assigning a long term expert to address this area.
6.19      Studies and Reports.  AIDAB advisers conducted a number of studies and
prepared  associated  reports  on  land  titling  and  administration  systems,
procedures and regulations to achieve streamlining of adjudication and
registration procedures. However, in land administration and OO, very few of
their recommendations for operational and systems improvements were implemented
during the project. Several were recommendations for vital technical changes
affecting land titling and administration, and the failure to adopt them may
impact on DOL's operations. Recommendations not implemented include, Inter al.a:
the decentralization of microfilming, rationalization of parcel numbering and the
standard forms (over 70) used in the land registration process, and resolving the
legal and technical issues concerning paper records.
6.20      An Organization. Management and Operations (OMO) Study was carried out
for DOL.  Its objective was to review and recommend changes in DOL structure and
procedures so as to ensure that it can undertake its increased responsibilities
through the next decade. The scope and terms of reference for the study were
defined during the AIDAB-funded Project Inception Study. The planned technical
adviser input was increased from the 28 person-months planned at appraisal to 41
person-months, with further input envisaged to assist in implementation. The OO
Study team was increased from four at appraisal (organizational, finance and
accounting, computerization and institutional) to five, with the addition of a
training expert.
6.21      The study was undertaken in 1985 and resulted in five reports.  The
main Organization Report made 23 major recommendations, only five of which were
fully accepted and six partially accepted. The major recommendations included:
establishing six new Divisions and an office of Provincial Land Management,
improving procedures and work systems, and strengthening inter-Divisional
linkages and training.   Acceptance of recommendations has been slow as they
involved major restructuring of such a complex and large organization as DOL.
Moreover, some recommendations did not have the confidence of senior management
and would need further evaluation before their acceptance.
6.22      The following four recommendations raised key issues for the project
but no real progress was made towards their implementation:
(a) The adoption by the DOL of formal strategic planning;
(b)  Generation of senior position descriptions;
(c)  Conduct of a work-activities analysis; and
(d)  Establishment of an Office of Provincial Land Management.
6.23      Prolect Impact.  The fiscal impact of the project turned out to be
larger than expected at appraisal. Transfer fee collections, which had remained
stable at about Baht two billion in 1984-86, were originally expected to remain



- 11 -
at the 1986 level in 1987 and to increase by a further 10% in 1988. Instead,
collections in 1988 and 1989 increased by 173% and 239%, respectively, in
constant dollar terms, over 1986. With the impact of the Thailand's economic
boom experienced over the project years netted out, the increase in collection
was 14% to 278Z higher for project areas as compared with non-project areas.
This can be attributed to two main factors: (i) increased issuance of title deeds
under the project; and (ii) adoption of more up-to-date (higher) property values
for assessing the transfer fee, "profit" tax, and stamp duty levied by DOL. The
increased revenues at full development due to the project are expected to exceed
project costs.
6.24      The project's impact on the physical environment is insignificant as
little infrastructure has been constructed under the project. However, there are
indications that the impact on the environment may be positive. There was no
specific action to protect forest and watershed lands under the project apart
from excluding them from land titling. Although no data are yet available, there
is evidence from the socio-economic studies that there is less tendency for
landowners with title deeds to encroach into the forest.
6.25        Anecdotal evidence suggests the project has had a positive impact
on women.   Women land holders were not disadvantaged by the land titling
procedures and their rights were not diminished. This is important considering
that 12% of all rural landholders and 20% of urban landholders are women.
Furthermore, bringing more land parcels into the land register and into the orbit
of the Civil and Commercial Code ensures that women are better protected from
husbands selling land without their consent. It is now not possible to register
the transaction in a DOL land office without the other spouse approving by
signing the transaction document. In 1991 about 41% of DOL staff were women and
15% of mid-level management or higher were female. Women are also make up a
significant percentage of the field adjudication teams, especially working as
adjudication officers.
6.26      The project supported a comprehensive education and training program
for DOL staff. These activities helped to develop a public and private sector
trained capability in such disciplines as surveying, mapping and valuation.
Before the project, there was little such capability in the country.  DOL's
inability to retain all the scholars and fellows trained under its program has
resulted in the development of a very active private sector surveying and
valuation capability.  A high level of individual training has been provided
under the project but at the institutional level, human resource development has
had limited impact because there is still no personnel policy for career
development and deployment of trained staff.   Completion of training is not
associated with any reward or career advancement.
6.27        The technological impact, however, has been considerable in the
fields of surveying, mapping, computerization, land administration and field
adjudication. The social impact has been positive. Without the project, many
rural land occupiers would have been unable, or would have had to wait a
considerable time, to obtain a title deed. Under the project, each beneficiary
pays only Baht 90 for cadastral survey and issuance fees for each title deed
against a real cost of Baht 1092. With it, the owner may apply for credit or use
it as collateral for other investments; the land price also increases with the
possession of the deed.



- 12 -
6.28      The project aimed at and substantially succeeded in making improved
and up to date land information available on request to the public and government
agencies. The total stock of information is impressive: over 109,000 sq km of
aerial photography, over 18,000 photomap sheets, 16,000 cadastral and cadastral
index maps, over 2 million title deeds and 1,400 UTM survey ground control
points. The aerial photography negatives are held by RTSD and are available to
other public agencies at the cost of reproduction. They have been used already
in support of the Bangkok Land Information System project managed by the Bangkok
Metropolitan Authority. The cadastral maps are available to public agencies at
the cost of reproduction (those branch offices that received urban maps have
dyeline machines) and to the public on a written application stating the intended
use. Title deed information is only available to the owner or those who have
their written permission, but it may be available to others if a written
application is made stating the purpose the information will be put to.
6.29      Public access to land administration services has also improved.  By
the opening of 60 new branch land offices in the 9 provinces, the distances the
public must travel to undertake land transactions has been reduced. However, the
public must still wait for periods ranging from 3 months to two years for
surveying services.   To help address this problem, an act to allow private
surveyors to undertake resurveys and subdivisions has been implemented by
Government in May 1992.
6.30      Socio-Economic Impact Study.   The project provided for a socio-
economic impact evaluation of the project activities. At the time of project
appraisal, no economic evaluations of cadastral projects which successfully
measured the broad range of benefits quantitatively had been carried out. The
study, which started in 1984, was carried out by Kasetsart University with the
assistance of two Australian specialists in economics and sociology under AIDAB
cofinancing.
6.31      Baseline surveys were carried out in the project area at different
times between 1984-86 and the follow-up surveys in 1991. Although a preliminary
report has been submitted to DOL, verification and revision of the data are still
being carried out and the final report will not be available before early 1993.
Resurveys have been necessitated by the number of errors found. A resurvey was
completed in the north east in May 1992, and another one in the north was carried
out in July 1992. A preliminary econometric analysis of factors affecting land
value and credit indicates that the possession of a title deed is significantly
related to land value and to the demand and supply of credit.   Apart from these
analyses, it is still too soon (2-3 years) after title deeds have been issued to
beneficiaries to undertake a full economic evaluation.
6.32      According to survey results, land titling has a considerable impact
on land price. In both project and non-project areas, land prices were directly
related to the level of security of the land documents. Thus, land covered by
a title deed was more expensive than land covered by a NS3 certificate, which was
in its turn more expensive than land held under a lesser certificate. However,
the differences in land values due to the type of document were much higher in
the north than in the north east, reflecting the more commercial agricultural
production system and the greater scarcity of land in the northern region.
6.33      The amount borrowed by rural households also increased significantly
in the project area during the project.  In the north, many more of the farm



- 13 -
households in the project area took out loans for long term investments in land
(39.71 of loans in the project area against nil outside the project area).
However, an equal number of loans were taken for the purchase of trucks and
machines in both project and non-project areas. Significantly fewer of the loans
in the project area were for household consumption purposes, against almost 25%
in the non-project area.  In the north east, more farmers (over 25%) in the
project area took out loans for long term investments  (trucks, machines,
livestock) than those (10%) in the non-project area, but investments in land were
very low in both areas.
6.34      The main social benefit relates to the decrease in the level of
disputes over land boundaries.   While this was low to begin with at 5% of
households in the north east project area and 4% in the north project area, the
level dropped to only 1.7% in the north east project area and to nil in the north
project area. There has also been a decrease in evictions, of about the same
degree as the decline in disputes.
6.35      Computerization of DOL Accounting and Administrative Operations.  At
the commencement of the project, DOL had no in-house computers and the project
provided for an OMO study to investigate and recommend a direction for
administrative computing. The strategy for computerization was further defined
through another consultancy with Chulalongkorn University funded by AIDAB.
Delaying the procurement of the computer to the end of the studies was justified.
6.36      Economic Benefits.   The main project benefits derive from greater
individual security of tenure, an improved national cadastre, and improved
property valuation.   Lack of data and of statistical studies of cadastral
projects make it impossible to quantify benefits and undertake conventional
economic rate of return (ERR) analysis at this time. No ERR was calculated at
appraisal.
7.   Proiect Sustainability
7.1       The  project  has  successfully  established  a  decentralized  and
operational land administration capability supported by a cadastral framework and
titling program in the project area. The system has been rationalized, allowing
the Government to maximize benefits from land transactions using up to date
property taxation data. The education and training program implemented under the
project has produced trained personnel for the wide range of skills needed by
DOL. In particular,the technical innovations in surveying and mapping can be
fully sustained without further assistance from external advisers. The program
launched under the project is being continued under the follow-on Land Titling
II Project (Ln. 3254-TH).
8.   Bank Performance
8.1       At the beginning of the project, Bank missions spent relatively short
periods  in the country but  subsequent missions  stayed  longer  as project
-activities increased. In 1987 at the time of Bank reorganization, there was a
hiatus of almost a year between supervision missions. Together with the change-
over of supervision staff, this affected the continuity and effectiveness of the
Bank's input into the project.  The Bank has throughout the life of the project
attempted to provide the necessary level of staff inputs and skills mix to
address prevailing issues.   Both in the project design and during project



- 14 -
supervision, the Bank has been sensitive and responsive to the culture of the
country. The neee to follow ICB procedures required by the Bank when it appeared
that only local bidders would be interested was an issue. Finally, the Bank was
generally prompt with regard to the review and approval of matters requiring its
decision.
9.   Borrower Performance
9.1       Overall,   the   Borrower   has   discharged   its   responsibilities
satisfactorily under the project. DOL has, throughout project implementation,
demonstrated its full commitment to the project and deployed the financial and
staff resources to implement the project.   Staff increments  earmarked at
appraisal have been achieved, and training programs have been implemented to
upgrade DOL staff skills. As priorities evolved during project implementation,
DOL appropriately paid more attention to institutional issues in the later stages
of the project.
9.2       Weaknesses included delays in implementing institutional changes,
particularly where there were policy and legal implications concerning Government
agencies other than DOL.  The lack of a policy to address such issues as the
parcels left out of the systematic adjudication process, ad hoc staff deployment
and career paths, and the administration and management of provincial and branch
land offices from the headquarters was a constraint. The lack of planning and
coordination between DOL's many divisions affected project performance. Delays
in procurement decisions for specific items as aerial photography and the
automated map transformation equipment affected project implementation progress.
Finally, as for other projects supported by the Bank in Thailand, the Budget
Bureau followed too rigidly the contents of the Staff Appraisal Report and was
reluctant to make appropriate revisions to costs and budgets in response to new
situations and requirements.
10.    Project Relationship
10.1      The most  satisfactory relationship between the Bank,  DOL,  other
Government agencies, and AIDAB (including its advisers) enabled smooth resolution
of emergent problems during project preparation and implementation.   Close
contact was maintained by the Bank informally, and although formal notification
of upcoming missions was unavoidably delayed in some cases, DOL and AIDAB were
kept informed, and AIDAB was able to participate in Bank supervision missions.
11.   Consulting Services
11.1      Contractors, suppliers and consultants performed satisfactorily.
12.   Proiect Documentation and Data
12.1      The  legal  agreements  did  not  cause  any  impediment  to  the
implementation of the project and there was no need to make any amendment to the
loan agreement during project implementation, except for a routine reallocation
of loan proceeds. The Staff Appraisal Report provided a useful framework for
project implementation,  but was weak in reliable parcel statistics.   This
affected project planning and implementation. Greater emphasis should have been
placed on strengthening parcel statistics during project preparation.



- 15 -
PART II. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
(Prepared by the Department of Lands)
1.    Comments on Part I
1.1       The descriptive overview and critical analysis of the Land Titling
Project in Part I of this report illustrates clearly some important aspects
concerning institutional settings, organizational and managerial capacities and
also some inherent constraints that DOL had faced in implementing the LTP Phase
I during 1985-1990.   The analysis which has been prepared by the World Bank
project completion mission and is based on the accumulative experiences during
the course of the Project addresses some fundamental problems that need to be
recognized and resolved if the Land Titling Project is to be carried out at the
maximum efficiency and generate the best benefits to the country.   As the
implementing agency, we would like to express our views as follows:
1.2       With regard to the project design and organization, it is agreed that
Land policy issues involving the roles and responsibilities of key collaborative
agencies namely DOL, RFD and LDD were underestimated. This, in subsequence, had
an impact on the LTP's achievement targets. Recently, DOL has attempted to solve
this institutional collaboration problem through creating a Project Technical
committee to stimulate cooperative efforts from other agencies and coordinate
tasks in some important domains.  This institutional development needs to be
institutionalized for the long run.
1.3       Part I also mentioned the lack of policy guidelines on several issues,
for example, development and deployment of trained staff, assignment of a work
unit that can integrate and supervise provincial and branch land offices, and
failure to complete the titling of parcels left out of the systematic field
adjudication process.  In reply, DOL accepts tv:ese as fair comments and they
should be resolved on a rational basis. Howev r, in practice, the resolutions
of these issues cannot be decided by DOL alone,'other institutions must also be
involved. Based upon this bureaucratic setting, it should be confirmed that, in
accord with the World Bank's observations, some central policy agencies such as
the Civil Service Commission (CSC) and Bureau of Budget (BOB), and National
Economic and Social Development Board (NESDB) have played a critical role in
inducing institutional change in the Project implementation.
1.4       The Bank and DOL agreed that the project completion date was September
1991 which was a year behind the appraisal schedule. The Bank also notes that
at this date about 80Z of eligible parcels have titles.   The term "Project
Completion" needs to be reconsidered and clearly defined.  Experience in LTP
shows there are valid legal and practical reasons why it is simply not feasible
to issue title to every eligible land parcels during the progress of the LTP in
the provinces.   DOL has therefore adopted a realistic approach to defining
"project completion" as follows: the project should be regarded as complete in
a province when the title deeds have been issued to all the eligible parcels and
the remaining legitimate parcels that have not been issued with title deeds have
been identified, and policy directions and a time-bound implementation plan
toward these parcels  clearly determined.   Agreement by the Bank to this
definition will ensure a common understanding and will assist in project
formulation and planning for the future phases of LTP.



- 16 -
2.   Bank Performance
2.1       In general, the Bank has discharged its duties and responsibilities
prescribed in the project design document satisfactorily both during the stages
of project design and implementation. It should be observed that the Bank has
not only been very enthusiastic and cooperative in delivering technical services
to the Project but also emphatically sensitive to norms and cultures of the
country. This cultural sensitivity is of course one of the key factors that have
an important contribution to smooth implementation as well as success of the
Project.
2.2       As indicated in PART I, in several occasions during the project life,
there has been some delay in the procurement process.   This delay,  as a
consequence, affected the results of project implementation, especially with
regard to some technical programs such as aerial photography, urban mapping, and
so on.  One of the underlying causes of such delay was the long process of
international bidding. Apart from the Thai regulative controls and restrictive
process, which of course took many unnecessary steps and consumed too much time,
DOL was required to get final approval in procedural steps from the Bank; this
included, for example, bidding document. On average, each approval took about
15 days before DOL could get any response from the Bank. In some cases, it took
up to 2 months.  Although the Bank attempted to respond on an efficient and
timely basis, these procurement procedures already consumed too much time when
accumulated with red-tape in the Thai process. It is therefore suggested that
the procurement process be reviewed and renegotiated to minimized such red-tape.
2.3       As the co-financing partner of LTP,  the Bank and AIDAB  of the
Australian Government continually put their best collaborative efforts to realize
the achievement of the project at all important stages. Especially, through the
mechanism of an Australian consortium, AIDAB provided an excellent technical
assistance program basically needed by LTP, covering provisions of technical
experts in certain areas, scholarships for DOL staff to study in Australian
higher educational institutions, and organizing short term training courses and
study tours in Australian for the project's operational staff and executives
respectively. It has been widely acknowledged that AIDAB contribution to the
project during the Project Phase I supported the process and foundation of
institutional innovation and change in DOL.
3.   Borrower Performance
3.1       As described in Part I, DOL has executed the project effectively.  The
original objectives which have remained unchanged during the project
implementation, have been achieved to a reasonable degree as expected in the
project design document. Outstandingly, on one hand, it is noted that progress
on technological and technical developments of the project has been highly
satisfactory and, no doubt, DOL can absorb these changes into its normal, routine
practices very effectively. On the other hand, DOL has also acknowledged that
institutional development including modification of land codes, enactment of CVA
laws, organizational development, and changes in managerial and operational
practices is rather slow and less effective, compared to the technical aspect of
the project. This institutional constraint however is not due to the uniqueness
of DOL itself but inherent within the Thai bureaucratic settings and system as
a whole.



- 17 -
3.2       The introduction of new technologies and innovations in the areas of
surveys and mapping, supporting computerization valuation, and systematic field
adjudication to improve quality and efficiency of works was highly successful and
work productivity increased significantly. Moreover, at the final stage of the
project, DOL began to apply computerization and information systems (IS) as tools
for program improvements in the areas of technical, administrative, and service
delivery systems.
3.3       As indicated in PART I of the report, the success of the technical
aspect of the project resulted in an immense increase in productivity of work
programs and activities. For example, aerial photography was fully completed in
nine  provinces  as  planned.    Photomap  production  increased  its  capacity
significantly from 200 to 4000 units per year.  Average control points, both
major and minor controls, were completed ahead of the set schedule. In addition,
under this project, urban mapping produced 5,712 mapsheets, from which 4,305
cadastral  maps  were  compiled.    Therefore,  based  upon  these  performance
indicators, it is clear that DOL performed very well with regard to technically-
related programs of LTP.
3.4       With  respect  to  institutional  development  areas  which  include
strategic planning, reorganization, administrative development, human resource
management, training and development, and so on, it should be observed that
change and development has been slower.   Specifically, a specialized human
resource development program in surveying engineer, valuation, and other
administrative functions to a large extent, could have yielded a more effective
contribution to the project.  DOL was unable either to keep all the trained
personnel as its asset or to deploy them more effectively. This human resource
management constraint was due to both fundamental basis of the Thai bureaucracy
and the lack of clear policy direction of DOL itself.  Moreover, it is also
obvious that some critical issues recommended by OMO report such as establishment
of Provincial Management Office, grouping of divisions on a functional basis,
conducting an activity analysis program, and also strategic planning have not
been adequately explored and substantiated to generate potential impact on the
Department. The Australian Technical Assistance was seriously concerned with the
sustainability of both technical and institutional developments. But, DOL seemed
to pay inadequate attention to the need. Therefore, it is clear that DOL should
place more commitment to the issue of institutional change and development in the
future so that the technical progress which has already been in place can be
sustained and benefit the most to the Department as well as society.
3.5       The change in DOL's top-management also had serious effect on the
project performance. To a considerable extent, the effect can be regarded in
terms of change of direction, policy shifts and management uncertainty. At the
early stage, LTP suffered a great deal under the frequent change of project
managers. In addition due to the bureaucratic cultural constraint, the project
manager sometimes could not perform his duties on a full-time basis and this had
negative outcome on the project's decision-making process.
3.6       As a key operational unit, Land Titling Project Office (LTPO) faced
several problems in implementing the project. First, as mentioned in para. 3.4,
the office changed its project managers frequently, thus affecting the managerial
capability. Second, the status of the project office was somewhat unclear, LTPO
staff therefore became uncertain about the progress in their work and their



- 18 -
morale was low.  Under such circumstances, it was difficult for the LTPO to
motivate its personnel to work efficiently. Finally, LTP management had long
overlooked the importance of project management information in coordinating with
other implementing line divisions. On this basis, the monitoring and evaluation
activities of LTPO were lacking and could not cope with either progress reporting
on the project or identifying problems which needed to be solved quickly. In
the Project Phase II, the performance of project management really requires a
substantial improvement as the project will face more complex and interdependent
non-technical problems.
4.   Lessons Learned
4.1       Generally, throughout the project life, it has been evidently proved
that technical changes and innovations were recognized, adopted and absorbed by
DOL more quickly than those institutional aspects. Such technical progress, as
a consequence resulted in an impressive productivity increase in several
technically-oriented activities such as aerial photography, map production, map
transformation, and so on. In addition, the Project also attempted to introduce
computerization into other areas, including, Land Information System (LIS), Land
Office Computer, and Administration Computer. DOL has learned that technical
advancement without relevant support of institutional change might lead to
organizational issues or controversies.   In some areas, these controversies
presented serious threats to the project as well as DOL; for example, turnover
of survey engineers, lack of work incentives and low morale of staff, inability
to deploy specially-trained human resources, and poor integration of functional
responsibilities in the Project.
4.2       To close the gap between technical and institutional developments as
mentioned in para 4.1, there is a need for policy directions, especially in the
areas of systematic field adjudication, DOL strategic plan, human resources
management, provincial and branch land office management, and overall
organizational development.
4.3       Based upon the implementation experience which has  already been
indicated in para 1.1 and 1.2, DOL found that careful institutional design and
policy and plan formulations were critical elements that constituted important
impact on the achievement of the project. Some neglected areas such as forest
boundaries, revisions of land codes to simplify and facilitate the land
adjudication process, and deployment plans for specialized human resources
unavoidably  affected  the project  during the  implementation  stage.   These
institutional constraints eventually caused unnecessary uncertainty and
inefficiency of the project. Thus, DOL had to invest some of its already limited
resources on the problem that could have been settled in the design phase.
4.4       Based upon the result of LTP Phase I, DOL found that a number of land
parcels have been left undocumented. Most of these undocumented parcels are due
to either legal illegitimacy, land adjudication constraints, or technical
deficiency of the cadastral maps. In the case of forest boundary dispute, DOL
holds to a principle that DOL will not issue titles for the parcels within the
radiaus of one kilometer from the existing forest boundaries. Issuance for the
rest of the undocumented parcels will be implemented on the following measures:



- 19 -
(a) If the land is a large area (approximately 5,000 parcels), DOL will
adhere to Land Code Article 58 and the plan will be implemented in
Phase III;
(b) If the land is of a small size with scattered parcels, DOL will apply
Land Code Article 59 which allows the Land Office to take
responsibility; and
(c) If the land covers a large area but with scattered parcels, DOL will
create a special unit and use the normal budget in issuing the titles.
4.5       As already mentioned in para 3.6, DOL has been more aware of the
necessity of the project management  information  system  improvement.   The
effectiveness and efficiency of LTP is largely dependent upon the success of this
activity.  In practice, DOL planned to stage a preliminary study for project
management information system at the beginning of LTP Phase II, and the system
should be installed for the practical use in the near future.
4.6       The introduction of technical innovations and reorganization of work
structure has caused the operational and managerial systems to become more
complex and closely dependent on each other. Under this organizational context,
there is a strong need for better systems of organizational planning,
coordination, and monitoring and evaluation of individual programs.  DOL has
learned that considerable achievement in the technical programs essentially
required an improvement of managerial capability both to maintain desirable
performance and to solve more complex problems that emerge.
4.7       At the operational level, there has been a critical coordination
problem concerning map production, issuance of title deeds and establishment of
Branch Land Offices. Based upon the project's technical design, these activities
should be logically linked and integrated with one another in a sequential
pattern. In practice, however, it was found that there were some inconsistancies
among  map  production,  digitizing,  adjudication  and  branch  land  office
establishment plans.   Although some of these   coordination problems were
partially resolved by setting up a management mechanism within a specific
program, other coordination problems between programs were still not resolved.
Therefore, DOL needs to tackle these more quickly and effectively.
4.8       As the organizational systems became more complex and interdependent,
DOL realized that communication and information really play an important role in
generating more effective implementation of the project as well as facilitating
more efficiency of the already established operational programs.  The former was
particularly the case for LTPO whose key responsibility was to integrate and
coordinate with all implementing units. The latter could be applied to line and
staff units which needed to be efficiently integrated into an overall system of
DOL. Top-management and functional divisions management therefore were required
to pay more attention to the need for improvement of communication and
information systems.
4.9       Beside the need for strategic vision and structural adjustment to make
it fit with the work system requirements, DOL also found that human resource
functions and management played a critical part for effective implementation of
the project. As part of the institutional development program, the project was



- 20 -
successful in sending some personnel to participate in education and training
programs in various fields both in-country and overseas.   Nevertheless, the
Department still failed to exploit their knowledge, skills and experience
properly after they returned to works. Part of this personnel management problem
was due to the dificiency in human resource planning, career development, and
more importantly, human resource policy guidelines. It is therefore important
that DOL should find ways and means to effectively cope with these human resource
management dilemmas.



- 21 -
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1.      Related  Bank Loans
Loan/Credit                                          Year of
Title                      Purpose         Approval                   Status              Comments
1. Structural              To assist the           Mar. 1982                Closed on                PCR No. 6805
Adjustment I           Government in                                    Mar. 31, 1983            dated Dec. 12,
Ln.2097-TH             implementing                                                              1984
macro-economic
and trade policy
changes, including
the issuance of
usufruct certificates
in forest reserves,
reclassified as
suitable for
agriculture by the
Royal Forestry
Department
2. Structural              Same as above           Mar. 1983                Closed on Jan. 31,       PCR No. 6805
Adjustment 11                                                            1984                    dated Dec. 12,
(Ln. 2256-TH)                                                                                    1984
3. Land Reform             To assist the           Sep. 1982                Closed on Sep. 19,       PCR under
Areas Project          Agricultural Land                                 1989                    preparation
(Ln. 2198-TH)          Reform Office in
the delivery of
usufruct licenses in
degazetted forest
reserves
4. Land Titling 11         Land cadastre,          Aug. 1990                Ongoing                  Phase 11 of
(Ln. 3254-TH)          titling and                                                               Ln. 2440-TH
administration



- 22 -
2.           Proiect Timetable
Date                         Date                       Dato
Item                              planned                      revisd                      actual
Identification                    n.a.                         n.e.                       Jun. 30,1981
Preparation                       n.a.                         n.a.                       Nov. 1982
Appraisal                         n.a.                         n.a.                       Aug. 18,1963
Negotiations                      Apr. 23, 1984                                           Apr. 23,1984
Board Approval                    Jun. 12, 1984                                           Jun. 12, 1964
Loan Signature                    Oct 11, 1984                                            Oct. 11, 1964
Loan Effectlvenes                 Dec. 9, 1984                 Jan. 25,1985               Jan. 25,19685
Loan Closing                      Sep. 30,1991                 Mar. 31,1992               Mar. 31,1992
Project Completion                Sep. 30,1990                 Sep. 30, 1991              Sep. 30,1991



- 23 -
3.    Loan Disbursements
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(USS million)
FY85  FY86  FY87  FY88  FY89  FY90  FY91  FY92
Appraisal estimate          1.1    5.1    11.2  18.2  24.5   31.0   34.3   35.0
Actual                      0.1    1.9    7.0   11.4   17.9  23.5   30.6   33.6
Actual as % of estimate     9.1    37.3  62.5   62.6  73.1   75.8   89.2   96.0
Date of final disbursement: July 31, 1992



- 24 -
4.      Prolect Implementation
A. Rey Indicators
Unit         Appraisal Target         Achieved          %
1. Rural Mapinim
Aenal Photoaraphy                                     k
Rural area                                        sq sm
Urban area                                         s                    sc                  14,482            -
not specified            3,83348
Photomap Production                               mapeheets
Rural area                                       mapaheets
Urban area                                                                11,000             12,886         118
3,000              7,162        238
Cadastral Mappins                                 mapsheets
1:4000 (exsting maps)                          mapsheets
1:1000 (new ground suivey)                     mapeheets                  5,000              8,106        162
1:2000 (new pound survey)                                                 6,000             27,713        462
11,000               866           8
2. Urban Mapping
Bangkok (1:1000)                                    maps                    3,570              4,371         122
parcels               487,800             646,475        133
Provinces (various scales)                          maps                    2,920              5,301         182
parcels               431,400             550,105        128
Total                                       maps                    6,490              9,128         141
parcels                919,200          1,196,200        130
3. Land Titling and Administration
Titling Issuing
Ground survey only                                  parcels           not specified           868,838          -
Ground survey/Aerial photo                          parceb            not specified           337,794          -
NS3K conversion                                     parcels              1,400,000            804,132         57
Total                                                                               2,010,764          -
Land Administration                                 units
New surveying & mapping building                                                1                  1         100
New branch land office                                                         62                 60          97
New district land office building                                              15                 11          73
Expansion disuict land ofice buildins                                          23                 79         343
Construction strong rooms                                                     264                122          46
Staff housing                                                                 135                131          97
4. Valuation
Base map production                                 units             not specified              265           -
Block property valuation                            khets             not specified              202
Parcel property valuation                           khets             not specified              11
5. Ortanization Manasement and
Operations
Appointment of new officials                        no.                     1,080              1,573        146
In-country training                                 no.                     3,311              6,674        202
Oversa training                                     no.                       63                122         194
Survey engineering students                         no.                      100                120         120
Valuation students (DOL)                            no.                       80                 52          65
New divisions                                       no.                        7                  8         114
Socio-economic studies                              no.                        8                 10         125



- 25 -
B. Title Deed Production and Distribution
.-  ..   .     :. ,    :  -"  ,  '       ,'.:.   ' -  - :"A'.   :            .-  .. '' . .."'
AeIal Phtomap      iNS3K OWrIOt            -ToI.              _ __
'rotai     roI OSuiitpa                         Tagt   uhu            Tret        Otpt        Pit
-a~ :. - :.   :    ab          -       a~          G       a s    d          .S            r  - - ::. :  I  ;  :
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.. .. ...t ......     .         |,  . . |: iFt.5 0r5j 5 'jS
Chiang        252,100    111,990    130,687    53,760    54,498    67,200    61,740     232,860     246,925    218,916
Mai
Chiang        379,700     86,400    94,772     42,240    35,253    70,400    62,837     199,040     192,862    153,203
Rai
Payao         235,200     45,720    50,236     24,240    21,896    43,600    51,065     113,560     123,197    106,286
Lamphun       212,700     45,720    46,684     21,300    21,656    85,050    23,888     152,070      92,228     75,760
Nakhon        491,400    162,300    186,651    80,550    62,867    124,800    177,361   367,650     426,879    378,098
Ratcha-
sima
Buriram       284,300    115,200    132,446    56,070    31,837    129,350    107,539   300,620     271,822    238,663
Si Sa Ket     379,100    101,700    112,601    67,680    54,083    175,800    196,775   345,180     363,459    243,888
Mae            10,100      5,040     4,120      5,580    3,844      1,500      656       12,120       8,620     10,442
Hong
Son
Surin         303,100     95,130    110,641    52,080    51,860    123,000    122,271   270,210     284,772    113,430
Total      2,547,700    769,200    868,838    403,500   337,794    820,700    804,132    1,993,310   2,010,764   1,538,686
/a These figures were not known at appraisd



- 26 -
C. Production Data
.- .-..-. -...-..-
Chisng Mai         940       901       224        975       663       772         10         10
Cbiang Rai       1,332      1,136       48        118       600       633          7          7
Payao                        649        70        13S       410       613         S          5
Lamphun            393       403        42        118       400       460         3           2
Nakbon           4,080      4,010       144       240       690       968         15         15
Ratchasima
Buriram                     2,133       54        105       470       S13          7          6
Si SaKIet        1,224      1,788       25         68                              7          7
Saong              174       131         19        36       180       288          1          1
Surin             1,344     1,735       48         77       390       510          7          7
Bangkok                               6,336     5,290      4,374     4,371 
Total         9,487     12,886     7,010     7,162     8,177      9,128       62          60
D. Chanfee in OutDtut Rat-e (p.r Yea?)
11: D 4 0 : ff X - ~.   .          -.  -    .. ....... . ........ . ...4   .-  . .   fA:S .; .*. ft..........  
11~~~~~~~~~~u                                                          I f~0111
Survey control traverse (kin)                       5,000         20,000
||Satellite control (2nd Order)                       Nil             800
|n Photomapping (rectified maps)                       500           5,000
itle deeds production (units)                      50,000         500,000
Computer map transform (maps)                          Nil            1,140
Urban re-mapping (parcels)                            Nil          300,000
So-



- 27 -
E.   Traininf
I         ,       ,,  ,    ,. ig                                   - ,      ''"'  ,'          ''. ' 'I   -'1-' ' "  '':
Maior Courses
Senior Land Administrative Officers                                         7             280          7              278
Land Administrative Officers                                                4              165         4              165
Surveying Administrative Officer,                                           4              165         4              165
Amphur Land Officers                                                       10             475          10             475
Subtotal                                                              25             1,085        25            1,083
Specific Courses
General Administrative Officers                                             1              40          1               40
Land Technician                                                             3              120         3              157
Finance & Accounting Officers                                               6             240         18              851
Provincial Finance Accounting & Tax                                         -                         10             1,024
Surveying Operation                                                         4             180          4              180
Knowledge on Land & Tax                                                     5             250          5              250
Public Service Strategy                                                     1              45          1               45
Public & Policy Analysis                                                    1              25           1              25
Subtotal                                                              21             900         37             2,572
Special Courses
Lecturers                                                                  21             420         21              406
Basic Training Knowledge                                                    2              76          2               76
Service Relations                                                          27            2,000        27             2,009
Land Right Certificate Issuing Officer Training                             7            3,162         7             3,000
Administration Training for Superintendents                                 9             450          9              450
Project Work Plan Preparation                                               1              45          1               45
Land Right Investigation Officers                                           7             280          7              280
Project Administration Training for Land                                    -            1,142          -            1,142
Management's Field Operation Unit Chiefs
Astronomy & OPS                                                             2              154         2              154
Quality Life Project                                                       21            4,542        21             4,542
Newly Recruited Officer Orientation                                                      2,000                       2,367
LTP Adjudication Party Superintendent Seminar                               3             227          3              227
Senior Land Administration Officer Seminar                                  3             720          3              720
Seminar for Land Records Section Chiefs throughout the Country              2             283          2              283
Seminar for Survey Records Section Chiefs throughout the                    3             452          3              452
Country
Seminar for Changwat & Branch Land Officers throughout the                  4              320         4              320
Country
Higher Administration Psychology                                            8             320          8              468
Subtotal                                                             120           16,593        120           16,941
Total                                                                166           18            182           20.596
CVA
Practices of Property Asssment for Rights and Juristic Acts                13              72          13             817
Registration for Land Officers
Bangkok Institute of Technolory
Valuation Diploma                                                           7              90          7               71
Chulalonekorn University
Survey Engineering                                                          7              100         7              106



- 28 -
F.   Technical Assistance  - Training
F|old of study                                                    t          Prjc         Actual
Repon,       stud         peue
Graduate
Public Administration                                           300            48          48
Land Economics                                                                 24          24
Resources Development                                                          24          24
Geodetic Engineering                                                          96           96
Photogrammetry                                                                 48          24
Computer Science                                                               96          96
Undertraduate
Valuation                                                       324           468         396
Total                                                       624           804         708
Overseas Visits/Short Courses
Photomap Production                                                            6           9.0
Cartography                                                                    6           1.0
Digitizing/Computing                                                           4           2.0
Urban Mapping                                                                 30          19.5
Valuation                                                                      45         39.0
Cadastral Project Management                                                   10          6.5
Financial, Personnel & Training Management                                    30          32.0
Computerization                                                               24          24.0
Policy & Planning                                                              10         12.0
Evaluation                                                                     6           4.0
Group Study Tour
Land Administration & Registration & Cadastral Mapping                        39          47.0
Subtotal                                                    132           210        196.0
Total                                                       756          1,014       904.0



- 29 -
G. Technical Assistance - Advisers
Psition                        Staf  Appaisa  -   Pr6ject Tuceptiwol   - -      ipzt-
Repot-t    StuYI'-                  (p taonm~h
Long-Term L
Project Sponsor                                           ns aL           unchanged               0.0
Project Adviser                                           ns                    0                 6.0
Project Administration                                     na                   5                 9.5
Project Planning & Coord                                  48                   60                65.0
Photomapping                                              60                   60                63.4
Computing                                                 60                   60                67.8
Valuation - DOL                                           60                   60                68.2
Surveying Lecturer/Adviser - Chula                        48                   48                34.2
Surveying Lecturer/Adviser  BIT                           48                   48                36.9
Training Coordinator/Administrator                         ns                   0                 13
Subtotal                                             420                 437               449.3
Short-Term
Valuation Legislation                                      12                  12                 6.0
Urban Mapping                                              2                    5                14.0
OMO - Management                                           7                   11                11.0
OMO - Fmance                                               7                    8                11.0
OMO - Computing                                            7                    7                14.0
OMO - Institutional                                        7                  7.5                 8.2
OMO - Training                                             ns                  13                11.0
OMO - Technical                                            ns                   2                 2.0
Project Evaluation                                         17                36.8                14.4
Socio-Economic Coordinator                                 8.5               10.5                 6.9
Socio-Economic                                             8.5                 19                14.2
Land Information System                                   nas                   4                 5.0
Land Administration                                        ns                   3                32.5
Geodetic                                                   ns                   3                11.0
MIS                                                        ns                 nas                 4.5
Subtotal                                             76                 141.8              165.7
Total                                                496                578.8              615.0
/a     Position categories as set out in the Project Inception Study Report, with the addition of subsequent new technical advier
positions. Notc that the socio-economic study input listed at appraisal (73 person-months) was undertaken with Bank funds,
rather than AIDAB funding.
/b    The definition of 'long-term' and 'short-term' staff categories is as set out in the Project Inception Study report. The actual
status of each position may differ from that set out in the table.
ns = not specified



- 30 -
5.    Prolect  Costs  and Financing
A. Proiect Costs
(US$'000)
Appraisa Estimate_______                    Acual    _______
Activity
_Local      Foreign       Total        Local       Foreign       Total
Rural Mapping
Base Cadastral Map                       11,838.10    15,066.70    26,904.80    10,395.10    13,766.00    24,161.10
Ground Survey Teams                      16,733.00      697.20     17,430.20    12,687.20      855.30     13,542.50
3,532.10      996.20     4,528.30      2,304.40      511.30      2,815.70
Urban Mapping
Land Administration
Provincial & District Land Admin.        10,949.20     3,088.20    14,037.40     4,436.40     1,487.80     5,924.20
Land Admin. HQ                              99.70         8.70       108.40        90.50        13.70        104.20
Title Conversion Teams                    2,194.90       44.80      2,239.70        11.50        12.30        23.80
Land Valuation
Department of Lands                       1,376.10     1,824.10     3,200.20      426.10         12.90       439.00
Bangkok Institution of Technology           238.90     1,467.90     1,706.80       172.50       83.60        256.10
3,289.90     2,584.90    5,874.80      6,276.30    8,539.20     14,815.50
General Institution Building
Subtotal Project Cost               50,251.90    25,778.70    76,030.60    36,800.00    25,282.10    62,082.10
Front End Fee                                       87.30        87.30                     91.70         91.70
TOTAL PROJECT COST                  58,252.00    25,866.00    76,117.90    36,800.00    25,282.10    62,173.80



- 31 -
B. Proiect Financing
(US$ million)
Cawioiant               -          ApprAisat Estimate                      -           Actuat
DOL-    BIT    BANK    AIOAB    TOTAL    OOL    BIT          BANK.   AIDAB      TOTAL
RURAL  APPAING
Building                          0.38            2.16       -         2.54   0.36   -         2.08                 2.44
Vehicles, Equipment &             1.44   -        6.26       -         7.70   2.02   -         7.29                 9.31
Furniture
Technical Assistance &-                                     4.25      4.25   -        -        6.18                 6.18
Training
Incremental Operating            15.55   -       14.29      -        29.84   9.24   -         10.64      -         19.88
Subtotal                    17.37   -        22.71      4.25    44.33  11.62   -          26.19      -         37.81
tXUBAJ RENAPPING
BuiLding                                                          -            -      -        -          -         -
Vehicles, Equipment &             0.13             0.56      -         0.69   0.37   -         0.64                 1.01
Furniture
Technical Assistance &-                                      0.26             -       -        -          -         -
Training
Incremental Operating             1.86            1.71      -         3.57   0.82   -          0.93      -          1.75
SubtotaL                      1.99            2.27      0.26      4.26   1.19   .          1.57                 2.76
LAMD ADMINISTRATION
Building                          1.04             5.88                6.92   -
Vehicles, Equipment &             0.88             2.16                3.04   0.62   -         3.40       .         4.02
Furniture
TechnicaL Assistance &                             -         .                0.48   -         1.37       .         1.85
Training
Incremental Operating             6.42             .                  6.42   0.13   -          .                    0.13
Subtotal                     8.34             8.04               16.38   1.23    .         4.77      .          6.00
VALUATION
Building                                           0.03                0.03                                         _
VehicLes, Equipment &             0.05   0.02    0.11                  0.18   0.03   -         0.04                 0.07
Furniture
TechnicaL Assistance       8      -       .                  3.03      3.03           0.07    0.12                  0.19
Training
Incremental Operating             1.46   0.20                          0.66   0.37   0.06                           0.43
Subtotal                       1.51   0.22    0.14       3.03      3.90   0.40   0.13    0.16                    0.69
GENERAL INSTITUTION BJILDING
BuiLding                          0.09   .         0.52                0.61   0.02   -         0.10                 0.12
Vehicles, Equipment &             0.43            o0.78                1.21   0.15   .         0.34                 0.49
Furniture
TechnicaL Assistance &            .                0.44      1.51      1.95                    0.41      8.03       8.44
Training
Incremental Operating             2.11             .                  2.11   5.77   -                    -          5.77'
Subtotal                        2.63            1.74       1.51     5.88   5.94   -          0.85      8.03      14.02
Total Project Cost             31.84   0.22   34.90       9.05    76.01  20.38   0.13   33.54          8.03      62.08
Front-end fee                                        0 0.09              0.09           -        0.09                 0.09
TOTAL                          31.84   _       34.99      9.05    76.10  20.38   8_0L                            62.17



- 32 -
6.     Proiect  Results
A. Direct Benefits
Indicators                Appraisal Estimate   Eatimatnd at ClosMng   Es ti    at a:Fu
Date_________         fMvlopment
Households Issued Titles                        700,000             1,007,000La           1,320,000&b
DOL Permanent Staff                               1,270                 1,573                 1,573
DOL Temporary Staff                               1,350                 8,125                 8,125
/a. At appraisal, each household was estimated to own an average of four parcels.
L Socio-economic surveys conducted under the project.
B. Financial Impact /a
Year        Fee       Tax       Stamp      Total    Indc      Annual   Na. of   Indes
(Mililo    Duty    (Million   to Base i   nge    Tras.    y i
(Millo    0 Baht)   (Mllion       Bsltt)   Year       (%6)     ac0 t iaioal    Baey00i
Baht)    _           Baht)                                    ( 0001     Year,
1982        1,481       332          2       1,815      100      Base    5,583        100
1983        2,138       966         111     3,215       177       77.1    5,787       104
1984        2,117      1,461        199     3,777       208       17.5    5,976       107
1985        2,144      1,583        226     3,953       218        4.7    6,521       117
1986        2,009      1,392        212     3,613       199       -8.6    6,290       113
1987        2,870      2,151       305      5,326       293       47.4    7,479       134
1988        5,775      5,115       620    11,510        634      116.1    6,926       160
1989        7,586      6,117       869    14,572        803       26.6    8,295       149
1990        13,136     9,997      1,499    24,632      1,357      69.0   11,751      211
1991       11,337      6,922      1,163    19,422      1,070     -21.2    9,509       171
1992 b      15,450     9,450       1,600    26,500     1,460       36.4    9,500      171
1993b       17,300    10,600       1,750    29,650     1,634       11.9   10,640      191
/L  Figures represent the total amount of transfer, income tax and stamp duty on land transaction collected
by the Department of Lands.
Both the tax collection and the stamp duty collection systems were introduced in 1982. New CVA
valuations were applied in 1988 and 199.
/b  Projected revenue (estimate)



- 33 -
C.  Studies
Studies               Purpose as Defined
at Appraisal                   Status                     Impact of Study
Organization,    Review and recommend changes    Completed In 1985       Five reports produced. The main Organization
M anage m ent    in DOL structure and procedures                         Report made 23 major recommendations, only 5
and Operations                                                          of which were accepted and 6 partially accepted.
Socio-Economic    To measure quantitatively the     Preliminary  report   Preliminary environmental analysis of factors
Impact             broad range of economic benefits    submitted.    ina    aff cting  and value and credit indicates that
derived from cadastral projects.  report  expected    possession of title Is significantiy related to land
early 1993.         value and to the demand and supply of credit



- 34 -
7.      Status  of Covenants
Covenant                                 Subject                           Deadline for             Status
Compliance
3.01               Borrower shall carry out project with due diligence, etc.   None               Completed
3.02               Borrower shall select consultants satisfactory to Bank      None               Completed
in accordance with Bank Guidelines.
3.03 (a)           Borrower shall issue Title deeds or preemptive              None               Completed
certificates to private occupiers of land.
3.03 (b)           Borrower shall issue Title deeds or preemptive              None               Completed.
certificates to private occupiers of land.
3.03 (c)           Borrower shall issue title deeds to holders of              None               Completed
usufructuary certificates issued by Public Welfare
Department; the Cooperative Department; and any
other relevant agencies.
3.03 (d)           Borrower shall issue documents for state land in            None               Completed
accordance with provision of Land Code.
3.04               Borrower shall ensure cadastral map sheets and records      None               Completed
are available for inspection by public on request, and
copies thereof be obtainable by any of government
agencies.
3.05               Borrower will provide evidence satisfactory to Bank         None               Completed
that branch expansion justified by number loan
documents to be handled.
3.06 (a)           Borrower undertakes to ensure imported goods.               None               Completed
3.06 (b)           Borrower shall cause all goods and services fmanced         None               Completed
out of Loan to be used exclusively for project.
3.07 (a)           Borrower shall submit procurement plans and                 None               Completed
schedules to Bank, etc.
3.07 (b)           Borrower shall: (i) maintain records to monitor project     None               Completed
progress; (ii) enable Bank staff to and inspect facilities;
and (iii) furnish information to the Bank as requested.
3.07 (c)           Bank may publish details of contracts awarded.              None
3.07 (d)           After project is completed, Borrower shall prepare and      None               Completed
furnish to the Bank a report on project execution,
costs, benefits and performance of the borrower and
the Bank.
3.08               Borrower to establish a Project Executive Committee         None               Completed
and within DOL a Project Administration Committee.
3.09               Borrower shall:
(a) complete construction of mapping building;             09/30R86           Completed
(b) carry out study under Part E (1) of the project;       None               Completed
(c) furnish Bank with a copy of the report of such         10/01/85           Completed
study.



- 35 -
8.      Use of Bank Resources
A. Staff Inputs (staff weeks)
Stago ot       FY82   FY8$   FY84   FY85   FY86   FY7   FY88   FY89  -Y90   FY91   PM    TO0TAL.
Pro4ect Cydle
Through appraisal    26.6   42.8    7.0                                                                       76.4
Appraisal through                    17.4                                                                     17.4
Board approval
Board approval                               4.0                                                               4.0
through effectiveness
Supervision                                 14.3   22.0   16.3   15.4   16.1    3.8          5.8    6.2       99.9
Total            26.6    428    24.4   183    220    163    15.4    161          3.8    5.8    6.2       197.7



- 36 -
B.  Missions
Stage of Project   Month/Year     N. of :Dy |                          Performance   Trend Ir    Types of
______________ __________   Person.  ield         J:         Ratine /b               Problems /d
Initial Recons.     09181          1           3       A
Identification      1181/          5           21      A,A,E,OC,L
Identification      02/82          1           4       A
Preparation         05/82          2           21      A,E
Preparation         08182          2           1       A,E
Appraisal           02f83    -     3           21      A,E,LA
Appr. Follow up     06/83          1           7       A
Appr. Follow up     09/83          1           7       SE
Appr. Follow up     11/83          1           2       SE
Appr. Follow up     07/84          1           2       ENG
Supervision 1       11/84          2           3       A,A,                 1            2      -
Supervision 2       03185          1           7       FA                   -            -
Supervision 3       03/85          2           5       A,E                  2            2      F
Supervision 4       08/85          3           5       A,E,OC               2            2      P
Supervision 5       10185          1           7       SE
Supervision 6       02186          4           13      E,T,T,US             2            2      F,P,I
Supervision 7       10186          2           18      E,T                  2            2      F,P,I
Supervision 8       11/86          1           3       SE                   -            -
Supervision 9       02187          1           4       SE
Supervision 10      06/87          2           15      E,OC                 1            1      P
Supervision 11      05/88          2           10      A,FA                 1            1      P
Supervision 12      11/88          2           9       A,FA                 1            1
Supervision 13      05/899:1       4           12      A,E,FA,V             1            1                  |
Supervision 14      04/90          1           10      A                    1            1      T
Supervision 15      12190          2           12      A,V                  1            1      T
Supervision 16      06/91          2           12      A,V                  1            1 I
Supervision 17      12/91          4           13      A,FA,V,LA            1            1
/a     A = Agriculturist, E = Economist; FA = Financial Analyst; OC - Organization and Cadastral Specialist; T   Training
Specialist; V = Valuation Specialist; LA = Land Acquisition Specialist; SE = Socio-Economic Specialist; ENG
Engineering; US = Urban Specialist.
/b     1 = Problem-free or minor problems; 2 = Moderate problems.
/c     1 = Improving; 2 = Stationary
/d     F = Funding; P = Project Management; I = Impact; T = Training



~~V~~J   '1)                           . ~~~LAO   PEOPLE'S   OEM. REPUBLIC                                      >
7''"
MWYANMARL/) 
,_ / ,__ >t~~~,~~,S,, CAhlBODIA
Ir  ~           ~~ ~~           *k.%.f At@             _                        (E _F                                         ,- -)
,9 StA             j~lN                                                    ' ' 
ANDAMAN SEA                                                    Gu/ ll/f of Thad/ond
v  .a   t        ,                                                  THAILAND                            X'VIET
LAND TITLING PROJECT
NAR PROJECTARE A S
litEXISTING  WAS8 CADASTVSAL SHEET COVERAGE
RESERVED VOGEl? LASS SaJIVAILE P05 AGRICULTURE                  s           HN
OTHER LAND SUITASLE P05  FOCULT URE                  J          OL ITH    CHINA
-    NATIONAL .I-TGSAY                                                        SEA
'^VA40                  A     Z4V      SI VOAMMA                           PROVINCIAL ROADS
5   -ROINGIL CAPITALS
-           I -  POOCl,CIL BOUNDARIES
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
51L350,  20   AG   OH   IV lA
w <7 ) K~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ILOSETENSO V                                                              AS     K^    lOG   IR
'MALAYSIA,                           Ice



