Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY                            C
Report No. P-3824-TH
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$35 MILLION
TO THE
KINGDOM OF THAILAND
FOR THE
LAND TITLING PROJECT
May 18, 1984
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
$1.00           =    Baht (B) 23.0
B1.OO           =    $0.04
$1 million      =    B 23 million
BI million      -    $43,478
THAI FISCAL YEAR
October 1 to September 30
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
I rai         =      0.16 hectares
1 hectare     =      6.25 rai
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS
ADAB  -   Australian Development Assistance Bureau
BIT   -   Bangkok Institute of Technology
CPD   -   Cooperative Promotion Department
DOL   -   Department of Lands
DOLA  -   Department of Local Administration
MOI   -   Ministry of Interior
NLAC  -   National Land Acquisition Commission
NS2   -   Preemptive Certificate
NS3   -   Certificate of Utilization
NS3K  -   Certificate of Utilization based on Aerial Photography
NVA   -   National Valuation Agency
OMO   -   Organization, Management and Operations
PWD   -   Public Welfare Department
RFD   -   Royal Forest Department
RTG   -   Royal Thai Government
SK1       Claim Certificate



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THAILAND
LAND TITLING PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:            Kingdom of Thailand
Amount:              $35 million equivalent, including capitalized front-end
fee.
Terms:               Repayable in 20 years, including 5 years grace, at the
standard variable interest rate.
Project
Description:      The proposed Bank loan would help finance a cadastral
survey, land registration and valuation project to be
implemented by the Department of Lands (DOL). The project
would contribute to the greater security, productivity and
income of individual occupiers of land through the
provision of proof of title. It would pursue these aims
by strengthening DOL's capability to carry out cadastral
surveys systematically over areas not presently surveyed
and to improve the quality of its service to the public in
regard to resurvey, registration, issuance of title deeds
and general administration of land through a major
equipment, building and training program. It would also
support the development of a recently established national
land valuation authority.
The project would directly benefit some 700,000 land-
holding families in the poor North and Northeast Region,
about 50% of whom may be below the absolute poverty level
of $175 per capita annual income. It would also benefit
the country as a whole through the compilation of a
rationalized cadastre which can better serve as a public
planning and management tool. The level of risk
associated with the project is low. The Government and
the various participating agencies all support the project
and are committed to its objectives. The project includes
various mechanisms to minimize the risk of delay,
including retroactive financing for civil works design,
technical assistance for procurement procedures, and Bank
financing of incremental operating costs of the mapping
components.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without IFC authorization.



- ii -
Local     Foreign   Total
Estimated Costs:                                     -----  ($ million)  -----
Rural mapping                   20.4         11.7       32.1
Urban remapping                  2.5          0.7        3.2
Land administration              9.2          2.1       11.3
Land valuation                   1.2          2.4        3.6
Institution building             2.4          1.9        4.3
Total Base Cost              35.7         18.8       54.5
Physical contingencies           3.9          1.9        5.8
Price contingencies             11.0          4.7       15.7
Total Project Cost           50.5 /a      25.5       76.0
Front-end fee on loan              -          0.1        0.1
Total Financing Required   50.5           25.6       76.1
Financing Plan:
Government                 32.0            -       32.0
Australian Development
Assistance Bureau           -          9.1        9.1
Bank                       18.5         16.5       35.0
Total                  50.5         25.6       76.1
Financing by the Bank would amount to 50% of total project
cost net of taxes, consistent with the Bank's Special
Action Program.
Estimated
Disburse-
ments:                         1985  1986  1987  1988  1989  1990   1991 1992
Bank FY           ---------------- (US$ million) ---------------
Annual        1.1   4.0   6.1   7.0   6.3   6.5    3.3  0.7
Cumulative   1.1   5.1  11.2  18.2  24.5  31.0   34.3 35.0
Rate of Return: Data not available for quantifying benefits
Staff Appraisal Report No. 4627-TH, dated May 18, 1984
IBRD Map:   No. 17228
/a Including $5.9 million (8%) taxes and duties.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO THE KINGDOM OF THAILAND FOR A LAND TITLING PROJECT
I submit the following report and recommendations on a proposed loan
to the Kingdoin of Thailand for the equivalent of $35 million to help finance a
land titling project. The loan would have a term of 20 years, including five
years grace, at the standard variable interest rate. The Australian
Development Assistance Bureau would provide $9.1 million (13% of total project
cost), on a parallel basis, for financing of technical assistance and
training.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
1.        An economic report entitled "Coping with Structural Change in a
Dynamic Economy" (Report No. 3067-TH) was issued on December 23, 1980. It
proposed a medium-term strategy to deal with the adjustment problems resulting
from the two oil price shocks of the 1970s. Subsequently, the Royal Thai
Government initiated a program of structural adjustment policies, which the
World Bank supported by two structural adjustment loans. An economic report
entitled "Managing Public Resources for Structural Adjustment" (Report
No. 4366-TH) was discussed with the Government in DMay 1983 and issued on
August 31, 1983. It reviewed progress in the implementation of structural
adjustment policies and proposed directions for further action, especially in
regard to the mobilization and management of public resources.
Recent Political Developments
2.        Since the early 1970s, the political process in Thailand has broad-
ened and matured significantly. Initially, this was accompanied by frequent
and sometimes abrupt changes in government leadership. Since the 1977 general
elections, however, Thailand has enjoyed a period of greater political stabil-
ity and continuity of policy. Cabinet shuffles have continued to take place,
reflecting shifts in the makeup of the coalitions of political parties, mili-
tary and business leaders, and technocrats, which have governed the country
for the past five years. However, only one change in Prime Minister has
occurred during this period. General Prem Tinsulanonda was appointed as Prime
Minister in March 1980 and has been successful in mobilizing support for a
major program of economic structural adjustment, embodied in the Fifth Five-
Year Plan, 1982-86. Senior civil servants supporting this program were given
key positions in the public sector. Although there are continuing internal
debates on the details and speed of policy implementation, overall, a broad
public consensus on national policy priorities has been maintained.
3.        National elections were held again on April 18, 1983, in which can-
didates from ten parties were elected to Parliament. No party secured an
outright majority, but Prime Minister Prem succeeded in forming a new four-



- 2 -
party coalition which includes two of the three leading parties and has the
backing of approximately two-thirds of the elected representatives. As part
of a gradual constitutional reform aiming at increased representative
government, transitional arrangements had been in place for a five-year period
to permit serving military, civilian and other non-elected officials to con-
tinue to play a stabilizing role in both the legislative and executive
branches of government through their appointment to the powerful senate and to
Cabinet posts. These transitional arrangements were allowed to lapse, cur-
tailing the senate's powers and prohibiting military and civilian officials
from participating in the Cabinet. These changes, when combined with the
current coalition's diversity, and the Prime Minister's lack of an independent
political power base, have made it hard to achieve a consensus on difficult
economic issues since the April 1983 election. However, the Government has
endorsed the Fifth Plan's objectives of improved economic management, struc-
tural adjustment and poverty alleviation and has moved cautiously in continued
Plan implementation. Continuation of ongoing policy and institutional reforms
is therefore expected.
Past Economic Trends
4.        Thailand's economy grew rapidly over the past two decades and devel-
oped successfully by most standards of international comparison. Its per
capita income growth of almost 5% p.a. during 1960-1980 was among the highest
sustained rates in developing countries. The reduction of poverty was sub-
stantial for a country still among the lowest third of middle-income develop-
ing countries, as the overall incidence of poverty dropped from about 57% in
the early 1960s to about 31% in the mid-1970s. Despite its continuing reli-
ance on agriculture, Thailand experienced a far-reaching transformation of its
economic and social structure during the past two decades, with a high growth
in modern industrial and service sector activities, extension of transport and
communications infrastructure throughout the country, rapid modernization, and
a significant increase in the openness of the economy to trade and capital
flows, tourism and international labor migration. The rapid growth in
Thailand's exports played a particularly important role in stimulating aggre-
gate demand and providing the necessary means to finance imports. Moreover,
because of this rapid export growth, the Thai debt service burden remained
moderate.
5.        However, because of its increased openness, its heavy dependence on
imported oil, and an expansionary fiscal stance in the late 1970s, the Thai
economy was substantially affected by the two oil price shocks and by the
ensuing international upheaval. A relatively high rate of overall growth was
maintained initially but this was accompanied by accelerating inflation, large
fiscal and external deficits and growing dependence on foreign borrowing.
Consumer prices increased by 10% in 1979, by 20% in 1980, and by 13% in
1981. The Central Government deficit on average exceeded 4% of GDP in the
period 1979-82. Notwithstanding continued rapid export growth, the current
account deficit amounted to 7.7% of GDP in 1979, 6.2% in 1980, and 6.9% in
1981; consequently, there has been a rapid accumulation of Thailand's tradi-
tionally low external debt.



- 3 -
6.        Initially, the Government was slow in responding to the changing
external conditions, but, beginning in 1980, policy adjustments were under-
taken at a gradually accelerating pace through 1982. They included sharp
increases in prices for most petroleum products, electricity and other public
services; measures to increase government revenues; a substantial increase in
real interest rates; and the introduction of regulations to increase financial
stability and monetary restraint. In October 1981 the Government inaugurated
its Fifth Five-Year Plan (1982-86) which made structural adjustment one of its
major priorities. In March 1982, the first SAL for Thnailand was approved,
under which the Government committed itself to taking steps towards an adjust-
ment in the structure of the economy through reductions in domestic price
controls, export taxes and controls over agricultural exports; developing a
program for improved land tenure; taking steps toward rationalization of the
structure of incentives for industrial production, exports, and investment;
promoting energy conservation and efficient development of domestic energy
resources; and improving the Government's tax structure and administration,
public investment planning, and other areas of public administration. Prog-
ress under SAL I was satisfactory, and SAL II was approved in March 1983 with
the goal of continued and expanded implementation of the Government's
structural adjustment program. Further progress has been made since that
time, but at a somewhat slower pace than originally expected. However, the
Government remains committed to satisfactory completion of SAL II programs.
7.        Macroeconomic developments in Thailand during 1982/83 were dominated
by a number of external factors, in particular, the worldwide recession in
1982 and gradual recovery in 1983. The average real growth rate of GDP for
1982/83 was about 5% p.a., and real income growth when adjusted for terms-of-
trade changes was even lower at about 2% p.a. and thus stagnant in per capita
terms. This lower than historical economic growth performance was due to a
combination of high real interest rates at home and abroad, worldwide reces-
sion and thus much lower export prices and growth, and a relatively slow
growth in agricultural production due to poor weather and low commodity
prices. As a result of weak domestic demand in 1982, lower international
prices, and an appreciating exchange rate, domestic inflation dropped from 13%
in 1981 to below 4% in 1983.
8.        The growth of export value and volume also slowed considerably dur-
ing this period. In 1983, export value actually dropped by 6%, as a result of
a poor 1982/83 crop year, a revival of domestic demand, an appreciating effec-
tive exchange rate (especially in relation to Thailand's main competitors),
and international trade restrictions affecting selected Thai export products
(especially tapioca, sugar, tin and textiles). Imports, on the other hand,
which had declined in 1982 in line with a slump in domestic investment and
destocking, resumed rapid growth in 1983 because of a revival in domestic
private demand in the face of lower interest rates and high banking liquidity
and, possibly, as a result of exceptional accumulation of stocks driven by
expectations of an impending devaluation of the baht. A continued high public
investment-savings gap added to the excess demand. Given these trade develop-
ments, the current account deficit, which had reached a low of only about 3%
of GDP in 1982, rebounded to 5.6% of GDP in 1983 according to preliminary
estimates, and may in fact prove to have exceeded 6% of GDP once final figures
are available. Since late 1983, the Government has taken steps to control the



- 4 -
recovery. Tax measures were taken to reduce the prospective budgetary gap for
FY83/84, public expenditure plans were trimmed and monetary conditions were
tightened. For 1984, the external balance is likely to improve, since a rela-
tively good harvest in the 1983/84 crop year and better international
commodity prices are expected to lead to an improved performance of Thailand's
traditional exports, while imports are likely to grow more modestly, as pri-
vate investment growth and restocking slow down, and as the public investment-
savings gap is reduced by higher levels of taxation and reduced expenditure
growth. However, continued implementation of the structural adjustment
program remains essential to restoring internal and external balance in the
Thai economy.
Development Constraints and Prospects
9.        During the 1980s, many of the positive factors which contributed to
Thailand's rapid economic growth and reduction in poverty over the preceding
two decades will continue to do so, including the relatively equitable distri-
bution of agricultural land, responsiveness of Thai farmers to improved tech-
nology, a good network of public infrastructure, and a dynamic private sector
in industry, agriculture and services. Substantial reductions in the rate of
population growth between the mid-1960s and late 1970s and discovery of domes-
tic gas and oil supplies are further positive factors which will support the
continued rapid development of Thailand.
10.       Against these favorable factors, however, a number of important con-
straints must be recognized and addressed: (a) For the longer term, the
exhaustion of agricultural land reserves could severely limit employment
growth and exports of the agricultural sector, unless rapid, labor-intensive
agricultural development proceeds. (b) Further industrial development,
exports and employment growth may similarly be limited unless the interna-
tional competitiveness and diversification of Thai industry are strengthened
through correct incentives and support for marketing, finance and technologi-
cal developments. (c) Despite the promising outlook for domestic energy
resources, their development is costly and will take time, and thus continued
efforts in energy conservation are required. (d) The decline in the popula-
tion growth rate appears to have slowed in recent years; further reductions
will require innovative policies. (e) Continued long-term development and
poverty alleviation will also depend on continued efforts in human resource
development, including education, technical skill development, and improve-
ments in health and nutrition. (f) The pace of development will increasingly
be hampered by inefficient metropolitan growth in Bangkok, unless steps are
taken to rationalize the city's land use and transport, water drainage and
sanitation systems; Thailand's secondary cities, too, require strengthening of
their infrastructure and administrative capabilities to prepare them for the
expected future growth in urban population. (g) Finally, the rapid growth of
Thailand's public sector over the last decade, particularly of major state
enterprises, without commensurate growth in public resource mobilization, has
posed a serious challenge to improvements in institutional and fiscal
management.
11.       These long-term economic development concerns have been compounded
by medium-term adjustment problems as a result of the two oil price shocks and



- 5 -
the subsequent world recession accompanied by poor export prospects and high
real interest rates. Economic projections carried out for the recent Economic
Report indicate that continued implementation of the Government's program for
structural adjustment should make it possible to restore external balance for
the economy during the Fifth Plan period. Over the medium term, however, the
slower growth of GDP (6% p.a. for the remainder of the 1980s compared with
7.4% achieved in the latter half of the 1970s) while still better than that of
most other developing countries, will make it more difficult to increase
employment and to reduce the incidence of poverty and regional inequalities,
and heighten the need for policies which raise the labor absorption of Thai
development, and for continued efforts in the areas of human capital develop-
ment and rural development.
12.       To assist it in realizing the objectives of the Fifth Plan, the
Government has sought the assistance of the IMF and the Bank. During the past
three years, Thailand made purchases from the IMF under a compensatory financ-
ing facility (SDR 186 million), a buffer stock financing facility (SDR 58 mil-
lion), and two standby arrangements with total purchases of SDR 617 million,
under these two arrangements). With regard to the Bank, the Government sought
assistance in implementing its structural adjustment program through two
structural adjustment loans. The first such loan was approved by the Execu-
tive Directors on March 2, 1982; the second loan was approved on March 31,
1983. The Government has also expressed its interest in obtaining Bank
assistance in preparing the Sixth Five Year Plan (1987-91). The country
economic and sector work program for Thailand has been structured accordingly.
Financing Requirements
13.       While the Government is making considerable efforts to improve the
efficiency and effectiveness of its spending, the implementation of policies
needed for a satisfactory rate of economic and social progress will require
continued growth in the absolute level of public expenditures, though they are
expected to drop somewhat in relation to GDP. In order to reduce the public
investment-savings gap to sustainable levels, much greater efforts will be
required to mobilize domestic resources than in the past. The Government's
domestic revenue, as a percentage of GDP (about 14% for 1978 to 1980), is low
compared to that of other developing countries at similar levels of develop-
ment. Recently, the Government has taken steps to revise the tax structure
and to improve collections with resultant improvements in the revenue/GDP
ratio. Further tax measures are planned, particularly in the area of improved
tax administration and structure. In addition, the financial situation of
state enterprises, which has stabilized in the wake of tariff increases since
1980 and cutbacks in overly ambitious investment programs, will need further
improvement. The Government is currently reviewing appropriate policies to
advise a more efficient and financially viable state enterprise sector.
14.       Despite these fiscal policy measures and the ambitious structural
adjustment policies to be implemented in the agriculture, industry and energy
sectors, the demand for external resources will increase. Macroeconomic
projections indicate that the current account deficit will remain at levels of
about $1.5 billion per annum through most of the 1980s, while declining as a
share of GDP. Even the realization of this target will require large amounts



- 6 -
of external borrowing, totaling about $30 billion over the period 1984-90, of
which about 45% is expected to be in the form of public and publicly guaran-
teed debt. Assuming a significant level of concessional assistance, total
delét -service payments as a percentage of exports of goods and nonfactor
2ervices will rise from 15.4% in 1980 to 19.6% in 1990, reaching a peak of
2..3% in 1987 (including repurchases from the IMF).  Given the diversification
3frhai commodity exports and the continued expansion of agricultural and
£.aLo;.&ct-ared exports expected as a result of appropriate structural adjustment
l-czies, these debt service requirements should be sustainable.
15,       Official donors, particularly the Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund
cf Jaoan and the development banks, have been expanding their programs to meet
a larger part of Thailand's growing public resource requirements. The rest
has been financed mainly through syndicated loans and bond issues. The
C-o)ernient has established a Foreign Loan Policy Committee to coordinate and
approve all foreign borrowing by the public sector. The Bank of Thailand is
7u,lprovin-g its procedures for recording private borrowing abroad in order to
keep Lrack of total foreign debt.  External agencies, including the Bank
.!ro p, have in recent years increasingly concentrated on project lending to
tlOailand in some sectors that have high social benefits but low foreign
exc( a[rig2 savings or earnings. To achieve the level of external resource
Lrrnstfers that is now required, it is necessary, in selected projects where
rhe foi:eign exchange component is low, to finance some local currency expen-
d1 [u res .
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THAILAND
if1       Thailand first borrowed from the Bank Group in 1950 for a railway
project and, as of March 31, 1984, had received 78 IBRD loans (including two
-hi-od-window loans) and six IDA credits, totaling (net of cancellations)
'3,302 million in loans and $125 million in credits. As of that date, $1,264
Am lllion remained undisbursed on effective loans and credits. No IDA credits
have bee-n extended to Thailand since FY79. Annex II contains a summary state-
aena:- of Bank loans, IDA credits, and IFC investments.
','7      The sectoral distribution of Bank loans and IDA credits, in
D-rcentage, has been as follows:  28% for energy; 26% for agriculture and
-u-ral development; 16% for transportation; 9% for telecommunications; 4% for
uruan development; 5% for education; 2% for industry; 1% for
populaticn/health/ nutrition; and 9% for structural adjustment lending.
3-verall implementation of Bank projects in Thailand has improved steadily
dulrng the past five years. Thailand's disbursement ratio increased from
7o in 1977 to 31.6% in 1983.  These rates compare well with other
coruntries. In 1983, for example, the ratios for two comparator countries, the
èPh' "ppines and Morocco, were 19.4% and 17.9%, respectively.
1l8.      Over the past six years, the Bank has shifted its lending in
r. h-land from a program dominated by investments in traditional infrastructure
pojc4cs (accounting for over 80% of the lending through FY75) to a program
wh-ch places increasing emphasis on assisting the Government in its efforts to



reach the poorer segments of its population more directly. Since FY76,
investments in transportation, power, water supply, telecommunications and
industry have accounted for about 65% of Bank Group lending and about half of
these, in dollar terms, were for projects specifically designed to benefit the
rural population. The proportion of Bank lending to the agricultural/rural
development sector has trebled, accounting for about 25% of lending operations
since FY76. The design of projects in this sector has also changed, from
exclusively large irrigation projects to a more balanced program covering
irrigation (including land development and support services to the farmer) and
a variety of innovative projects to assist farmers outside the central flood
plain (rubber replanting, livestock, agricultural extension, research and
credit). Projects in the social sectors which, prior to FY76, were limited to
three in education, accounting for 5% of the lending program, have both diver-
sified and grown. In recent years education, population and low-income
housing projects have accounted for about 10% of the program.
19.       For the future, the Bank's assistance objectives are to support the
Government's development efforts, as articulated in its Fifth Five-Year Plan,
to address: (a) the long-term issues of alleviation of poverty, promotion of
employment, and reduction of income disparities; and (b) the medium-term issue
of restructuring the Thai economy through the intensification of agriculture,
efficient development of the industrial sector, promotion of domestic energy
conservation and development, increased mobilization of public resource, and
improvement of institutional capacity in the public sector. In addition to
these two broad objectives, Bank assistance in Thailand also aims at moving
from project-specific to sectoral lending, especially in agriculture, indus-
try, energy, and education, and at strengthening the local Thai capacity for
policy formulation and analysis.
20.       In implementing this strategy, projects in the areas of agriculture
and rural development will seek to generate employment and income growth par-
ticularly among the poorer farm households in the rainfed areas of the country
and will support the structural adjustment process by aiming at continued
growth of agricultural production and exports through intensification. Lend-
ing for transport and communications will increasingly aim at expanding the
rural road system and thus support agricultural and rural development for the
medium and longer term. In the urban development and human resources sectors,
Bank lending will be geared to strengthening the long-term capacity of
Thailand to transform itself efficiently from a primarily agricultural and
rural economy to a relatively more industrial and urban economy, while also
supporting the Government's goal to address basic human needs in the more
disadvantaged rural and urban areas of the country. Lending in the energy and
industry sectors will be designed to support structural adjustment and growth
through the efficient development and utilization of domestic energy resources



-8-
and the strengthening of the financial infrastructure. Finally, structural
adjustment lending will strengthen the Government's structural adjustment
program through studies, development of action programs, and policy actions in
the areas of agriculture, industry, energy, fiscal policy, and institutional
development.
21.       Bank loans and IDA credits to Thailand, disbursed and outstanding,
amounted to $1,725.6 million as of March 31, 1984. Thailand's Bank and IDA
debt disbursed and outstanding accounted for 17.6% of its total debt (dis-
bursed and outstanding), while the Bank Group's share of Thailand's total debt
service payments amounted to 10.0% in 1983. This is not excessive in view of
Thailand's modest overall external debt (22.4% of GDP in 1981) and the stable
shares of Bank Group debt in total debt, and of Bank Group debt service in
total debt service.
22.       As of March 31, 1984, IFC had made eighteen commitments totalling
$177.0 million in thirteen projects in Thailand. IFC's investments have been
primarily in industry and in the development of financial institutions aimed
at mobilizing domestic resources and providing financing to smaller enter-
prises. Prospects for increased IFC operations in Thailand have been enhanced
by expanding private sector investment activity, and consultations with the
Government have identified several areas where IFC's assistance may be
needed. IFC is focusing its activities on projects based on natural
resources. Recent investments were made in a tantalum smelter and chemical
plant to process slags from the tin smelter and in an aquaculture project to
breed and grow shrimp and fish. IFC has also invested in a pilot company to
develop the petrochemical complex that will utilize the ethane/propane from
the gas separation plant being built with World Bank assistance. Under con-
struction is a cement expansion project geared for the domestic market.
PART III - SECTORAL CONTEXT
Government Land Policy and Legal Framework
23.       Historically all land in Thailand belonged, at least theoretically,
to the King. Widespread forest clearing, settlement and cultivation were,
however, tolerated with few restrictions and little government control until
comparatively recent times. Traditionally, when land was readily available
and agricultural activity was directed towards subsistence, any Thai citizen
could claim up to 25 rai (4 ha) to provide for his family, and rights to use
land were by custom rather than formally recorded.
24.        Today, many Thai villagers continue to regard unoccupied forests or
abandoned lands as community resources to which they retain access rights.
However, ecological concern about the steadily shrinking forest cover and
about population expansion, coupled with increasing Government involvement,
has led to greater concern with the legality of settlements in public lands,
particularly forest reserves, and to a modern system of land administration
designed to control land use, determine ownership and generate revenues from
land. The enactment of the Land Code of 1954 provided the Government with an



- 9 -
effective legal framework for achieving these aims. The Department of Lands
(DOL) in the Ministry of Interior has the prime responsibility for execution
of the code.
25.       The Code recognizes four forms of private ownership documents
confirming rights to land. A Title Deed indicates full ownership, and is
supported by a deed plan showing the position of boundary markstones surveyed
by ground methods. A Certificate of Utilization proves that the person named
as owner has put the land to use. A Preemptive Certificate authorizes
temporary occupation of land. A Claim Certificate indicates a claim lodged by
a person who was in possession and had made use of the land prior to 1954, the
effective date of the Land Code. Documents for State Land are issued to other
Government agencies in the case of land for public purpose. In addition,
other forms of documents, not provided for under the Land Code, are issued by
other Government agencies for private land.  This variety of titles,
certificates and licenses issued by various agencies has complicated land
documentation.
Land Use and Ownership
26.       Data on land occupancy are at best approximate, but it would be safe
to assume that about 26.0 million ha or 51% of Thailand's total area of 51.3
million ha is now permanently occupied by private individuals. Only 3.0
million ha of this total are covered by title deeds while a further 10.5
million ha are covered by certificates of utilization. A further 6.6 million
ha are "undocumented" private lands. This includes land held by license in
settlement schemes, on preemptive or claims certificates, or by individuals
without any document who may, however, qualify for grant of title under the
Land Code. In addition, possibly 6 million ha of forest, wildlife and
national park are under illegal occupation, 4 million ha of which appear to be
suitable for permanent agriculture.
27.       The inadequacy of land titling in Thailand has created a host of
land-related problems affecting both the rural and urban sectors.  These
problems include inappropriate land use classification, increasing numbers of
landless, increasing tenancy especially in rural areas, illegal cultivation in
government reserves, lack of secure tenure for many land occupiers who have
possessory rights, a high rate of squatter settlement in rural and urban
areas, and increasing concern about soil erosion and general environmental
degradation as shown most dramatically by loss of forest cover in the
mountainous regions and increased flooding in the plains.
28.       An awareness of the potential seriousness of these problems, and of
their inter-relationship, led the Government to set up a land policy
subcommittee of the National Rural Development Committee in 1980. This
subcommittee commissioned a land policy and use study which recommended, inter
alia, an acceleration in the rate of issuance of secure rights to land, a
general improvement in the mode of operation of DOL, and a rationalization of
the entire approach to land rights documentation and administration. The
proposed project would support activities which promote these goals.



- 10 -
Land Use Policies and Programs for Agriculture and the Rural Sector
29.       About 40 million of Thailand's 47 million people live in rural areas
where there are about 5 million farm and 1.8 million nonfarm households. In
1980, agriculture contributed about 26% of GDP and 58% of exports, and
provided full- or part-time employment for more than 70% of the country's
labor force. Agricultural production (GDP in constant terms) in Thailand grew
at an annual rate of about 5% during 1960-80, an exceptional performance by
international standards. Furthermore, in the past two decades, the relatively
even distribution of farm holdings and the strong agricultural performance
have contributed to a substantial reduction in rural poverty. In recent
years, however, growth of agricultural production has been falling. The
deterioration occurred primarily because earlier growth had been achieved
through expansion of the cultivated area, often into forested areas but, more
recently, poorer marginal lands increasingly came under cultivation and
average yields, which were always relatively low, decreased further.
30.       The main objectives of the Government in the sector are:  (a) to
alleviate rural poverty and redress regional income disparities; and (b) to
increase agricultural production while avoiding deterioration of the
environment. The Fifth Plan target for the growth of agricultural production
is 3.i5% per year. If natural resources are to be preserved and deforestation
in watershed areas contained, this growth rate would only be approached
through increased productivity of the areas under cultivation through yield
improvement and increased cropping intensity. The Government is committed to
support the intensification of agricultural production by improving rural
infrastructure, increasing incentives for intensification and establishing a
land use policy to allow better utilization of the areas suitable for
cultivation. The Bank fully supports the broad outline of the Government's
objectives and strategies; its lending program for Thailand's agricultural
sector is geared to strengthening the technical and infrastructural bases for
improving production, alleviating poverty and expanding the Government's
overall capacity for project planning, coordination and implementation.
31.       A major objective of the Government's development effort is the
issuance of title deeds to all legitimate occupiers of land. The Government
aims to increase the area of occupied land held under secure title and
rationalize land documentation by accelerating the rate of survey and issuance
of titles, and converting certificates of utilization to title deeds through a
20-year program. The program would focus on all eligible landowners in
permanently occupied land outside forest reserves. The 20-year time frame is
considered feasible, and the proposed project would support the first five-
year phase of the program in parts of the North and Northeast.
32.       The proposed project would complement titling efforts begun under
three current Bank projects.  The Land Reform Areas Project (Loan 2198-TH) and
the Land Reclassification Program included in the First and Second Structural
Adjustment Loans (Loans 2097-TH and 2356-TH) are assisting the Government to
proceed along two complementary routes leading, as part of its development
effort, to the eventual full titling of encroached forest reserve areas that
are suitable for agriculture.



- 11 -
Land Use Policies for the Urban Sector
33.       The main land-related problem in urban areas is the condition of
urban cadastres which are currently incomplete, out of date, damaged, or too
small in scale for most practical purposes. This is significant since an
accurate record of landholdings is needed not only to formulate sound develop-
ment programs but also as a means to mobilize sufficient resources to imple-
ment them. Since cross-referencing an accurate cadastre of landholdings is
the most effective means of preparing and maintaining complete and accurate
landed property tax rolls, the Government is now unable to tax real property
effectively in urban areas, and is thus losing revenues which could be
channelled to urban development.
34.       The Government has recognized this problem and has planned a 10-year
program to remap the urban cadastres to improve the information base and thus
enable faster, more efficient, and sounder public investment. In addition, by
allowing constant updating of the cadastres, the urban remapping would improve
security of tenure and related access to private credit investment. The
proposed project would support the first as well as motivation of five years
of the program.
Rationale for Bank Involvement
35.       Bank support for this project is justified because it clearly
furthers Government and Bank sectoral objectives described above. The project
would promote needed institutional development and technologies which would
hasten achievement of these objectives. Alternative financing is not readily
available from other sources.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
36.       The proposed project was identified in the course of Government-Bank
sector dialogue and was prepared by Department of Lands (DOL) staff assisted
by a consultant team financed by the Australian Development Assistance
Bureau. Appraisal took place in March 1983 and the loan was negotiated in
Washington in April, 1984 by a Government team led by Mr. Siri Keiwalinsrit,
Director General, DOL. The Staff Appraisal Report (No. 4627-TH, dated May 18,
1984) is being distributed separately. Supplementary project data are
provided in Annex III of this report.
Project Objectives
37.       The main objectives of the project are two-fold:  the first is to
extend the benefits of secure land ownership to a larger portion of the
public. Secure tenure is an essential precondition for economic
development. This extension would be achieved by increasing the capability of
DOL to accelerate its rate of issuance of tile deeds and improve the quality
of its service to the public in the area of land administration.
38.       The project's second important objective is to rationalize cadastral



- 12 -
survey, mapping and documentation in a timely manner in order to compile a
complete national cadastre. The project would accomplish this by integrating
cadastral mapping into the national topographic grid and by converting land
documentation into one uniform and simplified system.  By improving the
quality and extending the coverage of the cadastral base, the RTG would have a
better tool for planning and managing a wide range of infastructure and other
aspects of community development. In particular, accurate records of titles
would provide a secure base for land valuation and the equitable collection of
landed property taxes.
Brief Description
39.       The project would include the following components:
(a) an accelerated program of new, and revision of existing cadastral
mapping in rural areas;
(b) an accelerated program of cadastral remapping in urban areas;
(c) a land improvement program, complementary to and dependent on the
cadastral mapping programs;
(d) strengthening of the National Valuation Authority (NVA) through the
provision of technical assistance and training including the
establishment of a two year course at the Bangkok Institute of
Technology; and
(e) general institution building, mainly through the provision of
technical assistance and training to the administrative support
divisions of DOL.
Project Areas
40.       The project's main component is the rural mapping program which
would start in the southern third of the Northeast Region and the western half
of the upper Northern Region. These are considered to be the main project
areas. The provinces included in the component are those which have the most
immediate need. The two areas are relatively poor and include districts
designated for special assistance through the Rural Poverty Program. The
provinces are grouped into contiguous blocks for technical survey reasons and
economies of scale.
41.       The urban remapping component and valuation activities of the NVA
would cover a major portion of Bangkok and a selection of provincial cities.
The land administration component would be concentrated in the North and
Northeast project areas, although land offices outside these areas would also
be assisted. General institution building would be carried out at DOL
Headquarters in Bangkok.



- 13 -
Detailed Description
42.       An accelerated program of new, and revision of existing cadastral
mapping in rural areas would be carried out on a scale of 1:4,000, based on
improved survey and mapping technology (satellite positioning, electronic
distance measuring, analytical photogrammetric plotting and digitized map
production). The series would cover all rural land parcels within the
designated project areas, whether privately or publicly owned. The annual
production rate of new maps under this program would be raised from a current
500 to about 3,300 by the fourth project year.
43.       An accelerated program of cadastral remapping in urban areas would
also be undertaken on scales of 1:1,000 or 1:500. The project would support
the first five-year phase of a ten-year urban remapping program, using new
teclhnology but based on larger-scale aerial photography and producing
rectified photomaps on larger scales. About 70% of these maps would cover
Bangkok and the remainder would cover selected provincial cities. The
cadastral map sheets and records produced under both the rural and urban
programs would be available for inspection by the public on request, and
copies would be obtained by other government agencies for official purposes
(Section 3.04 of the draft Loan Agreement).
44.       A new surveying system and mapping technology would be introduced in
both the urban and rural mapping components in order to rationalize the
present system and expedite mapping progress. At present, cadastral surveying
is carried out according to two distinct systems based on many independently
determined origins. The situation is confusing, and would become worse if the
existing surveys were extended until the separate map series overlap. Under
the project all mapping would conform to one common origin and would be
related to the grid squares of the 1:50,000-scale national topographic series.
45.       The technology now being used by DOL is a mix of rectified photo-
grammetric and labor-intensive methods of aerial triangulation, distance
measurement and map preparation. If the present technology were used, a very
substantial, more than four-fold, increase in field staff would be required to
complete the rural mapping in 20 years and the urban remapping in 10 years.
Such an increase would create major, possibly insurmountable, management
problems. The alternative of introducing improved technology to substitute
for the highly labor-intensive activities involved in the present system would
therefore be supported under the project.
46.       Although new to Thailand, the improved technology is well estab-
lished in other countries. The risks associated with its introduction in DOL
would be reduced by a comprelhensive program of specialist assistance,
training, building construction and procurement carried out under the project,
with particular emphasis on the first two years of project implementation.
Consultants to assist in cadastral program coordination, planning and
specialist instruction would be backed up by appropriate training programs and
overseas visits. In particular, surveyor training courses at the Bangkok
Institute of Technology and Chulalongkorn University would be strengthened
through the provision of consultant lecturers. The consultant personnel
engaged in training would work in close counterpart relationship with DOL



- 14 -
Training Section staff and with lecturers in the above educational institu-
tions. The qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
of all consultants would be satisfactory to the Bank, and consultants to be
financed from the Bank loan would be selected in accordance with Bank guide-
lines. Local expertise would be adequate to meet future training requirements
of DOL after the consultants are phased out at the end of the project.
47.       Complementary to and dependent upon the rural and urban cadastral
mapping programs would be a land administration improvement program. This
would include: (a) determination of exact areas of land parcels and issue of
full title in less-than-fully-documented lands, and conversion of certificates
of utilization to full titles; (b) decentralization of the land register from
provincial to district level; and (c) staff strengthening and a building and
equipment program to support the expanded work program.
48.       All eligible owners of land parcels surveyed would be issued titles
or preemptive certificates in the case of private lands, and documents for
state land in the case of public lands (Section 3.03(a) and (d) of the draft
Loan Agreement). A change in the Land Code would be necessary before certifi-
cates of utilization can be converted into full title deeds without the need
for resurvey and the necessary legislative amendment has been drafted.
Government would take all necessary actions by October 1, 1985, to permit the
introduction of the title conversion program in year two of the project
(Section 3.03(c) of the draft Loan Agreement). Government would also ensure
that usufructuary licenses issued by other Government agencies (see para. 25)
within the project areas are replaced by documents valid under the Land Code
(Section 3.03(b) of the draft Loan Agreement).
49.       The titling and decentralization activities would be supported by
staff strengthening and a building and equipment program. The additional
staff would deal with routine land office business, mainly registration of
dealings including transfers, mortgages, subdivisions, etc., for the new
titles and for the existing titles whiclh would be transferred from the
provincial land offices.
50.       The building and equipment program would include 15 new district
land offices and expansion of 23 existing district land offices, and 135 staff
houses, all within the main project areas. In addition, 264 strongrooms would
be constructed for improved safekeeping of documents in provincial and
selected district offices both in and outside the main project area. A new
five-story building for the Surveyor-General's office, to accommodate the
mapping equipment and staff needed for the accelerated surveying and mapping
programs, would be built in Bangkok. Loan effectiveness would be conditional
on DOL's having approved preliminary designs satisfactory to the Bank for this
mapping building (Section 6.01(a) of the draft Loan Agreement). The building
will be completed by September 30, 1986 (Section 3.09(a) of the draft Loan
Agreement).
51.       The project would strengthen the National Valuation Authority (NVA)
through the provision of 72 man-months of technical assistance to the NVA, 324
student-months of fellowship training, and 59 man-months of short term
overseas visits to organizations involved in property valuation. In addition,



- 15 -
a two-year full-time diploma course in valuation, the first in Thailand, wouli
be introduced at the Bangkok Institute of Technology. Technical assistance in
the form of two valuation lecturers to assist wi-h syllabus preparation and
instruction would be provided for a total of seven man-years.
52..      General institution building would be effected mainly through the
provision of technical assistance and training to the administrative support
divisions of DOL. In-service training programs would be strengthened and
expanded, and fellowships in public administration, and short courses in
management, finance and computerization would be offered.
53.       An Organization, Management and Operations Study would also be
carried out by management consultants. With the proposed expansion of DOL
operations, a review of the Department is needed to enable it to correct
present or possible future weaknesses arising from an overcentralized checking
and control system and a disproportionately heavy concentration of staff in
the Bangkok headquarters, and to ensure that it can bear the burden of its
increased responsibilities through the 1980s and 1990s. Accordingly, the
services of consultants are required to review the present situation and to
make recommendations for the future, including recommendations for computeri-
zation. The terms of reference for the study will be satisfactory to the Bank
and a report on this study would be furnished to the Bank by October 1, 1985
(Section 3.09(b) and (c) of the draft Loan Agreement).
54.       Evaluation of the socioeconomic impact of the project would be an
important part of this component. If the evaluation is able to measure
benefits of this project, it may provide an evaluation methodology model and a
basis for cost-benefit analysis of future cadastral projects in Thailand and
elsewhere. It would thus assist participating agencies in planning and
justifying cadastral activities. When complete, the socioeconomic evaluation
would be incorporated into the project Completion Report prepared by DOL's
Project Administration Unit.
Organization and Implementation
55.       The DOL, in the Ministry of Interior, is administered by a Director-
General assisted by four deputies, one of whom is designated Surveyor-
General. Since its formation in 1901 DOL has been responsible for all aspects
of land registration, particularly cadastral survey and mapping and registra-
tion of rights to land throughout the country. In 1981 a National Valuation
Authority was established within DOL.  Revenue, which amounted to $64.9
million in FY82, arid coaes principally from -egistratin fees for land sales
and mortgages, is more than double the annual departmental expenditure.
56.       All project components would be executed by DOL except for the
survey and valuation training courses, for which the Bangkok Institute of
Technology (BIT) and Chulalongkorn University would be responsible. The
Director-General, DOL, would have overall responsibility for project implemen-
tation and would be designated Deputy Project Director. They would be
assisted by a Project Implementation Coordinator and additional administrative
and support staff of DOL's recently established Project Administration Unit.
The existing operations divisions of DOL would undertake implementation.



- 16 -
57.       A Project Executive Committee, chaired by a Deputy Under-Secretary,
Ministry of Interior, would be responsible for overall formulation of policy
and coordination with other government agencies. Within DOL a Project
Administration Committee, chaired by the Project Director, would be respon-
sible for overseeing general progress of the project. Establishment of the
project committees with compositions, functions and responsibilities satisfac-
tory to the Bank would be a condition of loan effectiveness (Sections 3.08 and
6.01(b) of the draft Loan Agreement). An existing Valuation Subcommittee of
the National Land Allocation Commission, chaired by the Director-General, DOL,
would be responsible for coordination among the agencies concerned with the
valuation component. The position of Chief Valuer would at all times be
occupied by qualified and competent persons.
58.       Staffing Requirements.  The project would require an increase in
staff of some 1,490 civil servants and 190 permanent unskilled employees and
1,350 temporary laborers. Some 410 of the permanent positions would be
supplied by transfers, thus reducing the net increase in DOL civil servants tQ
1,080 during the 5-year project period, or 12% above the current staffing
level. DOL would recruit or transfer the incremental project staff required
in a timely manner (Section 3.01 of the draft Loan Agreement). Recruitment
would not present a problem.
Project Costs and Financing
59.       Total project cost in 1984 prices is estimated at $76.0 million, of
which $25.5 million, or 34%, would be in foreign exchange. Taxes of about
$5.9 million (8%) are included in the project costs. Cost estimates are based
on quantity and unit price estimates prepared by DOI and BIT; unit price
estimates are in line with Budget Bureau guidelines and recent civil works
contracts. Physical contingencies of 10% have been applied to all cost
items. Price contingencies amount to 23% of total base costs plus physical
contingencies, assuming the following rates of price increase:, 6.5% in 1984
and 6% in 1985-90 for domestic costs and 7.5% in 1984, 7% in 1985 and 6% in
1986-90 for foreign costs.
60.       The project includes a total of 432 man-months of long term foreign
consultants. Short term services would require an additional 57 man-months of
foreign consultants, and 109 man-months of local consultants (several of whom
would be graduate students). The project also includes some 624 man-months of
graduate study at an average cost of $600 per man-month and 210 man-months of
overseas visits and short courses at an average cost of $3,000 per man-
month. All technical assistance and overseas training would be administered
and financed by the Australian Development Assistance Bureau (ADAB).
61.       The proposed Bank loan of $35.0 million (including capitalized
front-end fee of $87,282) amounts to 50% of project financing requirements net
of taxes, consistent with the objectives of the Bank's Special Action Pro-
gram. The proposed loan would cover $16.5 million (64%) of the foreign
exchange requirement plus $18.5 million of local requirements. The level of
local currency financing is justified in order to gain a significant share in
project financing by the Bank and to achieve a desirable level of resource
transfer. The Bank loan would include up to US$72,000 in retroactive finan-



- 17 -
cing for the architectural design of the new mapping building in Bangkok. The
Australian Develcp,uent Assistau,:E bureau (ADAB) will provide $9.1 million
(13%) uf total project financing net of taxes (36%) of the foreign exchange
requirement, for technical assistance and training. The technical assistance
and overseas training will be administered and financed by ADAB, with the
exception of the socio-economic study. ADAB financing is expected to be
finalized not later than September 30, 1984. The Government would provide
$26.1 million (37%) of project financing.
62.       The Government would provide DOL with adequate annual budgets to
meet counterpart funding requirements for the project. On average the
Government's contribution to the project would require an increase in real
terms of 20% in the annual budget allocation to DOL during the project period
compared to current allocations.
Procurement
63.       Contracts for civil works in the main project areas, totaling $7.6
million, would generally be small and scattered in time and place. The
contract for the new mapping building in Bangkok, costing about $2.5 million,
would attract keen bidding from Bangkok-based construction firms. Retroactive
financing up to $72,000 will be provided by the Bank for 100% of architectural
design services for the new mapping building. The above contracts would not
be of interest to international contractors, and they would be awarded on the
basis of local competitive bidding (LCB) in accordance with Government proce-
dures acceptable to the Bank. Contracts for vehicles, equipment, furniture,
materials and supplies are estimated to total $18.0 million. Those contracts
for vehicles and equipment, materials and supplies estimated to exceed
$250,000 would be awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding in
accordance with Bank guidelines. All other contracts would be awarded on the
basis of LCB in accordance with Government procedures acceptable to the
Bank. Procurement for land administration civil works specific to the project
area districts would be approved only after DOL demonstrates to the Bank that
the district in question would have more than 25,000 parcels after the
completion of ground survey and conversion.
64.       Aerial photography, estimated to cost $1.1 million, would be carried
out annually by the Royal Thai Survey Department (RTSD) on a force account
basis. The Bank accepts the force account arrangements because (a) the RTSD has
considerable experience in this type of photography and has the required
equipment, staff and adequate capacity; (b) the aerial photography work must be
split into relatively small, annual packages which would be unlikely to
attract reputable commercial companies; and (c) protracted contract negotiations
near the start of the government fiscal year would make it difficult to take
advantage of the narrow time window of November-December when flying
conditions are ideal.
65.       To provide flexibility for the purchase of small items (urgent
requirements and miscellaneous consumable supplies) prudent shopping, with a
normal minimum of three quotations, would be applied for items each costing
$25,000 or less, in an aggregate amount not exceeding $2.0 million. All bid
packages estimated to cost $500,000 equivalent or more for civil works, and



- 18 -
$100,000 equivalent or more for vehicles, equipment, goods or supplies would
be subject to prior review by the Bank, as would final award of contracts in
these categories. This would represent prior review by the Bank of about 70%
of total contract values. A preference margin limited to 15% of the c.i.f.
price of imported goods or the prevailing customs duty, whichever is lower,
would be extended to local manufacturers in the evaluation of bids.
Disbursement
66.       Disbursements would be at the rate of 100% of the foreign exchange
costs of directly imported equipment, vehicles and furniture; 100% of the ex-
factory cost of equipment, vehicles and furniture manufactured locally or 65%
of other locally procured equipment; 55% of other locally procured vehicles;
and 90% of other locally procured furniture. The rate of disbursement would
be 85% of expenditure for civil works; 100% for aerial photography and
architect/engineering consultants; and 55% of the incremental recurrent costs
of the rural and urban mapping components (These would exclude salaries of
staff transferred within DOL.). Disbursements for DOL staff salaries,
allowances and other non-procurable incremental recurrent mapping expenditures
would be made on the basis of statements of expenditure. The Bank would not
accept reimbursement applications for less than an estimated $20,000
equivalent. It is expected that disbursement would be completed by September
30, 1990 and Loan Closing would be by September 30, 1991. The project does
not fit into a normal sectoral disbursement profile because it is multi-
sectoral. The disbursement schedule is therefore based on the overall profile
for Thailand projects.
Accounts and Audit Requirements
67.       DOL and BIT would maintain separate accounts covering all financial
transactions related to project activities and would prepare annual statements
of receipts and expenditures based on these accounts. Auditors satisfactory
to the Bank would be employed to audit these accounts annually, and certified
copies of the audited financial statement and the auditors' report including
an opinion covering withdrawals made against statements of expenditure would
be submitted to the Bank within nine months of the end of the Government's
fiscal year (Section 4.02 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Benefits and Justification
68.       The main project benefits derive from greater individual security of
tenure, an improved national cadastre, and improved property valuation.
Although lack of data and statistical studies on cadastral projects currently
make it impossible to quantify project benefits, they are expected to be
substantial. Security of tenure is a crucial precondition for development, by
providing a framework for productive investment by land'aolders. With secure
tenure, farmers are more likely to plan and invest on a long-term basis,
especially in on-farm facilities, perennial crops, and soil fertility
improvement. Increased motivation to practice soil conservation would be
especially significant, since a high proportion of undocumented lands are in
upland areas. At the same time, landholders' access to institutional credit
would improve. Currently only those property owners with full title deed or



- 19 -
certificates of utilization can use their land as collateral for credit from
government and commercial banks. Those with lower-level certificates or
without documentation are limited to the informal ;redit markets where
borrowing terms are more expensive. Improved access to credit should in turn
make it more possible for landholders to invest. As agriculture in Thailand
moves from the extensive to the intensive mode, this encouragement of
investment is becoming increasingly important.
69.       The project would also increase government efficiency by rationaliz-
ing all cadastral mapping as well as land registration documentation into
consistent systems. The project would eliminate duplication of cadastral
surveys by various agencies; and should reduce delays in land acquisition for
Government and private projects. It would begin to provide an improved
valuation basis for landed property taxation, and would thus help to increase
government revenue substantially, especially for local municipalities. Since
property values increase in proportion to economic growth, the property taxes
provide an efficient way of financing new services which such growth requires,
and, being relatively progressive, would also generate revenue from those most
able to pay.
70.       An estimated 700,000 landholding families receiving secure title
would directly benefit from the project. While data on the relative income of
families with undocumented land is unavailable, perhaps as much as 50% would
be below the absolute poverty income level of $157 per capita p.a., since more
affluent landholders have already been able to obtain documentation. Poten-
tial income growth attributable to the project is impossible to estimate at
this time. However, the project socioeconomic study (para. 54) would attempt
to establish a basis for quantifying estimates in future projects.
Risks
71.       The level of risk associated with this project is low.  The various
participating agencies all support the project and are committed to its
objectives. The technical innovations in the project would not present
significant training problems. The main risk is that the project might be
delayed. Delays in construction of mapping facilities, ordering of
specialized equipment, or provision of adequate budget for field survey work,
could cause the entire implementation schedule to slip. The project design
therefore includes several safeguards against delay. Retroactive financing
for the design of the mapping facilities would help ensure timely civil works;
a major role for the consultants would be to advise DOL on tender and
procurement procedures for equipment; and Bank participation in financing
incremental operating costs of the mapping components would help alleviate
budget constraints.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
72.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Kingdom of Thailand and the
Bank and the report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section
4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank, are being distributed to the



- 20 -
Executive Directors separately. Besides the features of the Loan Agreement
which are referred to in the text and listed in Section III of Annex III,
additional conditions of effectiveness are:
(a) preliminary designs approved for construction of a new mapping
building for the Surveyor-General's office (para. 50); and
(b) establishment of a Project Executive Committee and a Project
Administration Committee (para. 57).
73.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan complies with the Articles of
Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
74.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Date: May 18, 1984
Washington, D.C.



ANNEX I
-21 -                                        Page 1 of 5
THAILAND                - SOCIA. INDICATORS DATA SHEET
HALAD                               REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED) AVEKAGES) /a
MOST                      (MOST RECENT ESTIMATIE) :b
RECENT   b        MIDDLE INCOME            MIODLE   CONME
196O./b     1970t b  ESTIMATE-         ASIA & PACIFIC        LAT. AMERICA & CARIB
AREA (THOUSAND SO. KM)
TOTAL                                 514.0       514.0        514.0
AGRICULTURAL                         129.5        141.2        182.8
GiP PER CAPITA (US5)                     110.0       250.0        770.0              1028.6                    2088.2
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PeR CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)        63.0        216.0       370.0               792.8                     1407.6
POPUiLATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION,MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)   27039.0       36431.0     47966.0
URBAN POPULATION (X OF TOTAL)         12.5         13.2         14.6                32.9                      1,5.9
POPULATION PKOJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILL)                                68.9
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILL)                                108.8
YEAR STATIONARY POP. REACHED                                 2105
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. K4.                         52.6         70.9        91.3               260.7                       35.6
PER Sq. KM. AGRI. LAiiD            20.8         258.1       25b.9              1696.5                       93.2
POPULATION ACE STRUCTrRE (X)
0-14 YKS                           44.7         46.Z        41.2                i9.4                       4u.1
15-64 YRS                           52.6         50.8        55.7                57.2                       55.8
65 AND ABOVE                         2.7          3.0          3.1                3.3                        4.1
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (X)
TOTAL                                2.7          3.0          2.5                 2.3                       2.3
URBAN                                4.5          3.5          3.4                3.9                        3.7
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUS)          43.6         39.7         29.5                31.3                      31.5
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUS)          14.9         10.8          7.6                 9.6                       8.1
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                 3.1         2.8          1.9                 2.0                       2.0
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUS)              ..       202.9/c    1063.3
USERS (X OF MARRIED WOMEN)             ..         7.6        59.0                46.b
FOOD AND IIJTIRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71=100)                         52.0        100.0       137.0               125.2                      113.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (X Of REQUIREMENTS)        99.0        101.0        104.0               114.2                     111.3
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)            45.0         49.0        47.0                57.9                       67.9
OF WHICH ANI;MAL AND PULSE         11.0         14.0         15.O/d             14.1                       34.1
CHILD (ACES 1-4) DEATH RATE           13.3          7.9         4.3                  7.b                       5.3
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECT. AT BERTH (YEARS)         52.3         57.9        63.1                60.2                       64.b
1NFANT MORT. RATE (PER THOUS)        103.0         74.6        53.1                68.1                       62.6
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (ZPOP)
TOTAL                                  ..        17.0         22.Oe              37.1                      64.8
URBAN                                 ..         60.0        49.07-7             54.8                       77.8
RURAL                                  ..        10.0         12.0/e             26.4                       44.3
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
(2 OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..         17.0         40.0/f             41.4                       54.6
URBAN                                 ..         65.0         58.d77             47.5                       69.8
RURAL                                  ..         8.0        36.07if              33.4                      29.8
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN            7950.0       8450.0      7180.0              7771.9                    1776.0
POP. PER NURSING PERSON             4860.O0/     7050.0      2420.0              2462.6                     1012.2
POP. PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             1380.0        900.0       820.0/e            1047.2                      477.0
URBAN                              270.0/1      180.0        530.077            651.1                      667.5
RURAL                            21530.D.1   13880.0       1280*.67            2591.9                     1921.6
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED              ..        31.0         44.8/e              27.0                      27.2
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                5.5/g        5.8          5.S/e
URBAN                                5. 3ij       5.8          s.s57e
RURAL                                5.6/g        5.8          S.S/e
AVERAGE NO. OF PERSONS/ROOM
TOTAL                                  ..          ..          2.4/e
URBAN                                 ..           ..         2 .27
RURAL                                  ..          ..           .4/
ACCESS TO ELECT. (X OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                  ..        18.9
URBAN                                 ..         86.1
RURAL                                 ..          9.0



ANNEX I
- 22 -                                          Page 2 of 5
THAILAND                  - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
TliAILAND                                 REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES) /a
MOST                         (MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) /b
1960/6  1   16  RECENT  /b           MI DOLE INCOME             MIDDLE INCOME
1960 -b      1970-  ESTIMATE-             ASIA & PACIFIC         LAT. AtiERICA & CARIB
&DDCAT1ON
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:   TOTAL                       83.0         83.0         96.U                LUL.2                       IV5.0
MALE                      88.U          86.0            ..               106.0                       106.B
FEMALE                    79.0          79.0           . .                97.5                       L03.6
SECONDARY: TOTAL                       13.0         17.0         29.0                 44.9                        40.0
MALE                      16.0          20.0            ..                50.0                        38.6
FEMALE                    10.0          15.0           ..                 44.6                        41.2
VOCATIONAL (% OF SECONDARY)              19.1         22.3          15.5                 18.5                       34.0
PUPlL-TEACIIER RATIO
PRLfARY                                36.0         35.0         24.0                 32.7                        30.7
SECONDARY                             20.0          16.0         23.0/d               23.4                        16.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (1)                  67.7         78.6         86.0                  72.9                       79.5
CONSUKPTION
PASSENGER CARS/THOUSAND POP               1.8          5.1           6.3/e                9.7                       45.6
RADIO RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP              6.0         76.2        125.9                 113.7                      228.2
TV RECgIVERS/TtlOUSAND POP                2.2          6.6          17.3                 50.1                      108.3
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION
PER THOUSAND POPULATION                 10.6         20.5         42.3                  54.0                       64.1
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE/CAPITA            ..          1.8/h          ..                  3.4                         2.9
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LASOR FORCE (TtiOUS)            13860.0      16987.0      23037.0
FEM,ALE (PERCENT)                     46.4          46.8         45.9                 33.b                        24.6
AGRICULfURE (PERCENT)                  84.0         80.0         76.0                 50.9                        31.3
INDUSTRY (PERCEST)                      4.U          6.0          9.0                 19.2                        23.9
PARTICIPATION RlATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                  51.3         46.6         48.0                 38.6                        31.3
MfALS                                  52.7         49.3         51.7                 50.7                        49.8
FEMALE                                49.8          43.9         44.3                 26.6                        14.8
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                 0.9          1.1          U.9                   1.1                         1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PfRCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
IIGCEST 5. OF tIOUSEHOLDS             21.8/         23.8/i       23.0/e               22.2
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHIOLDS            50.97t        49.77i       49.87e               48.0
LOWEST 20% OF H1OUSEHOLDS               6.2jj        6.17i        5.67W                6.4
LOWEST 40% OF HOUSElfOLDS              14.9         15.971       15.2.7?lS 15.5
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMfATED AbSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                    ..           ..        159.O/j              194.5                       289.8
RURAL                                    ..           ..        106.-o               155.0                       184.5
JSTIiIATEU RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS  EER CAPITA)
URBAN                                    ..           ..        11.  I              178.0                       519.8
RUAL                                     ..           ..        IIO.U                164.8                       372.1
EST`lHArED POP. BELUW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOM-E LEVEL (I)
URBAN                                    ..           ..         iS. O/               24.4
RURAL                                    ..           ..         34.07                41.1
..NOT AVAILABLE
NOT APPLICABLE
N O T E S
/a  The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries among che
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b  Unless otherwise noted, "Data for 1960" refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; "Data for 1970' between 1969 and
1971; and data for "Most Recent Estimate" between 1979 and 1981.
lc  Government program only; /d 1977; /e 1976; /f 1975; /g 1962; /h 1973; /i 1968; /j 1978.
May 1983



ANNEX I
- 23 -                                                                                 Page 3 of 5
DEFi91TlOflO OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
fOatna   Alabogh tArdata ae drau, tr    ..source   geneall  jud1gedthe - otatoialo           eibe  it shoul  als  be . out   tha  they aay cot be iroternat tonaly
delciAecrdars of ngioo indicate tren.ds, Al d cbr--iere   -erni sajor dliferencr  bet-ro                    ...
The refee 'egrup  are " I...c sane c ty group cf the Sub jrc  country and (2) a coutr  group airy  soraa  hlgh-ra-orag   ucetartrcunr-rap-                                        A
subectosotr  (uceh  or  cuA  Ico O'il5 Eop--`ec   grou.p shere "ntddl  In-o- norh dfrc J-ud  liddlie East' is chose  becue--              nugr  a  uclua
eteattd ic -uIatingaurg esofoeid i--t   nonothen.  These acraear  only ..aefn1lbI cuP.riou  the  -alse ot un dro                              l       i-a  o    fa   -soo  th. roate  and
AREA (thousand   q.k.)                                                                                Poua"o crPyli-c - P.pu-aticn dituled bp -ub-r uf pro-lio ug
T-Ita  -        VTnl  ufac  are  c-pinlig land are  and i,land aster;  961,                           phscan   ulitld  -oo a aedical sohuol at unie.s icy  soe
1970 sed 1900dt.PplrIcprhroo   tra      oua  o  druidad by  ubpcy                                                                                                        patcn
1900 co  190 Act,                                                                               poplatIon Per AsI'     al led - nural, 2rban,.Andrrl.  - Ppultl   (totl.l
urban, aod rura   dlcide  by  bl   epcic  oubor, opflbslfult teds
COP PER CIPITA (IIl) - hNP Per- c-pita  -ntlat-  at curet nakthe  prIces,                               a-cilb-  It public a-d P,iuegnrlndoe  o  edb iu   n
ca0,lcu 7ate  byd cas   --oneeo  s-tbd -a uo-d O-ob utlas (1979-81 basis);                            reabl...yrrntrs   ioninl   ore drtaP-ahei-d p-ersa1at   cc.be
ENIERGY CONsl(OpTION PEo CAPITA - A-oot opAet cJ-siP o   ooncl                                           e  clcotr   o   esacil   tf1db1 hsIin(a    Y a-sdica 1
and gsobr_lelcrty)i              _khgra  of coltqisin   eecpia                                        pu.....jledrne.ineia   faiIties  Putl.-(. sct ysoc  purpcc
1960, 1970,co  1990 dens,l                                              pt.                          urban boapta     icld  uI  p .ocpa/geoh bupiff                 ,an  rra
POPULATION 9N0 VETAL STATISTICS                                                                          pnote   optl   r               .cc..d. onlyS orde  toa..   I,idl,
Tonl 1selati-      -la  (nhoueuudsl  -h  cOjuly 1; 1960,190, an  101adisslon-pe h.aritalle   -                                            -uu doae  ofbi- u -lshn    oo  ohre
dmogcoeeia;f19,1907ad  90  dt.denua  Sr9o O1ahld                                                                                i eroo   erhad    eal)-dacl,ara,  ndrua
lbPoelta2     oya   10-Cretpplto    rjcro    r   ae   o10                                            n   Aesl   cb                 ore  or2loager- aa  orsynt heiOcludd i
lends atunhog  1 le npentanoy oh bRthIcesn   ihcurp'   e                                 fprusprco it~ obl ura,-ll and ruab              nold  uue  c
daOaIea   on,sd  eaelf   oe  ac_                 aaiIlga   70dn    oo   epcie  .'Jn1lg   n  oron-_nororcar   r
pees.   hepase trsfo  fertility  rte a-do ban tPlbreie ~              dteot                        cucpedpr
cualorios  f eprl y  od Per lI"s ennfo    rjcio    up              o.                   of ena   ra,   acdrualdo  lrg   lapeicly
Ataniosan  eaesis- In a soti_nry  opultio  theepi soghe
sincethe brth cra    A eqa'ctedahrt,so   loteaefOuTO
t_utr  rslscosor    hi   nsbnolsi  atrfr 1 c   atsajsedh.leetOto
dec11 na to th  replacescot  loci of unit nt fpr.ttorat  shet                         h b..   .   .r.ory sood  A bosh  sole cd,  terargr.. o.  total,y sale and bread
po aiT  feeAIl- beruf       d                                                                 oanaycal-toa,sl   r  feitale-yCanpoted,ash_abuts;1secondary
d.upalf-tiun                  __Setaltoid                                                        pdtaiutrqirosP_au  lutye     ofapoelcdoe    otutIc
ret 55  Am. - nb-year ycpullato    e  square       ...lAe dP- (100berorel o                   p     Eolcgterii,  octurl   rtuhrnooo   ttutts   c
only; 190, 1970 an  1990     tIit data.      f,c-noaltol eeit...pIrcece o  s-ddrn       ucto                                                                     -.tiu lot
Poplatooag  brurur  (cecnt -_ IhIlore P 1P0-10. years  , . ohlg-as(i                           :ldtcecl,ldsra,orohepors   hc   prt   o rd
hOl yeas)  so  retre  (g  yer,      o   rr   sprenae   fodya                                       oy  ru   eotIs   fsocdr   nuttos
CrudeOirtblute(per  housud) -Aenulh  liv  births per thousand.of  _df
Crode Dath hat  (per tousand  - y..ou  deneprtouado   i-ya                                  oson  Cornd (per thoosan1d- fPoolhil)-d-rege  cr  copeteeu
fertilty  raes  utullyb lispaP.nga  ntgi   90   97,adbodec  togora  p.lh   erhosl  cippua Ion; oul                                                                        --s0
109.                                                                bcnsdfneIcroIncoo-in  an                 _nyas  h    eitAtlto   aI
Palppaoog-Acpos,fna   tosad)-Atalocbro c,p_ein  tnl   fet P                                                                   t   rrcetyanoyou   rcnoebenoens
ofbith-I  9n         197dnCes on A er005ptcso  ot       EasIly  lantin c-oontn idsaolse                                                  t-hceo-ing.
Psly;Pona-ar   creto  narred olcr)- fecetgeo  sr lad                                                         ...ro  pbIcY pet rhuan    ooltrn;etuanulletd1b7cut
aoeenofchld-Aesrtgngr (10   Chifldro' o 0ho  -on burV-cocoOooo                            cc'ti- nuc    loyor  oh -cr .g.cro__tc_
PAc  011OlEIIO                                                                                   cecuccoci"011 c7orllcvctr.dosool'.  ofor  oa   nnitco
based 00 netb flOa 1950rafe producer prite ight-o;i1901-AS, 1970, adudd 1901.
data.                                                                                       00000' PO;tlS;O    1V   p-e
Pertapits  Rteyo  clre   (acn  of rsoithet-s)- -upAle 9ru                                         TotSMI  ao   oc    hunnt       uotcl yatiepros   nldn    re
enery eqhti   lnt o  net0 food0 soples ao-lah Ple it ---e  prc pt   u                              forces and ~p u     tep hedbu- ocudo   ucscne     t-       ia,  t. -
day2.2 uslbesple   upiedmsi   rdcis   not   esp paldott Rt    -,                                      .  ...I..o   l   gs.  miuin    nvaiu   o re   are .no
nopuree, atd chasgPer     d     A           ... Eusukperuple   uld  anml. ed. ses             crpaae;_hO,i7caa10   aa
quanonoaonedIc fod pacrolog  and1 osro 0  Alsribular ciole  ptee hn  -   inae  atefd     us l perro9   of tuu)laorOuc
aoslnley and he  lly foulai-gerlooe60repraue  body, arois                                       flai   onpec-ta           I t toa   ao   oce   91    7    d18   ae
ag  sd  n  Astlbtonofpouaton  adslnoog1  prntcfr  abel..dunAtr (prcnt    laogfreEn-oro cnsrc P                                        an  rc focru -dig
ath1a9d81        e    9i-h,10   n  18   aa                                                            n  elcrct , stroo gtat pecnaeo   aalihrfre   9O
Pe   apc   urE    f  rtin)rasprda)-  etiocnono   ercpta1                            d aol  991  uca
net supply aO rand per day.  Oat oapply of fond ft defluad as abooc.  Pert iclcanioo rote (panceot) - tonal, nole, and Peaulr-part itipafico ec~~~~~~~~~~~~~
scoedar   asrn    toeof0   roso   otlpotihn  21 or.ss mf letIngoge tn strctreo r-th  pop..Aluylo, and   ug  nose tred._
Thrd OrOlPod   upep  16-6,i97  ad  98pat.                          -couin                                   ecnnoy-atnt    rtiif-oplbic   udeiI  ndASan  cnet
Peril ophbis    . .el  ..c..   fro"" anfa  aned poie-PoeI)       upl   f  ol-h ttllao-fre
cOOuallncTRi  dat  dacdfa   i0  aln   OO  17   o   91Acs                                              oabi
LOdefopenaocar  irci(yean) -uneagr  ushe  oP  esr  of  Ife  esalongThe  oOlolng  tniatraaca  ery-ppruinor-nescr_  ofpto_ty.(ne...an
sobrt;190  IOP  and 1901-- dat,                                                                    hold beitrrcd   ibcvltritc ln
-e-c si -age pee thousan   lh irhn   1960  19P           tid 1981dan...c. Obslon ponce'cy EnaePo.                                   O   ha   oaelolhlo   bo      il
Aoceeo  f Safelater  Ye-ou   fpplto)-nnl.obc   o   ua -bOur-iricoa  iyfd9ot  dint                                             puasaenl-  oa-Pond-reuireeno-Ind-d
nubr  fpope(ttl  aehem   udrural -ait  ne fnonkbltaccess  o tare                               afordable
us ersupl  lntuds  renedaufae  atrsorusrrch bu                                     sier    roiePon    nOse- Le -e (001 per cptal -urban Arua-
onotsio-          acrsc  e   htFra   rneedboeees   pins   ndOnl  eaio-oeryitoa                                                          d is coni-cird of  doer-g pen        - cap  d
nbc  ay i  fethin   dth family'soace  needo,t.(l-ld)-r'
soy" olde tie  Aulecoo  ed Aopac,  Onor  Onou  teatcu,  f9ccdmi  ad  ucald01  Dcilo
iroeloa bdt   tila  fapaipoloos -                                                                                                               napi 1901 .  -.rI-- i is



-  2 4  -                                                          ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5
Population        49,000 (mid-1982, thousands)
GNP per Capita: US$800 (1982)
THAILAND - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Amount
(million TIS$ at             Average annual increase (%)                      Share of GDP at market prices (7)
current prices)           (_       t constant prices)                                (at current prices)
Indicator                        1982 /a       1960-70  1970-75  1975-80  1980-85/b  1985-90/b   1960          1970      1975      1980      1985/b
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross domestic product        36,782            8.4       6.3      7.6        5.6         5.9      100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0
Agriculture                  8,206            5.5      5.3       3.2        3.8         3.5       39.8      28.3      31.5      26.2     22.5
Industry                    13,048           11.5      7.8      11.4        8.0         6.4       18.7      25.3      24.8      27.5     28.0
Services                    15,535            9.0      7.1       7.9        6.4         6.9       41.5      46.4      43.7      46.3     49.5
Consumption                   28,939            7.3       7.0      7.5        4.5         5.5       85.7      7g.7      79.3      78.3      77.0
Gross investment                7,729          15.8       3.8       8.2       4.0         5.8       15.7      26.2      25.4      27.9      24.3
Exports of GNFS                9,166           10.5       3.6     13.4        6.9         7.5       17.4      16.7      19.1      25.0      24.8
Imports of GNFS                9,208           13.9       3.7     10.5        2.8         6.1       18.9      21.5      23.7      31.1      25.9
Gross national savings         7,296           13.7       4.1      5.5        6.3         7.6       14.1      21.5      20.7      20.7      21.2
Composition of merchandise trade (X)
(at current prices)
1960   1970   1975   1980   1985/b  199)/b
EXTERNAL TRADE
Merchandise exports            6,948            5.5       9.0     14.4        9.5         7.5      100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0   100.0
Primary                      4,757           4.2       6.6      10.0        7.8         4.n       97.8   80.5   77.3   60.2   54.6    46.4
Manufactures                 2,190           29.2     20.9      25.1       12.5        10.2        2.2   19.5   22.7   39.8   45.4    53.6
Merchandise imports            8,548           11.5       3.3     10.8        4.4         6.0      100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  10O.n   100.0
Food                           244           4.3      -2.7      11.9        6.1         6.0        9.6    5.4    4.4    3.4    3.8        3.5
Petroleum                    2,639           11.8      5.0       8.7       -3.0         3.4       10.9    8.8   22.1   31.4   23.4    20.0
Machinery & equipment        2,412           16.1      5.9       7.4        8.0         7.0       25.3   36.1   35.8   23.5   28.4    29.0
Others                       3,253           10.1       1.0      9.3        5.0         7.0       54.2   49.7   37.7   41.7   44.4    47.5
1975      1976       1977       1978       1979       1980       1981       1982/a
PRICES
GDP deflator                                        100.0      103.3      112.1      121.8      136.9      154.0      167.1      175.1
Exchange rate                                        20.4       20.4       20.4       20.3       20.3       20.5       21.82      23.0
Export price index                                  100.0       97.3       99.4      107.4      128.3      151.7      151.8      136.5
Import price index                                  100.0      105.5      113.4      122.3      141.4      175.6      201.1      211.4
Terms of trade index                                100.0       92.2       87.6       87.8       90.8       86.4       75.5       64.6
As % of GDP
1960           1970            1975          1980           1982 /a
PUBLIC FINANCE /c 
Current revenues                                      13.6            13.8           13.2           14.0           13.5
Current expenditures                                   10.6           12.6           11.8           13.5           14.6
Surplus (+) or deficit (-)                            +3.0           +1.2            +1.4          +0.5            -l.r
Capital expenditure                                    4.3             5.8             3.4           3.9            4.1
Foreign financing                                      0.2             0.1            0.1            0.2            O.l
1960-70         1970-75         1975-80         1980-85 /b         1985-90 /b
OTHER INDICATORS
GNP growth rate (%)                           8.4             6.2             6.9              5.5                5.9
GNP per capita growth rate (X)                5.2             3.4             4.4              3.4                3.8
ICOR                                          2.8             4.0             3.4              4.4                4.0
Marginal savings rate                         0.29            0.23            0.21             0.23               0.26
Import elasticity                             1.7             0.6             1.3              1.1                1.0
/a  Preliminary.
/b Projected.
/c Central government only.
February 29, 1984



ANNEX I
Population       49.000 (mid-1982, thousands)                           -  25  -
GNP per Caplta: 1S$800 (1982)
THAILAND - BALANCE OF PAYN"TS., EXTERNAL CAP1TAL MND DEBT
(Millions US$ at current prices)
Actual                                    Est.        Projected
Indicator                       1970    197h    1977    1978    1979    1980    1981    1982    198        1984    1985    1986    1990
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Exports of goods and nonf actor
services                               1,108   3,490   4,029   4,976   6,456   8,191   8,971   9,206   9,300  11,086  12,869  14,826  25,095
Of which:  Merchandise f.o.b.           686   2,959   3,454   4,045   5,234   6,449   6,884   6,948   6,400   8,341   9,633  10,993  16,352
Imports of goods and nonfactor
services                             -1,430  -3,892  -5,068  -5,894  -8,123  -9,990 -10,713  -9,406 -10,700 -12,043 -13,478 -15,261 -24,822
Of which:  Merchandise f.o.b.        -1,148  -3,145  -4,247  -4,913  -6,787  -8,352  -8,930  -8,548  -8,981 -10,118 -11,336 -12,850 -22,669
Net factor income from abroad               23     -62     -99    -266    -480    -610    -998  -1,034  -1,200  -1,227  -1,364  -1,497  -1,980
Net transfers                               49      23      40       40      60      188     132     149      300     379     401      440     710
Current account balance                  -250    -440  -1,097  -1,153  -2,086  -2,223  -2,608  -1,086  -2,300  -1,805  -1,572  -1,492    -997
Private direct investment                   43      79     106       50      51     187      292     183      344     248     272      299     438
MLT loans (net)                             32     248     346      670   1,418   1,665   1,631   1,332   1,073   2,029   1,948   1,932   1,368
Official                                  21     109     181     290      488     569      621     715   1,237   1,804   1,967   1,666   1,311
Private /a                                10     139     165      380     930   1,096   1,010      617    -164      224     -19      256      56
Other capital /b                            93     219     740      782   1,160      -5   1,286      299      283     -68    -240    -257      -39
Change in reserves                          82     -96     -95    -349    -543      366    -601    -130      600    -404    -408    -482    -770
(- indicates increase)
International reserves                    906   2,113   2,208   2,557   3,100   2,734   3,335   3,465   2,865   3,090   3,494   3,976   5,801
Reserves as onths imports                    8       7       5        5       5       3        4       4        3       3       3        3       3
EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
Gross Disbursements
Concessaonal loans                       11       52      78      153     242     230     223      214     504      638     747     686      700
DAC                                     11      45      50      86      178     176      189     152     431      567     694     654      698
IDA                                     -        7       9        5       4       5      21       19      18       15      10       5        0
Other                                   -        -      19       62      60      49       13      43      55       56      43      27        2
Nonconcessional loans                    188     467     585   1,133   1,816   2,154   2,028   1,912   1,520   2,506   2,618   3,034   4,017
Official export credits                 7        -      32       -        -       3      80      152     184      206     272     333      457
18RD                                   19       43      65     103      139     143     289      370     306      341     407     467      604
Other multilateral                      2       46      33      46       36      83       64     101     212      225     312     385      457
Private publicly guaranteed            17      101     106     411      842     898     805      582     361      707     634     3R4      310
Private nonguaranteed                 143      277     349      573     799   1,027     790      707     439   1,027    -993   1,465   2,189
Total gross disbursements                199     519     663   1,286   2,058   2,384   2,251   2,127   2,025   3,144   3,364   3,720   4,717
External Debt (fixed-term)
Public debt outstanding &
disbursed                               328      823   1,119   1,820   2,832   4,128   5,169   6,206   7,670   9,210  10,848  12,150  16,187
Official                              291      672     895   1,254   1,671   2,315   2,843   3,295   4,699   6,046   7,677   9,077  13,428
Private                                37      151     224     566   1,161   1,813   2,326   2,911   2,971   3,165   3,171   3,073   2,759
Private nonguaranteed debt
outstanding and disbursed             382      785     880     931   1,243   1,703   2,099   2,317   1,533   2,022   2,332   2,962   5,485
Total debt outstanding and
disbursed                             710   1,608   1,999   2,751   4,075   5,831   7,268   8,523   9,203  11,232  13,180  15,112  21,672
Undisbursed debt                         118     840   1,364   1,899   2,361   3,004   3,081   3,582   3,586   3,530   3,220   3,028   3,996
Debt Service
Total service payments                  162      378     442     812      962   1,224   1,325   1,497   1,703   1,897   2,334   2,838   4,914
Interest                               16      107     126     196      322     505     686      703     753      782     918   1,049   1,565
Payments as Z exports of goods and    14.6    10.8    11.0    16.3    14.9    15.4    15.6    16.3    18.3    17.1    18.1    19.1    19.6
nonfactor services
Average interest rate on naw loans
(z) c                                     6.8      7.8     7.0     6.8      7.6     9.3    10.2      9.5     9.5     9.5      9.6     9.6      9.6
Official                                6.8      7.9     6.1      5.6     5.4     6.9      7.4     6.9       -        -       -       -        -
Private                                  6.0     7.3     8.3      8.9    10.5    13.8    13.8    11.9        -        -       -        -       -
Average maturity of new loans
(Tears) /c                               18.9    17.3    14.5    17.1    17.0    16.6    16.7    17.3    17.3    15.8    14.4    13.3    13.0
OfficilT                                19.4    20.6    19.6    21.1    22.4    21.1    22.4    22.5         -        -       -        -       -
Private                                 11.2     7.3     7.9      9.4    10.0     8.6      9.3    10.3       -        -       -        -       -
Banu Grou    sure (Z)
totap   DOD                     22.6    18.6    17.3    15.8    13.6    11.6    12.9    15.6    16.6    16.1    16.2    16.5    17.7
IBRD disbursements/total gross
disbursements                         9.5      8.3    10.0     8.6      7.0     6.1    13.0    24.7    15.1    10.8    12.1    12.6    12.8
IBRD debt service/total debt
service                               11.1     9.6    10.0     6.8      6.9     6.5     6.8      7.5     9.9    10.6    10.7    11.1    11.9
IDA DOD/total DOD                         -      0.7     1.0     0.9      0.7     0.6     0.7      0.8     0.9      0.9     0.9     0.8      0.5
IDA disbursements/total gross
disbursements                           -      1.3     1.3     0.4      0.2     0.2     0.9      1.0     0.8     0.6      0.4     0.1     0.0
IDA debt service/total debt
service                                 -      0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.2      0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0
As 2 of debt outstanding
at end of 1981
Maturity structure of debt outstanding
Principal due vithin 5 years                                                          48.4
Principal due within 10 years                                                         71.4
Interest structure of debt outstanding
Interest due within first year                                                        11.2
/s  Due to change in classification, projected data for "private NILT loans" include soae of the category "other capital".
7; "Other capital" includes nAt use of IMF funds and nmt flow of short-term capital.
7;   Historical data does not Include nonguarenteed private debt.
7d Preliminary.
Pebruary 29, 1984



- 26 -                              ANNEX II
Page 1 of 3
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THAILAND
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS /a
(As of March 31, 1984)
Amount ($ million)
Loan or                                                               less cancellations
credit                                                          Bank         IDA      Undis-
number   Year             Borrower             Purpose                                bursed
Thirty-nine loans and three credits fully disbursed          1,199.69       31.74
1149     1975  Kingdom of Thailand           Irrigation         95.00         -        15.03
1198T    1976  Kingdom of Thailand           Rural Dev.         21.00(TW)    -          1.04
1271     1976  Kingdom of Thailand           Education          26.30         -         1.99
1393     1977  Kingdom of Thailand           Agriculture        28.00         -         0.25
1468     1977  Kingdom of Thailand           Irrigation         55.00         -         8.94
767     1978  Kingdom of Thailand           Population                     33.10/b    5.90
1519     1978  Kingdom of Thailand           Highways          102.60         -         0.15
1527     1978  Provincial Electricity        Rural Elect.       25.00         -         0.01
Authority
1556     1978  Kingdom of Thailand           Housing             8.60         -         2.43
1620     1978  Telephone Organization        Telecom.           90.00         -        35.27
of Thailand
1630     1978  Kingdom of Thailand           Irrigation         17.50         -         8.55
1638     1979  Kingdom of Thailand           Urban Trans.       16.00         -        10.41
1662     1979  State Railway of Thailand  Railways              16.70         -         0.66
1690     1979  Electricity Generating        Power              80.00         -        30.62
Authority of Thailand
913     1979  Kingdom of Thailand           Education            -         35.00      10.66
929     1979  Kingdom of Thailand           Agriculture          -         25.00      15.58
1752     1979  Kingdom of Thailand           Ag. Extension      40.00         -        19.77
1770     1980  Electricity Generating        Power              80.00         -         2.04
Authority of Thailand
1787     1980  Kingdom of Thailand           Irrigation         80.00         -        60.71
1816     1980  Kingdom of Thailand           Ag. Credit         19.00         -         1.81
1852     1980  Electricity Generating        Power              72.00         -        18.67
Authority of Thailand
1863     1980  Provincial Waterworks         Water Supply       40.00         -        35.65
Authority
1870     1980  Kingdom of Thailand           Housing            29.00         -        19.92
1871     1980  Provincial Electricity        Rural Electri-    75.00          -        52.25
Authority                    fication
1889     1980  Kingdom of Thailand           Inland Waterways  53.00          -        43.63
1918     1980  Kingdom of Thailand           Ports              47.00         -        45.73
1922     1980  Kingdom of Thailand           Ag. Research       30.00         -        29.21
1947     1981  Kingdom of Thailand           Potash              8.90         -         2.70
Engineering



- 27 -                               ANNEX II
Page 2 of 3
Amount ($ million)
Loan or                                                              less cancellations
credit                                                          Bank         IDA     Undis-
number   Year            Borrower              Purpose                                bursed
1956     1981  Industrial Finance Corp.   Industry              30.00         -        0.78
of Thailand
2000     1981  Electricity Generating        Power             100.00         -        94.81
Authority of Thailand
2022     1981  Kingdom of Thailand           Irrigation         57.00         -       51.04
2035     1981  Kingdom of Thailand          Provincial Roads  35.00           -       15.27
2078     1982  Kingdom of Thailand          Tree Crops         142.00         -       95.63
2143     1982  Telephone Organization        Telecommuni-      142.10         -      126.42
of Thailand                  cations
2178     1982  Kingdom of Thailand           Education          75.00         -       72.08
2184     1982  Petroleum Authority of        Liquified Petro-  90.00          -       72.23
Thailand                     leum Gas
2198     1982  Kingdom of Thailand           Agriculture        17.00         -        16.79
2310     1983  Bank for Agriculture &        Agriculture        70.00         -       52.82
Cooperatives
2311     1983  Kingdom of Thailand           Prov. Roads       100.00         -       99.75
2312     1983  Provincial Electricity        Rural Elec-        30.60         -       30.52
Authority                    trification
B-001    1983  Telephone Organization
of Thailand               Telecom.             8.50         -        6.68
2402     1984  Kingdom of Thailand /c        Rural Dev.         50.00         -       50.00
Total                                            3,302.49      124.84  1,264.40
of which has been repaid                         363.08        3.10
Total now outstanding                            2,939.41      121.74
Amount sold /d                      68.63
of which has been repaid          57.03             11.60
Total now held by Bank and IDA                   2,927.81      121.74
Total undisbursed                                1,232.26       32.14  1,264.40
/a  The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report on
all Bank/IDA financed projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly and cir-
culated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.
lb  Of which $3.1 million is Norwegian grant participation.
/c  Not yet effective.
/d  Of which $43.3 million sold to the Bank of Thailand.



- 28 -                             ANNEX II
Page 3 of 3
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENT
(As of March 31, 1984)
Amounts ($ million)
Year                    Company                      Type of business    Loan  Equity  Total
1959        Concrete Products and                Cement and Construc-
Aggregate Co., Ltd.                  tion Materials            0.3    -        0.3
1964/1971  Industrial                            Development Finance
Finance Corporation of               Company                    -    0.4      0.4
Thailand (IFCT)
1969/1976  Siam Cement Group                     Cement and Construc-
1978/1980                                           tion Materials          28.3   4.3    32.6
1977       Mutual Fund Company Limited           Money and Capital
Market                    -    0.3       0.3
1977        United Sugar Terminal Limited        Food and Food
Processing               2.5   0.2       2.7
1978        Siam Commercial Bank                 Small and Medium Scale
Industries               2.0    -        2.0
1979/1983  Bangkok Glass Industry Company,   Glass Containers                9.9   0.4    10.3
Limited
1979/1981  Siam City Cement Co. Ltd.             Cement and Construc-
tion materials          63.0   4.0    67.0
1979        Thai Orient Leasing Co. Ltd.         Capital Market               -    0.1       0.1
1983        Sea Minerals Limited                 Mining                       -    0.3       0.3
1983        National Petrochemical Corp.         Chemicals & petro-
chemical                  -    0.3       0.3
1983        Thailand Tantalum                    Mining                     53.5   3.9    57.4
1984       World Aquaculture                     Food and Food
Processing               2.7   0.6       3.3
Total gross commitments                                      162.2  14.8   177.0
Less cancellations, termi-
nations, repayments and sales                             112.9   3.0   115.9
Net held by the corporation                                   49.3  11.8    61.1
Total undisbursed                                             59.3   4.7    64.0



- 29 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
THAILAND
LAND TITLING PROJECT
Supplementary Timetable of Key Events
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time take to prepare the project:        14 months
(b)  Project prepared by:                     Department of Lands staff
assisted by Australian
Development Assistance Bureau
consultants
(c)  First presented to the Bank:             February, 1983
(d)  Departure of Appraisal Mission:          February, 1983
(e)  Completion of Negotiations:              April 27, 1984
(f)  Plaui.led date of effectiveness:         October 1, 1984
Section II:  Special Bank Implementation Actions
(a) None
Section III: Special Conditions
The Borrower agreed that:
(a) cadastral map sheets and records produced under the project will be
available for inspection by the public on request, and copies will
be obtainable by other RTG agencies for official purposes
(para. 43).
(b) promptly after survey of land in the designated project areas, title
deeds or preemptive certificates will be issued for all private
occupiers of land in accordance with the Land Code and all land used
for public purposes will be covered by documents for State land
(para. 48);
(c) necessary actions, including legislative amendments to the Land
Code, will be taken by October 1, 1985 to permit conversion of NS3K
certificates to title deeds without the need for resurvey (para.
48);



- 30 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(d) usufructuary licenses issued by other government agencies will be
replaced by documents issued in accordance with the provisions of
the Land Code within the project areas (para. 48);
(e) DOL will complete construction of a new mapping building by
September 30, 1986 (para. 50); and
(f) DOL will furnish a report on an Organization Management and
Operations Study to the Bank by October 1, 1985 (para. 53).



LAO PEOPLE'S DEM. ORAIC                             KA                        '
i  t    {4   i:    S          g       t i    i                                                                                          i i; h  Ii4ni , 
.0 A            g; C                              i 5\                  \5                       js   8     
8                                                                                                                                            INDOISS,Ai'    t  ¢ihoi;;:  ti ;!  ti :l    t; :;    t; :  ti0it   *: t:   t;-7,:   <>,  ('VIET NC.AM
DEMOCRATIC KAMPUCHEA
t;~~~~ SH F H  .F    w<  ,:   :.        - -                                                                                                              1) a=5  ,I
n
In~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
r        ~ ZVIET NAM
r :  i., T  i:i    , : ;               LAND TiT4ING PROJECT- 
4RAAA$RJECT ARiEAS                             I
r_,46i S4  E8R3 DADADTRAL S!EEt 7;VERAGE
q.6,                                                                                                                SO~~~~~~~~~~RSEVDHR9~RR   DDDS  R   SIDLIE53LI 7    CHINA
DORHER lAND RIVTAbLE FOR AGRIE4LTURt
VADTIDNALWIARWARD             -1                    EA
0  7 IA 31MAR41PRCA9RCSiL RoADSj_
-    -ARP-VIED
31                                                              @    R~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ATI-ARl ;APtTAL
-E   PROVRBCIAL CAIRTALS
R                            DR0  0   00  i  X   >   i t 0 _,_ SAVIRURAL RDIANDARIES
)W)    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ -.-IRTERNATioRAt SmADEDAIE
)                                      ARD~~~~~~IESO   DO   AD Rp  p  SR
H                                                                                                                                     ____________0A A_ Y- I   -
i   =   i/i   3    i       '  I9(¢    s.E            9           lOT'~~~~~~~MALAYSLi-                 D@ iOH                                             N 06P o'



