Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY                          -=
Report No. 4627-TH
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THAI LAND
LAND TITLING PROJECT
May 18, 1984
Projects Department
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
$1.00       =   Baht (B)23.00
Bl.00       =   $0.04
$1 million =   B 23 million
Bi million =   $43,478
THAI FISCAL YEAR
October 1 to September 30
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 rai              =        0.16 hectare
1 hectare (ha)    =         6.25 rai
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
ADAB - Australian Development Assistance Bureau
BIT  -  Bangkok Instutute of Technology
CPD  -  Cooperative Promotion Department
DOL  -  Department of Lands
DOLA - Department of Local Administration
MOI  -  Ministry of Interior
NLAC - National Land Allocation Commission
NS2  -  Pre-emptive certificate
NS3  -  Certificate of Utilization
NS3K - Certificate of Utilization based on Aerial Photography
NS4  -  Title Deed or Chanod
NVA  -  National Valuation Authority
OMO  -  Organization, Management and Operations
PWD  -  Public Welfare Department
RFD  -  Royal Forest Department
RTG  -  Royal Thai Government
SK1  -  Claim certificate
UTM  -  Universal Transverse Mercator



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THAILAND: LAND TITLING PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I. BACKGROUND
A. Introduction . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    1
B. Government Land Policy and Legal Framework . .  .        . .    1
C. Land Use and Ownership . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    2
D. Land Use Policies and Programs for Agriculture
and the Rural Sector ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   ...  3
E.  Land Use Policies for the Urban Sector  . . . . . . . .    4
F.  Rationale for Bank Involvement  . . . . . . . . . . . .    4
II. THE PROJECT
A. Objectives ...   .....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . . . .    . .   .  .    5
B. Main Features  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  .    5
C. Project Areas  . . . .      . . . .  . . . . . . .  .  .    6
D. Detailed Project Description  .    . . . . . . . . .         6
III. ORGANIZATION AND IMPLEMENTATION
A. Department of Lands  . .      ......  .. ........   .   14
B. Implementation . . . . .   ..........    .  . . .  .    15
C. Monitoring and Progress Reporting. . . . . . . . . . . .   16
IV.  PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
A. Project Costs . . . . . . . . . .    .   .         . . .   17
B. Financing. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4 . . .   17
C. Procurement  . . .  .    . . . . . ..       . . . . . .   19
D. Disbursement . . .  . . . . .     . .  .  .  ..  .  . . .    20
E. Accounts and Audit Requirements  . . . . . . . . . . . .   21
V. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
A.  Benefits  . c r .   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  21
B. Beneficiaries.   . . . . .   . .  . . . . . . . . . . . .   24
C.  Risks     .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  ..  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  25
VI.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION . . . . . . . . . . . .   25
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission to Thailand in
February - March 1983. Mission members included William P. Panton and
Jessica Mott (Bank), William D. Kennedy, Jeremy C. Lawrance and Antony C.
Christian (Consultants). Patricia A. Brereton, Ma. Pilar Mendoza and Amara
Gumnerdngam (Bank) assisted in the preparation of the report.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Page No.
ANNEXES
1. Cost Estimates and Financing                                         27
2. Technical Assistance and Training                                    33
3. Rural and Urban Cadastral Surveying and Mapping Components           44
4. Land Administration Component                                        52
5. Landed Property Valuation Component                                  73
6. Disbursement Schedule                                                81
7. Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File            82
CHARTS
1. Land Ownership
2. Organization of Department of Lands
3. Implementation Schedule
MAP
Existing Cadastral Map Coverage and Main Project Areas (IBRD 17228)
PHOTOGRAPHS
1. Part of an NS3K Cadastral Sheet and Aerial Photograph
2. Part of an Urban Cadastral Sheet



- iii -
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:       Kingdom of Thailand
Amount:          $35 million equivalent, including capitalized front-end fee.
Terms:          Repayable in 20 years, including 5 years grace, at the
standard variable interest rate.
Project
Description:  The proposed Bank loan will help finance a cadastral sur-
vey, land registration and valuation project to be imple-
mented by the Departmnt of Lands (DOL). The project
will contribute to the greater security, productivity and
income of individual occupiers of land through the pro-
vision of proof of title. It will pursue these aims by
strengthening DOL's capability to carry out cadastral
surveys systematically over areas not presently surveyed
and to improve the quality of its service to the public
in regard to resurvey, registration, issuance of title
deeds and general administration of land through a major
equipment, building and training program. It will also
support the development of a recently established
national land valuation authority.
The project will directly benefit some 700,000 land
holding families in the poor North and Northeast Regions,
about 50% of whom may be below the absolute poverty level
of $175 per capita annual income. It will also benefit the
country as a whole through the compilation of a rationalized
cadastre which can better serve as a public planning and
management tool. The level of risk associated with the
project is low. The Government and the various partici-
pating agencies all support the project and are committed to
its objectives. The project includes various mechanisms to
minimize the risk of delay, including retroactive financing
for civil works design, technical assistance for procurement
procedures, and Bank financing of incremental operating
costs of the mapping components.






I. BACKGROUND
A. Introduction
1.01      The proposed Bank loan will help finance a cadastral survey, land
registration and valuation project to be implemented by the Department of
Lands (DOL) in the Ministry of Interior. The project will contribute to the
greater security, productivity and income of about 700,000 individual
occupiers of land through the provision of proof of title. It will also
benefit the community at large through the compilation of a comprehensive
record of land rights which would facilitate planning and development,
administration and equitable taxation of land. It will pursue these aims by
strengthening DOL's capability to carry out cadastral surveys systematically
over areas not presently surveyed and to improve the quality of its service
to the public in regard to resurvey, registration, issuance of title deeds
and general administration of land through a major equipment, building and
training program. It will also support the development of a recently
established national land valuation authority. The total project financing
required is estimated at $76 million, of which $35 million will be provided
as a Bank loan. The proposed project was prepared by DOL, assisted by a
consultant team financed by the Australian Development Assistance Bureau
(ADAB).
B. Government Land Policy and Legal Framework
1.02      Historically all land in Thailand belonged, at least theoreti-
cally, to the King. Widespread forest clearing, settlement and cultivation
were, however, tolerated with few restrictions and little government control
until comparatively recent times. Traditionally, when land was readily
available and agricultural activity was directed towards subsistence, any
Thai citizen could claim up to 25 rai (4 ha) to provide for his family, and
rights to use land were by custom rather than formally recorded.
1.03      Today, many Thai villagers continue to regard unoccupied forests
or abandoned lands as community resources to which they retain access
rights. However, ecological concern about the steadily shrinking forest
cover and population expansion, coupled with increasing Government involve-
ment, has led to greater concern with the legality of settlements in public
lands, particularly forest reserves, and to a modern system of land admin-
istration designed to control land use, determine ownership and generate
revenues from land. The enactment of the Land Code in 1954 provided the
Government with an effective legal framework for achieving these aims.
DOL has the prime responsibility for execution of the Code.



- 2 -
1.04      The Code recognizes four forms of private  ownership document
confirming rights to land. A Title Deed indicates full ownership, and is
supported by a deed plan showing the position of boundary markstones
surveyed by ground methods. A Certificate of Utilization proves that the
person named as owner has put the land to use. A Pre-emptive Certificate
authorizes temporary occupation of land. A Claim Certificate indicates a
claim lodged by a person who was in possession and had made use of the land
prior to 1954, the effective date of the Land Code. An additional docu-
ment, known as a Document for State Land, is issued to government agencies
in the case of land used for public purposes. Other forms of documents, not
provided for under the Land Code, are issued by other Government agencies
for private land.  This variety of titles, cert'ificates and licenses issued
by the various agencies has complicated land administration.
C. Land Use and Ownership
1.05      Data on land occupancy are at best approximate, but it would be
safe to assume that about 26.0 million ha or 51% of Thailand's total land
area of 51.3 million ha is now permanently occupied by private individuals.
Only 3.0 million ha of this total are covered by title deeds while a further
10.5 million ha are covered by certificates of utilization. A further 6.6
million ha are "undocumented" private lands. This includes land held on
license in settlement schemes, on pre-emptive or claims certificates, or by
individuals without any document who may, however, qualify for grant of
title under the Land Code. In addition, possibly 6 million ha of forest,
wildlife and national park land are under illegal occupation, 4 million ha
of which appear to be suitable for permanent agriculture.
1.06      The inadequacy of land titling in Thailand has created a host of
land-related problems affecting both the rural and urban sectors.  These
problems include inappropriate land use classification, increasing numbers
of landless, increasing tenancy especially in rural areas, illegal culti-
vation in government reserves, lack of secure tenure for many land occupiers
who have possessory rights, a high rate of squatter settlement in rural and
urban areas, and increasing concern about soil erosion and general environ-
mental degradation as shown most dramatically by loss of forest cover in the
mountainous regions and increased flooding in the plains.
1.07      An awareness of the potential seriousness of these problems, and
of their inter-relationship, led Government to set up a land policy subcom-
mittee of the National Rural Development Committee in 1980. This subcom-
mittee commissioned a land policy and use study which recommended, inter
alia, an acceleration in the rate of issuance of secure rights to land, a
general improvement in the mode of operation of DOL and a rationalization of
the entire approach to land rights documentation and administration. The
proposed project will support activities which promote these goals.



- 3 -
D. Land Use Policies and Programs for Agriculture and the Rural Sector
1.08      About 40 million of Thailand's 47 million people live in rural
areas where there are about 5 million farm and 1.8 million nonfarm
households. In 1980, agriculture contributed about 26% of GDP, 58% of
exports, and provided full or part-time employment for more than 70% of the
country's labor force. Agricultural production (GDP in constant terms) in
Thailand grew at an annual rate of about 5% during 1960-80, an exceptional
performance by international standards. Furthermore, in the past two
decades, the relatively even distribution of farm holdings and the strong
agricultural performance have contributed to a substantial reduction in
rural poverty. In recent years, however, growth of agricultural production
has been falling off. The deterioration occurred primarily because earlier
growth had been achieved through expansion of the cultivated area, often
into forested areas but, more recently, poorer marginal lands increasingly
came under cultivation and average yields, which were always relatively low,
decreased further.
1.09      The main objectives of the Government in the sector are: (a) to
alleviate rural poverty and redress regional income disparities; and (b) to
increase agricultural production while avoiding deterioration of the envi-
ronment. The Fifth Plan target for the growth of agricultural production is
3.5% per year. If natural resources are to be preserved and deforestation
in watershed areas contained, this growth rate will only be approached
through increased productivity of the areas under cultivation through yield
improvement and increased cropping intensity. Government is committed to
support the intensification of agricultural production by improving rural
infrastructure, increasing incentives for intensification and establishing a
land use policy to allow better utilization of the areas suitable for
cultivation. The Bank fully supports the broad outline of Government
objectives and strategies; its lending program for Thailand's agricultural
sector is geared to strengthening the technical and infrastructural bases
for improving production, alleviating poverty and expanding Government
overall capacity for project planning, coordination and implementation.
1.10      A major objective of the Government's development effort is the
issuance of title deeds to all legitimate occupiers of land. The Government
aims to increase the area of occupied land held under secure title and
rationalize land documentation by accelerating the rate of survey and
issuance of titles, and converting certificates of utilization to title
deeds through a 20-year program. The program will focus on all eligible
landowners in permanently occupied land outside forest reserves. The
20-year time-frame is considered feasible, and the project will support the
first five-year phase of the program in parts of the North and Northeast.



-4-
1.11      The project will complement land documentation efforts begun under
three current Bank loans. The Land Reform Areas Project (Loan 2198-TH) and
the Land Reclassification Program included in the First and Second
Structural Adjustment Loans (Loans 2097-TH and 2256-TH) are providing land
ownership documents in the form of usufructuary licenses to approved
occupiers of land in selected areas of forest reserves reclassified as
suitable for agriculture. These licenses will provide official evidence in
support of future applications for documentation under the Land Code after
such areas are eventually degazetted from the forest reserve category.
E. Land Use Policies for the Urban Sector
1.12      The main land-related problem in urban areas is the condition of
urban cadastres which are currently incomplete, out of date, damaged, or too
small in scale for most practical purposes. This is significant since an
accurate record of landholdings is needed not only to formulate sound
development programs but also as a means to mobilize sufficient resources to
implement them. Since cross-referencing an accurate cadastre of
landholdings is the most effective means of preparing and maintaining
complete, accurate landed property tax rolls, the Government is now unable
to effectively tax real property in urban areas, and is thus losing revenues
which could be channelled to urban development.
1.13      Government has recognized this problem and has planned a 10-year
program to remap the urban cadastres to improve the information base and
thus enable faster, more efficient, and sounder public investment. In
addition, by allowing constant updating of the cadastres, the urban
remapping would improve security of tenure, related private access to
credit,and investment motivation. The project will support the first five
years of this program.
F. Rationale For Bank Involvement
1.14      Bank support for this project is justified because it clearly
furthers Government and Bank sectoral objectives described above. The
project will promote needed institutional development and technologies which
will hasten achievement of these objectives. Alternative financing is not
readily available from other sources.



-5-
II. THE PROJECT
A. Objectives
2.01      The project has two overriding objectives, the first is to extend
the benefits of secure land ownership to a larger proportion of the public.
This will be achieved by increasing the capability of DOL to accelerate its
rate of issuance of title deeds and improve the quality of its service to
the public in the area of land administration.
2.02      The project's second important objective is to rationalize
cadastral mapping and documentation in a timely manner in order to compile a
complete national cadastre. The project will accomplish this by integrating
cadastral mapping into the national topographic grid and by converting land
documentation into one uniform and simplified system. By improving the
quality and extending the coverage of the cadastral base, the RTG will have
a better tool for planning and managing a wide range of infrastructure and
other aspects of community development. In particular, accurate records of
titles will provide a secure base for land valuation and the equitable
collection of landed property taxes.
B. Main Features
2.03      The project will include the following components:
(a) an accelerated program of new, and revision of existing
cadastral mapping in rural areas, on a scale of 1:4,000;
(b) an accelerated program of cadastral remapping in urban areas
on scales of 1:1,000 or 1:500;
(c) a land administration improvement program, complementary to
and dependent on the cadastral mapping programs, which will
include adjudication and issue of full title in undocumented
lands or lands held under various types of pre-ownership
certificates. This program will involve decentralization of
the land register from provincial to district level;
(d) strengthening of the National Valuation Authority (NVA) through
the provision of technical assistance and training including
the establishment of a two year course at the Bangkok Institute
of Technology; and



-6-
(e) general institution building, mainly through the provision of
technical assistance and training to the administrative support
divisions of DOL.
C. Project Areas
2.04      The project's main component is initiation of the rural mapping
program which will start in the southern third of the Northeast Region
(Nakhon Ratchasima, Buri Ram, Surin, and Si Sa Ket Provinces) and the western
half of the upper Northern Region (Chiang Mai, Mae Hong Son, Phayao, Chiang
Rai, and Lampun Provinces) (Map 1). This is considered to be the main project
area. The provinces included in the component are those which have the most
immediate need. The Northeastern bloc was selected because its high
proportion of undocumented land suggests that large numbers of farmers will
benefit from greater security of tenure. The Northern bloc was selected
because its high agricultural potential means that those farmers receiving
secure tenure could increase their incomes significantly. The two areas are
relatively poor and include districts designated for special assistance
through the Rural Poverty Program. The provinces are grouped into contiguous
blocks for technical survey reasons and economies of scale.
2.05      The urban remapping component and strengthening of the NVA will
cover a major portion of Bangkok and a careful selection of provincial cities.
The land administration component will be concentrated in the North and
Northeast project areas, although land offices outside these areas will also
be assisted with improved fire proofing and security for document storage.
General institution building will be carried out at DOL Headquarters in
Bangkok.
D. Detailed Project Description
Rural Mapping Component
2.06      This component will comprise the first five years of a 20-year,
national rural cadastral mapping program. Surveying for a new national
cadastral map series at a scale of 1:4,000, based on improved technology,
will commence in Project Year 1 (PY1) and the first map sheets will become
available in PY3. The series will cover all occupied rural land parcels,
whether owned by private occupiers or the state, within the designated
project areas. Assurances to this effect were obtained at negotiations. The
component will consist of new mapping of NSI, undocumented and state land
including reserves, and map transformation (remapping without the need for
adjudication and with minimal ground resurvey) for existing NS3K and title
deed map sheets. The mapping will be based on rectified photographs using new
aerial photography.
2.07      Introduction of improved, labor-saving methods under the project
(para 2.12) will permit the annual production rate for new maps to be raised
to 700 sheets in the second year and 1,600 in each of the last three project



years. Transformation mapping at annual rates of 1,600 sheets in PY3 and
1,700 in PYs 4 and 5 will also be carried out for combined annual totals of
3,200, 3,300 and 3,300 sheets in the last three project years.
Urban Mapping Component
2.08      A very high proportion of the existing cadastral maps for urban
areas is incomplete, out of date, damaged, or on too small a scale to be
legible or of much practical value. The project will support the first five-
year phase of a ten-year urban remapping program, using the new technology
described in para. 2.12 but based on larger scale aerial photography and
producing rectified photomaps on scales of 1:1,000 or 1:500. An annual
production of 1,000 map sheets will be attained in PYs 4 and 5. About 70%
of these maps will cover Bangkok and the remainder will cover selected
provincial cities.
2.09      The aggregate annual map production targets for the combined rural
and urban mapping programs for years one through five will therefore be 500;
700; 3,200; 4,300; and 4,300, for a project total of 13,100 sheets. The
cadastral map sheets and records produced under these programs will be
available for inspection by the public on request, and copies will be
obtainable by other RTG agencies for official purposes. Assurances to this
effect were obtained at negotiations. Details of the rural and urban
cadastral surveying and mapping components are given in Annex 3.
Features of Rural and Urban Mapping Components
2.10      Surveying.  At present cadastral surveying is carried out according
to two systems (rectified aerial photography for land titles at 1:4,000 scale
and unrectified photography for NS3Ks at 1:5,000 scale). The rectified
photography mapping is based on 29 independently determined origins, with
significant discrepancies (up to 80 meters) between adjoining origins. The
situation is confusing, and would become worse if the existing surveys are
extended until the separate map series overlap. Under the project all mapping
will conform to a common origin and will be related to the grid squares of
the 1:50,000 scale national topographic series.
2.11      Technology.  The present cadastral survey and mapping technology
being used by DOL is a mix of rectified photogrammetric and labor-intensive
methods of aerial triangulation, distance measurement and map preparation. It
is estimated that, at current staff and budget levels, it would take around
80 years to complete the mapping of rural areas (leaving no capacity for urban
remapping) using the present technology mix. Current staff and equipment
levels provide an annual capacity for about 1,200 map sheets, but operating
budget constraints have limited annual production to about 500 sheets in
recent years.



- 8 -
2.12      A very substantial, more than four-fold, increase in field staff
would be required to complete the rural mapping in 20 years and the urban
remapping in 10 years if the present technology were to be used. Such an
increase would create major, possibly insurmountable management problems.
The alternative of introducing further technology to substitute for the
current highly labor-intensive activities involved in the present system will
therefore be advanced under the project. The new methods include improved
control networking using doppler (satellite positioning) and electronic
distance measuring equipment; minor control in blocks of up to 400 photographs
by analytical photogrammetric plotting methods assisted by computer to replace
the present practice of surveying control independently for each photograph:
and a digitized map production process using automatic plotters.
2.13      Technical Assistance.  Although new to Thailand, the improved system
to be introduced is well established in other countries. The integration of
this new technology with the present system will require thorough planning
and coordination. The risks associated with its introduction in JOL will be
reduced by the use of consultants including a photomap production specialist
and an interactive graphics specialist, each for five years, and a short-term
(2 month) adviser on urban mapping, to assist in cadastral program coordina-
tion, planning and specialist instruction backed up by appropriate training
programs and overseas visits (Annex 2). A comprehensive program of new
mapping building construction for the Surveyor-(;eneral's office, (para.
2.18) equipment procurement, and training (para. 2.14) will be assisted by
these consultant advisors and specialists, with particular emphasis on the
first two years of project implementation.
2.14      Training.  The introduction of new technology under the cadastral
mapping programs will impose a considerable training burden on DOL, and on
the educational institutions which traditionally provide DOL with its trained
manpower. Strengthening of surveyor training courses at Bangkok Institute
of Technology (BIT) and Chulalongkorn University will therefore be assisted
by consultant lecturers. The consultant personnel engaged in training will
work in close counterpart relationship with DOL Training Section staff and
with lecturers in the above educational institutions. Local expertise would
be adequate to meet future training requirements of DOL after the consultants
are phased out towards the end of the project.
2.15      The majority of DOL surveyors possess three-year certificates or
five-year diplomas in surveying from BIT or other technical colleges. BIT
will be assisted to develop photogrammetric and cartographic training options
in its courses through the provision of one lecturer for four years. One
satellite positioning set and one set each of short-range and long-range
electronic distance measuring equipment will also be provided for
instructional purposes.
2.16      The only undergraduate four-year surveying course in Thailand is
offered by Chulalongkorn IJniversity. This course gives very little emphasis
to cadastral surveying or public administration, and as a result there are



currently no Chulalongkorn survey graduates in DOL. The new high technology
applications in geodesy, photogrammetry, cartography and computations which
will be introduced through the project will increase the demand for staff
with tertiary qualifications.  A suitably specialized lecturer will be
provided under the project for four years to assist academic staff in adding
emphasis in the above areas to the existing course, and the same package of
training equipment as proposed for BIT.
2.17      About 76 man-months of short-term overseas fellowship time will
also be provided to enable senior and middle level staff to visit overseas
cadastral survey organizations in order to observe techniques and systems to
be used in the project, and to undergo short, specialized training courses.
Knowledge gained in this way would be used to pssist in the training of
project staff after the fellowship nominees return to Thailand (para. 2.32).
2.18      New Mapping Building.  The project will finance a 5-story,
approximately 6,000 sq m building for the DOL Surveyor-General's staff, to be
constructed behind the existing Thonburi land office building in Bangkok to
accommodate the mapping equipment and staff needed for the accele-
rated survey programs. It will house all the photogrammetric, computing,
digitizing, plotting and printing equipment, together with equipment, map and
record storage space and a repair workshop. A lecture room for in-service
training will also be included. The building will be designed to be vibra-
tion-free and will have extra-strength floors where heavy equipment is to be
installed. A number of instrument rooms will need dust-proofing as well as
air-conditioning. Timely completion of this building by the end of project
year two (September 30, 1986), is essential if the schedule of accelerated map
production is to be attained, and assurances to this effect were obtained at
loan negotiations. The Bank has agreed to retroactively finance 100% of the
architectural design services for this building to enable DOL to initiate the
architectural design before loan effectiveness. Loan effectiveness will be
conditional on DOL's having approved preliminary design plans, satisfactory to
the Bank, for this building. Construction bids could thereby be invited
shortly after effectiveness.
Land Administration Component
2.19      The activities to be supported under this component will be phased
with the rural cadastral mapping component (para. 2.06). They will include:
(a)  titling, which includes:  (i) adjudication (i.e., official deter-
mination in the field of the boundaries of separately owned
parcels and the ownership and other rights held in each) and issue
of title deeds in areas covered by new mapping, (ii) title con-
version, a largely clerical and administrative operation (i.e.,
the replacement of NS3K certificates by title deeds and the
renumbering of title deed parcels in areas covered by map trans-
formation), and (iii) transfer of existing title deeds from



- 10 -
provincial land offices to appropriate district land offices
within the project areas:
(b) building of 15 new district land offices and expansion of
23 existing offices and construction of 135 staff houses within
the main project areas:
(c) increased staffing levels in those district land offices within
the project areas which qualify to hold titles:
(d) construction of 264 strongrooms in provincial and those district
land offices which qualify or are likely to qualify to hold titles,
both in and outside the main project areas; and
(e) provision of equipment and furniture for new district land offices
within the main project areas, and for existing provincial and
district offices which qualify or are likely to qualify to hold
titles, both in and outside the main project areas.
2.20      Land documentation is complicated by the variety of titles, certi-
ficates and licenses issued by several agencies. DOL is empowered under the
Land Code to issue four such documents for private land and two for state
land. Some of these documents are kept in provincial land offices while
others are kept in the district land offices. In addition, other forms of
documents, not provided for under the Land Code, are issued by other RTC
agencies for private land, the most important of which are the two types of
usufructuary licenses issued to settlers by the Public Welfare Department
(PWD) and the Cooperatives Promotion Department (CPD), and the usufructuary
license issued by the Royal Forest Department (RFD) to squatters in gazetted
forest reserves.
2.21      The number of documents issued to private land occupiers under the
Land Code will be reduced to two (NS2 and title deed) while the licenses
issued by PWD, CPD and other settlement agencies, will be replaced, in
accordance with the provisions of the Land Code, by TOL documents in the
project areas. Assurances to this effect were obtained at negotiations.
The RFD-issued license will also be replaced by DOL documents in any project
area forest reserves which are degazetted during the implementation period
of the project.
2.22      DOL will issue ownership documents (NS2 or title deed) to all
eligible occupiers of land not already in possession of full titles within
the areas of the new cadastral map sheets as well as the additional titles
arising from the NS3 and NS3K conversion program. Assurances were obtained
at negotiations that all eligible occupiers of land in the specified project
areas who qualify under the Land Code will be issued titles or pre-emptive
certificates. The conversion work, which is a clerical exercise requiring
careful supervision and checking, will be carried otit by conversion teams,
each consisting of a team leader, ten converters and two checkers, who will



- 11 -
travel from district to district and work in the district land offices in
accordance with a schedule coordinated with the cadastral mapping program.
A change in the Land Code will be necessary before title deeds can be issued
for NS3K certificates without the need for resurvey. The necessary
legislative amendment has been drafted and assurances were obtained at
negotiations that necessary actions will be taken in time to permit the
introduction of the conversion program in year two of the project (October
1, 1985). All land reserved for public use will be covered by documents for
state land issued to the appropriate government agencies.
2.23      The register of title deeds will also be decentralized from
provincial to district offices in districts with at least 25,000 titles. The
districts will be selected on the basis of procedures agreed at negotia-
tions. The reorganization will take place, district by district, in step
with the cadastral mapping program.
2.24      The improved and additional land offices, at provincial and dis-
trict levels, with their strengthened staffs will provide a more efficient
service to the public. The offices in the main project areas will be
constructed, equipped and staffed progressively beginning in the second year
of the project. Staffing levels will be raised from an average of five in
the smaller and seven in the larger existing district land offices (which
currently handle only NS3 and NS3K certificates) to totals of 12 and 20
respectively under the project (these staff totals include land officers
plus one janitor). The additional staff will initially assist in issuing
the new title deeds for the new cadastral map sheets. Subsequently, they
will deal with routine land office business, mainly registration of dealings -
transfers, mortgages, subdivisions, etc., for these new titles and for the
existing titles which will be transferred from the provincial land offices.
Details of the land administration component are given in Annex 4.
Land Valuation Component
2.25      The project will assist the recently established NVA to develop its
initial work program and to strengthen its staff capabilities through
technical assistance and training as follows:
(a) six man-years of valuation consultants input to the NVA. The
consultants will include an experienced valuation specialist for
five years to assist in supervision and direction of NVA
activities and undertake in-service training of NVA referencers
and valuers and a specialist on valuation-related legislation for
two six-month periods;
(b) seven man-years of valuation consultants input to assist in
establishing a full-time diploma course in valuation at the
Bangkok Institute of Technology (BIT);



- 12 -
(c) 27 student-years of fellowships at foreign training institutions
specializing in property valuation; and
(d) 59 man-months of short-term overseas visits and fellowships to
organizations involved in property valuation.
2.26      A two-year full-time diploma course in valuation, the first in
Thailand, will be introduced at BIT, commencing in the second project year.
The course, which will be within the Civil Technology Faculty, is planned to
accommodate 30 trainees per year. Technical assistance in the form of two
valuation lecturers to assist with syllabus preparation and instruction will
be provided for a total of seven man-years. Arrangements will be made for
the students to undertake practical training in the NVA between the two
18-week semesters. Details of the valuation component are given in Annex 5.-
General Institution Building Component
2.27      DOL's ability to support its survey, mapping, land administration
and valuation operations will be strengthened under the project through the
provision of technical assistance, an expanded in-service training program
at its training center near Bangkok, fellowships in public administration, and
short courses in management, finance and computerization.
2.28      Technical Assistance.  In addition to the consultants needed to help
strengthen the cadastral mapping programs (para. 2.13), training institutions
(paras. 2.15 and 2.16), and the NVA (para. 2.25), consultants will be
required to assist DOL in project coordination, managerial evaluation, and
project accounts. This assistance, totalling about 7 1/2 man-years, will
include 5 man-years of long-term and 17 man-months of short-term input
(Annex 2). Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment of all consultants shall
be satisfactory to the Bank, and that consultants to be financed from the
Bank loan shall be selected in accordance with Bank guidelines.
2.29      An Organization, Management and Operations (OMO) Study will also be
carried out by management consultants, who will conduct a thorough review of
DOL's organization structure and operating procedures; staffing, records,
monitoring, accounting, audit and data processing practices, and formulate
recommendations. The recommendations would assist DOL to correct present or
possible future weaknesses arising from an overcentralized checking and
control and a disproportionately heavy concentration of staff in the Bangkok
headquarters. Recommendations for computerizing selected accounting and
administrative operations will also be made. Australian Development Assi-
stance Bureau (ADAB) will select and appoint consultants (para.4.n5), in
consultation with DOL and the Bank under terms of reference (Annex 2)
satisfactory to DOL and the Bank. The four-person consultant team will carry
out their main study in the first six months following project effectiveness.
Assurances were obtained at negotiation that a report on this study would be
furnished to the Bank by the end of project year 1 (October 1, 1495). Members



- 13 -
of the original team will return for a one-month review after one year of
implementation.
2.30      Socio-economic Evaluation of the Project.  Evaluation of the socio-
economic impact of the project will be an important part of the project.
Both DOL and other participating agencies think that such an evaluation will
aid in their long-term planning and justification of cadastral work. To date
there are no economic evaluations of cadastral projects which successfully
measure the broad range of benefits quantitatively. If the evaluation is able
to measure benefits of this project, it may provide an evaluation methodology
model and a basis for cost-benefit analysis of future cadastral projects in
Thailand and elsewhere. The DOL will contract a local University team to
undertake the evaluation exercise. The team will be assisted by foreign
evaluation specialists. The Agriculture Department of the World Bank is
currently undertaking a cross section research project in Thailand during
1984-85 on the interaction of land titles with rural capital formation,
credit, land markets and farm productivity which will also provides guidelines
in methodology and coordinate closely with the Land Titling Project time
series evaluation effort. When complete, the socio-economic evaluation will
be incorporated into the overall completion report prepared by DOL's Project
Administration Unit (para. 3.10).
2.31      Training.  The institutional training to be provided under the
project by DOL will include: in-service instruction and short courses given by
staff of DOL's training section and assisted by DOL consultants. Graduate
studies in public administration and short courses on management, finance, and
computerization will be provided. The project will also support the training
effort by financing some building construction and equipment.
2.32      The DOL Training Section runs an active program of initiation and
refresher courses and seminars for staff of all grades. The section is
planned to increase from 14 to 28 training staff in RTG FY84, when the initial
construction phase of a new training center at Bang Kun Tieng, about 15 km
southwest of Bangkok, with accommodation for 70 trainees, should be completed.
A further administration extension to this facility will be provided under
the project. Additional seminar facilities will also be provided in the new
mapping building in Bangkok. These expansion plans will be adequate to
meet the in-service training needs of the project when supplemented by the
contribution to training of the cadastral and valuation technical assistance
specialists to be attached to DOL through the project life.
2.33      Overseas Fellowships covering 25 man-years of full-time academic
training in public administration in foreign training institutions will be
provided to carefully selected candidates possessing adequate foreign language
abilities.
2.34      Computerization.  The OMO Study is likely to recommend computeriza-
tion of DOL's accounting and administrative operations. The project includes
provision of equipment and training in the later years of the project so that
DOL will be able to implement such a recommendation.



- 14 -
III. ORGANIZATION AND IMPLEMENTATION
A. Department of Lands
3.01      The Department of Lands (DOL) was established in 1901.  Since its
formation DOL has been responsible for all aspects of land registration,
particularly cadastral survey and mapping and registration of rights to land
throughout the country. In LQ8l DOL was given responsibility for formation
of a new National Valuation Authority. The )OL is administered by a
Director-General assisted by four deputies, one of whom is designated
Surveyor-General. Each deputy is responsible for between three and five
divisions (Chart 2). At present about 8,700 staff are employed excluding
permanent and temporary laborers. Headquarters, with a staff of about 2,100,
is in Bangkok. A further 500 staff are distributed among three Bangkok
metropolitan land offices. Some 6,100 staff are in the 72 provincial land
offices and 674 district offices.
3.02      DOL staff can be arbitrarily grouped into three occupational
categories: (a) lands staff, including land administration officers, land
officers and legal officers; (b) survey staff including surveyors,
draftsmen, map production and computation staff; and (c) general staff
including personnel, finance and accounting, clerical, typing and other
staff. The numbers and types of staff positions established and occupied at
appraisal, and their location are shown in Table 3.1.
Table 3.1: STAFFING OF THE DEPARTMENT OF LANDS
Lands    Survey    General   Total
staff    staff       staff    staff
Department of Lands Headquarters               595      1,058       421    2,074
Bangkok land offices                          277         206        55       538
Provincial and district land offices        3,9116      1,448       713    6,077
Total                               4,788       2,712    1,189    8,689



- 15 -
3.03      The DOL had an FY83 budget of $24.3 million, of which 67% was for
land administration, 19% for mapping and document issuance, 5% for general
administration, and 9% was for valuation. The remaining 8% was for land
allocation, i.e., land settlement schemes which are unrelated to project
activities. DOL collected some $64.9 million in FY82 in the course of its
own operations. About 45% of its revenue comes from the Bangkok metro-
politan area. Registration fees for sales and mortgages are the largest
source of income, representing 49% and 35% of total revenue, respectively.
Thus DOL fully recovers the costs of its land administrative operations,
i.e., the maintainance of its cadastre.
B. Implementation
3.04      All project components will be executed by DOL except for the
survey and valuation training courses, for which Chulalongkorn University and
BIT will be responsible. The Director-General, DOL, will have overall
responsibility for project implementation and will be designated as Project
Director while the Surveyor-General will be designated Deputy Project
Director. They will be assisted by a Project Implementation Coordinator and
additional administrative and support staff in the recently established DOL
Project Administration Unit. The existing operations divisions of DOL will
undertake implementation. DOL has agreed that the position of Chief Valuer
will at all times be occupied by a qualified and competent person.
3.05      A project executive committee, chaired by a Deputy Under-Secretary,
Ministry of Interior, will be responsible for overall formulation of policy
and coordination with other RTG agencies. Within DOL a project administra-
tion committee, chaired by the Project Director, will be responsible for
overseeing general progress of the project. Establishment of the two
committees is a condition of loan effectiveness. An existing Valuation
Subcommittee of the National Land Allocation Commission, chaired by the
Director-General, DOL, will be responsible for coordination among the
agencies concerned with the valuation component. An implementation schedule
is given in Chart 3.
3.06      Staffing Requirements.  The project will require an increase in
staff of some 1,490 civil servants, 190 permanent unskilled employees
and 1,350 temporary laborers. Some 250 of the civil servants would be
supplied by transfers from ground survey teams and other staff issuing
NS3K certificates and another 160 would be supplied by transfers from small
district land offices which will close. Thus the net increase in DOL
permanent staff will be 1,080 during the 5-year project period, or 12%
above the current staffing level. This is less than the 1,210 unfilled
positions for which there is already Civil Service Commission approval.
DOL will need to recruit new civil servants as follows: 410 for rural
mapping, 190 for urban remapping, 400 for land and general administration,
and 80 for valuation.  Some 90 additional permanent, and 1,200 temporary



- 16 -
laborers will be needed for rural mapping with 100 permanent laborers needed
for urban mapping and 140 temporary laborers needed for title conversion.
All the above estimates are very approximate and will need to be verified by
the Organization, Management and Operations Study (para. 2.29).
3.07      The majority of the new civil service positions will be for
clerks and junior surveyors. Recruitment, which will be spread over the
five years of the project, will not present a problem. Some 300 of the new
land administration staff will be assigned to the new and expanded land
offices where they will deal with the increased number of land transfers,
mortgages and subdivisions. Overall, the staff recruitment will increase
the proportion of DOL's staff working outside of Bangkok and therefore aid
RTG's decentralization efforts. Assurances were obtained at negotiations
regarding the timely recruitment or transfer of project staff.
C. Monitoring and Progress Reporting
3.08      Monitoring.  The Project Administration Unit will coordinate
project monitoring. Each division director will monitor his division's
implementation progress for prompt feedback and problem solving. The
Project Administration Unit will collect monitoring information from the
various implementing divisions to compile an overview for the Project
Director. This overview will focus on interdivisional coordination require-
ments and key indicators. It would be emphasized that the objective of
this monitoring is to assist managerial problem solving, not surveillance of
wrong-doing (as the translation in Thai of the word 'monitoring' implies).
The Organization, Management and Operations Study will assist DOL in
strengthening its entire monitoring system wilth a focus on prompt approxi-
mate feedback rather than slow accurate reporting. The Project Coordination
Advisor and Management Evaluation Advisor wilL assist DOL in identifying
specific key indicators on project inputs and outputs, building on those
suggested in the preparation report.
3.09      Annual Reviews.  Because of the innovative and technical nature of
the project, annual reviews of project progress will be carried out by the
Project Administration Unit at the end of each implementation year. These
reviews will pay particular attention to resolving difficulties encountered
and proposing any necessary amendments to the implementation program. They
will also analyze progress made in implementing the Organization, Management
and Operations Study proposals.
3.10      Progress Reporting.  Progress reporting to the Bank will be on a
semi-annual basis. A suitable format and timing for the reports will be
agreed upon during the first supervision mission. Within six months of
project completion, DOL will prepare a project completion report for the
project, incorporating the socio-economic evaluation described in paras.
2.30. The Management Evaluation Advisor will assist DOL in preparing
progress and completion reports.



- 17 -
IV. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
A. Project Costs
4.01      Total project cost is estimated at $76.0 million, of which
$25.5 million, or 34% will be in foreign exchange. All project costs are
creating an asset in the form of a new cadastre and thus are all capital
costs in economic terms. The cadastre is clearly an asset because it
produces a stream of benefits over a number of years. Project costs do not
include the costs of maintaining the cadastre and therefore do not include
current expenditures. Project costs which are labeled "operating" are so
categorized only in the financial, not the economic sense. Cost estimates
are based on quantity and unit price estimates prepared by DOL and BIT; unit
price estimates are in line with Budget Bureau guidelines and recent civil
works contracts. Physical contingencies of 10% have been applied to all
cost items. Prices are as of April 1984 negotiations. The price contin-
gencies amount to 23% of total base cost plus physical contingencies,
assuming the following rates of price increase (in %):
1984  1985  1986  1987  1988  1989
Domestic           6.5   6.0   6.0   6.0   6.0   6.0
Foreign            7.5   7.0   6.0   6.0   6.0   6.0
Taxes of about $5.9 million (8%) are included in project costs. Table 4.1
summarizes project costs. Further details are presented in Annex 1,
Tables 1-4.
4.02      The project includes a total of 36 man-years of long-term foreign
consultants. Short-term services and studies will require an additional
57 man-months foreign consultants and 73 man-months local professors
supervising the socio-economic research project. The project also includes
some 52 man-years of graduate study at an average cost of $7,000 per
man-year and 210 man-months of overseas visits and short courses at an
average cost of $3,000 per man-month. All foreign technical assistance and
overseas training will be administered and financed by ADAB. DOL will
contract the local professors for the socio-economics evaluation, following
standard Bank procedures.
B. Financing
4.03      The proposed Bank loan of $35.0 million (including capitalized
front-end fee of $87,282) amounts to 50% of project financing



- 18 -
TABLE 4.1: PROJECT COST SUMMARY
(BANT '000)                     (US1 '000)                      Z Total
- --------- -----             -   ---- ----------------- Z Foreign   Base
Local     Foreign    Tatal        Local   Foreign   Total    Exchanse    Costs
A. RURAL WPING
1. BASE CADASTRAL MA                                 202,750.8 258,073.5   460,B24.3   8,815.3 11,220.6 20,035.8         56.0     36.8
2. 6ROUND SURVEY TEAMS                               266,906.6  10,495,6   277,402.2  11,604.6    456.3 12,061.0          3.8     22.1
Sub-Total RURAL MAPPIN6                                 469,657.4 268p569.1   738,226.5  20,41?,9 11676.9 32096.8          36.4     58.9
B. URBAN REMAPPING                                       57,825.0  16P509.3    74,334.3   2,514.1    717.8  3,231.9         22.2      5.9
Co LMND ADMINISTRATION
1. PROVINCIAL AND DISTRICT LAND ADMINISTRATION       175,001.5  48,168.5   223170.0   7,608,8  2,094.3  9i703.0          21.6     17,8
2. LAND ADIINISTRATION HEADOUARTERS                    1,633.4     140.0      1,773.4      71.0      6.1      77.1        7.9      0.1
3. TITLE CONVERSION TEAMS                             34,928.9     538.5    35y467.4   1,518.6      23.4  1,542.1         1.5      2.8
Sub-Total LAND ADMINISTRATION                           211,563.9  48,847,0  260t410.9   9,198.4  2,123,8 11,322,2          18.8     20.8
D. LAND VALUATION
1. DEPARTMENT OF LANDS                                22,795.1  30,309.6    53,104.7      991.1  1,317.8  2,308.9        57,1      4.2
2. BANGK0K TECHNICAL INSTITUTE                         3,960.8  24,791.3    28.752.0      172.2  1,077.9  1.250.1        86.2      2.3
Sub-Total LAND VALUATION                                 26,755.9  55,100.8    81,856.7   1,163.3  2,395.7  3,559,0         67.3      6.5
E. 8ENERAL INSTITUTION BUILDING                          54,834#6  43,677.6    98,512.2   2,384.1  1,899.0  4,283.1         44.3      7.9
rotal BASELINE COSTS                                      820,636.8 432,703.9 1,253,340.6  35p679,9 18,813.2 54,493.1         34,5    100.0
Phlsical Contingencies                                  89,265.0  44,320.5   133,585.6   3,881.1  1,927.0  5,808.1         33.2     10.7
Price Contingencies                                    252,713.2 109,062.2   361,775.4  10,987.5  4,741.8 15,729.4         30,1     28.9
rotal PROJECT COSTS                                     1,162,615.1 586,086.5 1,748,701.6  50,548.5 25,482.0 76,030.5         33.5    139.5
Front End Fee                                                  -   2,007,5    2C007 5           -     87.3    87.3        1000.      0.2
rotal FINANCING REDUIRED                                1,162.615.1 588.093.0 1,750,701,1  50,548.5 25,5693 76,118.8          33.6    139.7
_________~ _______ -_ --                 - -   _____ __ -------   -   -------   -   ------   __ --   -__ --------   -     --   __ --- --- --- -- --- --- --



- 19 -
requirements net of taxes, consistent with the objectives of the Bank's
Special Action Program. The proposed loan will cover $16.5 million (64%) of
the foreign exchange requirement plus $18.5 million of local requirements.
The Bank loan will finance civil works, vehicles, equipment, furniture, and
the incremental operating costs of the rural and urban mapping components.
These incremental operating costs will include personnel remuneration, aerial
photography, materials, and operation and maintenance. The loan will also
cover $442,000 for contracting a local university team to carry out the
socioeconomic study. Bank financing of civil works will include $178,000
for consultant architects to design and supervise construction of the new
mapping building (7% of cost), of which up to $72,000 could be retroactive.
The level of local currency financing by the Bank is justified in the
present circumstances because the Government needs more funds to complete
the investment on the original schedule and in order to gain a significant
share in project financing. ADAB will provide $9.1 million (13%) of total
project financing net of taxes (36% of the foreign exchange requirement),
for technical assistance and overseas training. The Government will provide
$26.1 million (37%) of project financing net of taxes and $5.9 million in
taxes. A summary of project financing is shown in Annex 1, Table 5.
4.04      The Government will make available to DOL and other participating
agencies the full amount of budgetary funds required for each year of the
project. On average the Government's contribution to the project will
require an increase in real terms of 22% in the annual budget allocation to
DOL during the project period compared to current allocations. Offsetting
this increase, some $3 million of the Government's contribution could be in
the form of staff transfers from DOL activities made obsolete by the
project: this would lower the average budget increase to 20%. After project
completion there will be some $2.3 million annual current expenditures
resulting from the project, 9% above present DOL budget allocations. This
will likely be offset by a corresponding increase in DOL revenues.
4.05      The technical assistance and overseas training will be adminis-
tered and financed by the Australian Development Assistance Bureau, with
the exception of the socio-economic study. ADAB financing is expected to
be finalized not later than September 30, 1984.
C. Procurement
4.06      Contracts for civil works in the main project areas and small
buildings in Bangkok, totaling $7.6 million, will generally be small and
scattered in time and place. The contract for the new mapping building in
Bangkok (para. 2.18), costing about $2.5 million, will attract keen bidding
from Bangkok-based construction firms. These contracts are unlikely to be of
interest to international contractors, and they would be awarded on the



- 20 -
basis of local competitive bidding (LCB) in accordance with RTG procedures
acceptable to the Bank. Contracts for vehicles, equipment, furniture,
materials and supplies are estimated to total $18.0 million. Those
contracts for vehicles, equipment, materials and supplies estimated to
exceed $250,000 will be awarded on the basis of international competitive
bidding (ICB) in accordance with Bank-guidelines. All other contracts will
be awarded on the basis of LCB in accordance with RTG procedures acceptable
to the Bank. To the extent practical, similar civil works, equipment,
furniture and materials will be grouped together in the same tender for
reasons of economy and efficiency. Procurement for land administration
activities specific to project area districts will be made only after DOL
demonstrates that the district in question will have more than 25,000
parcels after ground survey and the conversion were complete (para. 2.23).
4.07      Aerial photography, estimated to cost $1.1 million, will be
carried out annually by the Royal Thai Survey Department (RTSD) on a force
account basis. The Bank accepts the force account arrangements because
(a) the RTSD has considerable experience in this type of photography and has
the required equipment, staff and adequate capacity; (b) the aerial photo-
graphy work must be split into relatively small, annual packages which will
be unlikely to attract reputable commercial companies; and (c) protracted
contract negotiations near the start of the government fiscal year will
make it difficult to take advantage of the narrow time window of
November-December when flying conditions are ideal.
4.08      To provide flexibility for the purchase of small items (urgent
requirements and miscellaneous consumable supplies) prudent shopping, with a
minimum of three quotations (if possible), will be applied for items each
costing $25,000 or less, in an aggregate amount not exceeding $2.0 million.
All bid packages estimated to cost $500,000 equivalent or more for civil
works, and $100,000 equivalent or more for vehicles, equipment, goods or
supplies will be subject to prior review by the Bank, as will final award
of contracts in these categories. This will represent prior review by the
Bank of about 70% of total contract values. A preference margin limited to
15% of the c.i.f. price of imported goods or the prevailing customs duty,
whichever is lower, will be extended to local manufacturers in the
evaluation of bids.
D. Disbursement
4.09      Disbursements will be made at the rate of 100% of the foreign
exchange costs of directly imported equipment, vehicles, and furniture; 100%
of the ex-factory cost of equipment, vehicles and furniture manufactured
locally or 65% of other locally procured equipment; 55% of other locally
procured vehicles; and 90% of other locally procured furniture. The rate of
disbursement will be 85% of expenditure for civil works and 100% for
architect/engineering and local university consultants. The rate of
disbursement on incremental operating costs of the rural and urban mapping



- 21 -
components including RTSD aerial photography will be 55%. These will
include net incremental payroll expenditures but exclude salaries of staff
transferred within DOL. Disbursements for incremental operating mapping
expenditures will be made on the basis of statements of expenditure and
related supporting documents will be retained by the implementing agency for
review by the Bank as and when required. The Bank will not accept reimbur-
sement applications for less than an estimated $20,000 equivalent. It is
expected that the project will be physically completed by September 30, 1990
and Loan Closing will be by September 30, 1991. An estimated schedule of
disbursements is given in Annex 6. The disbursement schedule is based on
the overall profile for Thailand projects.
E. Accounts and Audit Requirements
4.10      Assurances were obtained during negotiations that DOL and BIT
will maintain separate accounts covering all financial transactions related
to project activities and will prepare annual statements of receipts and
expenditures based on these accounts. The project accounts specialist
(para. 2.28) will assist DOL in introducing an adequate accounting and
internal control system appropriate for disbursement by the Bank against
statements of expenditures. Auditors satisfactory to the Bank will be
employed to audit these accounts annually, and certified copies of the
audited financial statement and the auditors' report including an opinion
covering withdrawals made against statements of expenditure will be sub-
mitted to the Bank within nine months of the end of the RTG fiscal year. A
suitable financial statement format will be agreed upon during the first
Bank supervision.
V. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
A. Benefits
5.01      The main project benefits derive from greater individual security
of tenure, an improved national cadastre, and improved property valuation.
Lack of data and statistical studies of cadastral projects make it impossible
to quantify benefits at this time. However, socio-economic research and
evaluation planned during project implementation as described in para. 2.30
may provide the basis for quantification in the future. A description of
likely project benefits follows.
5.02      Security of tenure is a crucial precondition for development.
It provides the framework for productive investment and land development by
land holders. With secure tenure, farmers are more likely to plan and invest
on a long-term basis. They are more likely to invest in on-farm facilities,



- 22 -
perennial crops, and soil fertility improvement. Increased motivation to
practice soil conservation will be especially significant, since a high
proportion of undocumented lands are in upland areas. As agriculture in
Thailand moves from the extensive to the intensive mode, this framework for
investment and development is becoming increasingly important. All land
holders receiving clear title under the project, especially those in urban
areas, will have greater motivation to invest iin adequate housing and
commercial development. The project may even encourage the mobilization of
savings among low-income groups that could not be mobilized in any other
way. Overall the project should help to increase incomes, improve the
environment, and alleviate poverty in the long run.
5.03      Land holders' access to institutional credit will similarly
improve. Currently only those property owners with full title deed, NS3K or
NS3 certificates, can use their land as collateral for credit from
government and commercial banks. Those with lower level certificates such
as NS2 and those without documentation are limited to the informal credit
markets where borrowing terms are more expensive. Improved access to credit
should in turn make it more possible for landholders to respond to the
increased motivation for investment discussed above.
5.04      The project will reduce price and other distortions in the land
market in those lands which are currently undocumented. The lack of clear
records and titles may cause the land market to be inherently unresponsive
to the forces of supply and demand. Transactions, to the extent that they
occur at all in the areas of unclear records, do not reflect the "true"
market, but rather are distorted by prices that reflect the insecurity of
boundaries of tenure.   Distorted land prices often bias allocation of
resources. Furthermore, transactions in undocumented urban lands are less
commercialized and have higher liquidity costs than those in documented
lands.
5.05      The project will reduce the incidence of land disputes by
providing security and clear delineation of tenure, especially in those lands
which are currently undocumented. At the present time there is a high
correlation between the proportion of undocumented land and the incidence
of boundary disputes. Local judges and police officers strongly support
the view that the issue of full title deeds will reduce the number of
disputes. The adjudication of botndaries by DOL officials which takes place
as part of the issuance of titles is a straight-forward, open process rarely
challenged at the time or subsequently. The reduction of court cases and
legal expenses has the benefit of savings in unnecessary expenditure by both
the Government and the private sector.
5.06      The project will increase government efficiency by rationalizing
cadastral mapping and documentation in a timely manner. Existing cadastral
maps which are based on 29 independently determined and unreconcilable map
coordinate origins (para. 2.10) would become increasingly expensive to
maintain and expand in the future. Integrating the mapping with the



- 23 -
national origin and grid before the task becomes larger and more difficult
should effect savings of government resources in the long run. Similarly
rationalizing all land registration into one consistent documentation system
as soon as possible (para. 2.21) should also reduce overall government
expenditure in the long term. Land holders who already have title deeds,
NS3K and NS3 certificates, even though their documents would be based on a
new map, would only benefit indirectly through government efficiency since
they already have secure tenure.
5.07      The project will also increase government efficiency by
eliminating duplication of cadastral surveys by various agencies. Ready
reference to a complete cadastre would reduce delays in land acquisition
and in obtaining easements (servitudes) for utilities, transport and other
government and private projects. It would eliminate the expensive and time-
consuming process of determining on an ad hoc basis the boundaries and
ownership of land needed for important investment activities.
5.08      Cadastral information for planning and regulatory purposes will
likewise be improved under the project. The completed cadastre can provide
the basis of a record system for regulation of land use, building
construction, land reform, pollution sources and other controls applicable
to individual parcels of land. By providing a consistent data base for all
government offices, it will make inter-agency cooperation easier.
5.09      The project would help provide an improved valuation basis for
landed property taxation. By improving valuation techniques and completing
cadastres, government revenue, especially for local municipalities, will
increase substantially. Valuation on a consistent professional basis will
reduce de facto inequities among taxpayers arising from omissions and
distortions in property tax rolls. Since property taxes are progressive
relative to many other taxes, they will also generate revenue from those
most able to pay. Since property tax revenue increases in proportion to
economic growth, it provides an efficient way of financing new services
which such growth requires.
5.10      In addition to generating government revenue, accurate valuation
can serve as a disincentive to land ownership for speculative and uneconomic
purposes if the property tax structure is progressive. Although Thailand
has a remarkably equal land holding pattern /1 and a low proportion of land
rental in rural areas, /2  influential individuals in academic and political
/1 The 1978 Agricultural Census shows that on a national basis 90% of all
rural landholders have less than 8 hectares and together they own two
thirds of all agricultural land.
/2 The 1978 Agricultural Census also shows that on a national basis less
than 10% of agricultural holdings and lands are rented. Roughly two
thirds of all land rentals are for a fixed amount of money or produce
and one third are for a share of produce.



- 24 -
circles expressed concern that these conditions may change, creating greater
extremes in wealth and poverty. There is widespread sentiment that Thailand
should try to maintain an even income distribution and encourage efficient
utilization of its factors of production. In the past, the Land Code
included a maximum limit on the size of landholding, and debate continues on
whether these limits should be reimposed. At that time, for example,
agricultural land holdings were limited to a maximum of 50 rai (8 ha).
However, experience in other countries has shown that such regulation is
difficult to enforce. Furthermore, because land use potential varies
tremendously among locations over time, such regulation is highly arbitrary.
Accurate valuation and equitable property taxation should be able to achieve
the same objectives much more effectively than direct controls.   Valuation
should especially affect the areas of greatest property wealth, which in
Thailand are in the form of urban real estate. In rural areas, property
taxation when balanced with other forms of taxation can be used as a tool to
encourage agricultural production which most fully utilizes available land,
labor, and capital.
B. Beneficiaries
5.11      An estimated 700,000 landholding families receiving secure title
will directly benefit from the project. While data on the relative income
of families with undocumented land is unavailable, perhaps as much as 50%
would be below the absolute poverty level of $157 per capita, since more
affluent landholders have already been able to obtain documentation.
Potential income growth attributable to the project is impossible to estimate
at this time. However, the project evaluation described in para. 2.30 would
attempt to establish a basis for quantifying estimates in future projects.
5.12      Women,  Some 12% of all rural landholders are women and they would
secure title through the normal project process. Other women would also
benefit as family members who play an important role in farm activities.
Since the proportion of female landholders in urban areas is over 20%, even
more women would benefit from urban-oriented components. Because women
already play an active role in land transactions when they do have title, no
special effort would be needed to ensure their participation in the project.
Women would also benefit as staff members of DOL. More than one third of all
DOL staff are women and 9% of the mid-level management positions are held by
women.
5.13      Employment.  Under the project, some 1,270 additional permanent jobs
would be created within DOL, including 60 positions for trained valuers.
DOL would also employ some 1,350 additional temporary workers in project
areas for ground survey and title conversion. As explained above, the
project should also stimulate general economic growth by making development
planning and implementation easier. At the local level, the project should
help family labor to become more productive through investment and credit.



- 25 -
C. Risks
5.14      The level of risk associated with this project is low.  The various
participating agencies all support the project and are committed to its
objectives. The technical innovations in the project will not present
significant training problems.
5.15      The main risk is that the project might be delayed.  Delays in
construction of the mapping facilities, in ordering of specialized equipment,
or in provision of adequate budget for field survey work, could cause the
entire implementation schedule to slip. The project design includes several
safeguards against delay. Retroactive financing for the design of the mapping
facilities should help ensure timely civil works. A major role for the
consultants will be to advise DOL on tender and procurement procedures for
equipment. Bank participation in financing incremental operating costs of the
mapping components should help alleviate budget constraints. In addition, the
project implementation schedule was designed in light of a careful considera-
tion of DOL's capacity to coordinate project activities and expand staff and
budget.
5.16      The Organization, Management, and Operations Study is also crucial
to the project's success. During appraisal there were differing views on
the proposed content of the study and on the background requirements of
consultants undertaking the study. It is essential that the study be
undertaken by experienced and well qualified consultants early in project
implementation. The study should help DOL identify the staff transfers that
would be necessary for the efficient operation of the project. It will
also develop recommendations for financial and personnel management of DOL
in the long run. If the various participating agencies and the Bank cannot
reach complete agreement on the terms of reference for the study, the rate
of institutional development within DOL is likely to be slower than
currently anticipated.
5.17      The valuation component could be jeopardized if the Government
continues to pursue separate valuation efforts through different agencies
during the project period. It is essential that full use of the Valuation
Subcommittee of the National Land Allocation Commission be made to
coordinate efforts and avoid multiple valuation methodology.
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.01      During negotiations agreements were reached on the following:
(a) promptly after survey of land in the designated project areas, title
deeds or pre-emptive certificates will be issued for all private
occupiers of land in accordance with the Land Code and all land
used for public purposes will be covered by documents for State land
(para. 2.06 and 2.22);



- 26 -
(b) cadastral map sheets and records produced under the project will
be available for inspection by the public on request, and copies
will be obtainable by other RTG agencies for official purposes
(para. 2.09);
(c) DOL will complete construction of a new mapping building by
the end of project year two (para. 2.18);
(d) usufructuary licenses issued by other Government agencies will
be replaced by documents issued in accordance with the provisions of
the Land Code within the project areas (para 2.21);
(e) necessary actions, including legislative amendments to the Land
Code, will be taken by October 1, 1985 to permit conversion of
NS3K certificates to title deeds without the need for resurvey
(para 2.22);
(f) DOL will employ consultants whose qualifications, experience
and terms and conditions of employment will be satisfactory to the
Bank, and consultants financed from the loan shall be selected
in accordance with Bank guidelines (para. 2.28);
(g)  DOL will furnish a report on an organization management and
operations study to the Bank by October 1, 1985 (paras. 2.29);
(h) DOL will maintain a qualified and competent person in the
position of Chief Valuer (para. 3.04);
(i) DOL will recruit or transfer the incremental project staff
required in a timely manner (para. 3.07);
(j) RTG will provide adequate annual budgets to DOL to meet counter-
part funding requirements for the project (para. 4.04);.
(k)  DOL will maintain separate project accounts and financial
statements acceptable to the Bank. These accounts will be
audited by auditors satisfactory to the Bank and the auditors'
report will be submitted to the Bank within nine months of the
end of the RTG fiscal year (para. 4.10).
6.02      DOL approval of preliminary design plans for the new mapping
building (para. 2.18), and establishment of the project committees
(para. 3.05) are conditions for effectiveness of the loan.
6.03      With the above assurances, the proposed project would be suitable
for a Bank loan of $35 million with a term of 20 years, including a grace
period of 5 years. The borrower would be the Kingdom of Thailand.



- 27 -
ANNEX 1
THAILAND                                              Table 1
LAND TITLING PROJECT
Summarv Account bg Time
(US $ '000)
Totals Includin Contingenies
Init      Unit Cost    No. of Units  84/85   85/86    86/87    87/88   88/89    Total
INVESTHENT COSTS
A. BUILDINGS                               NO.   0.043-1,546.435           837  1,474.3  3,144,0  1,740,6 1914,9  1,824.7 10,098.5
B. VEHICLES                                NO.       1.087-26.087          208   691.2   197.0   273.7   140.7   121.6  1,424.2
C. EQUIPMENT                               NO.      0.009-652.174        4,065  2.333.3  1,467,6  4,059.5  1792.3   656.7 10,309.4
D. FURNITURE                               NO.        0.017-2.174        5,060     31.4   204.4   330.2   294.7   243.7  14104.4
E. CONSULTANCY AD STUDIES                1 I/MO    8.696-152.174           102  1,714.2  1,605.8  1,583.4  1,615.8  1,611.1  8,130.4
F. TRAINING                              I H/MO       3.043-6.957          262   135.6   322.7   296.1   296.3   322.7  1,373.4
.al INVESTMENT COSTS                                                            6,380.1  6f941.5  8,283.4  6,054.8  4,780.5 32440.3
RECURRENT COSTS
A. SALARIES                              I YR        0.661-5.661        8,344   820.2  1,328.0  3,046.8  5,218.3  7,066.0 17,479.3
B. SHORT TERM PER DIEM                   I MO        0.039-0.313       36f294    116.3  1,075.8  2,098.8  3.251.3  4,391.1 10P933.2
C. TRAVEL ALLOWANCE                     1000 L       0.022-2,848        5,482   285.9   386,9   462.1   552.1   634.7  2,321.8
D. OFFICE RENTAL                         I YR               0.87           40        -      4.4      9.4    15.0    21.2    50.0
E. AERIAL PHOTOGRAPHY                   1000 M2    0.013-15.217         1,629   191.3   211.6   224.3   237.8   252.0  1,117.0
F. NAPPING MATERIALS                                  0.01-8.696        6,272   270.1   33146   426.1   436,8   441.8  1,906.4
6. OTHER MATERIALS                                  0,001-39.565      450,460    114.6   396.5   931.9  1,698.5  29123.4  5,264.9
H. VEHICLE OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE                                        -        -    110.1   148.0   200.4   234.7   693.2
1. EQUIPMENT OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE                                      -        -   247.8   418.2   873.5  1,115.9  2,655.4
J. FURNITlRE OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE                                      -        -      1.0      7.6    18.5    29.0    56.1
K. BUILDING OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE                                       -        -    74.7   238.6   341.1   458.6  1,113.0
lal RECURRENT COSTS                                                              1,798.3  4.168.6  8,011.7 12,843,3 160768.4 43,590.2
-l PROJECT COSTS                                                                 8,178.3 11,110.1 16,295.1 18.898,0 21,548.9 76,030.5
_____~~ - _______ -- --_ - --_ - - _ ___ - -__ -- -- -- -__ - -- - -- -- -_-- - - _ __ - -_- -- -- --_ - -- -__-      - __ -  _ __________ --__________



- 28 -
ANNEX 1
Table 2
THAILAND
LAND TITLING PROJECT
Project Component bs Time
(US s '000)
Totals Including Contingencies                 Total
84/85   85/86    86/87    87/88    88/89        US s   (US$ '000)
A. RURAL NAPPING
1. BASE CADASTRAL MAP                               5r937,2  50764.8  6,567.5  4P373#2  4Y262#1  26,904.8   26i904.8
2. GROUND SURVEY TEAMS                                    -  1,258.0  2r951.0  5W300.3  7t920,8  17,430.2   17P430.2
Sub-Total RURAL MAPPING                                5,937.2  7,022.8  9,518.5  9,673.5 12P183.0  44,334.9   44,334.9
B. URBAN RENAPPING                                       129.8    552.5  1,397.8  1,312.0  1W136.1   4,528.3    4,528.3
C. LAND ADHINISTRATION
1. PROVINCIAL AMD DISTRICT LAND ADMINISTRATION        327.2  1,756.0  3P214.7  4,024.7  4,714.8  14,037.4   14,037.4
2. LAND ADMINISTRATION HEADQUARTERS                       -      19.7     27.9      29.4     31.3      108.4      108.4
3. TITLE CONVERSION TEAMS                                 -         -    431.1    890.2    918.5   2P239,7    2,239.7
Sub-Total LAND ADMINISTRATION                            327.2  1,775,7  3P673,7  4,944.3  5664.6  16,385.5   16,385.5
iD LAND VALUATION
I. DEPARTHMENT OF LANDS                               411.0    433.5    617.9    805.6    932.2   3,200.2    3,200.2
2. BANGK(N  TECHNICAL INSTITUTE                       257,3   M2.2    404.7    428,4    324.3   1,706.8    1,706.8
Sub-Total LAND VALUATION                                 668.3    725.7  1,022.6  1,233.9  1,256.5   4,907,0    4907.0
E. GENERAL INSTITUTION BUILDING                       1115.8  1I033.5    682.5  1,734.3  1,308.7   59874.8    5,874,8
Total PROJECT COSTS                                      8,178.3 11,110,1 16,295.1 18,898.0 21,548.9  76,030.5   76,030.5



- 29 -
ANNEX 1
THAILAND                                      Table  3
LAND TITLING PROJECT
Project Component bu Time
(US S '000)
Base Costs                         Total
84/85   85/86    86/87    87/88    88/89       US S   (USS '000)
A. RURAL NAPPING
1. BASE CADASTRAL NAP                              4,900.7  4,448.4  4,843.9  3i043.9  2,798.9  20,035.8   20f035.8
2. 6ROUNO SURMEY TEAMS                                   -    984,5  2,178,9  39692.1  5S205.4  12,061.0   12,061.0
Sub-Total RURAL MAPPING                               4,900.7  5,432.9  7rO22.8  6,736#1  8,004.3  32,096.8   32,096.8
B. URBAN REMAPPING                                      107.7    432.3  1,031.6    913.7    746.6   3Y231,9    3,231.9
C. LAND ADMINISTRATION
I. PROVINCIAL AND DISTRICT LAND ADMINISTRATION      263.0  1,332.9  2,316.9  2,744.8  3,045.5   9,703.0    9,703.0
2. LAND ADMINISTRATION HEADOUARTERS                      -     15,4     20.6      20.5     20.6      77.1       77.1
3. TITLE CONVERSION TEAMS                                -        -    318.3    620.1    603.6   1.542.1    1,542,1
Sub-Total LAND ADMINISTRATION                           263.0  1,348.3  2,655.8  3,385.4  3,669.7  11,322.2   11,322.2
D. LAND VALUATION
1. DEPARTHMENT OF LANDS                              341.2    339.0    455.9    560.7    612.1   2,308,9    2,308.9
2. BANGKOK TECHNICAL INSTITUTE                       212.5    228.4    298.4    298.0    212.8   1,250.1    1,250.1
Sub-Total LAND VALUATION                                553.7    567.4    754.2    858.7    824.9   3,559.0    3,559.0
E. 6ENERAL INSTITUTION BUILDING                         910.7    802.3    503.6  1,206.9    859.6   4,283.1    4,283#1
Total BASELINE COSTS                                    6,735,9  8,583.2 11,968.1 13,100.8 14,105.1  54,493.1  54,493.1
Physical Contin ien sie                                732.1    97640  1,258.3  1,373.9  1,467.9  5,808.1    5,808.1
Price Contingencies                                    710.4  1,551,0  3,068.7  4,423.4  5,976.0  15,729.4   15,729.4
Total PROECT COSTS                                      8.178.3 11110,1 16,295,1 18,898.0 21,548.9  76,030.5   76,030.5
Taxes                                                  934.5   899.8  1353.2  1,336.5  1419.0  5,943.1    5943A1
Foreign Exchange                                     40717.3  4,495.0  6,710.4  5,226.1  4,333.2  25,482.0   25,482,0



- 30 -
ANTNEX 1
Table 4
TMILM4                                                                       Page 1
LAN TITLING Pt[T
S,.rs hcca.iat by Projct Cowant
(us 0 '000)
RMAL MPING                             LAND ADMINISTRATION                 LAND VALUATION
-     --                                              Phnsical
UK                             PROINOCIAL AD       LAND        TITLE                      IWIK(    BENDA               Ctontin encies
CAASTO       mm          IUM     DISTRICT LAOD  ADMINISTRATIOS  COINNSICIO  DEARTIOT O  TECHNICAL  INSTITUTION
WAP     WY  TEAMS  6IAPPINS  AININISTRATION  IEADiATERS    TEMS             LANDS     INSTITUTE  0UILDII0G    Total     T  bo,ut
2. I,NSTEW COSTS
A. IUILDIES                              1,937.7            -         -         40741.1             -           -             -      23.5        472.9  7.175.2  15.0 I,076.3
Ptuical Continncie                      290.7            -         -           711.2             -           -             -       3.5         70.9  1,076.3   0.0    0.0
Price Continencies                      313.6            -         -         1,468.6             -           -             -       2.6         62.1  1,847.0  13.0  20.9
Sub-Total NL"WIIN5 CUtTINECIES           2,542.0            -         -         6920.9              -           -             -      29.6       606.0  1,09f8.5  13.0 1,317.2
Taxn                                    254.2                      -           692.1             -           -             -       3.0         60.6  1,009.8  13.0  131.7
Forein Exchange                         516.1            -         -           693.0             -           -             -       3.0         60.6  1,2f.7  13.0  166.0
D. WIILES                                  539.7        236.5      73.9           80.4              -           -          36.4      24.3        116,0  1,107.3  10,0  110.7
Psical Contingenci                       54.0         23.7       -7.4           8.0              -           -           3.6       2.4         11.6    110.7   0.0    0.0
Pric. Contingencies                      56.3         70.8       17.9           24.5             -           -           8.1       2.5         26.0    206.2   9.1   18.7
Su--Total NLUDING CONTINI1ICIES            650.0        331.0      9.2           113.0              -          -           4.2       29.2       153.6  1,424.2   9,1  129.5
T                                       292.5        149.0      44.6            50.8             -           -          21.7      13.1        69.1    640.9   9.1   50.3
Foreign Exchange                        357.5        182.1       54.6           624l              -          -          26.5      16.1         84.5    703.3   9.1   71.2
C. EGUIPET                               4,877.5        147.5     404.8         1,528.2           5.6        18.0          55.4       9,7       708.1  7,754.0  10.0  775.5
Phyical Contingcies                    4i87,7         14.7       40.5          152.8            0.6        1.8           5.5       1.0         70.0    775.5   0.0    0,0
Price Cotingeiis                        910.0         44.2      115.6          447.0            1.0        5.3          16.8       1.0        230.1  1,779.1   9.1  161.7
Sub-Total 1    IN*80 CONTINGENCIES       6,283.2        206.4     560.9        2,120.1            7.2       25.1           77.8      11.7      1,009.1  10,309.4   9.1  937.2
Tams                                    754.0         24.8      67.3           255.4            0.9        3.0           9.3       1.4        121.1  1,237.1   9.1  112.5
Foreion Exchange                      5,340.9        175.4      476.8        1,809.0            6.1       21.4          66.1       9.9       857.8  0,763.4   9.1  796.7
3. tUN4TUTE                                 51.3        116.0      22.2          53B.0              -        17.3         10.0        1.6        38.9    795.3  10.0   79.5
Phyical Cntingencies                      5.1         11.6       2.2            53.8              -        1.7           1.0       0.2          3.9     79.5   0.0    0.0
Price Cntinecies                         14.5         34.5       6.3           157.4             -         5.1           2.7       0.2         8.9    229.6   9,1   20.9
Sub-Totul DICLIJDDI6I CNTIIEIES             70.9        162.0      30.8          749.1              -        24.2          13.7       1.9        51.7  1,104.4   9.1  100.4
Taxes                                     5.0         11.3       2.2           52.4              -         1.7           1.0       0.1         3.6      77.3   9.1    7.0
Fortign Excharga                          3.6          8.1        1.5           37.5             -         1.2           0.7       0.1         2.6      55.3   9.1    5.0
E. CNSTLT AND STUtIIES                   3,108.7            -      20.0              -              -          -          004.3   1,043.5     1,050.4  69027.0  10.0  602.7
Ptnical Continencies                    310.9            -       2.0              -              -           -          B0.4     104.3        10.0    602.7   0.0    0.0
Price Continencies                      767.0            -       2.1              -              -           -         210.1     286.7       234.8  1,500.7   9.1  136.4
Su-,Total DlLIIUIIE CI8TINXCIES          4,186.6                   24.1              -              -          -        19094.9   1,434.6     1,390.3  8,130.4   9.1  739.1
Foreign Excang                        4,186.6            -      24.1              -              -           -       1,094.9   1,434.6        892.6  762.7   9.1  693.9
F. TRAINING                                 40.7            -     182.6              -              -          -          367.4         -       402.2  1,000.9  10.0  100.1
Physical Contingencies                    4.9            -      18.3              -              -           -          36.7         -        40.2    100.1   0.0    0.0
Price Contingecies                       11.1            -      41.4              -              -          -          104.9         -       115.2     M.4   9.1   24.8
Sub-Total IICIND  CONTliN CIES              64U6            -     242.3              -                         -         509.0          -       557.5  1,373.4   9.1  124.9
Fortion Exchane                          64.6            -     242.3              -              -           -         509.0         -       557.5  1,373.4  971  124.9
Total INWSTE2OT COSTS                      10,563.6        500.0     703.5        6o,87.7            5.6       35.3        2P273.6   1,102.5     2,788.6 23,S60.5  11.5 2,744.8
Physical Continencies                    1.253.2         50.0      70.4          925.8            0.6         3.5         127.4     111.4       302.5  2,744.8   0.0    0.0
Price Continncie                         24000.5        149.5     183.3        2,097.6            1.0        10.5         342.5     293.0       677.1  5,835.0  10.3  603.5
Total 10LD1I0 COITiNlGEIES                13,797.3        699.4     957.2        9,911.1            7.2       49.3       1743.5   1,507.0       30768.2 32,440.3  10.3 3,348.3
Tames                                    1.301.6        185.1     114.1        1,050.7            0.9        4.7          32.0       17.6       254.5  2,965.2  10.4  309.5
Foreizn Excna                          1J0,469.2        365.6     79.2         2,601.7            6.1        22.6       1.t97.1   1,463.6     2,455.6  19,800.8   9.3 1,5B7.6



- 31 -
'Tble 4
Page 2
11. RECUO COSTS
A. SAURIES                             3,465.2     2,885.1   1,793.8       2M040.0              -      617.5         5W.4       66.9      781.2 12,249.1  10.0 1,224.9
Phnsical Cntirdeneies                 346.5        268.5     17974         204.0             -       61.7          59.9       6.7        78.1  1224.9   0.0    0.0
Price Contingnies                     S76.0      1,079.7    571.1          749.7             -      218.4         187.1      17.3       206.1  4,085.3   9.1  364.1
Sub-Total INCMUDIII6 CONTIWCIES        4,717.7      4,253.3   2,544.2       2,993.7             -      897.6         846.5      90.8     1,065.4 17,479.3   9.1 1,589.0
Texes                                 478.8       425.3    254.4           299.4             -       89.8          84.6       9.1       106.5  1,747.9   9.1  158.9
B. SHORT TEN PER DIEC                   229.3      6W200.7     545.9             -           69.8      291.1         288.1        -         6.3  7,639.2  10.0  763.9
2n,icai Cntingenies                    22.9        620,9      54.6             -           7.0       29.1          20.8         _         0.6    763.9   0.0    0.0
Price Contingencies                    59.3      2,097.6    156.1              -          22.0      103.0          90.4         -         1.6  2,530.0   9.1  230.0
Sub-Total fILItDII0S CSTIlMlCIES         311.6      8,927.2    756.6              -          98.8      423.2         407.3         -        8.5 10,?33.2   9.1  993.9
C. TRAEl MLMIOICE                      1212.4        251.3      37.1           79.7             -        8.5          75.4        -         17.0  1,681.4  10.0  168.1
Prsical Contingencies                 121.2        25.1       3.7            8.0             -        0.8           7.5         -         1.7    168.1   0.0    0.0
Price Continsencies                   318.0        85.4       11.0          27.1             -        3.0          23.0         -         4.9    472.3   9.1   42.9
Sub-Total IIICLIUDING CNT2IN8CCIES     1,t65.6       361.8      51.8          114.8             -       12.3         105.9        -        23.5  2,321.8   9.1  211.1
Taxes                                 412.S        90.5       13.0          28.7             -        3.1          26.5         -         5.9    580.4   9.1   52.8
Foreign Exchnge                       991.2       217.2      31.1           68.9             -        7.4          63.6         -        14.1  1,393.5   ?.1  126.7
D. OFFICE RENTAL                            -         34.8         -             -              -          -            -         -           -      34.8  10.0    3.5
Pusical Contincies                       -          3.5         -              -             -          -             -         -          -       3.5   0.0    0.0
Price Contingecies                       -          11.8               -              -            -                                              1.8   9.1    1.1
Sub-Total IIICLtIN00 CWPTIN8IES             -         50.0         -             -              -          -            -         -           -     50.0   9.1    4.5
E. ERIAL PHOTD6RAPIY                    760.9            -      59.7                    -                  -            -         -           -    820.5  10.0   82.1
Physical Contingencies                 76.1           -       6.0              -             -          -             -         -          -      82.1   0.0    0.0
Price Contingencies                   197.9           -      16.5             -              -          -            -          -          -    214.4   9.1   19.5
Sub-Total IlCLUDINi CDIITINENCIES      1,034.8           -      82.2                    -                 -             -         -           -  1,117.0   9.1  101.5
Taxes                                  72.4           -       5.8              -             -          -             -         -          -      78.2   9.1    7.1
Foreign Exdce                         724.6           -      57.6             -              -          -            -         -           -    72.1   9.1   71.1
F. IWP1ING  ATERIALS                   1,352.0           -         -             -              -          -         40.0         -           -   ,92.0  10.0  139.2
Mursical Contingecies                 135.2           -         -             -              -          -           4.0        -           -    139.2   0.0    0.0
Price Contingencies                   367.1           -         -              -             _                      8.1         -          -    375.2   9.1   34.1
Sub-Total INCLIDIHS CONTIIECES         1,854.3           -         -             -              -         -          52.1         -           -  1,906.4   9.1  173.3
Taxes                                 129.8           -         -             -              -          -           3.6        -           -    133.4   9.1   12.1
Foreign Exchae                        927.7                -                  -              -          -          26.1        -           -    953.8   9.1   86.7
S. OTHER MATERIALS                      391.3      21100.5         -           51.7             -      586.2          10.3      57.4      475.0  3,672.4  10.0  367.2
Phsical ContinenCies                  39.1        210.1         -           5.2              -       58.6           1.0       5.7       47.5    367.2   0.0    0.0
Price Cantingencies                   101.2       709.7         -           18.5             -      207.3           1.5      13.3       173.8  1,225.3   9.1  111.4
Sub-Total INtLUDIN6 CONTINGENCIES       531.6      3,020.2         -           75.4             -      852.1         12.9      76.4       696.3  5,264.9   9.1  478.6
Taxes                                  37.2       211.4         -            5.3             -       59.6           8.9       5.3       4B.7   368.5   9.1   33.5
M. EIICLE OPRATION MND  II(TENANCE      323.8         53.2      24.4           17.3             -          -          13.4      14.6       42.2   488.9  10.0   48.9
Phasical Continencies                  32.4         5.3       2.4            1.7             -          -           1.3       1.5         4.2    48.9   0.0    0.0
Price Contingencies                    96.6        19.5       8.8            6.4             -          -           4.6       4.3        15.1    155.4   9.1   14.1
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES       452.8         78.0      35.6          25.4              -         -          19.4      20.4        61.5    693.2   9.1   63.0
Taxes                                  45.3         7.8       3.6            2.5             -          -           1.9       2.0       6t1      69.3   9.1    6.3
Foreign Excne                         226.6        39.0      17.8           12.7             -          -           9.7      10.2       30.8    346.8   9.1   31.5
I. EOUIPIfT ORTION MN MAIN1EIWlE    1,413.2           22.1      66.4          242.0           1.6        2.7          8.1       3.9        82.3  1,842.3  10.0  184.2
hsical Contingencies                  141.3         2.2       6.6           24.2           0.2        0.3           0.8       0.4        8.2    184.2   0.0    0.0
Price Contingencies                   467.4         8.1      25.9           88.5           0.6        1.1           3.0       1.2       33.3    628.9   9.1   57.2
Sub-Total INCLIJDII6 COITIN8EIICES    2,021.9         32.5      98.9          354.6           2.4        4.0         11.8       5.4       123.8  2,655.4   9.1  241.4
Foreign Exchante                    1,618.1        26.0      79.2          283.8           1.9        3.2          9.5        4.3       99.1  2,125.0   9.1  193.2
J. FIUNITURE WERATION MND MINTCWM         2.6          5.2       1.1          25,2             -        8.8           0.6       0.2         2.7    38.3  10.0    3.8
Phlsical Contingencies                 0.3          0.5       0.1            2.5             -        0.1          0.1        0.0        0.3      3.8   0.0    0.0
Price Contingencies                    1.0          1.9       0,4            9.1             -        0.3          0.2        0.1        1.0    13.9   9.1    1.3
Sub-Total I83Mi8ING CONTIN6EtCIES         3.8          7.6       1.6          36.8                       1 2.2        0.8       0.3         4.0    56.1   9.1    5.1
K. BUILDING OPERATION AID MIlNTENIAtE   321.6            -         -          359.6             -         -             -       4.7        87.9    M.7  10.0   77.4
MPsical Contingencies                 32.2            -         -           36.8             -          -            -       0.5         8.8     77.4   0.0    0.0
Price Contirgencies                   103.5           -         -          130.2             -          -            -        1.4       26.9   261.9   9.1   23.8
Sub-Total INCLUDIN6 CtOiTIN6ElItES      457.2            -         -         525.7             -          -             -       6.6       123.6  1.13.0   9.1  101.2
Total RECiRRNT COSTS                      9,472.3     11,561.0   2,S28.4       2.815.3          71.5    1,506.7       1,035.3     147.6    1,494.5 30,632.6  10.0 3,063.3
Physical Contingencies                   947.2      1,156.1     252.8         2B1,5            7.1      150.7        183.5      14.8       149.5  3,063.3   0.0    0.0
Price Contingencies                    2,687.9      4,013.6     789.8        14029.5          22.5      533.0        317.,      37.5       462.6  9,894.4   7.1  89.5
Total INCUDINOS CITINRENCIES            23,107.4     16730.7   3t571.1        4,126.3          101.2    2,290.4      1,456.7     199.8     2,106.6 43,590.2   9.1 3,962.7
Taxes                                   1,176.4       735.0     276.7         335,9             -       152.5        117.6      16.5       167.3  2,977.9   9.1  270.7
Foreifg Exchane                        4,488.2        282.2    185.7          365.4            1.9      10.6         108.8      14.5       143.9  5,601.2   9.1  509.2
Total BASELINE COSTS                      20,035.8    12O261.0   3,231.9        9.703.0          77.1    1,542.1       2,308.9   1,250.1    4W283.1 54,493.1  10.7 5,808.1
Physical COnting! ies                   2,100.5      1,206,1     323.2       1,207.4           7.7      154.2         230.9     126.2       452.0  S,088.1   0.0    0.0
Price Contingencies                     4,768.5      4,163.1     973.2       3.127.0           23.5     543.5         660.4     330.5     1,139.7 15,729.4   9.6 1,502.9
Total PROJECT CSTS                        26,904.8     17.430.2   4,528.3      14.037.4         108.4    2,239.7       3,200.2   1,706.8     5,874.8 76.030.5   9.6 7,311.0
===- -                           - -- -- - ---  -   - -   - -- - -  - =  _-  _ 
Taxes                                   2,482.1        920.1     390.8       1,386,6           0.9      157.2         149.6      34.1       421.8  5,943.1   9.8  580.2
Foreign Exchange                        14,957.4       647.8     984.9        2,967.1          8.0       33.2       I2B05.9   1,478.2    2,599.5 25,482.0   9.3 2,366.9



ANNEX I
Table 5
- 32 -
THAILAND
LAND TITLING PROJECT
Project PinancinR Plan
million)
Component                      DOL           BIT    BANK           ADAB          TOTAL
Rural Mapping
Building                  0.38             -      2.16             -          2.54
Vehicles, equipment;
& furniture              1.44            -      6.26             -          7.70
Technical assistance &
training                   -            -          -          4.25          4.25
Incremental operating   15.55              -     14.29             -         29.84
Siubtotal            17.37 (39%)      -      22.71 (51Z)   4.25 (10%)  44.33
Urban Remapping
Vehicles, equipment,
& furniture             0.13             -      0.56             -          0.69
Technical assistance &
training                   -            -          -          0.26          0.27
Incrermental operating    1.86             -      1.71             -          3.57
Subtotal              1.99 (44%)      -       2.27 (50%)   0.26  (6%)   4.53
Land Administration
Buildings                 1.04             -      5.88             -          6.92
vehicle, equipment &
furniture                 .88           -       2.16             -          3.04
Incremental operating    6.42              -         -             -          6.42
Subtotal              8.34 (51%)      -       8.04 (49%)       -         16.38
Valuation
Building                      -            -       .03             -            .03
Vehicles, equipment,
& furniture             0.05         0.02       0.11             -          0.18
Technical assistance &
training                                                      3.03          3.03
Incremental operating    1.46          0.20          -             -          1.66
Subtotal              1.51 (312)  0.22 (41) 0.14  (3%)   3.03 (62%)   4.90
General Institution Building
Building                  0.09                    0.52                        0.61
Vehicles, equipment,
& furniture              .43            -        .78             -          1.21
Technical assistance &
training                   -            -        .44          1.51          1.95
Incremental operating    2.11             -          -             -          2.11
Subtotal              2.63 (45%)      -       1.74 (30%)   1.51 (27Z)   5.88
Total Proj. Costs   31.83 (42%)  0.22 (-),34.91 (46%)   9.06 (12%)  76.03
Front-end fee                 -               -      0.09(100%)       -          0.09
Total Financing
Required           31.83 (42%)  0.22 (-) 35.00 (46%)   9.06 (12%)  76.12



ANNEX 2
Page 1
- 33 -
THAILAND
LAND TITLING PROJECT
Technical Assistance and Training
A. Technical Assistance
1.        Consultants will be required to assist DOL with the introduction of
new technology and expansion plans for the cadastral mapping and valuation
components, and to strengthen training within DOL and at Chulalongkorn Univer-
sity and the BIT. This assistance, totalling about 50 man-years, will include
36 man-years of long-term and 137 man-months of short-term input, broken down
as follows:
Man-years      Man-months
DOL
(a) Long-term
Planning and coordination adviser             4
Photomap production specialist                5
Interactive graphics specialist               5
Valuation specialist                          5
Valuation legislation specialist              1
Project accounts specialist                   1
21
(b) Short-term
Urban remapping feasibility study
specialist                                  -                2
Management evaluation specialist              -               17
Socio-economic advisors                       -               17
Socio-economic evaluation study               -               73
Organization, management and operations
study                                       -               28
137
Chulalongkorn University
Surveying lecturer                            4
Bangkok Institute of Technology
Surveying lecturer                            4
Valuation lecturers (2)                       7
11



ANNEX 2
Page 2
- 34 -
B. Training
2.        The introduction of new technology under the cadastral mapping
programs and the development of professional competence in valuation will
impose a considerable training burden on DOL, and on the educational
institutions which traditionally provide DOL with its trained manpower. The
training to be provided will include in-service instruction and short courses
given by staff of DOL's training section, assisted by DOL consultants,
graduate studies, short courses and familiarization visits at overseas
training institutions and appropriate agencies and a new two-year, full-time
valuation course at the BIT and strengthening of surveyor training courses at
Chulalongkorn University and BIT which will be assisted by consultant
lecturers.
3.        DOL In-service Training.  The DOL Training Section runs an active
program of initiation and refresher courses and seminars for staff of all
grades. The section is planned to increase from 14 to 28 training staff in
RTG FY84, when the initial construction phase of a new training center at
Thonburi, about 15 km southwest of Bangkok, with accommodation for 70 trainees
should be completed. A further 640 sq m single story administration
extension to this facility will be provided under the project. Additional
seminar facilities will also be provided 4in a niew mapping building at DOL
Headquarters. These expansion plans should be adequate to meet the in-service
training needs of the project when supplemented by the contribution to
training of the cadastral and valuation technical assistance specialists to be
attached to DOL through the project life,
4.        Chulalongkorn University.  The only undergraduate four year sur-
veying course in Thailand is offered by this university. It gives very little
emphasis to cadastral surveying or land administration, and as a result there
are currently no Chulalongkorn survey graduates in DOL. The new high techno-
logy applications in geodesy, photogrammetry, cartography and computations
which will be introduced through the project will increase the demand for
staff with tertiary qualifications. A suitably specialized lecturer will be
provided for four years to assist academic staff in adding emphasis in the
above areas to the existing course. One satellite positioning set and one set
each of short-range and long-range electronic distance measuring equipment
will also be provided for instructional purposes.
5.        Bangkok Institute of Technology.  The majority of DOL surveyors
possess three year certificates or five year diplomas in surveying from BIT or
other technical colleges. BIT will be assisted to develop photogrammetic and
cartographic training options in its courses through the provision of one
lecturer for four years and the same package of training equipment as proposed
for Chulalongkorn University (para. 4).
6.        A two-year full-time diploma course in valuation, the first in
Thailand, will be introduced at BIT, commencing in the second project year.
The course, which will be within the Civil Technology Faculty, is planned to
accommodate 30 trainees per year. Technical assistance in the form of two



ANNEX 2
Page 3
- 35 -
valuation lecturers to assist with syllabus preparation and instruction will
be provided for a total of seven man-years. Arrangements will be made for
the students to undertake practical training in the NVA between the two
18 week semesters.
7.        Overseas Fellowships.  52 man-years of full-time academic training
in overseas training institutions will be provided in public administration
(25 man-years) and valuation (27 man-years) to carefully selected candidates
possessing adequate foreign language abilities. About 11 man-years of
short-term overseas fellowship time will also be provided to enable senior and
middle level staff to visit overseas cadastral and valuation organizations and
training institutions in order to observe techniques and systems to be used in
the project, and to undergo short, specialized training courses. Knowledge
gained in this way would be used to assist in the training of project staff
after the fellowship nominees return to Thailand.
8.        The technical assistance and training aspects of the project are
likely to be assisted by the Australian Government under a cofinancing grant.
C. Organization, Management, and Operations Study
9.        Background.  The Department of Land's (DOL's) organization, manage-
ment and operating procedures have evolved gradually over the years
according to traditional RTG principles, and in response to a diverse and
gradually expanding work load. With the proposed expansion of DOL opera-
tions, a review of the department is needed to enable it to correct present
or possible future weaknesses arising from an overcentralized checking and
control structure and a disproportionately heavy concentration of staff in
the Bangkok headquarters, and to ensure that it can bear the burden of its
increased responsibilities through the 1980s and 90s. Accordingly, the
services of consultants are required to review the present situation and to
make recommendations for the future, including recommendations for
computerization.
10.       Terms of Reference.  The consultants would:
(a) conduct a detailed review of the present DOL organization
and management structure, of its manpower resources and operat-
ing procedures;
(b) formulate detailed recommendations for an effective organi-
zational and management structure; for staffing requirements;
for reassignment of staff to higher priority activities; and
for the organization of operations. The detailed recommenda-
tions would include the management information systems neces-
sary for the successful execution of DOL's activities, such
as budgetary accounting, annual financial planning and con-
trol, internal audit, financial and administrative program
control and reporting systems;



ANNEX 2
Page 4
- 36 -
(c) advise DOL on long-term manpower planning and career develop-
ment programs in relation to the needs of DOL as a whole;
(d) advise DOL on delineating clear roles and resource require-
ments for all divisions, and particularly DOL's Technical
Division, with specific focus on minimizing overlap and
maximizing coordination with other agencies. The recommenda-
tions for the Technical Division will include specific
arrangements for carrying out annual reviews and final
evaluation of the project; and
(e) after a suitable period, review progress in the implementa-
tion of those recommendations under (b) and (d) above which
are accepted by RTG and the Bank.
11.       Criteria for Consideration in Formulating Recommendations.  The
management structure and organization proposed must be appropriate to the
expanding program. Any necessary modifications in the present structure and
organization would be implemented at a pace which would allow for successful
execution. It should be appreciated that reorganization is an evolving
process related to the continually changing demands of the situation.
12.       There would be varying degrees of centralization depending upon
the needs for economies of scale in activities such as planning, procure-
ment, personnel training and services on the one hand and the need for rapid
and effective action in operations at provincial and district level on the
other.
13.       The management structure, responsibilities and procedures should
have sufficient precision so that accountability is clearly defined, without
losing basic flexibility to permit speedy implementation where necessary.
14.       Consultant Staff Requirements.  A four person team of consultants
would be required. A management specialist would be responsible for overall
management, organization and operating procedures. A Financial Analyst
would advise on the introduction of required changes in the structure of
accounting practices and internal audit. A Computer Specialist would
propose recommendations regarding the computerization of selected accounting
and administrative operations. An institutional specialist familiar with
RTG administration procedures would design a strategy for achieving the
recommended administrative reforms.
15.       The first three specialists would have extensive practical
experience in their respective fields at senior management levels. The
institutional specialist would have a background in public administration
and administrative reform in Thailand.
16.       The consultancy would be in two phases:  (a) initial review and
formulation of recommendations, and (b) review of implementation. The
initial phase would be for a maximum of six months and the subsequent one



ANNEX 2
Page 5
- 37 -
month review would take place after one year of implementation. The
combined manpower involvement in both phases would not exceed 28 man-months.
Recommendations for further streamlining of departmental procedures would be
made on the basis of the subsequent review.
17.       Departmental Participation.  The DOL's management would give its
full support to the consultants and all staff directly concerned would
participate actively in the study.
D. Socio-economic Evaluation Study
Objective
18.       The objective of the socio-economic evaluation would be to assess
the impact of the project on its beneficiaries and the extent to which
benefits described in the appraisal report can be recognized. The evaluation
would include attempts to measure impact quantitatively. If quantitative
measurement of benefits is possible, the evaluation would provide a metho-
dology model and a basis for cost-benefit analysis of future cadastral
projects in Thailand and elsewhere.
Consultant Staff Qualifications
19.       The evaluation team would consist of a local University group
contracted by DOL. The team would consist of graduate students in the field
of economics, sociology, anthropology, and statistics and at least one
economics professor. The team would be assisted by evaluation specialists
from Australia who would advise the team on methodology and provide
information on similar research efforts elsewhere in the world. The local
university team effort would consist of some 73 professor man-months. The
evaluation specialists would contribute an additional 17 man-months. The
Agriculture Department of the World Bank is undertaking a cross-section
research project on the interaction of land titles with rural capital
formation, credit, land markets, and farm productivity in Thailand which will
also provide guidelines in methodology. Close cooperation between this
research and the project evaluation staff is expected. This research will
focus on farm level comparisons between farmers with different title status
at one point in time, while the project socio-economic study will analyze
changes over time. The collaboration will be mutually beneficial, since
cross section and longitudinal studies each have strengths which compensate
for weaknesses in the other.
20.       The first task of the evaluation team will be to analyze existing
statistics from DOL, the National Statistics Office, the Office of Agricul-
tural Economics, the Bank for Agriculture and Agricultural Cooperatives and
other agencies to study the correlation between titling efforts and the
postulated benefits in the past. This analysis should compare similar
districts which only differ in respect to the extent of titling. Careful
selection of the districts is crucial for valid results. After the initial



ANNEX 2
Page 6
- 38 -
analysis is completed (within one year of project effectiveness) the team
should design a baseline survey to collect necessary farm level information
not available from existing statistical sources. This baseline survey will
be carried out in similar zones both inside and outside the project area
and can incorporate the sample used in the proposed World Bank sector study.
The questionnaire design will reflect the experience gained in the Bank
study which is expected to be completed by the end of 1985. Toward the end
of the project a follow-up survey will be carried out. The final socio-
economic evaluation will be based on analysis of the survey and the other
statistics. In addition to focusing on economic and budgetary impact, the
evaluation will also consider the sociological and anthropological effects
of the project. For example, the evaluation will investigate any changes in
inheritance patterns, land market practices, and land ownership patterns.
At the close of the project, this evaluation will be incorporated into the
overall completion report which will be prepared by DOL's Project
Administration Unit.
E. Terms of Reference for Consultants
General Institution Building
21.       Planning and Coordination Adviser.  The consultant on project plan-
ning and coordination should have an appropriate tertiary qualification and at
least 10 years post graduate experience, part of which will have been on
management of large projects involving high levels of planning and coordina-
tion. Experience in mapping is highly desirable. The consultant will work
with DOL for the first four years of the project.
22.       The principal responsibilities will be:
(a) assist senior DOL staff in the planning and coordination of all
aspects of the project;
(b) carry out a rigorous critical path analysis and monitor the
progress of the project against predetermined goals;
(c) assist in the coordination of:
(i) the building program;
(ii) equipment procurement;
(iii) training;
(iv) recruitment;
(v) project planning;
(vi) operations; and
(vii) budgeting;
(d) assist in liaison with other departments, authorities and teaching
institutions to ensure that the overall aims of the project are
achieved.



ANNEX 2
Page 7
- 39 -
23.       Management Evaluation Specialist.  The consultants on management
evaluation should have appropriate tertiary qualifications, good writing
skills, and at least three years experience in management evaluation.
Familiarity with World Bank progress reporting practices is desirable. The
consultants would be required for a total of 17 man-months, of which six
would be at project completion.
24.       The principal responsibility will be to assist DOL staff in the
Project Implementation Committee and the Project Administration Unit to:
(a) carry out annual reviews of the project;
(b) prepare semi-annual progress reports; and
(c) prepare the project completion report, incorporating the
socio-economic evaluation.
25.       Socio-economic Evaluation Specialist.  The consultants on
socio-economic evaluation should have appropriate tertiary qualifications,
good statistical research and writing skills, and experience in cost
benefit analysis and longitudinal econometric studies.
26.       The principal responsibility will be to assist the university
team contracted by DOL to carry out the socio-economic evaluation study,
including the tasks described in paras. 19-20. The consultant would also
assist DOL to contract the team and to integrate the study into the
completion report.
27.       Project Accounts Specialist.  The consultant on project accounts
should have a graduate degree in accounting and at least 5 years experience in
financial management, part of which will have been setting up project accounts
to meet requirements of a variety of participating institutions. Familiarity
with World Bank accounting requirements is highly desirable. The consultant
would be required for the initial year of the project.
28.       The principal responsibilities will be to assist DOL staff in the
Finance Division and the Project Administration Unit to:
(a) fully understand detailed cost estimates in the appraisal report
including cost breakdown by project component and summary
account, and concepts of physical and price contingencies;
(b) design project accounting and reporting systems to meet activity
cost information requirements of Departments, project management
and the lending authority. This would include establishing
project accounts using the same categories as the appraisal cost
estimates to meet reporting and audit requirements of the World
Bank, Additional coding of existing government budget categories
may be necessary.



ANNEX 2
Page 8
- 40 -
(c) implement such systems, train project officers, provide manuals
and documents, and supervise accounting and reporting activity in
the field as necessary. Provide advice, translations or manuals
as necessary to assist project officers in understanding and meeting
procedural and contract obligations of the Land Titling Loan
Agreement
(d) establish accounting and internal control system which determine
current expenditure levels by month in order to verify incremental
recurrent costs eligible for World Bank disbursement;
(e) submit initial disbursement applications to World Bank;
(f) assist with annual work planning and funds budgetting activity,
including the scheduling of cash flow for critical periods.
Prepare whole-of-project indicative programs. Assist where
required with overall project monitoring and reporting activity.
This would include submitting and revising budget requests
together with any necessary justification, and follow-up to
encourage prompt approval.
Cadastral Survey and Mapping
29.       Photomap Production Specialist.  The photomap production consultant
should be a qualified surveyor with considerable experience in photogramme-
try, specializing in aerial triangulation and adjustment of large blocks of
models. The consultant would work with the Department all five project
years.
30.       The principal responsibilties will be:
(a) assistance with the preparation of specifications and evaluation
of tenders for the procurement of rectifiers, analytical plotters
and the block adjustment program;
(b) training of DOL staff engaged on photomap production;
(c) assistance with the planning of photomapping operations
including major control surveys;
(d) cooperation with teaching instititutions in arranging programs
of practical training; and
(e) planning annual programs of aerial photography and liaising with
the Royal Thai Survey Department on matters related to aerial
photography.



ANNEX 2
Page 9
- 41 -
31.       Computing and Interactive Graphics Specialist.  The consultant on
computing and interactive graphics will have an appropriate degree desirably
(but not necessarily) in surveying. Experience in digitizing techniques,
system design, computer graphics and computer programming will be essential.
The consultant will work with DOL all 5 years of the project.
32.       The principal responsibilities will be:
(a) preparing of specifications and evaluation of tenders for
procurement of computers, digitizers, computer graphics and
automatic plotters;
(b) training of DOL staff engaged in computer programming, digi-
tizing, computation, and computer graphics;
(c) assisting with the planning, coordination and oversight of the
program of computerized map production; and
(d) cooperating with teaching instititutions in arranging programs
of practical training.
33.       Surveying Lecturers. The consultants will be qualified surveyors
with considerable teaching experience at undergraduate or diploma level in
cadastral surveying and computerized mapping. Experience in planning
undergraduate and diplomate surveying courses is essential. The consultants
will work with the University and the BIT during the first 4 years of the
project.
34. The principal responsibilities will be:
(a) assist the teaching institutions to plan new options in cadastral
surveying (including some aspects of land administration) and
computerized mapping;
(b) conduct courses to familiarize teaching staff with the new
options; and
(c) assist with the teaching of students in some aspects of the new
options.
35.       Urban Mapping Specialist.  The consultant on urban mapping will be
a qualified surveyor with experience in urban mapping programs using
photogrammetry and computerized mapping technology. The consultant will
work with DOL for 2 months.



ANNEX 2
Page 10
- 42 -
36.       His main responsibilities will be to:
(a)  evaluate technical methods suitable for the urban mapping
program; and
(b) recommend to DOL the detailed procedures to be followed in
implementing the program.
Valuation
37.       Valuation Specialist.  This consultant will be required throughout
the five year life of the project. His duties will include the following:
(a) advise on general policy and direction of NVA activities;
(b) advise on internal structuring of the NVA appropriate to the
activities;
(c)  in-house training of referencers, valuers and Bangkok Institute
of Technology inter-semester students;
(d) assist in the establishment of standardized property indexing,
referencing and valuation systems including liaison with and
advice to RTG Departments and local authorities. This will
include representation of the NVA on appropriate committees, and
production of guidance notes; and
(e) liaison with BIT staff on development and operation of the
proposed full time Valuation Diploma course; screening of
applicants for the course and for the expatriate fellowships.
38.       Corporate membership of a recognizedl professional valuation
institute. Tertiary qualifications are desirable. At least ten years
experience at senior management level in a large public or private sector
valuation organization. Experience at senior level in a large public
valuation agency would be a distinct advantage. Wide experience in real
estate valuation, particularly in the urban field. Experience in the
assessment of values for rating, taxation and public acquisition purposes
is highly desirable.
39.       Legislation Specialist-Valuation.  This consultant will be required
for a period of six months in Project Year 1 and for a period of six months
in Project Year 5.
40.       In PY1 he will be required to thoroughly familiarize himself with
(a) existing legislation as it affects landed property valuation; and (b)
existing procedures for assessing and collecting property-value-based taxes,
fees and duties. Having gained an appreciation of required amendments,
the consultant will be required to draft same in consultation with RTG



ANNEX 2
Page 11
- 43
officials, with a view to the necessary Bill being submitted to the
legislature at the earliest opportunity. It should be noted that the NVA will
have no statutory powers to make assessments until the necessary amendments
become law.
41.       Also in PY1 the consultant will be required to prepare the first
draft of a "National Valuation Authority" or "Valuation of Land" Act. This
draft should identify powers and duties of the NVA, define bases of valuation
in accordance with proposed reforms in property taxation, and establish an
appeals tribunal and appeals mechanism. Detailed drafting of clauses will not
be required until PY5.
42.       In PY5 the consultant will be required to draft the above mentioned
"NVA" Act in detail in consultation with RTG officials.
43.       Corporate membership of a recognized professional valuation insti-
tute. Tertiary qualifications are desirable. At least ten years experience
in real estate valuation at a senior management level. A sound knowledge of
the practical application of legislation supporting a large state or national
valuation authority. A demonstrated appreciation of the importance of
accurate structuring and wording of clauses in interpretation. Experience in
legal matters and particularly the drafting of valuation-related legislation
would be a distinct advantage.
44.       Valuation Diploma Course Lecturers.  It is proposed to establish a
two-year full-time Valuation Diploma Course at the Bangkok Institute of
Technology (BIT).
45.       One lecturer will be required to develop a course structure and
curriculum within the first year, in consultation with the BIT staff and NVA
valuation consultant. He will engage in teaching during the subsequent four
years. Guidelines for course content are given in Appraisal Report, Annex 5,
Section C.
46.       A second lecturer will be required to engage in teaching in PY3 and
PY4.
47.       The lecturers will be required to prepare course notes, arrange
translations, and arrange for division of lecturing duties by subject with BIT
permanent staff. They will also be required to screen applicants for the
course and for expatriate fellowships, in liaison with the NVA consultant.
48.       They should have appropriate tertiary qualifications plus corporate
membership of a recognized professional valuation institution, together with
extensive lecturing experience at a senior level and a demonstrated ability to
develop courses from inception. Practical experience as a valuer will also be
required.



ANNEX 3
44                 ~               Page 1
THAILAND
LAND TITLING PROJECT
Rural and Urban
Cadastral Surveying and Mapping Components
A. Background
1.         DOL first commenced cadastral surveys in 1903 using ground survey
techniques based on coordinated traverse networks measured with theodolites
and chains. In 1954, first and second class cadastral surveys for land
titles were introduced. The first class surveys were based on the previously
adopted techniques. Second class techniques were introduced to speed up the
process of issuing land titles. These surveys used graphical methods and
were connected to the coordinated traverses. In 1962, the use of rectified
aerial photomaps at a scale of 1:4,000 was adopted for use with second class
surveys to further increase productivity.
2.         Certificates of utilization (NS3) were introduced in 1954 and were
issued on the basis of simple isolated tape surveys. To increase the output
of these surveys, the introduction of certificates of utilization known as
NS3K took place in 1972. These were based on unrectified aerial photomaps
compiled at an appropriate scale of 1:5,000. In the period since then, DOL
adjudicated, surveyed and issued over 7 million NS3K certificates.
3.         All cadastral surveying and mapping for the issue of land titles
(NS4) has been based on 29 independently determined origins. Due to the
techniques adopted in determining the origins and the procedures subsequently
used for the mapping control, there are significant inconsistencies between
maps based on different origins. When traverses from adjoining origins are
connected, they have been found to disagree by up to 80 meters.
4.         The cadastral maps for the issue of NS3K certificates however
coincide with the grid squares of the national 1:50,000 scale topographic
series. They are therefore, nominally, on the Universal Transverse Mercator
(UTM) projection.
5.         In spite of these considerable efforts, large numbers of land
holdings remain unsurveyed. At current rates of survey, it is estimated
that it would take another eighty years to complete the national cadastre.
A faster rate of survey and mapping would be supported through the project.



- 45                                ANNEX 3
Page 2
B. Detailed Description
6.        A program designed to provide cadastral map coverage of the public
domain and private land is planned. It is designed to produce coverage of
rural areas in 20 years and of urban areas in 10 years. As a first stage, a
five-year project of two mapping components, namely rural and urban will be
implemented.
Rural Mapping
7.        A new national series at a scale of 1:4, 000 based on the UTM
projection is proposed. The series will cover all legitimate private and
public land parcels and will consist of new mapping (NS3, state and
undocumented land) and map transformation (title deed and NS3K land). It
will be based on rectified photographs using new aerial photography.
8.        Eighty thousand 1:4,000 scale sheets are programmed for completion
over a 20-year period. Some larger scale mapping of village areas will also
be included in the program. Over the first five-year stage, the present
production of 500 sheets per year will be progressively increased to 4,000
per year totalling 11,000 sheets in all (appendix 1).
Urban Mapping
9.        It is estimated that the tenr-year program will consist of about
7,000 sheets at scales of 1:1,000 and 1:500. Approximately 4,400 of these
will be in the Bangkok area and the balance will cover the remaining major
urban centers of Thailand. It is planned to complete the program over ten
years with the first maps becoming available in PY3. In project years
4 and 5, 1,000 sheets are scheduled for completion, about 700 in Bangkok
and 300 in other urban areas. A continuing program of map revision is also
planned because of the rapid rate of development in urban areas,
particularly Bangkok.
10.       As with the rural program, the urban cadastral series will be
based on rectified photomaps. However, these will need to be supplemented
by some ground survey where high rise buildings or very dense development
make the use of aerial photography impracticable.
Technology
11.       Current production of 1:4,000 scale mapping is running at about
500 sheets per year but production is limited by existing funds and equip-
ment. At present, 174 staff are employed on ground surveys for about ten
months each year to produce the current annual output of 500 sheets. An
increase of production to about 4,000 sheets per year, on the basis of
existing technology, would increase the number of surveyors in the field to
about 1,400. Corresponding increases would be required in field support
staff, motor vehicles, per diem and so on. Costs would be increased



ANNEX 3
_ 46                          Page 3
significantly but, more importantly, the difficulties of recruiting suitable
staff and of managing such a labor-intensive program would inject a high
risk element.
12.       It is therefore proposed to supplement the present mix of tech-
nology and labor-intensive methods with additional technology aimed at:
(a) establishing a cohesive control secondary network in place of the
present 29 independently observed origins;
(b) replacing the present practice of providing individual model
control for aerial photo rectification by using analytical plotters
and computerized block adjustment; and
(c) introducing digitizing technology for the final drawing of
cadastral map sheets.
13.       The introduction of the new technology and its integration with the
present techniques require thorough planning and coordination. A compre-
hensive program of equipment procurement, training and expert assistance will
be required. Even so, there is a need to recruit additional staff if the
annual target of 4,000 sheets is to be achieved by the end of the first
five-year period.
Proposed Procedures
14.       For the rural mapping program, the following procedures are
planned:
(a) an annual program of aerial photography to be carried out by
Royal Thai Survey Department (RTSD). Each yearly sortie will
provide photography for the following year's control and
rectification program. The photography should be at a scale of
1:12,500 with 61% endlap and 34% sidelap;
(b) major control surveys using doppler (satellite positioning) and
electronic distance measuring equipment. This will establish
control in areas to be mapped in following years and will be
conrLected to the RTSD national geodetic network;
(c) minor control for computing coordinate values of points on aerial
photographs (block adjustment). This will be done in blocks of up
to 400 photographs (models) and will replace the present practice
of surveying control for each model;
(d) block adjustment using analytical photogrammetry and a proven
(turnkey) computer program on a relatively large computer;
(e) rectification and production of photomaps using existing rectifi-
cation techniques;



ANNEX 3
-.                          Page 4
(f) ground survey comprising adjudication, parcel boundary surveys and
preparation of overlays of the rectified photomaps. The overlays
will be transparent sheets pre-plotted and gridded showing all
control traverses. The parcels and relevant cadastral information
will be plotted on these sheets;
(g) renumbering of all parcels; and
(h) digitizing of the overlay using digitized work stations and
drawing of the final map sheet on automatic plotters. The
areas will be computed and added at this stage.
15.       The above procedures will allow cadastral map sheets to be
produced for:
(a) NS3 areas, state lands and undocumented areas; and
(b) transformation of existing NS4 and NS3K map sheets. In these
cases, there will be no need for further adjudication although
some ground survey will be necessary.
However, given the lead time for equipment procurement, constructing
accommodation, training, etc. it is not expected that steps (c), (d) and (h)
will be in place before commencement of PY4 of the project. In the meantime,
the existing procedures, supplemented by step (b) will be implemented on a
scale which will provide for a gradual increase in production over the first
three years.
16.       In respect of urban mapping, a mix of 1:2,000, 1:1,000 and
1:500 scale cadastral maps based on rectified aerial photography is planned.
17.       The following procedures will be followed:
(a) aerial photography should be flown at a scale of 1:5,000 using a
305 mm lens cone to reduce the "lean over" effect of buildings;
(b) survey control, rectification and production of photomaps using
existing rectification techniques;
(c) use of block adjustment to reduce this phase of the work should be
investigated;
(d) preparation of cadastral overlays. This step comprises the drawing
of gridded sheets and the transfer of information from existing
cadastral maps, titles, survey plans and unrectified photo plots
using the rectified photomap as a reference; and
(e) final drawing of cadastral map sheets and annotation.



ANNEX 3
-48                             Page 5
18.       In areas of high density development and high rise buildings it
will probably be necessary to use ground survey teams to supplement existing
information.
19.       Most of the rapid changes of development occur in urban areas.  It
will therefore be essential, if the maps are to retain their value, that they
be kept up to date. All changes should be recorded on the map sheets as
they occur. It was the failure to do this which has caused the existing
urban mapping to deteriorate to the stage where it is of little or no value.
20.       It would be desirable for the urban mapping program to be completed
ahead of any national program of landed property valuation. As this will not
be possible, arrangements will be made to provide enlarged unrectified aerial
photographs (say, 1:1,000 or 1:500 scales) over areas programmed for
systematic property indexing and valuation. This can be done by enlarging
photography from the urban remapping program and incorporating additional
photography in areas requested by the National Valuation Authority (NVA) into
annual aerial photography programs. This would provide referencing and
valuation teams with a visual record of development pending the availability
of urban maps.
21.       There are some aspects of the urban mapping program which require
resolution by DOL. There is a need to determine priorities in consultation
with NVA and the Department of Local Administration (DOLA). There is also a
need, particularly in Bangkok, to identify the areas requiring larger scale
(1:500) mapping. In this connection, the appropriate technology needs to be
evaluated and technical procedures defined. A consultant for about two
months will be required for this purpose. The recommended terms of
reference are in Annex 2. An implementation schedule for the surveying and
mapping components is given in Appendix 2.
Staffing
22.       Currently, about 261 permanent survey staff are engaged on NS3K
mapping and about 64 on NS4 mapping. When the project commences, the NS3K
staff will be available to supplement the NS4 staff, thereby ensuring that
sufficient staff will be available in the early stages of the project. Over
the first three years, there will be a progressive buildup of permanent
staff.
23.       Some of the above staff will require skills in systems design,
graphics, etc., not presently available in DOL. Additionally, staff will
need experience in block adjustment and the use of analytical plotters and
flat bed plotters. Consequently, a carefully planned program of recruitment
and training needs to be implemented.



- 49 -                           ANNEX 3
Page 6
C. Technical Assistance
24.       The new technology and expansion of the cadastral mapping program
will place DOL and the teaching institutions under some strain. Because
much of the technology is new to Thailand, neither DOL nor teaching staff
are adequately prepared to deal with it. Consequently, assistance will be
needed in both training and education. Consultants will therefore be needed
to train existing and new staff in the techniques to be used and to assist
teaching institutions to include new options in their courses. In addition,
there will be a need for senior and middle level staff to make overseas visits
to organizations using similar technology.
Training
25.       Training is required in the following aspects:
(a) photomap production, including block adjustment and the use of
analytical plotters; and
(b) computing systems and interactive graphics techniques.
For these purposes, two consultants will be required for the first five
years of the project. In addition to training local staff, the consultants
will prepare specifications for the equipment, advise on the evaluation of
tenders and assist with the planning of work programs. Terms of Reference
are shown in Annex 2.
26.       In addition to inr-house training, visits by senior and middle level
staff to overseas organizations need to be arranged.
27.       The directors of the Printing and Technical Equipment Control,
Land Survey and Mapping, and Calculation and Data Processing Divisions of
the Surveyor-General's Office should spend about two months each visiting
cadastral mapping organizations which use technology similar to that proposed
for the project.
28.       A middle level officer from the Printing and Technical Equipment
Division should also make a visit to study map printing techniques. Two
officers each from the remaining two Divisions should visit overseas organi-
zations using the following technology:
(a) block adjustment using analytical plotters; and
(b) computer graphics including automatic plotters.
The knowledge gained on these visits should be used to assist in the training
of project staff on return to Thailand.



- 50 -                           ANNEX 3
Page 7
29.       Over the life of the project, there will be considerable recruitment
of surveyors, most of whom will be new graduates from Chulalongkorn University
and the Technical Colleges. Although the present courses are adequate for the
current needs of Thailand, they will need to be strengthened if the graduates
are to be properly educated in the new technology. To meet this need, two
consultants to act as course advisers and to assist academic staff in adding
emphasis to certain units of their courses are required. One will be based at
Chulalongkorn University and one at the Bangkok Technical College. Each
should be attached to these institutions for four years.
30.       There is also a need to provide additional equipment to instruct
students. It would not be practical to duplicate that proposed for DOL.
However, it is planned to equip each institution with one satellite position-
ing set and one set each of electronic distance measuring short-range and
long-range equipment to allow new emphasis to be given to control surveys.
31.       A further aspect on which assistance will be required is project
coordination. The project is technically and managerially complex and is a
large program by world standards. Its successful implementation will call
for project planning and coordination of the highest order. Because it is
larger and more complex than any previously undertaken by DOL, it will be
essential for a consultant to advise senior management on these aspects.
His assistance will be crucial for the success of the project.



- 51 -                   ANNEX 3
Appendix 1
THAILAND
LAND TITLING PROJECT
Cadastral Surveying and Mapping Component
Map Production Program - 11,000 Sheets
New Sheets         Map Transformation
Province                    NS3 - state lands -          NS3K - title
undocumented land                  deed
Nakhon Ratchasima                   1,560                   1,314
Buri Ram                            1,065                     708
Surin                                 862                     650
Si Sa Ket                             371                   1,021
Lamphun                               210                     105
Chiang Rai                            716                     268
Chiang Mai                            148                     217
Phayao                                290                     178
Mae Hong Son                          188                      41
Total                          5,410                   4,502
+10%                              6,000                   5,000



- 52 -                             ANNEX 4
Page 1
THAILAND
LAND TITLING PROJECT
Land Administration Component
A. Background
1.        The aim of the Royal Thai Government is to map every parcel of rural
land in Thailand outside gazetted forest reserves, whether State or privately
owned, at standard scales and to issue one form of title only (Chanod or NS4)
in respect of all parcels of private land. It is estimated that with existing
staff operating under existing procedures this formidable task would take at
least 85 years to complete. With the introduction of new technology and
procedures and some additional staff it is hoped to complete the program in
20 years.
2.        The decision to adopt one form of title only involves substantial
reorganization and decentralization of the land register. District land
offices, which now handle certificates of utilization only, will in future
handle all title deeds and State land certificates relating to land within
their areas of jurisdication; provincial land offices will hold only the
title deeds relating to land in the headquarters district (amphur muang);
existing title deeds, held in provincial offices, which relate to land in
other districts will have to be transferred to district offices. This
reorganization will necessitate the construction of a number of new district
land offices, expansion of others, construction of housing and strongrooms,
and additional equipment and staff.
B. Detailed Description
3.        The project covers the first five years of the 20-year program
period. During these five years it is planned to complete mapping and titling
in four provinces in the Northeastern Region (zone 5): Nakon Ratchasima,
Buri Ram, Si Sa Ket (approximately half) and Surin (approximately half); and
five provinces in the Northern Region (zone 10): Chiang Mai, Mae Hong Son,
Phayao, Lamphun and Chiang Rai (approximately half).
4.        The land administration input of the RTG rural mapping and titling
program in the project period is complementary to and dependent on the
cadastral mapping; the phasing of new land office construction, staffing and
title conversion is governed by the speed at which the necessary maps can be
provided. The input consists of:
(a) Titling, which includes title conversion, i.e., the replacement of
NS3K certificates by title deeds and the renumbering of title deed
parcels in areas covered by map transformation (para. 5);
adjudication and issue of title deeds in areas covered by



-53 -                             ANNEX 4
Page 2
new mapping (para. 7); isolation and transfer of title deed
from provincial (or branch) land offices to appropriate district
land offices (para. 8);
(b) Building works in the project areas, which include construction of
new or expansion of existing district land offices (para. 10);
upgrading of existing provincial and those district land offices
which qualify to hold titles by construction of a strongroom
(paras. 12-13); and construction of staff houses (para. 14);
(c) Building works outside the project areas, which consist of
construction of strongrooms in provincial and those district land
offices likely to qualify to hold titles (para. 15);
(d) Equipment and furniture for new land offices and existing
provincial and those district land offices which qualify to
hold titles both in and outside the project areas (paras. 17-19);
(e) Increased staffing levels in those district land offices which
qualify to hold titles in the project areas only (para. 20).
5.        Title Conversion:  Conversion of NS3K certificates to title deeds
and entry of new map sheet and parcel numbers on existing title deeds is a
clerical exercise, but requires careful supervision and checking. The number
of NS3K certificates requiring conversion is approximately 872,000 in the
northeastern and 534,000 in the northern project area (total 1.4 million).
Title conversion will start at the beginning of PY3 when the transformed maps
become available. Twelve teams consisting of a team leader, 10 converters and
two checkers would carry out this work and should be capable of managing all
conversions and renumbering of mapsheet and parcel numbers on title deeds in
the project areas. The task will be facilitated by two recent RTG decisions:
(a) to waive fees on conversion of NS3 certificates, and (b) to substitute a
portion of the cadastral map sheet for the present hand-drawn deed plan on the
title deed.
6.        Proposed amendments to the Land Code provide that the notice of
title conversion in respect of any district in which the title conversion is
to take place will stipulate that no registration of transactions may take
place (except with official authorization) during the period of title
conversion. This is a wise precaution and should, incidentally, enable some
district land staff to help with the conversion. Examples of the main forms
of land documentation (title deed, NS3, NS3K, etc.) are shown in Appendices 1
to 7 of this Annex.
7.        Adjudication and Issue of Title in Areas of New Mapping:  No changes
in procedures for adjudication and issue of title are involved. Land
administration staff concerned form part of the integrated survey and
adjudication field parties costed under survey. Insofar as land covered by
NS3 certificates is concerned it is presumably necessary to adjudicate
boundaries only, not title, i.e., eligibility to receive a title deed, and no
fees are to be charged for the conversion.



-54-                             ANNEX 4
Page 3
8.        Transfer of Title Deeds from ProvincLal to District Land Offices:
This task involves separating title deeds in provincial offices which relate
to land in districts other than the headquarters district (amphur muang) and
transferring them to appropriate districts immediately before the date when
title conversion starts in each district (i.e., the date given in the notice
of title conversion referred to in para. 6). It also involves replacement of
any deteriorated or damaged title deeds prior to transfer.
9.        Civil Works in the Project Areas - Land Offices:  Existing district
land offices are built to a standard two-storey design either with the upper
storey only enclosed (type E/1) or both upper and ground floors enclosed (type
E/2). General criteria for deciding which district land offices will hold
titles and whether an E/1 or E/2 office is required will be as follows:
(a)  if in any district the present certificates (title deed, NS3K and
NS3) plus additional titles to be issued in undocumented land is
less than 25,000, the district land office will not hold titles; it
must be combined with a neighbouring district to bring the total
titles held to 25,000 or more;
(b)  if the total titles held number between 25,000 and 40,000, an
E/i office will suffice; and
(c)  if the total titles held number more than 40,000, an E/2 office
is required.
10.       Application of these criteria in the project area and Lampang, for
which office accommodation will be built during the project, indicate that
73 districts will qualify to hold titles and 42 will not. The number of new
offices and expansions of E/i to E/2 offices to be constructed during the
project is:
E/1 - 11       E/2 - 4      Expanded - 23
These figures include offices required outside the project area in the first
year of the next five year program after the project ends.
11.       Construction should be phased to ensure that offices are ready as
early as possible in the project year in which field work is planned to start
in a particular province (PY3 in the case of the first provinces to be
covered); all construction in PY5 will be for offices required in the first
year of the next five-year program.



55                              ANNEX 4
Page 4
New E/1               New E/2           Expansion (E/i to E/2)
PY2             2                   3                         5
Py3             4                   1                         6
PY4             3                   -                         7
PY5             2                   -                         5
Total       11                   4                        23
Strongrooms should be built on the ground floor of all the above offices at
the time of construction.
12.       No new provincial land offices are required in the project areas,
but provision is made for the construction of strongroom facilities in the
nine provinces covered by the project.
13.       Those existing district land offices (E/1 or E/2) in the project
areas, in which titles will be held, are to be upgraded to the same standard
as new or expanded offices. This upgrading will include construction of a
strongroom for safekeeping of registers in each such office. There are 35
district land offices in this category, including 6 in Lampang Province to be
constructed in PY5. A breakdown by province of civil works is shown in
Appendix 8.
14.       Civil Works in the Project Areas - Staff Houses:  Staff housing in
accordance with RTG approved scales is to be provided in all provinces and in
those districts which qualify to hold titles in the project areas. The total
number of district land offices which qualify to hold titles in nine provinces
(i.e., excluding Lampang) in the project areas is 65. The total number of PC
6 houses required in districts is 130.
15.       Civil Works outside the Project Areas - Strongrooms:  The final
element in the civil works program concerns provinces and districts outside
the project areas. This element is designed to remedy the present unsatis-
factory situation regarding the safe storage of registers as rapidly as
possible by construction (or alteration in the case of some provincial
offices) of strongrooms in all provincial and in those existing district land
offices which are likely to qualify for holding titles. Provision is made
accordingly for new strongrooms or alterations to existing ones in all
63 provincial land offices and in 117 district land offices (see Appendix 9).



- 56 -                           ANNEX 4
Page 5
16.       Summary of Civil Works Program
Type of construction                               Number of units
A. PROJECT AREAS
New E/1 land offices with strongroom                                 11
New E/2 land offices with strongroom                                  4
Expanded (E/1 to E/2) land offices with strongroom                   23
Upgrading of provincial land offices (strongroom only)                9
Upgrading of existing district offices (strongroom only)             35
Staff housing (PC 7-8) - provincial land offices                      5
Staff housing (PC 6) - district land offices                        130
B. OUTSIDE PROJECT AREAS
Strongrooms - provincial land offices                               63
Strongrooms - district land offices                                 117
Totals:  New district land offices           15
Expanded district land offices   23
Strongrooms                       264
Houses                            135
17.       Land Office Equipment - Project Areas:  All new or expanded district
land offices and all existing offices which qualify to hold titles situated in
the project areas are to be supplied with one motorcycle each, registry and
survey equipment, and furniture. Major items (in terms of cost) include one
copier, mimeograph, theodolite, and dyeline machine per office. Scales of
equipment and furniture proposed which vary slightly according to type of
office, are acceptable. Provincial land offices in the project areas are to
be supplied with one motorcycle each and some additional equipment (1 copier,
mini calculator, theodolite and other survey equipment, typewriter and 3 fire
extinguishers) and furniture (2 microfilm cabinets, microfilm shelf, drafting
table, light table and other minor items).
18.       Two microfilm cameras and readers are also required.  These should
be held in a designated provincial land office, one in the northern and one in
the northeastern project areas. They should be used initially for micro-
filming title deeds in each province prior to their dispatch to appropriate
district land offices, if this is considered necessary./l The purpose of
/1 These title deeds will have to be microfilmed again in the district land
office after map sheet and parcel numbers have been altered (i.e., after
completion of the title conversion) and after they have been assigned
their page and volume number.



- 57 -                              ANNEX 4
Page 6
microfilming the complete registers is to facilitate reconstruction of the
register in the event of loss. Periodic remicrofilming of the complete
registers will be necessary, but this should not be contemplated for at least
five years after the last microfilming took place. When remicrofilming takes
place, the preceding microfilm should be destroyed.
19.       Land Office Equipment outside the Project Areas:  Limited additional
equipment (fire extinguishers, mini calculators, and survey equipment) and
furniture (drafting tables, light tables) are to be provided in all provincial
land offices (63) and district land offices (117) in which strongrooms are to
be constructed in the civil works program.
20.       Staffing-District Land Offices:  Registration of dealings in title
deeds involves somewhat more exacting procedures than those in NS3 and NS3K
certificates. This fact, the increase in numbers of titles held, resulting
from titling of undocumented land, and a probable slight rise in the rate of
dealing justify some increase in staff in all district land offices qualifying
to hold titles. Costs have been calculated on the basis of total staff of
20 for the 26 existing, new and expanded E/2 offices, and a total of 12 for
the 39 existing and new E/I offices, which will hold titles. Of this average
total staff of 20 per E/2 and 12 per E/1 office, 13 per E/2 and 7 per El1 are
incremental to the average number of staff already serving in these offices as
given above (Appendix 10). There will be 40 district land offices (excluding
amphur muang offices) in the project areas which will not qualify to hold
titles. The average number of staff in these offices is taken as 4; a
substantial portion of the approximate total of 160 staff now employed in
these offices should be available for posting to those offices holding titles.
21.       DOL Headquarters-Additional Resources.  Five headquarters divisions
require strengthening to cope with additional activities arising from the
project or to improve administrative performance of other DOL functions:
(a) Office of the Secretary. Additional staff is required; proposed
equipment is for public relations, an important function of this
office.
(b) Land Documents Division. This large division (present
established staff totals 534) is responsible for survey and issue
of title documents in the field. The number of field parties of
surveyors and adjudication staff is to be increased to implement
the accelerated program of titling and undocumented land in rural
areas; these parties spend approximately eight months of the year
in the field. They require a substantial increase in furniture
for the months spent in Bangkok, and some additional equipment.
(c) Land Management Division. A subdivision of this Division
provides the secretariat for the National Land Allocation
Commission. The activities of the Commission have increased



- 58 -                               ANNEX 4
Page 7
recently; it meets on average six times a year; there are three
committees at official level each responsible for a group of the
ten functions of the Commission specified in the land code; ad
hoc working parties are appointed as required (currently three)
to consider particular aspects of the functions under
consideration by committees. The secretariat is adequately
staffed, but requires additional equipment.
(d) Technical Division. This division is responsible inter alia for
analysis, research and preparation of DOL statistics and
departmental reports. The project will generate an additional
requirement for statistics and the division will be concerned
with the base and evaluation study of the project. Provision is
made for additional staff and equipment.
(e) Project Administration Office. This recently formed office is
responsible for co-ordination of administrative aspects of the
project, in particular for monitoring progress on an annual
basis; it will also be responsible for most of the correspondence
with the World Bank and other organizations concerned with the
project. Provision has been made for additional staff and
equipment.
C. The Land Code
22.       The Land Code governs the tenure and administration of land.  It
defines the powers and duties of the Minister of the Interior (MOI) and the
Director-General of the DOL in regard to allocation of State land and
compulsory acquisition of land; contains procedures for issue of documents
confirming title to land, cadastral surveys and maintenance of the land
register; defines controls on maximum land holdings by religious bodies,
aliens and certain limited companies, partnerships or associations operated
by aliens; and prescribes the scale of fees. The Code also establishes the
National Land Allocation Commission as the agency responsible for "laying
down policy on land allocation, utilization or development" and "approving
land allocation projects of public bodies."
23.        With respect to private lands, the Code recognizes four forms
of document confirming rights in land:
(a) Title Deed (chanod - NS4): A certificate of ownership, supported
by a deed plan showing the position of boundary markstones
surveyed by ground methods.
(b) Certificate of Utilization (nor sor sarm - NS3 and NS3K): A
certificate that the person named as owner has put the land to



- 59-                               ANNEX 4
Page 8
use. NS3 certificates are based on rough ground surveys while
NS3K certificates are based on unrectified aerial photographs.
The certificate is supported by a deed plan showing the shape and
size of the holding. Holders of NS3 certificates have the same
possessory rights as holders of title deeds. The only difference
betweeen NS3 and title deeds is the manner in which the boundaries
are surveyed.
(c) Pre-emptive Certificate (bai chong - NS2): A certificate autho-
rizing temporary occupation of land. The certificate is not
transferable except on inheritance and is conditional on use
within 6 months of issue.
(d) Claim Certificate (sor kor neung - SKI): a claim lodged by a
person who was in possession and had made use of the land prior to
1954, the effective date of the Land Code. The certificate is
transferable, subject to advertisement of the transfer, and is
convertible to title deed or certificate of utilization.
24.       It is a principle in Thailand that private ownership is made
dependent on land use. Thus, neither title deed nor certificate of
utilization can be issued without official certification that the land has
been put to use; and a holder of a title deed or certificate of utilization
who makes no use of his land for the period prescribed by the Land Code is
liable to forfeit his title to it.
25.       All four types of documents must be registered.  Title deeds are
recorded in provincial land offices (or branch offices) and other documents
in district land offices. Title deeds and certificates of utilization are
generally similar in form, containing particulars of the land parcel (block)
supported by a deed plan and particulars of the owner on one side of the
document, and an index of subsequent dealings on the reverse. Two identical
certificates are made, one of which is held in the appropriate land office
and the other by the owner. If an application to deal is approved,
particulars of the dealing are entered in the index of dealings on both the
certificates.
26.       The Land Code has improved the administration of land ownership,
use and taxation. However, DOL's ability to meet the requirements of the
code (and of other land legislation which preceded it), has consistently
fallen short of national requirements, to the extent that even after 80
years of survey, mapping and registration, only about half the occupied land
is properly documented (para. 1.01). In the meantime, the unprecedented
rapid economic development which occurred in Thailand during the past two
decades has elicited land-related problems that require a somewhat different
approach than has been used heretofore. The key factor in this growth has
been the recent annual increase of nearly 4% in the area under cultivation,
so that at the present a high proportion of the land suitable for agricul-
ture is being utilized. As the availability of vacant, suitable land



-60-                                 ANNEX 4
Page 9
decreases, a number of land-related problems are being recognized. The
problems, which affect both the rural and urban sectors, include
inappropriate land use classification, increasing numbers of landless,
increasing tenancy especially in rural areas, illegal cultivation in RTG
reserves, lack of secure tenure for many land occupiers who have possessary
rights, a high rate of squatter settlement in rural and urban areas, and
increasing concern about soil erosion and general environmental degradation
as shown most dramatically by loss of forest cover in the mountainous
regions and increased flooding in the plains.



-61 -                            ANNEX 4
Appendix 1
THAILAND                          (NS4)
LAND TITLING PROJECT
Forms of Land Documentation
(Translation)
Land Location                                        Title Deed
Map Sheet No.                                        No.
Pazcel No.                                           Volume   P_ age
Tambon No.                                           District
Tambon Name                                          Province
TITLE DEED
Certificate of Rights in Land Issued
in Accordance with the Land Code
To (Name)                                      Nationality
Address                           Village        _        Street        _
Lane _                        Tambon                      District
Province
Estimated area of land               rai       -         ngan                sq wah
MAP
Scale of cadastral map 1:                                            Scale 1:
Date of issuance             month           year
Governor                      Province, Land Officer
Writer                                Drafter
Examiner                              Map Investigator
Inspector                             Chief



-62-                           ANNEX 4
Appendix 2
THAILAND                           (NS3K)
LAND TITLING PROJECT
Forms of Land Documentation
(Translation)
Certificate of Land Use
Issued in Accordance with the Land Code
Land Location                                        Registration
Tambon                                               Tambon No.
District                                             Volume             Page
Province                                             Parcel No.
Aerial Photo No.                                     Map Sheet No.
This land use certificate is issued to certify that:
Name               -                            Nationality
Address                           Village                  Tambon
District                                Province
Province __ __-_ -
Had possessed and made use of the plot of land as mentioned above
Total area           rai           ngan __    _  sq wah
Shape of Land and Boundaries
Scale of aerial photo 1:                                               Scale 1:
Date of issuance            Month             Year
Signature
Seal of the competent officer



- 63-                          ANNEX 4
Appendix 3
THAILAND                           (NS3)
LAND TITLING PROJECT
Forms of Land Documentation
(Translation)
Certificate of Land Use
Land Location                                            Registration
Tambon                      Village                      Volume
District                       P_ age
Province                                                 Village File No.
This land use certificate is issued to certify that:
Name                      -         Race                Nationality
Parent's name                                       Address
Village                        Tambon                      District
Province
Has made use of the land having the following references:
North (estimate)          -              sen    Adjacent to
South (estimate)                         sen    Adjacent to
East  (estimate)                         sen    Adjacent to             _
West  (estimate)                         sen    Adjacent to
Total area                         rai           ngan          sq wah
Date              Month             Year
Signature                                 Nai Amphur
Seal of the competent officer
Shape of Land (Approximate)



- 64 -
ANNEX 4
Appendix 4
THAILAND                            (NS2)
LAND TITLING PROJECT
Forms of Land Documentation
(Translation)
Preemptive Certificate
Land Location                                             Registration
Tambon                                                    Volume
District                 _                                Page
Province                                                  File No.          Page
This document is issued to certify that the Government has allowed:
Name                                   _       Race
Nationality _                          Parent's name
Age       Address                              _        Tambon
District                                           Province
to take temporary possession in the plot of land having the following
references:
North (estimate)                          sen    Adjacent to
South (estimate)                          sen    Adjacent to
East  (estimate)                          sen    Adjacent to
West  (estimate)                          sen    Adjacent to
Total area                          rai           ngan           sq. wah
Date              Month              Year
Signature
District Officer



- 65 -                         ANNEX 4
Appendix 5
THAILAND
LAND TITLING PROJECT
Forms of Land Documentation
(Translation)
Claim Certificate
No.
Department of Lands - Notice of Land Possession              Competent Authority
Land                                                      Date
Village                      Tambon                       District
Province
Name(s)                    Age      Race              Nationality
Address                          Tambon                    District
Province                        hereby give notice of possession of land prior to
the effective date of the land code to District Officer that:
I have possessed:  Area of lands             rai           ngan       sq. wah
North                                     South
East                                   _ West
Have acquired a right to possession of land by                   when
Document reference
Land use
Have been recorded for making use of land in Certificate Book No.        Page
Had a land investigations certificate (bai tai saun), Surveying
Tambon                   District
Shape of Land (Estimated)
NORTH                             Land possessor signature
length . . ... . . . . . . . .
*      sen - wah       .                  Land possessor signature
* .                Land possessor signature
WEST .                      . EAST
Tambon Chief or Village Chief signature
Witness signature
SOUT. . . . . . . . .Ws
SOUTH                                 Witness signature



- 66 -
ANNEX 4
Appendix 6
THAILAND
(State Land
LAND TITLING PROJECT                   Certificate)
Forms of Land Documentation
(Translation)
Document for State Land
No.
Land parcel no.          between
By virtue of Land Code S.8 as amended by the Revolution's Note no. 334 dated
December 13, 1972 this certificate is issued by the Director General of the
Department of Lands to indicate the boundaries of public land for use in
common by the public, located at                            Tambon
District                    Province _
Estimated area       rai       ngan   .,sq. wah under the management
of the Minister of Interior for (description of use in common by public). The
boundaries are shown on the plan on the reverse of this certificate.
This certificate is issued on       (date)
Director General
Department of Lands



- 67 -
ANNEX 4
Appendix 7
THAILAND
(State Land
LAND TITLING PROJECT                     Certificate)
Forms of Land Documentation
(translation)
Document for State Land
No.
L                                                                          and parcel no.           b
By virtue of Land Code s.8 as amended by the Revolution's Note
No. 334 dated December 13, 1972 this certificate is issued by the Director
General of the Department of Lands to indicate the boundaries of public land
for use specially in the interest of the State, located at _-
Tambon                    District                  Province           -
Estimated area           rai _ _  ngan             sq wah under the
management of the Minister of Finance (for use by the Minister of  _).
The boundaries are shown on the plan on the reverse of this certificate.
This certificate is issued on         (date)
Director General
Department of Lands



THAILAND
LAND TITLING PROJECT
District Land Offices - Project Areas /a
(Numbers by Provinces qualifying to hold titles and
numbers of new, expanded or upgraded offices required)
1           2              3            4          5          6         7            8                 9
Total     Districts                                                                               Offices requir-
districts   qualifying  Districts not  Existing  Existing  New E/1   New E/2          Expanded       ing upgrading
(excluding   to hold    qualifying to    E/1          E/2      offices   offices      offices       by addition of
Province                        Muang)      titles      hold titles   offices    offices  required  required  (E/1 to E/2)           strongroom
Nakhon Ratchasima                 20           15             5           16         1          -         -              6                9
Buri Ram                          13            4              9            5        1          -          1             2                1
Surin                             12            8             4            9         -          -         -              3                5
Si Sa Ket                         13            9              4            9        -          -         -              5                4
Total NE Project Area       58           36             22           39         2         -          1            16                19
Chiang Mai                        19           12              7            5        -          4          3             3                2                    1
Mae Hong Son /b                    4            1              3            -        1          -          -             -                1                     c
Lamphun                            5            4              1            2        1          1         -              1                2
Phayo                              6            5              1            1        2          2         -              -                3
Chiang Rai                        11            7             4            3         1          3         -              2                2
Lampang /c                        12            8              4           11        -          1         -              1                6
Total N Project Area        57           37             20           22         5        11          3             7                16
Total Project Area         115           73             42           61         7        11          4            23                35
/a  These estimates are approximate and subject to confirmation and/or revision during implementation.
/b  The existing office in Mae Hong Son shown in column 5 is an E branch office, for which provision for upgrading is shown in column 9.
/c  Field work in Lampang will not start until the year after projects ends, but but provision for new, expanded and upgraded
offices shown in columns 6, 8 and 9 is made in PY5.



- 69 -
ANNEX 4
Appendix 9
Number of District Land Offices by Provinces to be Upgraded by
Addition of a Strongroom outside the Project Areas  a
No. of                              No. of
Province                upgradings      Province             upgradings
Pathum Thani                 1          Ubon Ratchathani          7
Lop Buri                     1          Yasothon                  3
Suphan Buri                  3          Nakhon Phanom             2
Chai Nat                     2          Nakhon Sawan              7
Chao Choeng Sao              1          Kam Phaeng Phet           2
Prachin Buri                 1          Sukhothai                 4
Chon Buri                    3          Phichit                   2
Rayong                       2          Phitsanulok               3
Chantaburi                   2          Petchabun                 2
Nakhon Pathom                1          Uttaradit                 3
Kanchana Buri                1          Phrae                     4
Chaiyaphum                   5          Nan                       1
Khon Kaen                    8          Chumphon                  1
Udon Thani                   3          Surat Thani               1
Loei                         2          Nakhon Si Thammarat       9
Sakon Nakhon                 2          Songkhla                  5
Roi Et                       8          Phattalung                2
Maha Sarakham                7          Trang                     1
Kalasin                      3          Pattani                   2
Total Column 1         57               Total Column 2      60
Total district land office upgradings outside project areas:  117.
/a  These estimates are approximate and subject to confirmation and/or
revision during implementation.



- 70 -
ANNEX 4
Appendix 10
THAILAND
LAND TITLING PROJECT
District Land Office Staff Grades and Numbers /a
Staff grade          E/i office   E/2 office
PC 6                 -             1
PC 5                 1             2
PC 4                 2             2
PC 3                 2             6
PC 2                 3             4
PC 1                 3             4
Janitor              1             1
Total            12            20
/a  These estimates are averages.  During imple-
mentation there will be a range of staff
levels varying among different offices and
over time.



- 71 -
ANNEX 4
Appendix 11
THAILAND
LAND TITLING PROJECT
Present Land Use /a
Item                      (m ha)             (m rai)      %
Agricultural Land
Paddy                         13.4               83.5
Upland (field) crops          10.1               63.4
Perennial crops               1
Subtotal                23.5               146.9
Other
Community (urban)              0.2                1.4
Other (mainly forest) /b    21.3                133.2
Lowland (swamp)                0.3                1.6
Grassland                      5.6               35.1
Vacant (unused)                5
Water bodies                   0.4                2.4
Subtotal                27.8               173.7
Total                   51.3               320.6
/a Source: Thai Universities Research Association,
Land Use and Development Policy Report, 1981.
/b  "true" forest, as estimated by the Royal Thai
Forest Department, is probably about 90 m rai.



- 72 -
ANNEX 4
Appendix 12
THAILAND
LAND TITLING PROJECT
Land Ownership in Thailand
Ra      Rai
-- (million) -
A. State Land
Mi) Forest land (administered by the Royal Forestry
Department under the National Forest Reserve Act 1064 and the
National Parks Act 1961) comprising:
(a)  gazetted forest reserves                                    18.4    114.9
(b)  gazetted forest parks                                        0.1       0.5
(c)  "prereserved" forest destined for gazettement                2.4      15.?
(d)  gazetted national parks                                      2.3      14.4
(e)  gazetted wild life sanctuaries                               2.8      17.2
Total Forest Land                                         26.n    162.2
(ii) Government real estate (administered by the Treasury
Department under the Government Property Act 1975) comprising:
(a)  land used by various government agencies,
universities, schools; land leased to private
individuals or held for future government uses               1.0       6.3
(b)  land allocated for military uses                             0.7       4.4
Total Government Real Estate                               1.7      10.7
(iii)  Public domain of the State (administered by
DOL under the Land Code 1954) comprising:
(a)  "land for the common use of the public"* wastelands,
surrendered or abandoned private lands                      1.2       7.2
(b)  land under water and foreshores                              1.8      11.6
Total Public Domain /a                                     3.n      18.8
(iv)  Local Administration and State Enterprise Land               0.4       2.7
(v)  Religious land                                               0.1       0.3
Total State Land                                          31.2    194.7
B.  Private land
(vi)  Land held on title deed (para. 8)                            3.0      18.8
(vii)  Land held on certificate of utilization (para. 8)           10.5      65.6
(viii)  Undocumented land (para. 2).  This includes:
(a)  land in settlement schemes, usually
held on license from a settlement authority.
(b)  land held on pre-emptive certificate or
claim certificate (para. 8).
(c)  land held by individuals without any
document who may, however, qualify for
grant of title under Land Code S. 58 bis.
Total Undocumented Land                                    6.6      41.7
Total Private Land                                        20.1    126.1
Total Land Area of Thailand (state and private)           51.3    320.8



ANNEX 5
Page 1
THAILAND
LAND TITLING PROJECT
Landed Property Valuation Component
A. Background
1.        Since 1932 a complex system of property-value-based taxation has
evolved in Thailand which is a vital source of revenue to local and central
government. These agencies also own substantial areas of real estate, and
must acquire additional land from time to time in the exercise of their
functions. All these activities require valuation expertise for their
efficient operation.
2.        In spite of this need, there are no qualified and experienced real
property valuers in the RTG system, and property valuation as a profession
barely exists in Thailand. The RTG has been aware of serious shortcomings
in existing valuation systems at least since the mid-1970s, and in recogni-
tion of the need for reform the Cabinet in November 1981 approved the
establishment of a National Valuation Authority (NVA) within the Technical
Division of the DOL to be in charge of land and building valuation.
3.        The NVA is an infant organization with a Director and a small per-
manent staff of 25, all of whom have limited experience and no professional
qualifications. The landed property valuation component will therefore
concentrate on valuation staff development. Proposed NVA staffing levels
during the project period are shown in Appendix 1.
B. Detailed Description
4.        The component comprises an important training program for
valuation staff, more particularly described below. A large proportion of
the proposed NVA activities during the project will revolve around the
importance of inr-house training of both existing NVA staff and
inter-semester students, together with advice on Property Roll preparation
and referencing to local authorities. The proposed activities are as
follows.
5.        The first and foremost requirement is for the preparation of a
comprehensive loose-leaf property index (property roll) to ensure that all
properties, taxable or otherwise, are accounted for. This can be used by
the local authority to ensure that taxes are collected on all taxable
properties, and ultimately by the NVA as the basis for typing of the
Valuation Roll.
6.        Indexing should be carried out by referencers.  The actual
referencing, i.e., entering of land and building data in Field Books, will



- 74 -                        ANNEX 5
Page 2
take much longer, but can go on concurrently. As the valuations are finally
made, they should be entered in the index, which is a permanent office
record. Unrectified aerial photographs would be available for use as a
supporting Tax Map system, to ensure that no properties are overlooked. The
photomaps would be available as a result of the Urban Mapping Program
(Annex 3).
7.        The Field Book system for referencing can be developed from the
index. Each Field Book should contain a separate page per property, pro-
gressing in street order. The Field Books should be hard-backed loose-leaf
pads.
8.        The development of a standardized system of property indexing and
referencing through liaison between the NVA and local authorities through
DOL is essential to avoid a later need for NVA to improve this data base
owing to assembly of inadequate or incorrect information. The scale of this
potential problem may be illustrated. Bangkok Metropolitan Area is esti-
mated to have approximately 800,000 taxable properties; the estimate has
been made from the approximate number of allotments for which title deeds
exist in the seven Bangkok land offices. If 50 referencers worked 50 weeks
per year with a conceivably optimistic output of 2,500 properties per year,
the task would take 6.5 years to complete. A vehicle for such liaison is
required, and it is recommended that the National Land Allocation Commission
(NLAC) Sub-Commission on Rules, Regulations and Conditions pertaining to
Property Appraisal be charged with this function, utilizing NVA consultant
guidance.
9.        It is recommended that NVA referencers who have been trained by
(initially) the NVA consultant work with staff of selected local authorities
on a rotational basis, in order to disseminate the maximum knowledge to the
maximum number of local authority staff, while at the same time maintaining
the standardized system.
10.       Consultation with DOLA and through the NLAC Sub-Committee will be
required to identify priority areas. DOLA is already receiving representa-
tions in this connection under an ongoing Property Tax Valuation Procedures
Improvement Project.
11.       Advice would be given to local authority staff on very basic
Direct Comparison and Summation techniques, together with advice on specific
problems. The latter would include the more difficult assessments such as
hotels and other places of entertainment, and other commercial and indus-
trial properties where the authority requires assistance.  It is anticipated
that this advice would be of a basic nature, covering matters such as
collection and analysis of evidence, an appreciation of differing construc-
tion types and accommodation, and of locational sensitivity. Either the NVA
consultant or NVA staff who had reached a reasonable level of proficiency
would be available. Advice would also be given to RTG Agencies and Local
Authorities on Land Acquisition for Public Purposes. A schedule of NVA
activities dur:Lng the project period is given in Appendix 2.



- 75 -                           ANNEX 5
Page 3
In-house training of NVA referencers and valuers by the consultant
12.       Valuers - Approximately 10 permanent NVA staff are currently
employed in valuation assessment. These and other staff who demonstrate a
capability for further training should be given practical training and
office tutorials on techniques by the consultant. Although theoretical
training will be lacking in these staff, a systematic teaching approach
covering the following basic matters will be of great assistance in
developing competence and uniformity of practice:
(a) Summation and Direct Comparison Valuation approaches using
systematic methods.
(b) Basic building construction types and accommodation and an appre-
ciation of their effect on values.
(c) An appreciation of the effects of location on values.
(d) Methods of accumulating and analyzing sales and rental
evidence, and listing same in field books. Written evidence
of the logical process followed to arrive at the valuation
is the best means of defense against corruption.
It is suggested that until the first group of diplomates emerge from the
Bangkok Institute of Technology course in June 1987 that valuer staffing
levels should only be increased by about two p.a., to contain the number of
unqualified staff.
13.       Referencers.  Approximately 16 permanent staff are currently
engaged in data collection and map preparation. These staff should
logically be given instruction in a classroom situation on referencing
procedures. Some interchange may be required between those staff currently
engaged on assessment and those on data collection and map preparation, in
order to select the most suitable personnel for each section.
14.       Two to three weeks of classroom and field instruction should be
adequate for referencer training. The instruction should include:
(a) Methods of building measurement according to property classifica-
tion to enable floor areas to be computed. Net internal areas
should be adopted for commercial and residential properties,
and gross external areas for industrial. The computation of floor
areas is the referencer's responsibility and it is vital that the
information is correct. Instruction in triangulation methods
will be required, including use of the "S" formula.
(b) Basic building construction types and instruction in the writing
of accommodation details.



- 76 -                       ANNEX 5
Page 4
(c) Identification of individual field book areas on the tax maps
(unrectified aerial photographs or rectified cadastral sheets)
and numbering of field books accordingly.
(d)  Systematic field books entries, street by street, with
progressive numbering.
15.       Students attending the BIT Valuation course should receive
practical training from the NVA between semesters. Two semesters should be
held each year, each of 18 weeks duration. A period of ten additional weeks
spent with the NVA would be of considerable benefit to the student, and the
NVA when employment commences. A schedule of valuation training during the
project is given in Appendix 3.
Relationship to Urban Mapping Program
16.       The utilization of unrectified aerial photographs produced under
this program will be a valuable tool for property roll preparation. The
production rate for rectified map sheets is estimated at 1,000 sheets p.a.
with effect from the beginning of PY4. At this rate of production, the
program will be complete in seven years from that date. However, for
property roll purposes the use of unrectified photomaps will be quite
satisfactory. The scale will be 1:500, or 1:1,000 or 1:2,000 according to
density of development, and therefore most suitable for property identifi-
cation purposes. The center of the photomap will be free of distortion,
which increases radially towards the edges. Overlap and endlap in photo-
graphy (in the order of 60% and 40%, respectively) will prevent the need to
scale off near the edges; therefore, the photomaps could be used with a
reasonable degree of accuracy for taking of dimensions and areas.
17.       Since only flying and processing of film is required for the
unrectified photomaps, the rate of production is much faster than for the
rectified version. It should be possible for the rate of production to
keep pace with the absorption capability of interested authorities.  It is
particularly important that liaison is maintained relative to demand and
priority areas through the NLAC Valuation Sub-Committee, in order to equate
supply and demand.  DOLA is currently receiving representations from local
authorities relative to priority mapping requirements.
C. Training Program
18.       The essential elements of the program, intended to professionalize
and develop the capabilities of the NVA, are the establishment of a full-
time Valuation Diploma course at Bangkok Institute of Technology, overseas
fellowships and study tours, and the provision of an expatriate valuation
consultant in the NVA. The function of the in-house consultant is described
in detail in Annex 2.



- 77 -                         ANNEX 5
Page 5
19.       The Valuation Diploma course is to be established within the
Civil Technology Faculty of the Institute (Tungmahamek Campus, Soi Suanplu).
A new division will be formed for this purpose. Other divisions in this
faculty are Surveying and Building Construction; therefore, expertise
relevant to the Valuation course already exists in the faculty.
20.       Discussions have been held with the Director, who supports the
proposal. Approval of the Institute's Board will be required.
21.       In view of the need to develop a trained cadre of valuers as
quickly as possible, and due to the structure of the Thai educational
system, it is proposed that the course be of two-years duration on a full-
time basis. The possibility of developing a trtree-year full-time or
sandwich course at a later date should not be ruled out.  This would be more
in line with the courses operating in other countries which are of degree/
diploma status and give exemption from the examinations of the relevant
professional bodies.
22.       Technical assistance is included in t:he form of valuation
lecturers. Two lecturers are proposed for PYs 3 and 4 when student numbers
will have reached their maximum, in other years one will be sufficient.
Terms of reference for this assistance are provided in Annex 2. The first
year will be spent on course development inclucling devising a detailed
curriculum, preparing course papers and arranging translations.
23.       The course should commence in June 1985 with an intake of
30 students, this intake to continue through the project period. Students
would be expected to work at the NVA office for practical training
between the two 18-week semesters. Final details will be prepared during
course development.



-78-                        ANNEX 5
Appendix 1
THAILAND
LAND TITLING PROJECT
Landed Property Valuation
Proposed NVA Staffing Levels
Project Year                   1984/85    1985/86    1986/87    1987/88    1988/89
Valuers (incl. Director)          11          13          15          38          61
Referencers                       13          33          53          73          93
Draftsmen                          -           1           1           2           2
Clerks/typists                     2           5           9          19          30
Total                        26          52          78         132         185
Messengers                          1           1          2           2           2
Drivers                             1          1           1           2           2
Note:  Permanent NVA Staff as at March 1983
Director                              1
Assessment officers                  10
Data collection/map preparation   13
Clerk                                 1
Total                          25
Director's position does not have
Budget Bureau approval.



THAILAND
LAND TITLING PROJECT
Landed Property Valuation
Traininst ProPslrWs
Project         p,Y                   PY2                  PY3               PY4                  PY5    
Calendar 1984           1985       I       1986                1987                1988                 1989        1   1990
IBRD FY      FY85                FY86                FY87      J         FY88        I       FY89         I       FY90    sr9
RTG FY            FY85                FY86               FY87         i        Y88                 FY89               FY90
Expatriate lFellowships                    3                     3                   2                  1                    1            MEEL E
First group          Second group        Third group
return               return              return
NVA Consultants                           r--,E
Mlan-years                                1.5                   1                   1                  1                    1.5
In-House Training
1) Valuers/BIT students
inter-semester                                                                                                                         EIE El a
Continuous practical training plus classroom sessions
2) Referencers
__                                                                  -                       LZZEEEJEELIL
2/3 weeks initial training for each intake
BIT Valuation Diploma Course                                                                    1st Graduates         2nd Graduates    3rd Graduates
EIE  t7 1._                                                                                      I  IEWEl :
Develop             First              Second             Third                Fourth            Fifth
intake            intake              intake               intake            intake
Valuation Lecturers man-years              1                     1                    2                 2                    1
Study Tours                                              L_Iaao
Short Term
(D 
:2:,>
sx
t'3



THAILAND
LAND TITLING PROJECT
Landed Prperty Valuation
____________________________________NVA  Activities
Project          PYI                 PY2                 P                                        PY5 Yj
ITEM                Calendar       1987985                                          1987  L- 1990
IBRD PY       E Y85      |       F                    Yi                  Y8F8                         F         Y90      Y91
BwTG FY   |        EY85       |       FY86               PY7          1       Y88                 FY89               FY90
Indexing and Referencing    C3              n                    n                                                                      [
Prepare comprehensive indexes (property rolls) and tax maps; Field Book entries;
liaison with and advice to local authorities.
Valuation               a                L___on _U                                                                                          MZ
Prepare assessments and Valuation Rolls through liaison with local authorities.
Advice to public agencies on valuation matters.
Lexislative Amendmaents
1) Constitution Act for NVA,
powers and duties, statutory                                                                                    E       J   [EL]L]E] r-
valuation definitions,               Initial draft                                                             Final Draft    To Lqgis. Royal
appeals tribunal and                 by consultant                                                             by consultant. Assembly Assmt                        O
procedures.
2) Interim aenedments to
existing legislation                   I     i     El E El [  I
(refer Chapter 4).                  Draft by         TO  .  Royal
consultanLt    Legia, Assent
V                                AAsy,
Note:  For Training Activities refer Appendix.
x-



- 81 -
ANNEX 6
THAILAND
LAND TITLING PROJECT
Disbursement Schedule
IBRD fiscal year             Disbursement              Cumulative
and quarter                 in quarter              disbursement         x
($ million)              ($ million)
FY85
2nd                       0.2                       0.2          0.5
3rd                       0.2                       0.4          1.0
4th                       0.7                       1.1          3.0
FY86
1st                       0.7                       1.8          5.0
2nd                       1.0                       2.8          8.0
3rd                       1.1                       3.9         11.0
4th                       1.2                       5.1         14.5
FY87
1st                       1.2                       6.3         18.0
2nd                       1.6                       7.9         22.5
3rd                       1.6                       9.5         27.0
4th                       1.7                      11.2         32.0
FY88
1st                       1.8                      13.0        37.0
2nd                       1.7                      14.7         42.0
3rd                       1.8                      16.5         47.0
4th                       1.7                      18.2         52.0
FY89
1st                       1.8                      20.0        57.0
2nd                       1.5                      21.5         61.5
3rd                       1.6                      23.1         66.0
4th                       1.4                      24.5         70.0
FY90
1st                       1.4                      25.9        74.0
2nd                       1.4                      27.3         78.0
3rd                       1.8                      29.1         83.0
4th                       1.9                      31.0         88.5
FY91
1st                       1.2                      32.2        92.0
2nd                       0.7                      32.9         94.0
3rd                       0.7                      33.6         96.0
4th                       0.7                      34.3         98.0
FY92
1st                       0.7                      35.0        100.0



- 82 -                              ANNEX 7
THAILAND
LAND TITLING PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A. Selected Reports and Studies on the Sector or Subsector
A.1    Thailand:  Toward a Development Strategy of Full Participation,
A Basic Economic Report, World Bank, September 1, 1978.
A.2    Thailand:  Agricultural Development Strategy Review, World Bank,
August 20, 1980.
A.3    Tlailand:  Urban Sector Review.  Background Working Paper No. 7.
Prepared for the Basic Economic Report, World Bank,
September 1, 1978.
B.  Selected Reports and Studies Relating to the Project
B.1   The Land Titling Project:  proposal to the World Bank, Department
of Lands, Ministry of Interior, Thailand, February 1983.
B.2   The First Land Administration Plan, 1982-86, Technical Division,
DOL, Circa 1981.
B.3   Act Promulgating the Land Code, B.E. 2497, Kingdom of Thailand.
B.4   The Civil and Commercial Code, Books I-VI, Kingdom of Thailand.
B.5   Civil Works Plans, Department of Lands.
B.6   Land Policy and Use Study, Thai Universities Research Association
Report, 1981.
B.7   Cadastral Survey Techniques in Developing Countries - with
Particular Reference to Thailand, Ian P. Williamson, University
of New South Wales.
B.8   Land and Titles in Thailand, Department of Lands, Ministry of
Interior, Thailand, June, 1983.
C. Selected Working Papers
C.1   Detailed and Summary Cost Tables.
C.2   Department of Lands - Current Staffing.
C.3   Cadastral Surveying and Mapping.
C.4   Land Administration.
C.5   Landed Property Valuation.
C.6   Department of Lands - Finance.
C.7   Land Holding Patterns.



THAILAND                                      CHART 1
LAND TITLING PROJECT
Land Ownership (1983)
RTG REAL ESTATE
INCLUDING MILITARY
1.7 m ha
LOCAL AUTHORITIES, STATE
ENTERPRISES, AND RELIGIOUS                    TITLE DEED 3.0 m ha
0.5 m ha     
CERTIFICATE OF
FOREST, WILDLIFE AND                                                                    UTILIZATION 10.5-rn ha
NATIONAL PARK1'
26.0 m ha
UNDOCUMENTED 6.6 m ha
PUBLIC DOMAIN 3.0 m ha
INCLUDING WATER AND
FORESHOREI/
PRIVATE LANDS                                      HECTARE                     PERCENTAGE
(Million)
Title Deed                                            3.0                           5.8
Certificate of Utilization                           10.5                          20.5
Undocumented                                         6.6                           12.9
Total Private Lands                            20.1                          39.2
STATE LANDS
Public Domain                                        3.0                            5.8
Local Authorities,
State Enterprises and Religious                     0.5                           1.0
RTG Real Estate Including Military                    1.7                           3.3
Forest. Wildlife and National Park                  26.0                           50.7
Total State Lands                              31.2                          60.8
National Total                                 51.3                         100.0
1/ About 1.5 m. ha within the Public Domain and 6.0 m. ha in Forest Reserve are
believed to be privately occupied.
World Bank-23586



THAILAND
LAND TITLING PROJECT                                       CHART 2
Organization of Deportment of Lands
Director Gereal
Deputy DG                           Deputy DG                                D       D                             Surveyor
(General                             (Land                                  (ehia                                  eea
Administration)                     Administration)
Office of the                      Land Documents                             Technkcl                           Land Survey &
Secretary                             Division                       -        D
l    Personnel  l                  Land Records   |                      Land Management                        Compilation
Division                             Division                                Dvi
Finance                  ~~~~~~~~Land ritle                        VlainNtn 
Finance    |;Control
Division                            Division                                                                                 |
Bangkok                              Public Domain
Internal                          Metropolitan                           Survey & Control
Audit Unit                          Land Office                               Dlvisior
Office of                                                                    Control
Land Inspectors          Bngkok        Thonburi       Minurvision
|Land Otfice    Land Office |Land Office
Provincial Land Offices (72)]
District Land Oftices (674)
Worli Bank-24620



THAILAND                                             CHAPT  3
LAND TITLING PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
PRE49CUEO                         FQ~~~~~~~POJECYEA
ffEMa nEAM                    Y _ 
3lsMit AND MNG
H+Q WIding Desn        
00ntlo
&^wEw1prenProcu    ement                           Ham
noplg Equlptnent PRoumnt                   _            awwm
MNlppin Eoulpment Insalltin                              TOE    Jam
Mping Equipment TrPwcrieng
Asdol Photography. Recttfication
& C_trci
TK"onnaton 
,  l Map Comprkfon
- Manuol
- CtampuBteh zed
Uiban Map Compilation
- Conrp>fterlzedl
LAND ADMINISTRATION
Provincial & Dsct Offices Construction
Equipmnont Procxurement     _     _          __
Tte Issuance
533 Conveslon
VALUATION
tIncexing & Referencing                     _           _             _            _ 
Valuation
1TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
DOi - Urban Remapping
- oMOSStudy
- Rural Mapping                                                                              -
- Valuation_
Bangkok technical Institute
ChLdaixgkom UnvArsty                                                                             -
Ovewas Fellowships                                                                              -
Annual Review & Completion Report
________  __                                                                         __  _ _  ___10
World 2ank-25009






LAO  PEOPLE'S DEM. REPUBLICH. V
B U R M A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                            EM  OL
LAOPEOPLE'S DEM. OREPUBIC        KMPCHEA    (I          OO
t~x 6(97#c~
AINDAA44V~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~wo $0
Z~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'                                  ~     S0Wn
ffr0'   k7$? ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~IE    A
of &   -'    /~ ~ ~~~~~~~TALAI
"~~~~D titLING PROJ~ ~ ~~-,.o...MR.0'OO'O
. 0 0 0                                                                  74..  -  Oh,...'~~~~~~~~~
5                            r 0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
AT~~RDMOCRAIC   KAPUCHE
P.1CM..; RE., OR..'     11VER
.4IVDAMAN  SEA             CodF of TIoa,/ond~~~~~~~~~NTIO
M01ICA C1..1
MIS               0,6   BPCo 
'q-MALAYS11k--    > 






Part of NS3K(Certificate  of Utilization) Cadastral Sheet for a Typical Rural Area
S~~~~~~~ %fsi  -           ;
FS,            ~       .-' \   \.
\tW?  ~     ~K QS S  C- i,
,-   -t F                          \~ -
!t    X     \     -          '  <,iz 44
-~~~~~~~  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ -
Land doumente  une NSK rifcte of> Utlzto)    >   \Undocumented land to be
Landdocuentd uner  S3K(ertficae o Utiizaion)    3        cadastrally mapped and issued
to be converted to full title under Project.              e    ' with full title under Project.






-o
0
CL
L                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CD>
C))
CD D 
C>
0m
-.4
C)
CD






THAILAND
LAND TITLING PROJECT
Part of Cadastral Sheet for a Typical Urban Area
Scale 1  4,000
Plhotographi
~~~~77 ~~I    
4~~~~~~~~~~~-wO
79
j~~B  EAPE)A   LRr   CLEUDRPO



