LOAN NUMBER 2440 TH
L "AL
00tUMENTS
Loan Agreement
(Land Titling Project)
between
KINGDOM OF THAILAND
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated                          ,1984


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2440 TH
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated     ct   a      I            , 1984, between
KINGDOM OF THAILAND (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTER-
NATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter
called the Bank).
WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist
the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement by making the Loan as hereinafter provided; and
(B) the Borrower intends to obtain from the Australian
Development Assistance Bureau, an agency of the Australian
Government (hereinafter called ADAB), a grant (hereinafter called
the ADAB Grant) in an amount equivalent to $9.1 million to assist
in financing technical assistance and training for the Project on
the terms and conditions set forth in financial arrangements
(hereinafter called the ADAB Financial Arrangements) to be
entered into between the Borrower and ADAB; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of
the foregoing, to make the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms
and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated October 27, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said  General  Conditions   Applicable  to  Loan  and  Guarantee
Agreements of the Bank being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following addi-
tional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "DOL" means the Department of Lands within the Ministry
of Interior of the Borrower; and


﻿- 2 -
(b) "Land Code" means the Land Code annexed to the Act
Promulgating the Land Code B.E. 2497 (1954) of the Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agree-
ment, an amount in various currencies equivalent to thirty-five
million dollars ($35,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed ouE of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and civil works required for the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 1991
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee
equivalent to eighty-seven thousand two hundred and eighty-two
dollars ($87,282).
(b) On or promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account
and pay to itself the amount of the said fee in such currency or
currencies as the Bank shall determine.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commit-
ment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.07. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time


﻿- 3 -
to time at a rate per annum for each Interest Period equal to one
half percent per annum above the Cost of Qualified Borrowings for
the last Semester ending prior to the commencement of such
Interest Period.
(b) As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings for such Semestrer.
(c) For purposes of this Section:
(i)  "Interest  Period"  means  the  six-month  period
commencing on each date specified in Section 2.08
of this Agreement, including the Interest Period
in which this Agreement is signed.
(ii) "Cost" of Qualified Borrowings means the cost,
expressed as a percentage per annum, as reasonably
determined by the Bank, provided that the amount
of $8,520.5 million referred to in      (iii) (B)
hereunder shall be reckoned at a cost of 10.93%
per annum.
(iii) "Qualified   Borrowings"  means   (A)  outstanding
borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
1982; and (B) until July 1, 1985, the amount of
$8,520.5 million (representing borrowings of the
Bank between July 1, 1981 and June 30, 1982) less
any part thereof repaid earlier than July 1, 1985.
(iv) "Semester" means the first six months or the
second six months of a calendar year.
Section 2.08. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on January 1 and July 1 in each year.
Section 2.09. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate


﻿-4-
cadastral, administrative and financial practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the purpose, including, but not
limited to, the recruitment or transfer of staff ir. a timely
manner.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying
out the Project, the Borrower shall employ or cause to be
employed consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms
and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
Consultants whose services are to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan shall be selected in accordance with principles and
procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers
and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank
in August 1981.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of carrying out Part C (1) of
the Project, the Borrower shall take all necessary action,
including the passing of legislation, to ensure that in respect
of all land parcels in the provinces referred to in Part A of the
Project:
(a) title deeds or pre-emptive certificates are issued in
accordance with the provisions of the Land Code to private
occupiers of land promptly after the survey of such land under
said Part A of the Project;
(b) title deeds are issued in accordance with the provi-
sions of the Land Code to holders of usufructuary licenses issued
by the Public Welfare Department within the Borrower's Ministry
of Interior, the Cooperative Promotion Department within the Bor-
rower's Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives and any other
relevant departments or agencies of the Borrower, promptly after
the survey of land under said Part A of the Project;
(c) by October 1, 1985 or such later date as may be agreed
between the Borrower and the Bank, title deeds are issued in a
timely manner to holders of certificates of utilization without
the need, wherever practicable, for resurvey; and
(d) documents for State land are issued in accordance with
the provisions of the Land Code promptly after the survey of such
land under said Part A of the Project.


﻿-5-
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall ensure that cadastral map
sheets and records produced under Parts A and B of the Project
shall be available for inspection by the public on request and
copies thereof shall be easily obtainable by any of the Bor-
rower's agencies or political subdivisions which may need them
for official purposes.
Section 3.05. For purposes of carrying out Part C (2) of the.
Project, the Borrower shall, before undertaking the construction
or expansion of the land offices referred to therein, furnish to
the Bank evidence satisfactory to the Bank that such construction
or expansion is justified by the number of land documents to be
handled by such land offices.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the
place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indem-
nity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower
to replace or repair such goods.
(b) The Borrower shall cause all goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to be used exclusively
for the purposes of the Project.
Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement
schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request.
(b) The Borrower shall: (i) maintain records and proce-
dures adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) enable
the Bank's representatives to visit the facilities and construc-
tion sites included in the Project and to examine the goods
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and any relevant records
and documents; and (iii) furnish to the Bank at regular intervals
all such information as the Bank shall reasonably request
concerning the Project, its cost and, where appropriate, the


﻿- 6 -
benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure of the proceeds
of the Loan and the goods and services financed out of such
proceeds.
(c) Upon the award by the Borrower of any contract for
goods, works or services to be finance- out of the proceeds of
the Loan, the Bank may publish a description thereof, the name
and nationality of the party to whom the contract was awarded and
the contract price.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank
a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall rea-
sonably request, on the execution and initial operation of the
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from
it, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their respec-
tive obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment
of the purposes of the Loan.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall establish, and thereafter
maintain, a Project Executive Committee, and within DOL, a Pro-
ject Administration Committee, with composition, functions and
responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall:
(a) complete the construction and equipping of the new DOL
mapping building under Part A (2) of the Project by September 30,
1986 or such later date as may be agreed between the Borrower and
the Bank;
(b) carry out the study provided for under Part E (1) of
the Project with terms of reference which are satisfactory to the
Bank; and
(c) furnish to the Bank a copy of the report on said study
by October 1, 1985 or such later date as may be agreed between
the Borrower and the Bank.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in


﻿-7-
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of
such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any
public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any
external debt, which will or might result in a priority for the
benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation,
realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall,
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto, and at no cost
to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in
creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot be
made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of its
political or administrative subdivisions, the Borrower shall
promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on
other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property or
as security for the payment of debt incurred for the purpose of
financing the purchase of such property; and (ii) any lien
arising in the ordinary course of banking transactions and
securing a debt maturing not more than one year after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative sub-
division thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or
operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any such
subdivision, including gold and foreign exchange assets held by
any institution performing the functions of a central bank or
exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for the
Borrower.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained sound accounting practices the
operations, resources and    expenditures, in   respect  of  the
Project, of DOL and the Bangkok Institute of Technology.
(b) Without limitation on the foregoing, the Borrower
shall: (i) maintain or cause to be maintained separate accounts


﻿- 8 -
reflecting all expenditures on account of which withdrawals are
requested from 'he Loan Account on the basis of statements of
expenditures; (ii) retain, until one year after the Closing Date,
all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and
other documents) evidencing the expenditures on account of which
withdrawals are requested from the Loan Account on the basis of
statements of expenditures; and (iii) enable the Bank's repre-
sentatives to examine such records.
(c) The Borrower shall: (i) have the accounts referred to
in paragraph (a) of this Section for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not
later than nine months after the end of each such year, a
certified copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
requested, including, without limitation to the foregoing, a
separate opinion by said auditors in respect of the expenditures
and records referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section as to
whether the proceeds of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account
on the basis of statements of expenditure have been used for the
purpose for which they were provided; and (iii) furnish to the
Bank such other information concerning said accounts, records and
expenditures and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to
time reasonably request,
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained the facilities constructed under the Project in
accordance with sound engineering and maintenance practices, and
shall provide or cause to be provided all funds and facilities
required for the purpose.
ARTICLE V
Reedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes oi Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) The ADAB Financial Arrangements shall have failed to
become effective by September 30, 1984, or such later date as the
Bank may agree; provided, however, that the provisions of this
paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower establishes to the


﻿- 9 -
satisfaction of the Bank that adequate funds for the Project are
available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and
conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under
this Agreement; and
(b) (i)   Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph,
the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds
of the ADAB Grant shall have been suspended, can-
celled or terminated in whole or in part, pursuant
to the terms of the ADAB Financial Arrangements.
(ii)   Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply
if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of
the Bank that: (A) such suspension, cancellation
or termination is not caused by the failure of the
Borrower to perform any of its obligations under
the ADAB Financial Arrangements; and (B) adequate
funds for the Project are available to the Bor-
rower from other sources on terms and conditions
consistent with the obligations of the Borrower
under this Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General
Conditions:
(a) preliminary designs satisfactory to the Bank have been
approved by DOL for the new mapping building under Part A (2) of
the Project; and
(b) the   Project  Executive   Committee  and   the  Project
Administration Committee referred to in Section 3.08 of this
Agreement have been established in accordance with the provisions
thereof.
Section 6.02. The date b-Q-c   ,(uL (f    is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the   neral Conditions.


﻿- 10 -
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of
Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Bangkok 10200
Thailand
Cable address:                     Telex:
MINANCE                            82823-TH
Bangkok
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 11 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
KINGDOM OF THAILAND
By
Authorized Representative
- INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated             % of
(Expressed in         Expenditures
Category            Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Civil works              7,600,000          85%
(2) Equipment                7,400,000          100% of foreign
expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory cost)
and 65% of local
expenditures for
other items
procured locally
(3) Vehicles                   700,000          100% of foreign
expenditures,and
100% of local
axpenditures
(ex-factory cost)
and 55% of local
expenditures for
other items pro-
cured locally
(4) Furniture                  900,000          100% of foreign
expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory
cost) and 90%
of local ex-
penditures for
other items pro-
cured locally


﻿- 13 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated             % of
(Expressed in         Expenditures
Category            Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(5) Consultants'               500,000          100%
Services
(6) Incremental             14,500,000          55%
operating costs
for Parts A and B
of the Project
(7) Fee                         87,282          Amount due under
Section 2.05 of
this Agreement
(8) Unallocated              3,312,718
TOTAL             35,000,000
2.,  For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower;
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower; and
(c) the term "incremental operating costs" means expendi-
tures incurred by the Borrower for Parts A and B of the Project
in excess of the expenditures incurred by the Borrower in the
second, third and fourth quarters of 1983 and the first quarter
of 1984 in respect of DOL personnel-related costs, aerial photo-
graphy, mapping and other materials and supplies, and vehicle,
equipment, office and building operation and maintenance, all
such expenditures being calculated in accordance with principles
acceptable to the Bank.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Bank that the proceeds of the Loan


﻿- 14 -
shall not be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
on this basis, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in
respect of items in any Category decreases or increases, the Bank
may, by notice to the Borrower, increase or decrease the dis-
bursement percentage then applicable to such Category as required
to be consistent with the aforementioned policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of expenditures made prior
to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an
aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of $72,000, may be
made in respect of Category 5 on account of expenditures made
before that date but after May 1, 1984.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of
the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Cate-
gory, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to
such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to
another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are not
needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if such reallocation
cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduice the disburse-
ment percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order
that further withdrawals under such Category may continue until
all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the pro-
curement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditure for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan, and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the
Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of
the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the
amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of thr Project
The Project is part of a long-term program to create a
systematic national cadastre and system of property valuation.
It consists of the following parts:
Part A: Rural Mapping
The carrying out of an accelerated program of new cadastral
mapping, and revision of the existing one on a scale of 1:4000,
conforming to one common origin, including, inter alia:
(1) complete cadastral mapping of the following provinces:
Nakhon Ratchasima, Buriram, Surin, Sisaket, Chiang Mai,
Mae Hong Son, Phayao, Chiang Rai, and Lampun;
(2) construction   and   equipping  of  a  new  DOL  mapping
building in Bangkok;
(3) provision to DOL of additional staff, vehicles, and
equipment for field survey;
(4) provision of technical assistance and training to DOL;
and
(5) provision of technical assistance and mapping equipment
to Chulalongkorn University and Bangkok Institute of
Technology.
Part B: Urban Mapping
The carrying out of an accelerated program of cadastral
mapping in Bangkok and selected provincial cities on scales of
1:1000 or 1:500 through the provision of staff, vehicles,
equipment, technical assistance, and training to DOL.
Part C: Land Administration
The carrying out of a land administration improvement
program in the provinces which are mapped under Part A hereof,
including, inter alia:


﻿- 16 -
(1) land   titling  (determination  of  ownership  of  land
parcels, issuance of new title deeds and pre-emptive
certificates   and   conversion   of   existing   land
documents); and
(2) construction   of   new  district   land   offices  and
improvement  and   expansion  of  existing  ones,  the
transfer  thereto  from  provincial  land  offices  of
existing title deeds and pre-emptive certificates, and
the  provision  of   staff,  furniture,  vehicles  and
equipment therefor.
Part D: Land Valuation
Improvement of the land valuation system, including, inter
alia:
(1) strengthening of the National Valuation Authority in
DOL through the provision of technical assistance,
training, staff, vehicles, equipment, and furniture;
and
(2) establishment of a two year valuation course at the
Bangkok Institute of Technology through the provision
of   furnished   classrooms,   staff,   and  technical
assistance.
Part E: Organization and Management
Strengthening the capacity of DOL to plan and manage the
cadastral program, including, inter alia:
(1) the carrying out of an Organization, Management, and
Operations Study of DOL;
(2) provision of training and technical assistance to DOL;
(3) construction   and   equipping   of  a   DOL   training
administration office; and
(4) provision of equipment, vehicles, and furniture to DOL
administrative divisions.
The Project is expected to be completed by September 30,
1990.


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                         (expressed in dollars)*
On each January 1 and July 1
beginning January 1, 1990
through   January 1, 2004                  1,165,000
On July 1, 2004                                 1,215,000
*    The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal; see
General Conditions, Section 3.04.


﻿- 18 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                            Premium
The interest rate (ex-
pressed as a percentage
per annum) applicable to
the balance outstanding
on the Loan on the day
of prepayment multiplied
by:
Not more than three years                           0.15
before maturity
More than three years but                           0.30
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but                             0.55
not more than 11 years
before maturity
More than 11 years but not                          0.80
more than 16 years
before maturity
More than 16 years but not                          0.90
more than 18 years
before maturity
More than 18 years before                           1.00
maturity


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in the current edition of the "Guidelines
for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published
by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on
the basis of international competitive bidding as described in
Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive  bidding,   in  addition  to   the  requirements  of
paragraphs 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and
forward to the Bank as soon as possible, and in any event not
later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the
public of the first tender documents relating thereto, a general
procurement notice, in such form and detail and containing such
information as the Bank shall reasonably request; the Bank will
arrange for the publication of such notice in order to provide
timely notification to prospective bidders of the opportunity to
bid for the goods in question. The Borrower shall provide the
necessary information to update such notice annually so long as
any goods remain to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported goods, or
the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other goods,
offered in such bid; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes
levied in connection with the importation, or the sales and
similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or delivery,
pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken into account
in the evaluation of the bids; and (iii) the cost of inland
freight and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of the
goods to the place of their use or installation shall be
included.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the proce-
dures described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in


﻿- 20 -
Thailand may be granted a margin of preference in accordance
with, and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids     offering  goods manufactured   in
Thailand if the bidder shall have established to
the satisfaction of the Borrower and the Bank that
the manufacturing cost of such goods includes a
value added in Thailand equal to at least 20% of
the ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest
evaluated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as
a result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this
further comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of
customs duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer
would have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in
such group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such
goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price.
If the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it


﻿- 21 -
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from Group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for goods which, to the extent practicable, cannot
be grouped to form bid packages estimated to cost $250,000
equivalent or more, may be procured on the basis of competitive
bidding  advertised   locally  in  accordance   with  procedures
satisfactory to the Bank, provided, however, that items estimated
to cost the equivalent of $25,000 or less each, up to an
aggregate amount of $2,000,000 equivalent, may be procured
through prudent shopping on the basis of at least 3 price
quotations from different sources wherever possible.
2.   Contracts for civil works shall be awarded on the ba.sis of
competitive   bidding   advertised   locally  under   procedures
satisfactory to the Bank.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for goods estimated to cost
the equivalent of $100,000 or more, and contracts for civil works
estimated to cost the equivalent of $500,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower fihall furnish to
the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid
and the specifications and other bidding documents, together with
a description of the advertising procedures to be followed for
the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said docu-
ments or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any
further modification to the bidding documents shall require the
Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the
Borrower shall, before a final decision on the award is made,
inform the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient
time for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and
comparison of the bids received, and such other information as


﻿- 22 -
the Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it
determines that the intended award would be inconsistent with the
Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on
which bids were asked or prequalification was invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
3.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after
its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account
in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids,
recommendations for award and such other information as the Bank
shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that
the award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the
reasons for such determination.
4.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 15% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Bank of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Bank, if it determines
that the proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions of
this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower and state the
reasons for its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this          day of         98
FOR SECRETARY


