                    Document of
                 The World Bank




                                             Report No: 32309

      IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
              (IDA-32820 PPFI-Q1160)

                       ON A

                      CREDIT

       IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 18.7 MILLION
           (US$ 25 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                      TO THE

               REPUBLIC OF GHANA

                      FOR A

SECOND COMMUNITY WATER AND SANITATION PROJECT
        IN SUPPORT OF THE FIRST PHASE OF
 THE COMMUNITY WATER AND SANITATION PROGRAM




                    June 9, 2005

                               CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                           (Exchange Rate Effective May 10, 2005)

                                 Currency Unit = Cedi (GHC)
                                       GHC 1 = US$ US$ 0.00011

                                        US$ 1 = 9050 Cedis

                                      FISCAL YEAR
                                 January 1   December 31

                           ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AfDB      African Development Bank
APL       Adaptable Program Loan
BH        Borehole
CBRDP     Community Based Rural Development Project
CAS       Country Assistance Strategy
CIDA      Canadian International Development Agency
CWSA      Community Water and Sanitation Agency
CWSP      Community Water and Sanitation Project
CWSP-2/1  Second Community Water and Sanitation Project Phase 1
COM       Community Ownership and Management
DA        District Assembly
DACF      District Assembly Common Fund
DANIDA    Danish International Development Agency
DOM       District Operational Manual
DWSP      District Water Sanitation Plan
DWST      District Water Sanitation Team
EIA       Environmental Impact Assessment
ERR       Economic Rate of Return
EU        European Union
FMPs      Facility Management Plans
GoG       Government of Ghana
GPRS      Growth and Poverty Reduction Strategy
HDW       Hand Dug Well
HIPC      Heavily Indebted Poor Countries
ICR       Implementation Completion Report
IRR       Internal Rate of Return
JICA      Japan International Cooperation Agency
KfW       Kredistanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (German International Cooperation Bank)
MDG       Millenium Development Goals
MFEP      Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning
MTR       Mid-Term Review
NGO       Non-Governmental Organization
NPV       Net Present Value
O&M       Operation and Maintenance
PAD       Project Appraisal Document

PCD          Project Concept Document
POM          Project Operational Manual
PHASTParticipatory Hygiene and Sanitation Transformation
PPIAF        Public Private Infrastructure Advisory Facility
PRSP         Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
QAE          Quality at Entry
QAG          Quality Assurance Group
RWST         Regional Water and Sanitation Team
SoE          Statement of Expenditure
SPA          Sub-Project Agreement
STWSSP       Small Towns Water Supply and Sanitation Proiect
TTL          Task Team Leader
VIP          Village Infrastructure Project
WATSAN       Water and Sanitation Committees
WSDB         Water and Sanitation Development Board

                                   Vice President:    Gobind T. Nankani
                                Country Director:     Mats Karlsson
                                 Sector Manager:      Eustache Ouayoro
               Task Team Leader/Task Manager:         Arthur M. Swatson

                                            GHANA
                           Second Community Water and Sanitation


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            10
6. Sustainability                                                                11
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 12
8. Lessons Learned                                                               14
9. Partner Comments                                                              16
10. Additional Information                                                       16
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             17
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             22
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             23
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             26
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             29
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                30
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            31
Annex 8. Borrower Comments                                                       32
Annex 9. APL Triggers Phase 1                                                    41

Project ID: P050616                                                  Project Name: Second Community Water and Sanitation
Team Leader: Arthur Majoribanks Swatson                              TL Unit: AFTU2
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 9, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: Second Community Water and Sanitation                    L/C/TF Number: IDA-32820; PPFI-Q1160
   Country/Department: GHANA                                                               Region: Africa Regional Office

        Sector/subsector: Water supply (33%); Sanitation (32%); Central government
                            administration (25%); Other social services (10%)
                  Theme: Participation and civic engagement (P); Rural services and
                            infrastructure (P); Water resource management (P); Decentralization
                            (S); Pollution management and environmental health (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 07/22/1998                                     Effective: 01/01/2000                07/07/2000
     Appraisal: 06/17/1999                                         MTR:                             11/23/2002
      Approval: 08/31/1999                                      Closing: 06/30/2003                 12/30/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT OF GHANA/MINISTRY OF WORKS AND
                                           HOUSING/COMMUNITY WATER AND SANITATION AGENCY
                      Other Partners:      None

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Gobind T. Nankani                              Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Director:               Mats Karlsson                                  Peter Harrold
Sector Manager:                 Eustache Ouayoro                               Letitia A. Obeng
Team Leader at ICR:             Arthur Majoribanks Swatson                     Jennifer J. Sara
ICR Primary Author:             Tracy Hart; Arthur Majoribanks
                                Swatson; and Amal Talbi


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        HS
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: HS                               HS
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The Development Objective of the Second Community Water and Sanitation Project Phase 1 (CWSP-2/1)
was to increase access and achieve effective and sustained use of improved community water supply and
sanitation services in villages and small towns in four regions, namely Ashanti, Brong Ahafo, Upper East
and Upper West Regions.

Specific objectives of CWSP-2/1, as stated in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD), were the following:

(a)      Implementing demand-responsive and sustainable Community Water and Sanitation (CWS)
services, providing basic drinking water and sanitation facilities to about 550,000 people in rural
communities through construction and rehabilitation of water points, piped water supply systems, and
sanitation facilities;
(b)      Strengthening community capacity to manage services by assisting communities in planning,
implementing and administering services, forming and training Water and Sanitation Development Boards
(WSDBs) and Water and Sanitation Committees (WATSANs) and training community members in better
hygiene practices;
(c)      Developing district-level capacity to deliver CWS services, encouraging an active role by the
private sector and Non-Governmental Organizations (NGOs) in delivering goods and services and assisting
District Assemblies (DAs) in planning and providing community support in service planning,
implementation and management; and
(d)      Strengthening CWSA's capacity to assume the facilitator role by implementing a management fee
payment scheme and supporting the national CWS program.

These objectives are fully consistent with the Letter of Sector Policy issued by the sector Ministry and
dated August 1999. The project has also contributed to furthering the goals of the National Community
Water and Sanitation Program (NCWSP) which seeks to increase sustainable access to CWS services and
the Ghana Poverty Reduction Strategy (GPRS), which identifies accelerated access to water and sanitation
as a priority. Hence, the objectives are entirely relevant and responsive to the sector objectives of increasing
sustainable access to water and sanitation.

The project objectives further support Ghana's decentralization policy agenda by developing capacity at the
local level to enable water supply and sanitation services to be decentralized to local governments. The
project directly supports two themes of the 2000 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), namely, Private
Sector Development and Decentralization, and two key pillars of the 2004 CAS, namely the Service
Delivery and Human Development pillar and Empowerment.

The project objectives were clear and realistic and the design of the project was appropriate. The project's
design took into account the latest lessons learned on the community based approach, in particular, the
lessons learned from the previous water project, the First Community Water and Sanitation Project
(CWSP1). The risk assessment under the project was appropriate and the project's design included a
flexibility to face those potential issues during implementation. To support the project objectives, the
components represented a strategic mix of interventions involving community infrastructure, capacity
building and institutional support. The performance indicators were mostly specific, relevant, and
measurable, and the first phase of the Adaptable Program Loan (APL) had quantifiable triggers to assess
their achievement (see Annex 9).

3.2 Revised Objective:



                                                      - 2 -

There were no revised project objectives.

3.3 Original Components:
The project had three components as follows:

1. Community Sub-projects ($21 million): This component provided grants to communities and schools
through their DAs to construct water and sanitation facilities and to finance technical assistance and
community development activities. Community capacity was strengthened in planning, implementing,
operating and maintaining water and sanitation facilities in an effective and sustainable manner. Under this
component, communities and small towns first submitted proposals for water and sanitation facilities and
following their approval and appraisal, the project provided the facilities. This demand-driven approach
provided a good basis for strengthening community ownership and management as well as sustainable
operation and maintenance.

2. Sector strengthening ($3.2 million): This component supported (i) local providers of goods and services
(private sector and NGOs), (ii) DAs and their District Water and Sanitation Teams (DWSTs), and (iii)
national program development. Under this component, the capacities of both the public (CWSA and DAs)
and private sectors were strengthened to ensure adequate implementation capacity in critical areas such as
procurement and financial management, planning, monitoring and evaluation, project and contract
management. NGOs were also recipients of training.

3. Program Management ($2.5 million): This component included remuneration on a fee-for-service basis
to the Community Water and Sanitation Agency (CWSA) for the incremental costs of managing
CWSP-2/1 and providing technical assistance to the DAs. Under this component, CWSA was strengthened
in order to better perform its new role under the ongoing decentralization process. CWSA fully assumed its
role as facilitator rather than implementer, managing the program at the national level.

3.4 Revised Components:
There were no revised project components. However, bringing in the lessons from the ICR of the previous
project (CWSP1), there was a need to strengthen the integration of hygiene education with water and
sanitation. This integration involved supporting the design and implementation of a national hygiene
Information, Education and Communication campaign (IEC) to promote handwashing with soap at critical
times to reduce the incidence of diarrhoeal diseases. This national campaign is part of the global
handwashing initiative supported by the Water and Sanitation Program (WSP) and the London School of
Hygiene and Tropical Medicine (LSHTM) and is designed to promote behavioral change in mothers and
children towards handwashing with soap.

Three key enhancements were made. First, the initial household sanitation approach required 50% of
households in a community to sign up for latrines before a subsidy could be given. This initial approach
was modified to focus on sanitation promotion, whereby the subsidy was given regardless of the percentage
of households signing up for latrines. Second, a pilot was included to test the Participatory Hygiene and
Sanitation Transformation (PHAST) approach to sanitation and hygiene education delivery. Finally, the
project secured Public Private Infrastructure Advisory Facility (PPIAF) financing for a pilot approach to
local private sector management of two small towns water supply systems in the Western Region aimed at
improving post-construction operation and maintenance of town supplies.

During the Mid-Term-Review, CWSA and the Bank team agreed that the triggers for phase two were too
many, overlapping and in some cases, difficult to measure. The number of triggers was therefore reduced in
order to focus on the most relevant and easily measurable ones (see Annex 9). This focus on a few triggers



                                                    - 3 -

was in line with CWSA's (Head Office and Regions) capacity to develop a harmonized monitoring system
to assess the attainment of these triggers (see Annex 1).

3.5 Quality at Entry:
The Quality At Entry is assessed as Highly Satisfactory. In 2000, the Quality Assurance Group (QAG)
assessment also rated the project as highly satisfactory.

Quality at entry is assessed as Highly Satisfactory due to: (i) the project's consistency with the Bank and
government priorities; (ii) quality of the design; and (iii) the project's largely successful anticipation of risk.


Project consistency with Bank and Government priorities. As stated above (see section 3.1) the project
was directly supportive of the Government's priorities and consistent with the CAS objectives. The project
directly built upon CWSP1, which successfully supported policy reforms in the water supply and sanitation
sector.

Quality of design. QAG reviewed the Quality At Entry (QAE) of the project and rated it Highly
Satisfactory because the project was based on lessons learned from the CWSP1 and the policy reforms
already in place as a result of CWSP1. The project also put in practice the concept of demand-driven
services together with a financing mechanism that was replicable on a large scale in Ghana. The only three
issues noted in the QAE included Environmental, Poverty and Financial Management aspects. With
regards to Environmental Aspects, QAG noted that although some potential aspects were inluded in the
Project Operational Manual (POM), they were not fully analyzed and that the Environmental Impact
Assessment (EIA) was not fully completed. On poverty, the QAE indicated that the project did not clearly
assess its impact by income group. The QAE also noted that financial management information systems
and reporting were not fully addressed.

Anticipation of risk.      The QAE section on risk assessment indicated that the main country risk of
insufficient counterpart funding was adequately addressed by requiring the necessary budgetary allocations.
Noting the success of the previous project, combined with strong government ownership and the APL
approach as a mechanism for adjustment, risk assessment was rated as Highly Satisfactory.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Since the inception of the National Community Water and Sanitation Program (NCWSP) in 1994, the
Bank has financed a number of CWS projects to support the implementation of the national sector strategy.
However, the CWSP2/1 is the first CWS project that places districts in the driver's seat and directly
provides funding to DAs. Putting the DAs at the center of decision making process was particularly
challenging due to (i) DAs' weak capacity, (ii) the need for CWSA and DAs to adjust to their new roles,
(iii) the initial lack of support by some stakeholders in the approach, (iv) the Government's delay in the
release of the District Common Fund allocation, and (v) the sudden surge in demand for goods and services
at the DA level.

Implementation pace was initially slow as capacity building efforts took a while to yield the required
results. Disbursement was in turn, slow, and less than 30% of the credit was disbursed as at mid-term
review. However, after implementation capacity was effectively developed through the learning-by-doing
approach, the implementation pace accelerated. By the close of project, 100% of the credit had been
disbursed and most targets were largely exceeded. The project also generated significant demand for more



                                                     - 4 -

community subprojects, which will be funded through the Community Based Rural Development Project
(CBRDP) (see section 6.2). Hence, despite initial implementation challenges, the decentralized approach of
the project was largely successful. This approach has been emulated by some donors active in the rural
water sector in Ghana including DANIDA.

The project's outcome is therefore rated Highly Satisfactory, as the project exceeded the water supply
access target set in the project objectives, and succeeded in developing capacity at the national, district, and
community levels for the delivery of sustainable water and sanitation services. In addition, the project
achieved the triggers of the first APL phase (see Annex 9).

The project successfully implemented decentralized delivery of water and sanitation services at the local
government level thereby institutionalizing the process of planning and implementation in participating
DAs. Communities have had their capacities developed through training of gender-balanced WATSAN
Committees and Water Boards, Latrine Artisans, Area Mechanics and Pump Caretakers and have been
fully involved in planning, construction and O&M of their water and sanitation facilities. The Community
Ownership and Management (COM) approach, private sector responsiveness to district demand for
services, promotion and technical support from RWSTs are key factors that have contributed to the
effective delivery of water and sanitation facilities and will ensure sustainability of these facilities.

The achievement of the four specific project objectives and outputs is evaluated as follows (see Annex 1 for
the performance indicators):

Objective (a) - Implementing demand-responsive and sustainable Community Water Sanitation (CWS)
services, providing basic drinking water and sanitation facilities to about 550,000 people in rural
communities.

The project achievement of objective (a) is rated Highly Satisfactory. Access to safe water supply and
sanitation in communities and small towns in Ghana is low (less than 50% for water) and requires
concerted effort to achieve a scaling up of sustained access. The project succeeded in contributing towards
this national priority by providing an estimated 794,900 people (representing about 6% of the total rural
population in Ghana) in 2,000 communities with safe water supply and sanitation facilities. This increase
in access to safe water supports efforts of the Governement to meet Millenium Development Goals
(MDGs) in water supply and sanitation.

Indicator                   Target                   Achievement               Remarks
Access                      550,000 people           794,900                   144% achievement
Communities adequately 980                           2014                      200% achievement
using    and    managing
their facilities

Objective (b) - Strengthening community capacity to manage services
The project achievement of objective (b) is rated Satisfactory. This rating is supported by (i) the presence
of over 2,000 communities adequately using and managing their water supplies, doubling the initial target
of 980; (ii) 90% of the communities submitting subproject proposals that were appraised and approved,
whereas the original target was 85%; and (iii) the high number of gender balanced WATSANs (3,143) and
Water Boards (41) formed and trained in various aspects of community management of water and
sanitation facilities. The project demonstrates the high impact of gender and its importance, which is central
to the management of water and sanitation at both household and community levels. Gender balanced



                                                       - 5 -

WATSANs are an indication of more involvement of women in water-related decision making. The project
also provided technical assistance to the communities to help them prepare and submit their proposals. The
high percent of appraised and approved community subproject proposals (90%) illustrates the extent of
community strengthening.

Objective (c) - Developing district-level capacity to deliver CWS services, encouraging an active role by
the private sector and NGOs in delivering goods and services and assisting DAs in planning and
providing community support in service planning, implementation and management.

The project achievement of objective (c) is rated Satisfactory, supported by the following: (i) the high
number of participating Districts, with active District Water and Sanitation Programs, which met their
contributions to capital cost; and (ii) the number of active private sector providers at the District level.
42 Districts out of a total of 135 in Ghana are actively implementing water and sanitation programs, while
the original target was 32. Each of these 42 districts met the entry requirements by having a District Water
and Sanitation Plan (DWSP), a District Water and Sanitation Team (DWST) in place, and ensuring a
budgetary allocation of their 5% contribution to capital costs. DAs had initial difficulties meeting their
financial contributions to capital cost due to delays in the release of the District Assembly Common Fund
(DACF) by the Central Government, which adversely affected project implementation at the beginning.
This situation however, improved after funding was provided through the series of Poverty Reduction
Strategy Credits (PRSCs) by the Bank and the Multi-Donor Budget Support (MDBS) program to the
Government.

Although the project succeeded in creating a very high demand for water and sanitation services supported
by the high number of community subproject proposals, one major issue affecting sound implementation is
the weak project planning at the district level. DAs tended to select more communities for subprojects than
they could possibly support in a given period of time, which created high expectations among communities.
In the context of an APL, this over-commitment can be carried forward in the next phase; however, there is
a need to strengthen the planning capacity at the District level. DAs in particular should match available
resources to community demand while maintaining the overall momentum for enhancing delivery in the
sector.

Private sector activity at the district level was significant and DAs issued over 300 contracts to the private
sector. This level of activity was positive for the private sector and for the water sector in general, as it
encourages the development of a vibrant local private sector which can respond to demand from DAs. In a
number of cases, there were multiple awards to firms across different Districts and Regions.

Objective (d) - Strengthening CWSA's capacity to assume the facilitator role

The project achievement of objective (d) is rated Satisfactory, as CWSA and its Regional Teams (RWSTs)
internalized their roles as facilitators. The management fee concept to cover incremental costs associated
with DA support was operationalized with CWSA, and the Agency improved and maintained a Monitoring
and Evaluation (M&E) system (see Annex 1). This national M&E system, the Financial Management
software (NAVISION) and the recently updated Strategic Investment Plan with projections for achieving
the MDG targets for water by 2015, all enhance national program management. At present, the national
M&E system is deployed at the RWST level and is aggregated at the national level. The M&E module is
also being deployed at the DA level as well, where indicators on subproject implementation can best be
monitored.

The project also funded management training for CWSA staff, which among others, was designed to assist


                                                       - 6 -

the Agency transition from an implementation role to that of facilitation. Incremental costs associated with
RWST coaching and guidance to DAs were met from the management fees ($1.3m IDA). Though this
amount was to be additional resources over and above the core operating costs, in reality it offered CWSA
relief from an under-funded budget. Therefore, aspects of the management fees, such as the incentive pay
for staff and funding of study tours, were not fully implemented. A learning-by-doing approach enabled
both CWSA and the DAs to adapt to their new roles during the project.

4.2 Outputs by components:
Component 1 ­ Community Subprojects
PAD US$ 21.1 million, 75% of total cost; Actual disbursed US$22.96 million (71%)

The overall output of this component is rated Highly Satisfactory. Access rules for subprojects were
clearly defined in the Project Operational Manual (POM) and were known and understood by the DAs and
the communities. Targets for community subprojects including delivery of water and sanitation facilities
and training of community-based WATSAN committees were largely exceeded.

Access rules transparently outlined the process, with clear criteria for district selection, community
pre-selection and community subproject appraisal. The subproject cycle and processing of sub-project
grants were clearly outlined to stakeholders, with all the sub-project steps including: district selection,
community pre-selection, subproject appraisal criteria, financial policy, technical design criteria, minimum
content of social process, linkages between community and DA, and supporting documentation. The
process of community selection was based on the "first-come first-served" principle. Of importance was
for DAs to ensure that all communities received the information on time so that they could submit their
applications without being disadvantaged by a delay in accessing the information.

All the physical targets for water supply and sanitation were exceeded, except for the household latrine
component, which achieved 96% of the target. Table 1 below summarizes the major outputs, while Annex
1 provides more details.

Table 1: Summary of the Outputs under Component 1
Outputs                                                             Target   End of the project Achievement in %
Number of Pre-selected communities                                     1,200         3,292            274
Number of Pre-selected Communities that submit acceptable proposals    980          2,963              302
which are appraised, approved and funded by DA.
Number of Boreholes drilled                                          1,200          2,723              227
Number of Hand Dug Wells built                                        380            57           15 (due to low
                                                                                                community demand)
Number of Small Towns Systems rehabilitated                            17             9          53 (due to initial
                                                                                                 low DA demand)
Number of House hold Latrines completed                              6,000          5,818              96
Number of School Latrines completed                                   240            440               183


With respect to small town facilities, nine small towns were rehabilitated, while an initial batch of 30 small
towns is being prepared for construction under the new Small Towns Water Supply and Sanitation Project.
The low delivery of small town water supply systems was largely caused by an initially low demand for
small towns by Districts. Implementation was demand based and under CWSP-2/1, District demand was
initially towards point sources as DAs were more inclined in the early stages of the project to allocate their
resources to cover a larger number of rural communities rather than a few small towns. As this was their
first experience with contracting under the project, and the first time that RWSTs were 'coaching' the DAs,
this was a reasonable development.



                                                          - 7 -

The household latrine target was not met, as the delivery was initially slow, until the strategy was revised at
mid-term review resulting in an acceleration of the delivery thereafter and 96% of target was achieved. The
initial approach to household sanitation was to provide subsidies only if at least 50% of households request
a latrine; however, this approach resulted in serious delays and a lag in delivery. This strategy was
subsequently revised at Mid-Term Review.

Component 2 ­Sector Strengthening
PAD US$3.2 million, 11% of total cost; Actual disbursed US$3.07 million (96%)

The overall output of this component is rated Satisfactory. As stated above in both objectives (b) and (c),
capacity building through training of DAs, private sector, and NGOs was conducted to ensure a strong
delivery capacity at the district level. In terms of strengthening private sector and NGO capacity for
long-term delivery of goods, equipment and services to communities, the number of service providers
trained and or operational at the district or the community level is summarized in table 2. 42 districts have
an active water and sanitation program (see Table 3). CWSA complemented with project resources a
PPIAF grant to develop a private sector support strategy for local Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs)
operating in the water sector.

Table 2: Summary of the number of service providers trained and or operational under component 2.
Service Providers                  Number trained and/or
                                   operational at the
                                   District/Community level
Latrine Artisans                                 498
Hand-Dug Well contractors                         19
Area Mechanics                                    35
Small Town operators                               2

Consultants for TA services (31) and drillers (24) were awarded more than one contract across the 42
districts. Table 3 shows the breakdown of their active presence in the participating regions:

Table 3: Summary of districts with active water and sanitation program as well as TA consultants and
drillers active in districts.
Participating Regions               Districts With        TA Consultants active     Drillers active in
                                    Active Water and      in Districts (Point       Districts (point
                                    Sanitation            sources and small         sources)
                                    Programs              towns)
Ashanti                             13                    8                        8
Brong Ahafo                         13                    6                        6
Upper West                          5                     7                        2
Upper East                          6                     8                        7
Northern (Pilot District)           1                     1                        1
Western (Pilot district)            4                     1
Total                              42                     31                       24

About 120 DA staff received various forms of training ranging from computer literacy and financial
management coaching to supervision of latrine and hand-dug well construction. DAs also received an



                                                     - 8 -

annual financial allocation for logistical support to the DWSTs including the purchase of motorcycles and
office equipment to enhance their operations.

Component 3 ­ Program Management
PAD US$2.5 million, 9% of total cost; Actual disbursed US$5.59 million (17.3%)

The overall output of this component is rated as Marginally Satisfactory, as the management fees were
supposed to cover the incremental costs of CWSA associated with facilitating District implementation of
the project; however, the management fees were used to supplement an under-funded CWSA budget
thereby limiting its intended impact.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
The economic analysis in the PAD and thus the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) focuses on the
water and sanitation community subprojects subcomponent of the project, which represents 71% of total
project costs. The economic analysis for the ICR is based on the assumptions of the CWSP-2/1 PAD,
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary, updated with unit cost estimates from the CWSP-2/1 Unit Cost
Study, as updated, and the Impact Assessment Studies for CWSP-2/1 preparation.

The project team's original cost-benefit estimations used in the PAD were not available at the time of the
ICR. Therefore, the PAD estimates were recalculated from the assumptions provided in Annex 4 of the
PAD. The ICR uses the same methodology, updating the average actual unit cost information for borehole
and hand-dug well installation from project implementation.

Sensitivity analysis completed for the ICR is based on two scenarios: The first, accounting for an average
70% well success rate, and the second, inclusion of the costs of the sector strengthening and project
management components into total physical costs so as to capture all costs associated with improving
access to water.

Table 4: Economic/Internal Rate of Return
                                                  PAD ERR           ICR IRR
Borehole Baseline                                 35%               21%
Hand-Dug Well                                     18%               32%
Borehole Sensitivity ­ Lower Bound                N/A               14%
Hand-Dug Well ­ Lower Bound                       N/A               15%

Alternatively, analysis of actual project costs for physical facilities (water points and latrines) and
accompanying community development yields actual per capita unit costs as noted below.              These
end-of-project per capita unit costs are lower than either pre-project or mid-term review estimates. This
was noted in the CWSA Unit Cost Study and the Evaluation of Selected Aspects of Implementation of
CWSP-2/1 in Support of CWSP-2/2 Preparation (Africon Report). Per (water point) facility unit costs are
estimated in the range of $5,000 to $6,000.

Table 5: Actual Cost Per Capita
Category                                          Actual Total      Actual Per Capita
Physical Facilities                               $18.61M           $23.40
Community Development                             $4.35 M           $5.47
Total                                                               $28.87




                                                     - 9 -

4.4 Financial rate of return:
The PAD calculates ERRs with no specification as to how financial NPV analysis and IRR calculations
would serve as a measure of economic benefits arising from the project. Lacking the required PAD
assumptions converting financial returns to economic returns, the ICR assumes that the financial returns
closely approximate economic returns. This assertion is supported by the adjustments of incremental
financial costs (capital investment and O&M) for inflation in the IRR calculations.              Time savings
estimations, rather than water fees collections, largely determine the economic success of the project.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The institutional development impact of the project is rated as Substantial based on (i) the outcomes of the
community-level technical assistance, sector strengthening, and project management components (see
Section 4.1), all of which contribute to capacity building of the sector, and (ii) improvements in sectoral
policy formulation and implementation as a result of CWSP-2/1 implementation.

The new draft water policy requires CWS projects to be implemented at the district level showing the
success of CWSP-2/1 in providing evidence that DA implementation is feasible. Indeed, prior to
CWSP-2/1, implementation of rural water programs was still centralized and arguments were made against
District implementation on the basis of District's weak capacity. However, through the CWSP-2/1
participating Districts assumed the role of project implementers and CWSA the role of facilitator,
consistent with the decentralization agenda of the Government. The learning-by-doing approach throughout
project implementation and the targeted capacity building programs resulted in capacity being developed at
the District level and helped both DAs and CWSA internalize their respective roles. Hence, sector policy
dialogue and formulation of rural water supply and sanitation projects have been enriched as a result of the
experiences gained from CWSP-2/1 implementation.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Factors outside the control of the Government and CWSA included: (i) unfavorable hydrogeological
conditions in some districts, affecting siting/drilling success rates, and the issue of natural fluoride
contamination of groundwater in parts of the Upper East Region; (ii) delays in mobilizing the 5% capital
contributions in small towns; and (iii) capacity of local private sector to provide adequate numbers of
drilling rigs to complete drilling in a timely fashion.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Factors subject to government control were (i) ensuring timely availability of the 5% DA financial
contribution to capital costs; (ii) inadequate number of staff at DA level to match significantly increased
workprogram; (iii) the transfer of DA staff trained under the project, which adversely impacted the
effectiveness of training and follow-up in the project; and (iv) limited incentives for private sector to invest
in spare parts, which is a concern for sustainability.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Factors subject to implementing agency control are (i) the irregularity in submission of Statements of
Expenditures (SoEs) by the DAs; (ii) the limited proactiveness in addressing dry, low yielding and
fluoride-contaminated wells; (iii) the irregular annual updates of the District Water Sanitation Plans
(DWSPs); and (iv) poor use of the contract award monitoring database to properly coordinate advice on
decisions regarding multiple awards to contractors and consultants operating across different geographical
regions when capacity was an issue.




                                                      - 10 -

5.4 Costs and financing:
Annex 2 provides the detailed information on project costs and financing. The total project costs were
estimated at SDR 18.7 million, or US$25 million equivalent. The final costs are $27.97 million (IDA), i.e.
120% of the Project Appraisal Document (PAD), due to the strengthening of the SDR against the dollar
over the project implementation period. The project original closing date was extended by 18 months. The
delay resulted from an extended period of learning of new roles by the relevant institutions, namely CWSA
Head Office and its RWSTs and the DAs. In particular, the districts went through an intensive and
extended period of capacity-building in procurement and project implementation which resulted in an
initially low implementation pace and disbursement rate for this decentralized operation.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Sustainability for this first phase of the APL is rated Likely. The resilience of CWSP2/1 to risk of net
benefit flows over time, as noted in the PAD, rests on two key elements: community willingness and
capacity to manage and sustain services, and availability of goods and services in the local markets.

Community management within CWSP2/1 was strengthened in terms of community (WATSAN and
WSDB) organization, financial management, operation and maintenance, and hygiene/sanitation practices.
WATSANs were assisted to draft their own constitution and prepare Facilities Management Plans. The
focal role that Districts are now playing under this project also places them closer to the needs of
communities, which will enhance the post-construction monitoring and support. In addition, the role of DAs
will be even more strengthened with the passing of a set of new legislation including the Local Government
Service Act and the Procurement Act.

Arrangements for post-construction operation and maintenance of the facilities have been implemented and
include the following: establishment of the WATSAN Account, training of Pump Caretakers, mobilizing
funds for O&M and the identification and training of Area Mechanics. The sustainability is also likely
based on four indicators: (i) DAs have been strengthened and now have an active water and sanitation
program, allowing them to plan water and sanitation facilities with a long-term vision; (ii) DAs are
actively contributing financially to CWS services as 100% of DAs met their financial contributions
towards investment costs and 83% have certified audit accounts; (iii) under the project, approximately 656
service providers have been trained or are operational, despite the fact that this indicator has to be coupled
with a sustainable supply chain; and (iv) a stakeholder assessment (CWSP 2/2 Community Participation
Assessment and Stakeholder Workshop, September 2004) conducted in 20 point sources across the 4
regions, randomly selected to ensure a representative sample. The assessment shows that 12 communities
raised the O&M by a monthly flat rate to be paid by each household or individual, 7 communities were
charging an amount (50 to 100 cedis per bucket), which is set as a sufficient amount to cover future
breakdowns.

Sustainability in terms of scaling-up can be assessed by reviewing the unit costs as detailed in Section 4.3
above. Facility level unit costs are competitive with those projects implementing through more centralized
delivery chains. However, private sector investment in hand-pump spares in local markets is a continual
challenge due to limited profitability margins of spare parts businesses. Government-imposed price ceilings
on spare parts serves as the primary disincentive to local business entry and survival. With regards to
follow-on technical assistance to communities, communities are still learning to approach the DWSTs as
their primary source of technical advice. These DWSTs are being integrated into the Districts' Department
of Works so as to ensure long-term integrated support of community-managed infrastructure. This support
is key to assuring communities' access to technical assistance.



                                                    - 11 -

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
CWSP-2/1 is the first part of a three-phased APL, of which the second phase CWSP2/2, has been
redesigned so that delivery of community point sources will be carried out under the Bank-financed
multisectoral Community Based Rural Development Project (CBRDP) while delivery of piped schemes in
small towns will be maintained under the Small Towns Water Supply and Sanitation Project (STWSSP).
During the simultaneous preparation of the second phase of the CWSP2/1 and the CBRDP, both of which
had rural water supply components and were to be DA-implemented, the need to harmonize the two
projects became apparent.

The process of harmonization culminated in the CBRDP focusing on the delivery of point sources while
the second phase of CWSP2/1 (STWSSP) focused on small towns water supply and sanitation. This
change in scope though occurred quite late in the preparation stage and presented quite a challenge for both
the Bank and the Client. To ensure smooth implementation, a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) has
been entered into between the CWSA and the MLGRD spelling out the roles and responsibilities of both
institutions regarding the delivery of point sources. This harmonization also allows CBRDP to benefit from
integration of the successful approach to point service provisioning and sustainability in water service,
while also assuring a focus on small towns implementation through a targeted sectoral operation.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank's performance during lending is Satisfactory.
The project included the lessons learned from CWSP1 and applied the right tools to implement a
decentralized approach at the district level. The Quality Assurance Group rated the Quality At Entry
Highly satisfactory (see section 3.5).

7.2 Supervision:
The Bank's supervision is rated Satisfactory.
The high quality of Bank lending and supervision can be attributed to the following factors: (i) a
complementary mix of Washington and Country Office staff; (ii) an optimal mix of technical expertise in
water supply, sanitation, community development and gender, hygiene, procurement, and financial
management; (iii) continuity of the core task team through the span of project implementation through to
preparation of the follow-on project; and (iv) sustained commitment to the approach of district-level
implementation from Bank management as well as from the Government. Most notably, as the Task Team
Leader (TTL), the Financial Management and Procurement Specialist are all located in the Ghana Country
Office, continuous and seasoned support to CWSA and DAs was provided.

All of the issues mentioned in this ICR such as the delay by DAs in submitting financial returns (SOEs),
the cash flow from centre to districts, the incidence of dry wells in some areas, fluoride contamination of
wells in parts of Upper East, household sanitation delivery approach and DA financial contributions were
raised in the supervision Aide Memoires and solutions were discussed and agreed upon with the
implementing agency. In addition, the supervision team ensured a continuous coordination and dialogue
with other donors working in the water sector. For example, a joint sector review mission was conducted
with major donors in the sector as well as ensuring active participation in water sector Development
Partner/Government meetings.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The overall rating of the Bank's performance is Satisfactory.



                                                     - 12 -

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The borrower's performance in preparation is rated Satisfactory.
The sector Ministry supported the preparation of the project and CWSA provided a team to prepare the
project. Though there were strong initial objections to the district-based implementation approach from
within the Agency on the basis of weak DA capacity, CWSA staff took up the new challenge and
contributed to project preparation. A pilot phase preceded the full-scale project and provided useful lessons
for project design.       The Project Operational Manual (POM) was widely discussed and several
implementation issues addressed, characterizing the high quality of the document.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
The government implementation performance is rated Satisfactory.
Though there were differing opinions in the donor community and at times within CWSA on the policy of
District contribution to capital costs, the Ministry of Works and Housing and Ministry of Finance and
Economic Planning (MFEP) firmly committed to this policy provision. The sector Ministry was proactive
in following up on the problem of DA contributions by arranging an inter-Ministerial consultative process
with the Ministry of Local Government and the Office of the Administrator of Common Fund to find ways
of improving DA financing of its contribution. The MFEP and the District Assembly Common Fund
(DACF) Administrator were strong in their support to resolve the initial problems with the DA
contributions and discussed various measures to address the issue including effective use of other sources
of funding such as the Highly Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC) savings to meet this requirement.

Even when the disbursement level was low during the initial phase of the project, there was Government
commitment to the approach which signified that long term institutional development objectives were a
priority.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
The implementing agency performance is rated Satisfactory.
CWSA during implementation had to move effectively from its former role as implementer to its new role
as facilitator. This required an intensive period of redefining roles and responsibilities vis-a-vis DA
implementation.

i) Regional Water and Sanitation Teams (RWSTs):
RWSTs, as regional offices of CWSA, supported the DAs during implementation. RWSTs internalized
their roles as they carried out all reviews of DA procurement and guided the 42 DWSTs in the technical
aspects of their work. This "learning-by-doing" approach was very intensive and demanding for the
Regional staff who had to balance the need to achieve targets with the need to build capacity for
implementation. Despite these implementation challenges including an initial steep learning curve, project
implementation pace picked up and targets were largely exceeded.

ii) CWSA Head Office:
CWSA Head Office staff provided dedicated support to the RWSTs during the project especially in the
area of planning, budgeting and financial management. Overall project management though could have
been stronger.     Multiple donor demands on the limited staff, and a heavy workload of the Finance
Department were some of the factors constraining improved project management. There was, however, a
marked improvement towards the latter half of project implementation with regular and effective project
management meetings. A proactive approach towards problem solving, tighter project management, and
strong technical backstopping for RWSTs are necessary in the implementation of the follow-on project.



                                                      - 13 -

CWSA developed monitoring and evaluation indicators (see annex 1) and consolidated the information
provided by regions. This monitoring and evaluation framework enables benchmarking the achievement
among regions and identifying proactively potential bottlenecks.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The overall rating of the borrower performance is Satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

1. Decentralized delivery of water and sanitation services has potential for scaling-up access.

·        Decentralization has potential for scaling up access: The project's ability to exceed the access
target in the Development Objective by an additional 40% coupled with the strengthening of local
institutions and systems to ensure sustained delivery capacity demonstrates the potential of decentralized
water and sanitation services to contribute significantly to the scaling up of access in CWS.
·        Strong District Ownership and Leadership is Key:                 Districts that demonstrated strong
ownership of the project and commitment to results were able to take advantage of the available project
resources to deliver more community subprojects.
·        Funds Flow From Center to Local Level should be efficient:              The pace of implementation
depends a lot on the efficiency of resource transfers from the Center to the Districts. Strengthening of
financial management systems and oversight as well as implementation capacity is necessary to ensure
quick turnaround of project funds by Districts.
·        Capacity building strengthens implementation and operation and maintenance:                Capacity
building for implementation at local level and the existence of clear and enforceable "rules-of-the-game"
contributes greatly to the success of decentralized implementation. "Learning-by-doing" approach to
capacity-building is time-consuming but has proven to be effective. Developing implementation capacity is
initially slow but when fully achieved results in accelerated delivery of services. Maintenance is ensured by
the communities putting in place financing arrangements for meeting the operation and maintenance costs.
·        District planning underpins strategic decision-making:          Weak District planning undermines
project implementation and often results in a mismatch between available resources and commitments.
DWSPs should be maintained as the key planning tool.

2. Adequate capacity on the supply side is necessary to respond to scaled-up demand.

·        Private sector capacity to respond to demand is crucial:           Increased demand for water and
sanitation services requires corresponding capacity on the supply side to match. Forty-two (42) DAs
advertised for works, goods and services and the capacity of the private sector to respond adequately to the
surge in demand was severely tested. Though this generated a lot of private sector activity at the District
level with about 300 contracts being awarded, there were also issues with the limited capacity of the private
sector, notably in the drilling industry. Private sector support initiatives should therefore be tailored to
develop capacity of SMEs in the water sector to respond adequately to business opportunities emanating
from local demand and could be supported by projects or be part of the overall government capacity
building programs.
·        Adequate supply chains promote efficient and sustainable delivery:               It is important for
handpumps that meet sector specifications to be readily accessible through local suppliers to Districts
implementing water programs. The one-stop-shop approach was thus designed to stimulate local supply
response to handpump demand and to eliminate potential coordination and timing problems arising from
split responsibilities for borehole construction and handpump installation. A key lesson is to ensure



                                                    - 14 -

sufficient advance mobilization is provided to drillers to procure handpumps upfront of the drilling works
and to ensure adequate integration of Area Mechanics in the installation process to keep this industry
vibrant for sustainable post-construction maintenance.

3. Effective marketing of sanitation and offering cheaper options will contribute to scaling up sanitation.

·        Effective promotion of sanitation and cheaper sanitation: The project design recognized that
significant benefits could only be derived if at least half of community members owned latrines and made
this an access criteria for subsidies. This approach was difficult to implement in practice and resulted in
significant delays in the implementation of household sanitation delivery until the criteria was eliminated as
an upfront requirement. A key lesson learned is to provide cheaper latrines (using for example local
materials) and design sanitation interventions with an emphasis on sustained community-level marketing.
Restrictive criteria for access to subsidies do not work.

4. Continuity of commitment to Demand-responsive approach ensures sustainability.

·        Government and Bank Consistent in its Commitment to a Demand-responsive approach:
Government of Ghana ownership was consistent at all levels, most notably the Ministry of Finance, the
Ministry of Local Government, the Ministry of Works and Housing, and the Community Water and
Sanitation Agency. Government-led dialogue with donors laid solid policy and institutional foundations.
The project confirmed the appropriateness of implementation modalities in private sector management and
sanitation and hygiene through first-year pilots.       Lastly, the programmatic-level commitments to the
demand-responsive approach initiated in CWSP1, as well as the continuity of GoG and Bank staff, assured
a fluid transition into an APL approach of CWSP-2/1.
·        Demand Responsiveness promotes sustainability:            Over 2,000 communities assisted by the
project are adequately using and maintaining their water facilities. All these communities participated in the
planning, proposal formulation, implementation and management of their facilities therefore ownership is
strong. Gender-balanced WATSANS engaged actively with NGOs, private sector providers and the DAs in
all stages of the subproject and made informed choices on appropriate levels of service on the basis of the
available technical and financial options discussed with them. Arrangements for post-construction
maintenance of the facilities including the establishment of the WATSAN Account, training of Pump
Caretakers, mobilizing funds for O&M and the identification of Area Mechanics have been implemented.
These elements will ensure the sustainable operation and maintenance of the facilities. In addition CWSA
is in the process of establishing Monitoring of Operation and Maintenance Units (MOM) in all 10 regions
(MOM units are already operational in several Regions) to ensure adequate follow up and support to DAs
on post-construction sustainability issues.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The borrower/implementing agency comments are provided in Annex 8.

(b) Cofinanciers:
N/A

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Some of the issues discussed during two ICR debriefing meetings held with private sector consultants and
contractors included the following: (i) adequacy of equipment in relation to borehole drilling, success rate
and unit costs; (ii) timeliness of completion of contracts; hydrogeological factors affecting borehole success
rates; (iii) length of tendering process; (iv) delays from consultants and contractors in submitting invoices



                                                     - 15 -

for reimbursement by District Assemblies; (v) delays from District Assemblies in payment of invoices; and
(vi) contract management issues, such as delay in payments.

The four following issues were discussed during an ICR debriefing meeting held with sector donor partners
(AFD, CIDA, DANIDA, DFID, EU, JICA, and KfW): (i) management fees, (ii) the evolving role of
CWSA, (iii) decentralization, and (iv) coordination of capacity-building activities. Specifics relating to the
management fees focused on how to ensure a better use of the management fees (project facilitation vs. core
budget support as stated above in section 4.1 Objective d), including a detailed accounting of services
received for the fee. The evolving role of CWSA as facilitator was discussed and the need for CWSA to
clarify its role to all stakeholders in order to achieve a common understanding was underscored.
Decentralization centered on the capacity of DAs to hold bottom-line responsibility for infrastructure
implementation. Some donor partners voiced concerns that their institutional procedures may not concord
with the revised draft National Water Policy, which establishes project implementation at the DA level as
the standard. The final issue was related to the need to coordinate capcity-building support provided by
donors in order to prevent overlap and ensure optimization of support to the sector.

10. Additional Information




                                                  - 16 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix


Hierarchy Key                                                      Regional Data         Achieveme
of            Performan                                                                  nt and
Objectives ce                                                                            Target
              Indicators
Program       End of     Ashanti B/Ahafo Upper East Upper   Northern  Western   TOTAL
Purpose/GoProgram                                   West    (Pilot)   (Pilot)
al
Ref KP1:      KP1:       522     482     542        364     9         14        2,080    200%
Extend        Number of                                                                  achievement
coverage of communitie                                                                   . Target is
sustainable s                                                                            980
facilities to adequately
85% of        using,
actual        managing
population and
in Ghana by sustaining
2009.         improved
(Vision       service.
2020)
Project       Outcome/I
Developme mpact
nt
Objective:
Ref KP2:      KP2a:      258,300 179,500 184,500    149,500 2,700     20,400    794,900   143%
Increase      550,000                                                                    achievement
coverage      people with                                                                . Target is
and achieve access to                                                                    550,000
effective     CWS and
and           adequately
sustained     using,
use of        managing
improved      and
community sustaining
water and     their
sanitation    improved
services in services by
villages and end of
small towns Phase 1
in 4 regions
by end of
Phase    1
              KP2b: 32                                                                42 131%
              districts  13      13      6          5       1         4                  achievement
              with                                                                       . Target is
              functioning                                                                32
              private
              sector
              delivery
              system of
              goods and
              services to
              support and
              sustain
              CWS by end
              of Phase 1



                                                - 17 -

Hierarchy Key                                                          Regional Data        Achieveme
of           Performan                                                                      nt and
Objectives ce                                                                               Target
             Indicators
Program      End of      Ashanti B/Ahafo Upper East Upper       Northern  Western   TOTAL
Purpose/GoProgram                                   West        (Pilot)   (Pilot)
al
             KP3:                                   Currently                            -
             CWSA                                   managing
             operates                               one project
             efficiently                            and
             to assume                              efficiently
             its role of                            too
             NCSWP
             facilitator
             and policy
             developmen
             t
Output       Output
from         Indicators:
component
Ref KP5:     KP5a:                                                                    3,292 336%
Demand-res Total         877     801     930        645         25        14                achievement
ponsive      number of                                                                      . Target is
community Pre-selected                                                                      980
proposals    communitie
and facility s
managemen
t plans
(FMPs) for
improved
services
appraised
and
approved by
DA and
CWSA
             KP5b:                                                                    2,963  302 %
             Number of 877       776     642        635         19        14                achievement
             Pre-selected                                                                   . Target is
             Communitie                                                                     980
             s that
             submit
             acceptable
             proposals
             which are
             appraised,
             approved
             and funded
             by DA.
Ref KP6:     KP6a: # of                                                               2,723
Water and Boreholes      861     609     646        598         9
sanitation   drilled
facilities
constructed
in project
areas.



                                                - 18 -

Hierarchy Key                                                      Regional Data        Achieveme
of           Performan                                                                  nt and
Objectives ce                                                                           Target
             Indicators
Program      End of      Ashanti B/Ahafo  Upper East Upper  Northern  Western   TOTAL
Purpose/GoProgram                                    West   (Pilot)   (Pilot)
al
             # of Hand                                                               57 15%
             Dug Wells 40        8        4          5      -         -                 achievement
             built
                                                                                        Target is
                                                                                        380 Low
                                                                                        demand for
                                                                                        HDW.
             KP6b: # of                                                           2,573 207%
             Handpumps 861             571      547592      9                           achievement
             fitted(BHs).                                                               . Target is
             Target                                                                     1,200
             1,200
             KP6c: # of                                     Additional                9 53%
             Small               1        6          -      works on  2                 achievement
             Towns                                          13 sytems                   Target is 17
             Systems                                        from Gap 2
             constructed                                                                Low
                                                                                        demand for
                                                                                        small towns
                                                                                        systems.
             KP6d:# of                 926                                        5,814 96%
            HH Latrines 4,041             390        229    108 -     120               achievement
            completed                                                                   . Target is
                                                                                        6,000
             KP6e: # of                                                            440  183%
            School       211     158      18         46     3         4                 achievement
            Latrines                                                                    . Target is
            completed                                                                   240
             KP6f: # of          N/A      N/A        N/A               N/A           -  Policy
             communitie                                     -                           changed at
             s where                                                                    mid term
             50% of                                                                     review to
             households                                                                 accelerate
             have                                                                       pace
             demanded
             latrines
Ref KP7:     KP7:                                                                 3,143
WATSAN Number of 877             801      722        722    9         12
Committees gender-bala
and water    nced
boards       WATSAN
formed and communitie
trained in   s and/or
organisation Water
Managemen Boards
t and        trained and
community functioning
members in
hygiene
education



                                                 - 19 -

             WSDBs                                                                                      43
             Trained      12            19          10                                  2



Hierarchy Key                                                                       Regional Data          Achieveme
of           Performan                                                                                     nt and
Objectives ce                                                                                              Target
             Indicators
Program      End of       Ashanti       B/Ahafo     Upper East Upper        Northern    Western     TOTAL
Purpose/GoProgram                                               West        (Pilot)     (Pilot)
al
Ref KP8:     KP8:         198:          145:         180: TAs = 107:        13: TA=1, 13:              656
Private      Number of TA=8,            TAs =6,     8, Mechs = TAs=7,       Drillers=1, TA(PHAST
Sector and service        Drillers = 8, LAs = 110, 25, LAs =    Drillers=2, Hydrogeolo )=1;TA(PPI
NGO          providers    Consultants Drillers = 6, 140,        Consultants gical       AF)=1;Priva
capacity for (TAs,        = 9, HDW Hydro            Contractors =2,         Consultants te
long-term    Artisans,    ontractors = Consultants = 7          Suppliers = =1, Lartine operator=1;
delivery of Drillers,     8, LA = 165 = 5, HDW                  1, HDW      Operators=1Contractor(
goods,       Consultants,               Contractors             Contractors 0           KVIP)=
equipment Contractors,                  = 1, Small              =10,                    1;Contractor
and services Suppliers,                 town                    AM=10,                  (Small
to           etc.,)                     Operator=1              LAs=75                  Towns)=1;
communitie trained                                                                      LAs = 8
s            and/or
strengthene operational
d.           at the
             District/Co
             mmunity
             levels.
Ref KP9:     KP9a:                                                                                      42  131%
DA capacity Number of 13                13          6           5           1           4                  achievement
strengthene Districts                                                                                      . Target is
d to provide with active                                                                                   32
support to   District
communitie Water and
s in         Sanitation
planning,    Programmes
implementat, trained and
ion and      with
sustaining   capacity to
of services fulfill role
             in CWSP2
             KP9b: # of                                                                                 42 131%
             participatin 13            13          6           5           1           4                  achievement
             g Districts                                                                                   . Target is
             that meet                                                                                     32
             their 5%
             financial
             obligation
             KP9c: # of                                                                                329
             contracts    112           29          57          120         7           4
             negotiated
             and/or
             signed by
             Districts
             and/or
             community




                                                            - 20 -

Hierarchy Key                                                     Regional Data      Achieveme
of          Performan                                                                nt and
Objectives ce                                                                        Target
            Indicators
Program     End of       Ashanti B/Ahafo Upper East Upper  Northern  Western   TOTAL
Purpose/GoProgram                                   West   (Pilot)   (Pilot)
al
Ref KP10: KP10a:                                                                 83% 35 DAs
Efficient    Number of                                                               covered. 7
CWSA         DAs with                                                                of the 42
facilitation certified                                                               DAs were
NCWSP,       audited                                                                 new.
policy       accounts as
strengthenin per cent of
g and        participatin
managemen g districts
t of
CWSP-2
            KP10b:                                                                   Agency
            CWSA                                                                     operated
            operates                                                                 within
            efficiently                                                              budget
            within
            approved
            budget
            lines.
            KP10c:                                                                   Adequate
             Amount of
             resources
             disbursed
             by CWSA
             relative to
             approved
             budget.
            KP10d:                                                                   Regional
            Consensus                                                                and
            built and                                                                National
            sector                                                                   level
            policies and                                                             consultation
            guidelines                                                               s were held.
            improved                                                                 Sector
            periodically                                                             policy under
            through                                                                  review.
            consultation
            with broad
            range of
            stake-holder
            s.




                                                - 21 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing


 Project Costs by           (Amounts are in USD million)
 Component
 (in US $ equivalent)       Appraisal Estimate       Actual/Latest Estimate  Percentage of Appraisal
 Component                  IDA    GOG      Total    IDA    GOG      Total   IDA       GOG    Total

 1. Subproject Grants
 (a) water and sanitation
 facilities                 15.60     1.70   17.30   17.41     1.20   18.61  111.6%     70.6% 107.6%
 (b) community development    3.80    0.00    3.80    4.35             4.35  114.5%           114.5%
 2. Sector Support and
 Training                     3.20    0.00    3.20    3.07             3.07   95.9%            95.9%
 3. Project Management        1.20    1.30    2.50    1.12     4.47    5.59   93.3%    343.8%    17.3
 4. PPF Refinancing           0.80    0.00    0.80    0.62             0.62   77.5%            77.5%
 5. Unallocated               0.40    0.00    0.40                     0.00    0.0%              0.0%
 Total Project Costs        25.00     3.00   28.00   26.57     5.67   32.24




 Project Costs by Procurement Arrangement
 (in US$ equivalent)         Appraisal Estimate                       Actual/Latest Estimate
 Expenditure Category        ICB    NCB      Other    N.B.F   Total   ICB     NCB      Other N.B.F   Total
 1. Community
 Subprojects                  0.00   14.00     7.10     0.00  21.10            22.96                   22.96
 financed by IDA              0.00   13.00     6.40     0.00  19.40            21.76                   21.76
 2. Goods                     0.60     0.10    0.20     0.00   0.90             0.52                    0.52
 financed by IDA              0.60     0.10    0.20     0.00   0.90             0.52                    0.52
 3. Consultant Services
 and Training                 0.00     0.00    2.30     0.00   2.30     0.25    2.05    0.25            2.55
 financed by IDA              0.00     0.00    2.30     0.00   2.30     0.25    2.05    0.25            2.55
 4. Miscellaneous (PPF)       0.00     0.00    0.80     0.00   0.80             0.62                    0.62
 financed by IDA              0.00     0.00    0.80     0.00   0.80             0.62                    0.62
 5. Management Costs          0.00     0.00    2.50     0.00   2.50                     5.59            5.59
 financed by IDA              0.00     0.00    1.20     0.00   1.20                     1.12            1.12
 6. Unallocated               0.00     0.00    0.40     0.00   0.40                                     0.00
 financed by IDA              0.00     0.00    0.40     0.00   0.40                                     0.00
 Total Project Costs          0.60   14.10    13.30     0.00  28.00     0.25   26.15    5.84   0.00    32.24

 Financed by IDA              0.60   13.10    11.30     0.00  25.00     0.25   24.95    1.37   0.00    26.57




                                                 - 22 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

The economic analysis in the PAD and thus the ICR focuses on the water and sanitation community
subprojects subcomponent of the project, which represents 71% of total project costs. The economic
analysis for the ICR is based on the assumptions of the CWSP2/1 PAD, Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis
Summary, updated with unit cost estimates from the CWSP2/1 Unit Cost Study, as updated, and the
Impact Assessment Studies for CWSP2/1.

PAD and ICR results are summarized as follows:
                                                  PAD ERR             ICR IRR
Borehole                                          35%                 21%
Hand-Dug Well                                     18%                 32%

The project team's original cost-benefit estimations used in the PAD for Annex 4 were not available at the
time of the ICR. Therefore, the PAD estimates were recalculated from the assumptions provided in Annex
4 of the PAD. The ICR uses the same methodology, updating the average actual unit cost information for
borehole and hand-dug well installation from project implementation.

The major assumptions for the economic analysis are as follows:

§        A 15-year analysis period is used (number of years used in the PAD is unstated);
§        Discount rate is 15%, as is the case in the PAD;
§        Consumption is 20 liters per capita per day;
§        Average community size is 300 inhabitants;
§        95% capacity utilization, decreasing 2% per year, except in year 5, when minor repair brings up to
initial capacity utilization;
§        Unit costs are estimated at $5000 per borehole and $2200 per hand-dug well;
§        O&M costs for the analysis period are represented as 1/4 of installation costs for borehole and 1/3
of installation costs for hand-dug well;
§        Benefits derive solely from time savings to households as a result of decrease in time spent fetching
water;
§        Time saved is calculated net of average fetching wait times at improved water sources. In the case
of boreholes, it is assumed that 5/7th of the time         used (i.e. weekdays) can be spent in commercially
productive activities. In the case of hand-dug wells, this assumption is reduced to ½ time due to             the
incidence of hand-dug well siting in more rural communities;
§        The wage rate is estimated at 75% of the unskilled wage rate, as is the case in the PAD;
§        Both investments and benefits accrue starting in 2003 due to delays in disbursement;
§        ICR comparisons to the PAD are given in IRR terms due to the fluctuations in cedis over the
project preparation and implementation time frame;         however, cedi calculations have been normed to
1999 cedis (PAD rate).

Sensitivity analysis completed for the ICR is based on two scenarios: the additional cost of an average
70% well success rate and the implicit cross-subsidy occurring between the water and sanitation facilities
sub-component and the community development sub-component, the sector strengthening and the project
management components in terms of measurable benefits.

The combined sensitivity analysis results above test sensitivity to (i) decreases to 70% well success rate in
siting and drilling as well as (ii) inclusion of ½ of the total project costs of the three non-infrastructural



                                                     - 23 -

components as part of the economic returns to point sources. Results are as follows:

Sensitivity Scenarios: Boreholes                PAD ERR            ICR IRR

Baseline                                        35%                 21%
A: 70% well success rate                        N/A                 16%
B: Community/sector/project managementN/A                           17%
strengthening
A +B                                            N/A                 14%
Sensitivity Scenarios: Hand-Dug Well            PAD                 ICR
Baseline                                        18%                 32%
A: 70% well success rate                        N/A                 19%
B: Community/sector/project managementN/A                           22%
strengthening
A +B                                            N/A                 15%

The cost-benefits estimation for the physical infrastructure component does not include either health
benefits accruing to the consumption of improved drinking water nor does it include cost-benefits
estimation for the community-based household and institutional (school) latrine facilities, which would also
base benefits on health impacts. These estimates were not completed in the PAD and therefore no baseline
for economic benefits and costs exists. Additionally, cost-benefits estimation of small towns systems was
not included in PAD Annex 4 and therefore a comparison has not been featured here.


The community, sector, and project management strengthening sub-components have supported all of the
community-led physical investments (i.e. the community-level improved point source, household and
institutional latrine, and small towns piped systems sub-components), and so the sensitivity should be
considered a lower bound on IRR estimations.


Furthermore, as 98% of CWSP2/1 point source construction has been boreholes, the borehole IRR should
be considered the primary analysis for the ICR. Returns to both boreholes and hand-dug wells were
calculated for the ICR, as they were both featured in the PAD.

Alternatively, analysis of actual project costs for physical facilities (water points and latrines) and
accompanying community development yields actual per capita unit costs as noted below.                These
end-of-project per capita unit costs are lower than either pre-project or mid-term review estimates. This
was noted in the CWSA Unit Cost Study and the Evaluation of Selected Aspects of Implementation of
CWSP 2/1 in Support of CWSP2/2 Preparation (Africon Report). Per (water point) facility unit costs are
estimated in the range of $5,000 to $6,000.

Category                                        Actual Total        Actual Per Capita
Physical Facilities                             $18.61M             $23.40
Community Development                           $4.35 M             $5.47
Total                                                               $28.87



With regards to increasing access to water and social inclusion, a 2003 beneficiary assessment study of



                                                   - 24 -

poverty and gender aspects of the Bank CWS Program noted that capital cost contributions were high
across income-gender groupings, with ranging from 87% of poor, female-headed households to 96% of
non-poor households. A similar 2002 Study of Community Contributions Towards the Capital Cost of
Water Facilities indicates that 94% of the communities do not impose restrictions on individuals unable to
contribute to capital costs, and allow fetching for those, most frequently single-resident elderly households,
or households with disabled, sick, or unemployed residents, not able to afford the access tariff. In some
cases, WATSANs / communities introduced a longer payment period, reduced payments, or accepted
in-kind labor or other assets (harvests, for example) for these same households.




                                                     - 25 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty                Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)        Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                       Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              11/17/1998              10     MISSION LEADER (1);
                                             INSTITUTIONAL SPECIALIST
                                             (1); SOCIAL SPECIALIST (1);
                                             (Robert Roche); COMMUNITY
                                             DEVELOPMENT SPECIALSIT
                                             (1); REGIONAL WATER and
                                             SANITATION GROUP (1);
                                             (Rudy Polson); (Charles Boayke);
                                             FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
                                             (1); PROGRAM ASSISTANT
                                             (1)

              11/17/1998              10     MISSION LEADER (1);
                                             INSTITUTIONAL SPECIALIST
                                             (1); COMMUNITY
                                             DEVELOPMENT SPECIALSIT
                                             (1); REGIONAL WATER and
                                             SANITATION GROUP (2);
                                             (Charles Boayke); (Letitia Obeng
                                             ); (Mercy Lawson Doe);
                                             (Anthony Oyo);
                                             MANAGEMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              06/17/1999              10     MISSION LEADER (1);
                                             SENIOR COUNSEL (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT
                                             SPECIALIST (1);
                                             ENGINEER (1);
                                             COMMUNITY
                                             DEVELOPMENT
                                             SPECIALSIT (1);
                                             INSTITUTIONAL
                                             SPECIALIST (1);
                                             MANAGEMENT
                                             SPECIALIST (1);
                                             FINACIAL
                                             MANAGEMENT (1)
                                             REGIONAL WATER and
                                             SANITATION GROUP (1);
                                             PROGRAM ASSISTANT
                                             (1)


 Supervision




                                              - 26 -

      11/03/2000    4 ENGINEER (1);                      S    S
                      PROCUREMENT (2);
                      FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
                      (1)
      02/15/2000    4 MISSION LEADER (1);                S    S
                      PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                      (1); CONSULTANT (1);
                      FINANCIAL SPECIALIST (1);
                      CONSULTANT (1)
      02/05/2001    6 TEAM LEADER (1); WATSAN            S    S
                      SPECIALIST (1);
                      PROCUREMENT (1);
                      HYGIENE CONSULTANT (1);
                      FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
                      (1); TEAM ASSISTANT (1)
      03/13/2001    4 TEAM LEADER (1); WATER &           S    S
                      SANITATION SPE (1); SOCIAL
                      SCIENTIST (1); COMM. DEV.
                      SPECIALIST (1)
      07/14/2002    4 SANITARY ENGINEER (1);             S    S
                      WATER & SANITATION SPE
                      (1); CONSULTANT (1); TEAM
                      LEADER (1)
      12/11/2002    4 TEAM LEADER (1); SOCIAL            S    S
                      DEV. SPECIALIST (1);
                      PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                      (1); FINANCIAL
                      MANAGEMENT (1)
      09/15/2003    5 TEAM LEADER (1);                   S    S
                      FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
                      (1); PROCUREMENT (1);
                      MUNICIPAL ENGINEERING
                      (1); TEAM LEADER, PHASE 2
                      (1)
      02/13/2004    5 Task Team Leader (1);              S    S
                      Procurement Specialist (1);
                      Program Assistant (2); Financial
                      Management (1)
      10/07/2004    4 TEAM LEADER (1);                   S    S
                      PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                      (1); FINANCIAL
                      MANAGEMENT SPECIALIST
                      (1); PROGRAM ASSISTANT
                      (1)
      12/03/2004    4 TEAM LEADER (1); SOCIAL
                      DEVELOPMENT SPECIALIST
                      (1); PROCUREMENT
                      SPECIALIST (1); FINANCIAL
                      MANAGEMENT SPECIALIST
                      (1)

ICR
      02/18/2005    4 TEAM LEADER (1);                   S    S




                      - 27 -

                                            SENIOR ECONOMIST (1);
                                            WATER SUPPLY
                                            SPECIALIST (1);
                                            PROGRAM ASSISTANT
                                            (1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation               31                     67,381.60
  Appraisal/Negotiation                    16                     34,777.60
  Supervision                            203                     284,911.08
  ICR                                      26                     57,151.12
  Total                                  276                     445,221.40




                                            - 28 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 29 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 30 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


1.     Staff Appraisal Report, CWSP1, March 1994
2.     Impact Assessment Studies for CWSP-2 Final Report, February 1999
3.     Community Water and Sanitation Division (CWSD) Unit Cost Study, Final Report, June 1999
4.     Project Appraisal Document of the Second Community Water and Sanitation Project Phase 1,
August 1999
5.     Quality Assurance Group, Quality at Entry Assessment, CWSP 2, April 2000
6.     CWSP 2 Project Operational Manual (POM), 2000 version
7.     Implementation Completion Report, CWSP 1, January 2001
8.     Study of Community Contributions toward the Capital Cost of Water Facilities, CWSA and
Wardrop, April 2002.
9.     CWSP 2/1 PSRs
10.    CWSP 2/1 Aide-Memoires and Back-to-Office Reports (see Annex 4 for dates)
11.    CWSP 2/1 Mid-Term Review
12.    Findings. Poverty Reduction & Economic Management, November 2003. The first Ghana
Community Water and Sanitation Project: Poverty and Gender     Issues.
13.    Evaluation of Selected Aspects of the Implementation of CWSP 2/1 in Support of CWSP 2/2
Preparation (Africon Report), May 2004
14.    CWSP 2/2 Preparation Aide-Memoires and Back-to-Office Reports
15.    CWSP 2/2 Community Participation Assessment
16.    CWSP 2/2 Capacity Building Assessments
17.    Regional Implementation Completion Reports, CWSA: Ashanti, Brong Ahafo, Upper West
Regions, February 2005




                                                - 31 -

 Additional Annex 8. Borrower/Implementing Agency Comments

1.0       SUMMARY

The Second Community Water and Sanitation Project CWSP2 ­ was the first to adopt large scale
decentralized approach in the planning, implementation and management of safe water supply and improved
sanitation facilities/services in Ghana.   The project design empowered the DAs to be at the pivot of
rural/small town water supply and sanitation delivery. The methodologies and processes outlined under the
project have been well accepted by stakeholders. Other rural water supply projects financed by DANIDA
and ADB have followed similar design.

Due to effective facilitation by CWSA and commitment of DAs to increase communities' access to
sustainable safe water supply and improved sanitation services up to 794,900 persons instead of the target of
550,000 (Annex1), have been served with potable water and 5,814 household and 440 school latrines
constructed.

Total project cost was US$32.24 million (see Annex 2 for details).

2.0       INTRODUCTION:

A.        Project Objectives

The project objective of Phase 1 of CWSP2 was to increase service coverage and achieve effective and
sustained use of improved community water and sanitation services in villages and small towns in four
regions in Ghana. The programme assisted Ghana Government in: (a) implementing demand-responsive and
sustainable water and sanitation services in rural communities and small towns; (b) strengthening the
capacity of communities to manage such services;        (c) strengthening district-level capacity to deliver
community water and sanitation services, including the private sector and Non-Governmental Organizations
(NGOs) to deliver goods and services and the capacity of District Assemblies to plan and provide support to
communities; and        (d) strengthening CWSA's capacity to effectively play the role as facilitator in the
implementation of the national-level community water and sanitation programme.

B.        Project Description

The CWSP2/1 had three focal areas:

Investments: - test and refine decentralized implementation strategy as well as piloting community
contracting,
Capacity building: - Build capacities of DAs, NGOs, and private sector in 4 regions and also establish
foundation for sustainable and competitive supply chain.Policy: - Support CWSA through pilot management
support (management fee). Discuss and consult on decentralized approach and promotion of higher cost
recovery.

C.        Project Components and Geographical Coverage

The project had three main components: (a) Community Sub project; (b) Sector Strengthening and            (c)
Programme Management




                                                    - 32 -

The community subprojects provided grants to communities and schools through their DAs for construction
of water and sanitation facilities and to finance technical assistance and community development activities to
strengthen community capacity to plan, implement, operate and maintain water and sanitation facilities in an
effective and sustainable manner.

The Sector strengthening component was used to support: (a) local providers of goods and services (private
sector and NGOs), (b) DAs and their District Water and Sanitation Teams and (c) national program
development.     Through the sector strengthening component provision of technical advisory services,
equipment and training were given to the National Community Water and Sanitation Programme
development. This included, among other things, initial equipment and vehicles for CWSA at both Head
Office and four regional levels; participatory programme reviews by all stakeholders, applied research on
topical issues, mass media campaigns for disseminating hygiene education and external impact assessment,
exchanges with other countries, other special studies, including strategies for reducing unit costs of boreholes
and sustainable spare parts distribution networks.

To re-emphasise integration of water and sanitation facility provision with hygiene promotion, and as part of
the lessons learnt from the CWSP1 ICR, CWSA joined the global community on Public-Private Partnership
(PPPH) in Hand washing Initiative early 2001. Themed "Ghana Truly Clean Hands", the campaigns sought
to prevent diarrhea related illness and deaths in Ghana by promoting the practice of hand washing with soap
and water at critical times, especially among mothers and care givers of children under five (5) and school
children throughout the country.

The third component, Programme Management, included CWSA remuneration on a fee-for-service basis for
the incremental costs of managing CWSP2 and providing technical assistance to the DAs.

         Table 1: Basic Geographical and Drilling Information.

         Region              Settlement      Type of vegetation    Success       % with access to    % with access
                             Pattern                               Rate for      safe water as at    to safe water as
                                                                   borehole      Yr. 2000**          at Yr. 2004
                                                                   Drilling
       Ashanti Region       Nucleated        Forest &             80%            32%                 52%
                                             semi-deciduous
                                             forest
       Brong Ahafo          Nucleated        Forest &             70-80%         18%                 43%
       Region                                semi-deciduous
                                             forest
       Upper East RegionScattered            Savanna              65-70%         35%                 55.6%
       Upper West           Scattered        Savanna              65-70%         43%                 68%
       Region
         ** Baseline information as found in the POM

D.        Intended Major Project Outputs

The key results areas expected by the project included the provision of sustainable safe water to 550,000
persons; 32 District Assemblies with functioning private sector delivery system of goods and services to
support and sustain community water and sanitation by the end of the project; and CWSA operating
efficiently as facilitator of the NCWSP and policy development. Annex 1 column two shows the intended
major outputs.




                                                       - 33 -

3.0       PROJECT OUTPUTS AND KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS

3.1       Key Performance Indicators at the Beginning of Project

The second column of Annex 1 provides the summary list of the key performance indicators set at the
beginning of project.

3.2       Change in Indicators at Mid-Term-Review or Any Other Stage of the Project

There were no major changes made in performance indicators at the mid-term-review. However few project
refinements were made in the course of implementation, based on the recommendations from CWSA. These
were: (a) the requirement that at least 50% of households in a community sign up for latrines before subsidy
could be given was dropped. The project thus provided subsidies irrespective of number of households that
applied for sanitation facilities in a community; (b) the closing date of phase 1 was extended from June 2003
to December 2004; (c) Ghana joined the Global Public-Private Partnership in Handing Washing Initiative as
a means to intensify the integration of hygiene promotion with water and sanitation delivery; (d) the inclusion
of two pilots to test the PHAST Approach to sanitation and hygiene promotion in the Western Region. (e)
launching the PPIAF programme to pilot local private sector management of small towns water supply
systems in the Western Region. (f) modification of the trigger indicators from Phase 1 to Phase 2.

3.3       Achievements of Project Performance Indicators (By Output)

Annex 1 (attached) shows the achievements by output. Targets for several outputs were exceeded. For
instance 794,900 persons had access to sustainable safe water supply instead of the target of 550,000
persons.

4.0       IMPACT         EVALUATION          OF    THE       GOVERNMENT           OF     GHANA,        CWSA,
COMMUNITIES, NGO's AND PRIVATE SECTOR

4.1       General Observation on the Project

The CWSP2 project was the first to practically implement the Ghana National Community Water and
Sanitation Programme (NCWSP) and the CWSA Act, Act 564 of 1998 by making the DAs play pivotal
roles in the planning, implementation and management of sustainable safe water supply and improved
sanitation facilities and services. The procedures and processes adopted conform to government programs on
decentralization, and participation of citizens in development efforts with the ultimate goal of reducing
poverty.

Under the project, resources were channeled to districts based on their expressed demand as seen in the over
2,600 boreholes drilled, 57 hand dug wells and 5,814 household latrines and 440 school latrine constructed.
As a result, the capacities of DAs and communities have been built for the provision of other communal
infrastructure.

The project also created jobs through the private sector's provision of goods and services.

4.2       The Government, CWSA and Communities Contributions

The Government of Ghana provided multi-disciplinary staff that facilitated the project at all levels ­ national,
regional and districts. Thus personnel emoluments and administrative cost associated with the staff were


                                                      - 34 -

borne by the Government of Ghana. At the local level, staff of the District Assemblies provided invaluable
services of project co-ordination, planning, implementation and management. The DAs played pivotal roles
by; (a) preparing and reviewing annual DWSPs; (b) signing of sub-project agreements with CWSA, (c)
promoting projects in all communities; (d) ensuring the formation and training of gender-based WATSANs
and WSDBs. (e) financing the operational expenses of the DWST; (f) making 5% contribution to the capital
cost of water facilities; and (g) resolving conflict at the community levels.

The various participating communities contributed cash equivalent to 5% of the capital cost for water, gave
much of their time by participating in meetings and discussions during the planning, and implementation of
community sub-projects. For sanitation, individual households contributed 50% of the cost of latrines.

4.3        Popularity of the Project Activities at Community Level

The CWSP2 was popular among the participating communities judging from the high demand from
communities for project support. The WATSANs, WSDBs and the communities were active at all stages of
the project planning, implementation and management. By linking some communities to banks, the culture of
savings has been inculcated into some, which is a necessary pre-requisite for poverty reduction.

However, the project suffered some set backs during implementation: (a) delay in project take off which was
partly due to change of Government at all levels in 2001; (b) long time between application and facility
provision due mainly to delayed mobilization of respective DA and Community 5% capital cost contributions
and the drag in the application of the procurement rules; (c) delays in the installation of the hand pumps on
drilled wells specifically in the UWR. This was as a result of procurement of wrong type of hand pumps, at
the initial stages of the project

5.0        PROJECT ACHIEVEMENTS AND CHALLENGES

The following were the achievements and challenges of the project:

5.1        National

The POM, developed by the Government of Ghana provided detailed processes and procedure that guided
project management at all levels. In addition, the CWSA developed such documents as: (a) Small Towns
Water and Sanitation Policy; (b) Technical Design Guidelines; (c) Operation and Maintenance Guidelines;
(d) Bidding Documents including standard specifications and standard drawings that were useful for
programme implementation and management at the DA level. (e) hygiene and sanitation were given much
focus through multi-media IEC (PPPH Initiative). The hygiene practice of Ghanaians especially nursing
mothers, caregivers, school children, and food vendors to wash hand with soap was emphasized. The
following awards were won:

· Chartered Institute of Marketing Ghana (CIMG) Best TV Award 2003;

· Advertising Association of Ghana (AAG) Gong-gong Awards 2003: Gold Awards TV (Corporate and
Social Services), Gold Award Radio (Corporate and Social Services) and overall Platinum Award Best TV.

5.2        Regional and District (see table following)

5.3        NGOs and Private Sector



                                                         - 35 -

Achievements and challenges of NGOs and the Private Sector run through all four regions.

Achievements
· Capacities of the private sector and NGOs were enhanced.
· The project created jobs for them.

Challenges
· Inadequate equipment holding;
· Limited managerial skills; and
· Low capital base

5.2      Regional & District

Table 2:  Project Achievements, and Challenges



  REGION               ASHANTI                      BRONG AHAFO                UPPER EAST               UPPER WEST
                       Achievements                 Achievements:              Achievements             Achievements
                       (a) Facilitated project in 13(a) Facilitated project in(a)      The      RWST(a)All          5       DAs
                       out    of 18 districts in theall 13 districts in thefacilitated project in allparticipated       in    the
                       region;                      region. All participating6 Districts;               project.
  RWST                 (b) Played lead role inDAs           established     the(b)  The   project   has(b) The RWST got the
                       fine-tuning     TOR       forappropriate      structuresprovided         150,000RCC to play its catalytic
                       Technical        Assistants,and      institutions    forpersons with access torole in co-coordinating
                       Training      of      Latrineeffective        planning,safe water and decentproject through routine
                       Artisans and Training ofimplementation              andlatrines;                 quarterly    stakeholder
                       hand dug well contractors management.            As in(c) The RWST forgedmeetings and sharing of
                                                    Annex 1, several targetsclose         collaborationproject       information
                                                    set for the region (POM)among         all    sectorespecially through the
                                                    were exceeded;             stakeholders with RCCmonthly project bulletin.
                                                    (b) Supported DAs tosupport.
                                                    implement          demand                           (c)Over-subscription for
                                                    responsive             and                          the      projects     by
                                                    sustainable    community                            DA/Communities due to
                                                    water      supply      and                          effective         project
                                                    sanitation    services   to                         promotion.
                                                    179,500 persons through
                                                    construction           and
                                                    rehabilitation of water
                                                    points, piped systems
                                                    and sanitation facilities.
                       Challenges                   Challenges                 Challenges               Challenges
                       Inadequate          financial(a) Some key district(a) Delayed Project time(a)           Delay in project
                       resources    to   meet    theofficials such as Districttable due to unwittingtake off due to late
                       demand generated;            Finance           Officers,tardiness of DAs inmobilization          of   5%
                       (b) Some DAs did not havePlanning Officers etc.coming to terms with              community contribution;
                       adequate      capacity     todid not allocate enough· The        concept  of
  RWST                 manage contracts, hencetime          to   the   project,"learning by doing";     (b)         Time      for
                       RWST      had   to   providebecause     of    numerous·   Novelty of political   mobilization of funds
                       much support in terms ofprojects being attendedand                         fiscal(5%)  was too short.
                       coaching     and    frequentto by the same officers;    decentralization;        (c)  Lack of access to
                       visits;                         (b)     Difficulty    in(b) Poor response to thesome     communities at
                       (c) Financial reports fromattracting            drilling5%   DA and communitycertain     times of the year
                       DAs on disbursements notcontractors to bid incontribution;                       because of heavy rains.



                                                             - 36 -

            delivered      in     timelycertain    districts,  e.g.(c)  Too many stages in(d)         Difficulty     in
            manner.                      Sunyani    and    Dormaathe   project cycle for aplanning        for       the
            (d) Poor performance ofAhenkro                 becausecommunity     to completeprovision   of safe water
            some       private     sectordrilling in these areasa     sub-project early.   Itforseasonal migrants.
            operators;         especiallyrequire            specialundermined    interest of(e)   Non-availability of
            borehole             drillingexpertise;                some          communityspare    parts outlets in the
            companies      e.g.  in   the(c) Inadequate financialmembers;                    region.    The nearest
            Bosomtwe         Kwanwomaresources to meet the(d)           Procurement delayshop       is   at   Tamale,
            District;                    rather   high     demandand     delayed financialseveral            hundred
            (e)   Difficult    geologicalgenerated         throughreports from the DAs;      kilometers away.
            terrain in                   effective          project(e)  Delayed cash flow
            districts such as Sekyerepromotion.                    from CWSA Head office
            East, Sekyere West and                                 to the DAs for payments
            Ejisu Juaben made drilling                             due      of     untimely
            difficult and costly.                                  financial reports from
            (f) Getting the RCC to play                            the DAs;
            its            co-ordinating                           (f)      High    fluoride
            and monitoring role in                                 content     in    ground
            support        of     project                          water especially in the
            implementation           and                           Bongo District.
            management.
            (g) There was no budget
            for post project monitoring
            or follow up.
            Achievements:                Achievements:             Achievement:              Achievements:
            (a)      Have    successfully(a)    All participating(a) Capacity building for(a)       DAs effectively
            integrated sustainable safecommunities owned andDA staff, especially thepromoted project and
            water supply and improvedmanaged the servicesDWST, DPCU and thegenerated                     very     high
            sanitation          services,provided.                 Finance   Officers    anddemand for sub-projects;
            including effective hand(b)                 Integratedcommunity        members(b)          The     project
            washing practices in theWater-related sanitationwere achieved.                   promoted     networking
DISTRICT    district        developmentand hygiene education,(b)        Project   resourcesamong DAs at the RCC
ASSEMBLY    agenda.                      including effective handwere made available for level;
            (b)    Resources from thewashing              practicesthe furnishing of offices,(c)  Capacities of DA
            project    were    used    tothroughout the process. purchase of computers,staff were strengthened
            enhance      capacities    of(c)     Integrated    safeoffice  equipment     andthrough    training    and
            District Officials includingwater       supply       &other office supplies.     equipment         supply
            DWSTs.         Consequentlyenvironmental sanitation                              (computers,        motor
            requisite      skills    andin their annual work                                 bikes, office supplies
            capacities in safe waterplans and budgets (viz.                                  etc).
            planning and managementreview of DWSPs).
            have been built among(d)               DAs       signed
            district staff.              sub-project    agreement
                                         with CWSA, promoted
                                         and         disseminated
                                         information on CWSP2.
                                         (e)   Ensured formation
                                         of    gender    balanced,
                                         active
                                         WATSANS/WSDBs.
                                         (f)   Amicably resolved
                                         all conflicts on safe
                                         water     supply      and
                                         sanitation delivery.
            Challenges:                  Challenges:               Challenges:               Challenges:
DISTRICT    (a) Irregular release of the(a) The sensitization of(a) The endemic nature(a) High attrition rate of
ASSEMBLY    DACF,       which    is   thekey project stakeholdersof         poverty       inWATSANs,           trained
            primary source of funds foroverlooked             RCCcommunities         limitedLatrine artisans, some
            development activities; thisofficials;                 their ability to haveDWSTs and PO staff;




                                                 - 37 -

                       adversely affected the DAs                                            demand(b)        Reluctance    of
                       ability to pay their 5%experienced(b)      contractors(backed
                                                                   Attractingeffective by    financialpeople   to serve     on
                       contribution as spelt out into                        resources) for the subWSDBs due to lack of
                       the POM;                       participate in project;projects;                motivation;
                       (b) Delay in submission of(c)     Mobilization      of(b) Irregular flow of(c) DAs understaffed so
                       SOEs     by    districts   toadequate        financialproject   funds    fromadequate time could not
                       CWSA. Delays were dueresources to meet theCWSA                  Head    Officebe committed to Water
                       to the following:            high demand generatedadversely           affectedand Sanitation activities
                       (i) Limited Numbers ofamong communities.              timely    payments    to
                       staff   in    the    finance                          service providers.
                       department                                            (c) DAs spent much
                       (ii) Inadequate knowledge                             time   in  learning   to
                       in computer skills                                    follow      procurement
                       (iii) Lack of incentive from                          plans;
                       the    project    for     the                         (d)DA           Finance
                       accounting staff (and all                             departments    appeared
                       otherDistrict     Assembly                            overloaded.
                       staff   working    on     the
                       project).


6.0       IMPACT EVALUATION OF THE BANK

6.1       Project Design

The project design was satisfactory. However, it would have been much better if the coordinating roles of
the RCC had been well integrated into project implementation and management. In addition, the strategy for
sanitation delivery in small towns was not well developed. Also there was no budget for post project
implementation activities. Future projects have to address these issues in order to accelerate the delivery of
sustainable safe water and improved sanitation services for rural communities and small towns.

6.2       Quality design and implementation support mission

The Task Team Manager and her/his able supported team worked with CWSA as partners in development.
Issues and challenges were proactively addressed at all times of project implementation. The supervision
mission provided useful technical assistance to the Agency and DAs. Experiences were shared and problems
solved during such visits. The Aide memoirs had been useful tools of communication.

6.3       Government, CWSA and Bank Relationship

It was very satisfactory as there was reciprocal respect for each party.

7.0       LESSONS LEARNED AND RECOMMENDATIONS

A) Project Design

Due to the scattered settlement patterns in the Upper East and Upper West Regions, the design standard of
300 persons to one borehole should be reviewed downwards if the populations in these regions are to be
adequately served within the standard 500 metres radius. Similarly, in order to reduce delays in project
implementation, future project designs should include the development of standard simplified documents,
such as bidding documents, design for latrines and various terms of reference for the engagement of the
private sector to guide project management at the district and community levels. These documents should be
available for use at project effectiveness.


                                                           - 38 -

B) Demand Driven

To sustain community and district enthusiasm in a demand driven environment, the supply side of the
project, in terms of the readiness and commitment of the private sector and timely fund flow to the local
level, should be harmoniously planned and co-coordinated. From the field, it can be observed that demand
responsive approach to delivery of water and sanitation facilities seem to be the best means to ensure
sustainability as well as instilling into beneficiaries a sense of ownership.

C) Decentralized Implementation

The involvement of communities in mobilization and planning of their water and sanitation facilities led to
effective and efficient project management and implementation. Through the project, decentralization and
devolution of power were given further boost at the district and community levels. However, some DAs were
still weak in terms of the support they gave to the DWSTs. Also, partisan politics sometimes affected the
smooth running of the existing institution such as WATSANs and WSDBs

D) Capacity Building

The capacity-building element in the CWSP2 improved performance of stakeholders and it is reflecting in the
output of the regions. DA evaluation and financial reporting skills have greatly improved over the period;
Knowledge and skills acquired (at the community level) from safe water supply and related sanitation have
been channeled into other areas of rural development.

Also sustained community mobilization and animation is important to ensure success of community level
project implementation, which involves behavioral change. TA activities raised awareness in communities.
Training of WATSANs helped them in fund mobilization and financial management. The TAs themselves
built capacity as they interacted with communities. Women can also do excavation of pit for household
latrine construction when effective animation has taken place. For instance in Vapuo, in the Upper West
Region, the women dug the pit as almost all the men had embarked on seasonal migration.
The logistical support to the private sector and the DA should be coordinated by the MLGRD to address
timely and relevant capacity needs of these stakeholders and avoid duplication of efforts by various projects.

E) Stakeholder Consultation and Co-ordination

Institutionalizing quarterly project meeting at the RCC level helped in networking and information sharing
(especially on the performance of the DA and the private sector) amongst all the implementing districts.
Equally, quarterly management meetings amongst all the participating RWST, CWSA-Head Office and the
World Bank, Ghana Office helped in resolving implementation problems/issues. In future, some DAs and
service providers should be invited to participate in these useful project management meetings. At the
ministerial level, effective consultation and co-ordination should be institutionalized especially between,
CWSA, MOWH, MLG&RD, NDPC and MoFEP.

8.0       CONCLUSION

The CWSP2 has contributed greatly to minimize the incidence of water and sanitation related diseases in the
beneficiary communities. Furthermore, the project has contributed immensely towards the Governments'
decentralization and poverty reduction agenda. DAs, through the project, have been empowered to play
pivotal role in development programmes through effective planning, implementation and management ­


                                                         - 39 -

especially on contract management/administration.

Community ownership and management has been embraced and further enhanced through the empowerment
of community institutional structures such as WATSANs and WSDBs.

Appendix 1: CWSP 2 PHASE 1 ­ IMPLEMENTATION PROGRESS STATUS AS AT 30TH DECEMBER
2004 (concords to Annex 1 in World Bank ICR)
Appendix 2: PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING (concords to Annex 2 in World Bank ICR)




                                                 - 40 -

Additional Annex 9. APL Triggers Phase 1


APL Trigger                        APL Triggers Performance as of May 2004 and based on the
                                   correspondance of Minster of Works and Housing to
                                   Country Director.
Investment Efficiency of
Decentralized Service Delivery
Model
80% of phase 1 implementation      Trigger has been met                   Phase 2 APL Triggers
targets met (physical, social, and Physical:
financial)                         - Target 1,200 achieved 1,548          500,000 people provided with
                                   - 1,108 hand pumps fitted, which       access to improved water supply.
                                   represents 70% of the 1,582 point
                                   sources.
                                   - Target 7 small towns piped systems   50,000 people provided with access
                                   constructed. The 7 Number target       to improved sanitation services.
                                   would not been achieved; however,
                                   one CWSP1 rolled over system and
                                   six rehabilitation works have been
                                   completed. Target 6,000 household
                                   latrines.
                                   - Target 240 schools latrines. This
                                   target will be exceeded by the end of
                                   the project.
                                   Social:
                                   - Target: 980 communities adequately
                                   using, managing and sustaining
                                   improved services. Target is already
                                   exceeded as 1,150 communities are
                                   using and managing their improved
                                   systems.
                                   - Target: 550,000 people with access
                                   to CWS . Achievement: 550,000
                                   people would be provided with access
                                   to CWS services by the end of 2004.
                                   - Target: 32 DAs with functioning
                                   private sector. Achievement: 38 active
                                   participating districts.
                                   - Target CWSA operating efficiently.
                                   Achievement: CWSA manage 10
                                   projects in the CWSP2/1 regions.
                                   - 3,272 pre-selected communities of
                                   which 2,949 submitted acceptable
                                   proposal that were appraised.
                                   - 2,974 gender balanced WATSANs
                                   - 643 service providers trained and/or
                                   operational:
                                   Financial:
                                   - 38 participating districts meet their
                                   5% obligation
                                   - 298 contracts have been negotiated



                                                    - 41 -

                                     - 25 Districts have certified audited
                                     accounts
                                     - CWSA has not exceeded approved
                                     budget lines
                                     - CWSA have disbursed
                                     US$17,304,712.40 out of the budget
                                     line of 26,312,483.46.
                                     - Draft document"Drinking Water
                                     Policy" is drafted aimed at reaching
                                     consensus on sector policies and
                                     guidelines.



APL Trigger                          APL Triggers Performance as of May 2004 and based on the
                                     correspondance of Minster of Works and Housing to
                                     Country Director.
Effectiveness/Impact of
Approach on Decentralized
Implementation Model
Demand-based approach: at least      This trigger has been met
80% of pre-selected communities      More than 80% of pre-selected communities submit proposals
submit proposals, 85% of             currently and within DA approved budget ceilings, more than 85% of
proposals are positively appraised proposals are positively appraised and 100% of these are funded.
and 100% of these are funded
(within DA approved budget
ceiling)
Sustainability: 85% of water and     This requirement would be achieved.
sanitation systems properly
functioning in sample area.




APL Trigger                          APL Triggers Performance as of May 2004 and based on the
                                     correspondance of Minster of Works and Housing to
                                     Country Director.
District Level Capacity
Strengthened
80% of DAs participating in          All 38 participating districts currently their 5% financial obligation.
CWSP2 meet funding requirements
within (district water and sanitation
plan, support to District Water and
Sanitation Team, Audited
accounts, financial obligation met).




APL Trigger                          APL Triggers Performance as of May 2004 and based on the
                                     correspondance of Minster of Works and Housing to



                                                      - 42 -

                                     Country Director.
Sustainability Supply Chains
Number of providers of goods and The number of service providers trained and/or operational are 643 of
services working in each district    which: TAs 30, Latrine Artisans 494, Drillers 17, Suppliers 1, HDW
increases over time.                 contractors 29, Area mechanics 52, small town operators 1, and
                                     consultants 19.



APL Trigger                          APL Triggers Performance as of May 2004 and based on the
                                     correspondance of Minster of Works and Housing to
                                     Country Director.
Policy
Stake-holder consultation,           This trigger has significantly been met: at the national level,
including ESAs, NGOs and others bi-monthly donor meetings have been held to review various policy
(degree to which they participate in issues, including two stakeholder workshops on the direction of the 5%
dialogue measured through client     contribution to facility delivery; there was Annula Donor Joint Review
surveys and interviews),             meeting in 2000 and another is proposed for 2004. Project steering
                                     Committee meetings have been established on other development
                                     partner projects and these have been effective in shaping policies and
                                     strategies within the sector to date. The Annual NGO Review Meetings
                                     (referred to as the Mole Series) were held and a coalition of NGOs in
                                     the water and Sanitation sector is being established within the
                                     jurisdiction of the Ministry of Works and Housing.
Evaluation of program strategy,      Evaluation of program strategy, effectiveness, efficiency and impact:
effectiveness, efficiency and        improvements to strategy, as required have been achieved through
impact: improvements to strategy, various studies as well Software and Technical forum, Project Steering
as required, based on monitoring     Committee Meetings, District Level Round Table Meetings, Regional
and evaluation (measured through Stakeholders Review Workshops all of which feed into CWSA's
recommendations and actions          Annual Review Meetings with project operational concerns.
presented at the Annual Sector
Review).



The Triggers below were in the original list of triggers, but were not kept in the MTR.
Length of project cycle in community equal or less than under CWSA 1 (baseline is 18 months)
Per capita costs of implementation: at least 10% lower than for CWSP-1 (baseline available in unit cost
data base)
Effective facility use: 70% of users demonstrate improved hygien, sanitation and environmental protection
in sampled area
Hand pump spare parts available for sale in 50% of the districts
Testing of methods for achieving increased cost recovery from communities ( 5% of sub-project grant
components achieves at least 10% contributions from communities)
Length of project cycle in community equal or less than under CWSA 1 (baseline is 18 months)
Per capita costs of implementation: at least 10% lower than for CWSP-1 (baseline available in unit cost
data base)
Effective facility use: 70% of users demonstrate improved hygiene, sanitation and environmental protection
in sampled area



                                                     - 43 -

That at least five percent of subproject grant resources are channeled to communities for community
contracting.




                                                     - 44 -

- 45 -

