Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 19594 GH
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 18.7 MILLION (US$ 25 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
FORA
SECOND COMMUNITY WATER AND SANITATION PROJECT
IN SUPPORT OF THE FIRST PHASE OF THE
COMMUNITY WATER AND SANITATION PROGRAM
August 5, 1999
Water and Urban 2
Country Department 10
Africa Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective July 28, 1999)
Currency Unit = Cedi (GHC)
GHC 1= US$ 0.000375
US$ 1 = GHC 2,670.00
FISCAL YEAR
January 1  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AFD                         French Aid Agency
APL                         Adaptable Program Loan
CDF                         Country Development Framework
CIDA                        Canadian International Development Agency
CWSA                        Community Water and Sanitation Agency
CWSP-l                      First Community Water and Sanitation Project
CWSP-2                      Second Community Water and Sanitation Project
CWS                         Community Water and Sanitation
DA                          District Assembly
DANIDA                      Danish International Development Agency
EPA                         Environmental Protection Agency
ESA                         External Support Agency
EU                          European Union
FMIS                        Fianancial Management Information System
FMP                         Facility Management Plan
GoG                         Govermnent of Ghana
HO                          Head Office
JICA                        Japan International Cooperation Agency
KfW                         German Cooperation
LACI                        Loan Administration Change Initiative
NCWSP                       National Community Water and Sanitation Program
NGO                         Non Govermmental Organization
O&M                         Operation and Maintenance
PO                          Partner Organization
POM                         Project Operational Manual
RWSTs                       Regional Water and Sanitation Teams
TA                          Technical Assistance
UNDP                        United Nations Development Program
UNICEF                      United Nations Children's Fund
VIP                         Village Infrastructure Project
WATSAN                      Water and Sanitation Committees
Vice President:   Jean-Louis Sarbib. AFRVP
Country Manager/Director:    Peter Harrold, AFC 10
Sector Manager/Director:    Letitia A. Obeng, AFTU2
Task Tearn Leader/Task Manager:   Jennifer Sara, AFTU2



Republic of Ghana
Second Community Water and Sanitation Project
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                     Page
1. Program purpose and program phasing:                                               3
2. Project development objective                                                       3
3. Key performance indicators                                                          3
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project     3
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                          4
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                 5
4. Program description and perfomnance triggers for subsequent loans                   6
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                 8
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                       8
3. Benefits and target population                                                      8
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                       9
D. Project Rationale
1. Project altematives considered and reasons for rejection                           10
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies         11
3. Lessons leamed and reflected in proposed project design                            11
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                   12
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                        12
E. Summary Project Analyses
1. Economic                                                                          12
2. Financial                                                                          13
3. Technical                                                                          13
4. Institutional                                                                      14
5. Social                                                                             15
6. Environmental assessment                                                           15
7. Participatory approach                                                            15



F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                    16
2. Critical risks                                                                     17
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                     18
G. Main Loan condition
1. Effectiveness conditions                                                          18
2. Other                                                                              18
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                         18
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                        18
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                         1 9
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                   22
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                        29
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary                                                  30
Annex 5: Financial Summary                                                              32
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                      34
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                    40
Annex 8: Documents in Project File                                                      41
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                 42
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                           44
Annex 11: Letter of Sector Policy                                                       46
MAP(S)
IBRD 23606



GHANA
Second Community Water and Sanitation
Project Appraisal Document
Africa Regional Office
Water and Urban - AFTU2
Date: August 5, 1999                               Team Leader: Jennifer J. Sara
Country Manager/Director: Peter C. Harrold         Sector Manager/Director: Letitia A. Obeng
Project ID: 50616                                  Sector(s): WR - Rural Water Supply & Sanitation
Lending Instrument: Adaptable Program Loan (APL)    Theme(s): Rural Development
Poverty Targeted Intervention: Yes
Program Financing Data
Estimated
APL             Indicative Financing Plan          Implementation Period       Borrower
(Bank FY)
IDA             Others      Total     Commitment    Closing
USS m     %      USS m       USS m         Date         Date
APL 1       25.00    89.3     3.00       28.00       01/01/2000   06/30/2003
Loan/
Credit   _ _ _ _
APL 2       26.00    88.4     3.40       29.40       01/01/2003   06/30/2006
Loan/
Creditt _ _ _ _ __                                                        _ __ _ _ _ _ _
APL 3       29.00    89.0     3.60       32.60       01/01/2006   12/31/2008
Loan/
Credit    _ _ _ _   _ _
Total       80.00            10.00       9.00



-2-
Project Financing Data
[ ] Loan  fx] Credit [ ] Grant  [ Guarantee  [ Other (specify)
For LoanstCredits/Others:
Amount (US$m)
Proposed Terms:
Grace period (years):            10
Years to maturity:               40
Commitment fee:                  Standard IDA
Service charge                   0.75%
Financing Plan:
Source                              Local        Foreign        Total
Government                                                    1.30           0.00       1.30
IDA                                                          24.50           0.50      25.00
Communities                                                   0.90           0.00       0.90
District Assemblies                                           0.80           0.00       0.80
Total:                                                       27.50           0.50      28.00
Borrower: Govermment of Ghana
Guarantor: NA
Responsible agency:
Community Water and Sanitation Agency, Ministry of Works and Housing
Implementing agency(ies):
Community Water and Sanitation Agency
Address: Private Mail Bag, K.I.A., Accra- Ghana
Contact Person: Peter 0. Sackey
Tel: 233-21-77-91-02                Fax: 233-21-77-94-75                Email: cwsd@ghana.com
District Assemblies in Ashanti, Brong Ahafo, Upper East and Upper West Regions
Estimated disbursements ( Bank FY/US$M):
FY           2000        2001         2002      2003
Annual    3.70          8.00        10.00      6.30
Cumulative    3.70        11.70        21.70     28.00
Project implementation period: Phase 1: Three years
Expected effectiveness date: 01/01/2000  Expected closing date:  06/30/2003
OCS   PAD Pornn  OScer P. 199



-3-
A: Program Purpose and Project Development Objective
1. Program purpose and program phasing:
The purpose of this Adaptable Program Loan (APL) is to support the Government of Ghana to extend the
coverage of sustainable water and sanitation facilities to 85 percent of the rural population by the year 2009
and establish a sustainable operations and maintenance system in rural communities and small towns.
The second Community Water and Sanitation Project (CWSP-2) will be implemented in three, 3-year phases.
The Bank will support each phase distinctly through a portion of the Adaptable Program Loan. Each new
phase will be appraised to learn from experience gained during implementation of the previous phase. This
will allow for continuous adjustment to project design, early risk identification, and implementation of
corrective measures before expanding to other phases. All phases will have the same development objective.
Trigger indicators for Phase 2 are included in the Project Operational Manual (POM).
The project described in this PAD refers to the first phase of the Program.
2. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The development objective of Phase 1 for CWSP-2 is to increase service coverage and achieve effective and
sustained use of improved community water and sanitation (CWS) services in villages and small towns in
four regions.
Specific objectives of CWSP-2 include:
a) implementing demand-responsive and sustainable CWS services, providing basic drinking water and
sanitation facilities to about 550,000 people in rural communities, through construction and rehabilitation of
waterpoints, piped systems, and sanitation facilities;
b) strengthening community capacity to manage services by assisting communities in planning,
implementing and administering services, forming and training water boards and water and sanitation
(WATSAN) committees, and training community members in better hygiene practices;
c) strengthening district-level capacity to deliver CWS services, including an active role by the private
sector, and NGOs in delivering goods and services and District Assemblies (DAs) in planning and providing
community support in service planning, implementation and management;
d) strengthening CWSA's capacity to assume facilitator role, and supporting the national CWS program.
3. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
T'he achievement of the development objective will be monitored through three performance indicators:
*  number of  communities with access to CWS services and adequately using, managing and
sustaining their improved services by the end of Phase 1;
* number of districts with functioning delivery system of goods and services to support and sustain
water and sanitation systems by the end of Phase 1; and
+  efficient facilitation of sector role by CWSA with a built-in process for stakeholder reviews,
continuous learning and policy development.
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Click here to get to the CAS Document
Document number: 17002-GH                          Date of latest CAS discussion: 09/04/97
The CAS supports the Government's development objectives of restoring macro-economic stability,
promoting higher private investment, ensuring broad-based social and rural development and implementing
direct poverty reduction measures, all aimed at the overarching objective of reducing poverty and improving
the lives of Ghanaians. The strategy of promoting rual development includes a component for supporting
investment in basic rural infrastructure, of which water supply and sanitation is part. The project will increase
access by the rural poor to sustainable water and sanitation services, thereby supporting the broader objective
of improving the lives of all Ghanaians. It is therefore designed as an APL, that will assist Government to



-4-
move in the direction of sector programming, improve coordination and impact of development activities at
the local level and promote cross-sectoral linkages.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Government's Policy for the Sector and CWSP-1: Major policy reform for the water and sanitation sector
was achieved under the first IDA-supported project Community Water and Sanitation Project (CWSP-1)
through the launching of the National Community Water and Sanitation Program (NCWSP) in 1994. CWSP-
1, scheduled to close in December 1999, is having an important impact in the sector and has contributed
valuable lessons to CWSP-2 design.
Key elements of the Community Water and Sanitation policy include:
*  demand-driven approach through which communities decide if they want to participate and their
preferred service level based on willingness to pay, contribute toward the capital cost (at least 5-10
percent cash contribution) and pay the normal operations, maintenance, and repair costs of their
facilities;
* decentralized planning and management services by (1) making communities the decision-makers,
owners and managers of their water supply and sanitation facilities and (2) making DAs more
autonomous and better able to assist comnuunities in obtaining improved services;
*  private sector (including NGO) as provider of all goods and services; and
*  public sector as facilitator, with CWSA contracted by GoG to manage the CWS Program and
provide technical assistance to DAs and the private sector.
Community Management - Effective and Sustained Use of Services: At the community level, water and
sanitation (Watsan) committees and small town water boards have demonstrated good capacity for planning
and managing their services. However, full health benefits of improved CWS services can only be achieved
with accompanying improvements in hygienic practices by the user population and the community's capacity
to sustain services. These new skills and behavioral changes require not just a one-off visit to the community
during project implementation, but the establishment of a long-term, follow-up support system accessible to
communities on demand.
Government's Decentralization Policy: In Ghana, decentralization reforms are well advanced and involve
the transfer of considerable fiscal, administrative, and development responsibilities to the 110 DAs that have
been established through the Local Govemnment Law of 1988 (P.N.D.C.L   207). Each DA has an
organizational structure that supports development activities, prepares a 5-year District Development Plan
and receives an annual Common Fund allocation from the Central Govenunent. While the principle of
decentralization is now well established, its progress has been constrained due to (i) the reluctance of sector
ministries to devolve part of their authority to the districts; and (ii) the lack of logistical support and qualified
and experienced staff within many DAs. CWSA has made great efforts to build the capacity of the DAs that
participate in the National Community and Sanitation Program (NCWSP), thereby contributing to
decentralization refonrs and incorporating CWS into a broader district-based development agenda.
Local Capacity for Delivering Goods and Services: Although the design of CWSP-1 called for increased
transfer of procurement responsibility, contracting and contract supervision to the DAs, most of these tasks
are currently undertaken by the CWSA and its Regional Water and Sanitation Teams (RWSTs). Community
and district-level contracting is important in the long-term since it establishes a commercial link and greater
accountability between the community and the providers of goods and services and allows the community to
develop its capacity for procuring materials and managing contracts during subproject implementation. In
addition, long-term sustainability of the facilities will only be achieved when communities can readily
purchase required goods, services and spare parts within the local market.
The Community Water and Sanitation Agency: As part of the national policy reform, Govemment
recently created the Community Water and Sanitation Agency (established by Act 564, 1998) to facilitate the
implementation of the national CWS strategy. As an autonomous agency, CWSA has the following
attributes: (i) governance by a board, composed of the main stakeholders in CWS, including local
government, traditional leadership, NGOs, and the private sector, (ii) ability to set employment tenms and
conditions to attract and keep well qualified staff, and (iii) ability to generate revenues from its management



-5-
services. CWSA, as a non-revenue earning autonomous agency, fully depends on government allocations for
its operations. While CWSD/A has been successful during the past four years in attracting external funding
for the CWS sector (about US$20 million year), no external support agency is willing to pay salaries and
recurrent costs for this government agency.
Sector Financing: The CWS sector is largely financed through external support agencies (ESAs),
representing more than 90 percent of the investment program. In addition to IDA, these ESAs include:
DANIDA, CIDA, KfW, AFD, JICA, EU, UNICEF, UNDP andNGOs (Water Aid, World Vision, others). In
1998, CWSA reported that 44 billion cedis (about US$20 million) was spent in the sector, of which 8 percent
was provided through government counterpart funding, 25 percent by IDA (US$5.0M) and the remainder by
other ESAs. Unfortunately, the sector's fnancial situation has significantly worsened during the past few
years, due in part to an increase in counterpart funding requirements from each ESA, and a decrease mnGoG
resource allocation. CWSA has accumulated large arrears in meeting its counterpart obligation to all of its
major co-financed projects.
Investment Coordination and Policy Development: CWSA has achieved success in promoting the
adoption of the NCWSP policy throughout the country and achieving DA and ESA buy-in to the national
program. CWSA has the challenging task of coordinating and monitoring all projects while ensuring the
consistent application of the national policy and strategy. From the outset, CWSA developed a participatory
process for stakeholder consultation in policy and strategy development. These consultations are important to
ensuring that current CWS policy and strategy do not become blue-prints and that a continuous learning and
dialogue process exist so that actual field results can provide overall guidance to sector development.
Because of the contractual nature of the relationship arnong the government, the private sector andNGOs, it
is important to encourage and maintain the candid exchange of ideas within a learning environment.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
Decentralization and Linkage to Other Rural Development Initiatives: CWSP-2 will support district
water and sanitation programs within the broader context of on-going decentralization reforms and other rural
development initiatives within the country. It will therefore place greater responsibility on communities and
DAs to express demand and formulate proposals for water and sanitation service improvements. Clear,
demand-responsive procedures have been developed for communities to request funding from DAs as and
when they are ready with: a completed subproject proposal, an associated Facility Management Plan (FMP),
and a minimum 5-10 percent contribution. District Water and Sanitation Programs will also be integrated
into other development initiatives, and CWSP-2 will build upon efforts of existing district strengthening
projects, such as the Village Infrastructure Project. Phase 1 of the APL will be used to refie the strategies
for decentralized implementation.
Community/District Level Contracting: To achieve Government's decentralization objectives and allocate
investment responsibilities where there is the greatest incentive, accountability and, hopefully, greater
efficiency, CWSP-2 will promote direct implementation of subprojects by DAs and/or conmnunities. The
CWSA project preparation team assessed DA and comunnity capacity, reviewed existing procedures and
tested alternative approaches toward developing procedures for community/DA contracting. CWSP-2 will
also ensure that communities and DAs have access to appropriate technical assistance and training programs
which will strengthen their capacity to assume these new functions.
Implementation Capacity and Ensuring a Long-term Supply of Goods and Services: As a complement
to community/DA-level contracting, CWSP-2 will adopt more streamlined procedures for implementing the
project cycle at the community level.  Furthermore, CWSP-2 will unify subproject appraisal and
implementation procedures for the small town and village water supplies (mechanized systems and point
sources) in order to develop a standard approach to the CWS program, regardless of conunnity size or
technology type. CWSP-2 will also continue to strengthen the capacity of the local private sector andNGOs,
through training as well as promoting a str,nger enabling environment and providing incentives for the entry
of smaller-scale contractors.
Sustainability and Community Management: The CWSP-2 implementation process has been designed to
integrate an extensive community development and training program into all phases of the project cycle. An
integrated approach of water, sanitation and hygiene education will be followed. Communities will be



-6-
eligible to apply for additional follow-up training, even when it is not associated with new investment.
Women's participation in all aspects of the program is a key element of sustainability. Schools will also be
encouraged to participate in CWSP-2, by providing intensive hygiene education and promoting adequate
facility usage to school children. Within the APL approach, CWSP-2 will continuously monitor and adjust
its implementation strategy to ensure that services provided in the communities respond to an effective
demand, are adequately used, and mechanisms are in place for long-term sustainability.
GoG Support to Sector Financing: CWSP-2 will support GoG in establishing a long-term CWS sector
program. The proposed funding for this program, which was discussed with GoG, is as follows: (a)
communities and district assemblies would request services, select their preferred service levels, pay a
portion of the capital cost and assume full responsibility for operations, maintenance and service
sustainability; (b) external support agencies, including IDA, would assist in fnancing the costs of increasing
service coverage (both software and hardware); and (c) GoG would ensure long-term sustainability of the
sector program by covering, at the very least, CWSA's costs, as the govermnent agency responsible for
facilitating service provision and channeling investmnent funds to the DAs and communities. The Bank will
seek agreement that the amount provided by GoG to the sector be at least 5 billion cedis/year (indexed to
1999), a level sufficient to cover CWSA's core costs if all ESAs were to remove their support.
CWSA as a Facilitator: Since CWSA is now an autonomous agency, a suitable mechanism for
remunerating its work could be through a performance-based fee-for-service (i.e. a management fee), in
relation to the amount of subprojects approved and funds disbursed to DAs/communities. However, some
key decisions which would form the basis for the introduction of the management fee concept will require the
approval of the CWSA Board, which must be in place before project effectiveness. Performance will be
measured in terms of quantity, quality and sustainability of services in the communities, as well as the
increased capacity of the local private sector in delivering goods and services. CWSA will need to operate
efficiently to maintain staffing levels and operating costs within the available budget. Furthermore, to assist
CWSA in carrying out its task of coordinating ESAs, CWSP-2 will support a move to a more progranmatic
approach, whereby sectorreviews will bejointly undertaken by allESAs periodically, and a foundation set to
encourage ESAs to pool resources into a common CWS fund.
4. Program description and performance triggers for subsequent loans:
The overall goal of the program is to increase coverage and achieve sustained and effective use of CWS.
Below are the goals for each phase of the program:
Program Output       Phase 1                         Phase 2                    Phase 3
Investment           *  Test and refine decentralized    *  Expand project to two  *  Support national
implementation strategy for     additional regions and     program rather than
CWS in four regions            increase to new districts   ESA supported
*  Pilot community contracting                                regions.
Capacity building    *  Build capacity of DAs, Private  *  Expand to other regions   *  Same as above.
sector and NGOs in four     *  Focus on long-term sale
regions                         of spare parts and
*  Build foundation for sustainable    continued lowering of
and competitive supply chains  unit costs (i.e., drilling)
Policy               *  Support to CWSA through pilot *  Full scale implementation *  Regulatory framework
management fee                  of management fee.         for National CWS
*  Discussion and consultation on                             Funds in place and
decentralized approach                                     operational.
*  Promote higher cost recovery.



-7-
Below are the indicators for Phase 1 of the APL. Specific baseline indicators and targets for Phase 1 are included in the POM.
These triggers are designed to provide strategic goals and data collection will be linked to the overall reporting, monitoring and
evaluation system of the project.
Investment        Efficiency of Decentralized Service Delivery Model:
*   80 percent of Phase 1 implementation targets met (physical, social and financial)
*  Length of project cycle in community equal or less than under CWSP-l (baseline is 18 months)
*  Per capita costs of implementation: at least 10 percent lower than for CWSP-1 (baseline
available in unit cost data base)
Effectiveness/impact of approach decentralized implementation model:
*  demand-based approach: at least 80 percent of pre-selected communities submit proposals, 85
percent of proposals are positively appraised and 100 percent of these are funded (within DA
approved budget ceiling)
*  sustainability: 85 percent of water and sanitation systems properly functioning in sampled area
*  effective facility use: 70 percent of users demonstrate improved hygiene, sanitation and
environmental protection practices in sampled area
Pilot test community contracting:
* at least 5 percent of subproject grant resources are channeled to communities for community-
contracting
Capacity Building   District Level Capacity Strengthened:
and Sector         *  80 percent of DAs participating in CWSP2, meet funding requirements (District sector plan,
Support                support to District Water and Sanitation Team, audited accounts in order, financial obligations
met)
Sustainable Supply Chains:
*  # of providers of goods and services working in each district and number competing per
contract increases over time (baseline is district-specific)
*  Handpump spare parts available for sale in 50 percent of the districts
CWSA management:
*  CWSA operating within staff levels (200) and budget agreed by Board
*  CWSA operating costs relative to investment program not to exceed 10 percent
* Decentralization to regions: RWST capacity to plan, financial management, and meet reporting
requirements as established in POM
* Improved financial management and reporting systems, strategic budgeting and planning in
place at CWSA
Policy             *  Stakeholder consultation, including ESAs, NGOs and others (degree to which they participate
in dialogue - measured through client surveys and interviews)
* Evaluation of strategy and impact: improvements to strategy, as required, based on monitoring
and evaluation (measured through recommendations and actions presented at the Annual Sector
Review)
* Testing of methods for achieving increased cost recovery from communities (5 percent of
subproject grant component achieves at least 10 percent contribution from the community)



-8-
C: Program and Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost breakdown):
Indicative              Bank-        % of
Component                     Sector          Costs       % of    financing      Bank-
(US$M)    Total       (US$M)   financing
1. Subproject Grants
(a) water and sanitation facilities, in  Rural Water Supply  17.30      61.0       15.60       62.0
villages, small towns and schools    & Sanitation
(b) community development            Rural Water Supply      3.80       14.0       3.80         15.0
& Sanitation
2. Sector Support and Training for   Rural Water Supply      3.20       11.0        3.20        13.0
strengthening of DAs, NGOs, and private   & Sanitation
sector and program development
3. Project Management                Rural Water Supply      2.50        9.0        1.20        5.0
& Sanitation
4. PPFRefmancing                     Rural Water Supply      0.80        3.0        0.80        3.0
& Sanitation
5. Unallocated                                               0.40        2.0        0.40        2.0
Total Project Costs                       28.00      100.0       25.00       100.0
Total Financing Required                       28.00       100.0      25.00        100.0
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
No major policy reforms are envisaged in CWSP-2, but existing policy reforms will benefit from a more
wide-spread application throughout the country, especially for communities and districts taking full
responsibility for their subproject planning, implementation and sustainability. One policy change to be
adopted between APL phases will include a financial policy review, with a possible increase in community
cost sharing.
The passage of the CWSA Agency Act represents an important institutional reform in the sector in terms of
how this lead agency is funded and its performance monitored. Every year, GoG's long-term financial
commitment to the sector is being sought as a condition of project effectiveness. Furthennore, CWSP-2 will
support GoG's move toward a sector approach to CWS, rather than continuing with the project-by-project
approach.
3. Benefits and target population:
Benefits: CWSP-2 aims to provide basic drinking water facilities for about 550,000 people in maral
communities and will promote improvement of household sanitation and hygiene practices. The project will
contribute to the poverty reduction through time savings, improved productivity and health, especially for
women and children.
In addition, community members will benefit in the long-term from the strengthening of a network of formal
and informal institutions that would help plan, install and provide maintenance of infrastructure facilities.
The private sector and NGOs will be strengthened, leading to increased employment opportunities in rual
areas. District governments will gain significant institutional capacity in developing the districts' water and
sanitation plan and working with communities to implement subprojects. This will contribute to
strengthening the community-DA linkage, with spill-over effects to other rural development activities.
Target population: The project will target Ghana's rural population and small towns, initially in four
regions: Brong Ahafo, Ashanti, Upper East and Upper West Regions. These communities depend on
agriculture or trading activities for subsistence, and are mostly below the poverty level. The project will



-9-
initially target communities in districts that have low service coverage rates, little external support for sector
investments and high demand for improved services. Eligibility and prioritization criteria have been
developed to ensure that investments respond to conununity demand and that eligible communities and
districts have equal opportunity in accessing support.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
CWSA has prepared and field tested a detailed CWSP-2 Project Operational Manual (POM) that outlines the
rules and procedures for project implementation. This manual has been widely discussed with stakeholders
involved in CWSP-2, and was presented to the Bank as a basis for preparing this Project Appraisal
Document. The POM will be adopted by CWSA by project effectiveness, and evaluated mid-way through
Phase 1 of the APL in preparation for the subsequent phase.
Executing agencies
CWSA has primary responsibility for guiding, promoting, facilitating, supervising, monitoring, evaluating
and reporting on project activities. CWSA will also implement the Sector Strengthening and Program
Management Components. Project implementation will be decentralized within CWSA, with Regional
Offices (RWSTs) playing a key role in providing technical assistance to the DAs and building private sector
capacity for smooth subproject implementation.
District Assemblies will be responsible for the execution of the subprojects on behalf of, and in close
coordination with, the communities. On a pilot basis, subprojects will also be implemented directly by
communities. The detailed subproject cycle and rules are described in Annex 2.
Subproject implementation: Water and sanitation subprojects will be requested, planned, implemented and
managed by communities. Gender-balancedWatsan committees and water boards will manage facilities and
represent the community. Communities will receive assistance in preparing subproject proposals andFMPs
which will be submitted to the DA for approval. Communities will open bank accounts and deposit the
required cash contribution (at least 5 percent of facility cost) as a condition of subproject appraisal.
Communities will then participate with the DA in selecting and contracting goods and services to the
community and sign off on completed works and community development activities. Although the DA will
perform most of the procurement and contracting tasks, community-level contracting will also be promoted.
Communities will be responsible for sustaining services and encouraged to undertake participatory
monitoring and evaluation of their activities. Small towns water boards will be encouraged to enter into
service management contracts with the private sector.
DAs will work through their District Water and Sanitation Teams (DWST) - or equivalent, to establish
District Water and Sanitation Programs and promote the project in eligible communities. DAs will open a
separate project bank account and contribute at least 5 percent of the facility construction cost. DAs will be
responsible for appraising construction grant applications and FMPs, and will prepare packages of
subprojects for CWSA approval on a periodic basis. The DAs will also work with communities to contract
and supervise community development, training and investment activities.
CWSA, through its RWSTs, will review funding requests and disburse funds for approved subprojects.
CWSA will be remunerated for subproject management on a fee-for-service basis, in relation to the amount
of subprojects approved, funds disbursed, and impact achieved (see Section E.4 Insitutional Analysis).
CWSA would therefore have an incentive to strengthen the capacity of both the DAs and the local private
sector in order to better link demand with supply.
At the local level, the private sector and NGOs will compete for contracts to deliver goods and services to
communities and DAs.  Their capacity will be strengthened by developing incentives for their long-term
presence in the district. Procedures will be developed to ensure adequate competition and efficiency in
awarding contracts.
Financial management: the payment order for the first tranche of funds approved for each DA will be
submitted by the RWST accountant to CWSA. Pre-conditions for transfer include: (1) the signed Subproject
Agreement between RWST and DA; (2) the subprojects package approval and signing of subproject



-10-
agreements with communities; (3) a procurement plan; and (4) the deposit of the total amount of DA's share
of fumding into the project account. Each successive installment will only be paid after the DA submits
expenditure justification to the RWST.
Upon receipt of DA's progress reports and requests for replenishment, the RWST will examine the report on
the basis of: completeness, internal fnancial consistency, procurement justification, consistency with
subproject proposal, relevant field supervision reports, etc. Internal auditors working at CWSA and DA
levels, will undertake: financial assessments, evaluation of procurement methods, random physical
verification of works in the field with a focus on output. In addition, CWSA will hire an external auditor to
work in all four regions.
Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E): The objective of M&E will be to provide critical information that will
be used to assess the effectiveness, efficiency and sustainability of CWSP-2. The M&E system will use a
participatory approach, with all stakeholder groups responsible and trained for activities at their respective
levels. The project M&E system will fit into the national system. External evaluators will be hired by CWSA
to conduct impact assessments. The key M&E indicators are included in Annex 1.
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
* "Business as Usual": Implementation arrangements would be the same as for CWSP-1, with most of
the contracting done by CWSA. The drawback of this option is that the model has not been efficient,
given the large number of contracts and stakeholders involved in each conmnunity and lack of direct
accountability by service providers to the communities and DAs. It also requires more detailed
annual planning and up-front resource allocation, whereas CWSP-2 provides greater flexibility to
meet community and DA demand at their own pace in a programmatic way throughout the entire
country.
+  A second option would be to assign completeresponsibility for sectoral activities to the DAs. Given
the limited capacity of the DAs, especially in terms of undertaking participatory development
activities, there would be a great risk in leaving DAs (on their own) to meet community needs for
improved services and  provide associated training activities.  The biggest risk could be
decentralization of the "supply-driven approach," which would undermine the tremendous gains
made by the sector in achieving community decision-making and management of CWS services at
the lowest appropriate level, which in the case of rural water and sanitation, is the community itself.
*  A third option would be to channel funds directly to the DA in the context of a broader rural
development project, such as the Village Infrastructure Project (VIP). However, this alternative is
not recommended, since the objective of the project is to ensure effective and sustained use of
facilities. This can best be achieved through the delivery of an integrated package of software and
hardware specific to CWS sector needs and the development of a decentralized institutional and
financial capacity that links community management to a long-term supply of goods and services
from the private sector, with adequate public sector support from the local and national levels.
Other options within the project concept
Alternative options for fmancing the project will be explored during Phase 1. Some communities have
expressed the need for either a higher level of service, or speedy delivery of services, and are willing to make
a higher contribution than the required 5 percent. Options to meet these demands should be explored.
Strategies should be developed to encourage rehabilitation over the construction of new systems, as well as
introduction of lower cost technologies. An additional option to be considered would be to increase the level
of DA, private sector participation and NGO involvement in co-financing the investments.



-11-
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies
(completed, ongoing and planned).
Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                          Project                   (PSR) Ratings
(Bank-financed projects
only)
Implementati Development
Bank-financed                                                          on Progress    Objective
(IP)          (DO)
Water and Sanitation                     First Community Water and          S              S
Sanitation Project (ongoing)
Water Sector Rehabilitation        S              U
Project (completed)
Water Sector Restructuring
Project (planned)
Rural Development                        Village Infrastructure Project     HS             S
(ongoing)
Other development agencies
Danida                                   Volta, Eastern and Greater Accra;
Sector Capacity Building Project
CIDA                                     COWAP, GAP and Volta Region
KFW                                      Eastern Region and Small Towns
AFD                                      Northem Region
JICA                                     Western Region
EU                                       Small Towns
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The CWSP-l Mid-term review, contributions made during the global RWS conference held in Washington in
May 1998, results of CWSA's project preparation work, and input from the Bank's RWS Thematic Group,
provide the following lessons:
* The principle of community management is well established in Ghana and accepted by
communities. There should be no major difference in approach between village and small towns,
since all are community managed systems.
* In order to enhance the demand-based approach, a more programmatic approach to fumd allocation
should be followed, so that communities and DAs can apply for funding once they have met
participation criteria and collected capital cost contribution.
* Conununity willingness to pay for services may be much higher than expected and this is often not
reflected in financial policies that have high subsidy levels.
* NGOs are effective in mobilizing communities, helping in planning facilities and deciding how to
manage them. In order to strengthen their role, NGO contracts and work plans need to be based on
annual agreements of targets, should support community needs and allow NGOs to provide a
broader range of services. Greater flexibility is needed when implementing the project, so as to
adjust to the community's pace, interests and capacity, rather than adopting a common approach to
all.
*  The private sector has responded well; however, competition between suppliers should be enhanced
and other ways of packaging software and hardware considered to improve service. Better ways for
ensuring spare parts availability in the local market must also be developed.
+ Sustainability relies greatly on the capacity of the Watsan committee or water board to assume its
functions. Training must be reinforced to ensure sound water supply management, and must start
very early in the project cycle.
* Women now have a greater role in decision making and are better empowered to facilitate
conununity action. However, concerted efforts are required to ensure that women continue to be
actively involved at all levels.



-12-
*  CWSA must continue to support the active donor and inter-ministerial coordination already going
on, and encourage NGOs and private investors to contribute to the sector policy dialogue rather than
just being contractors.
*  The pilot projects implemented for CWSP-2 preparation show that DAs and communities are keen
on taking on more responsibility.
*  More attention must be given to the sanitation and hygiene education component so as to achieve
lasting results.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
GoG has shown a high level of commitment in continuing to increase water and sanitation coverage in rural
areas. There is strong ownership of the national policy as it has been designed by Ghanaians in a participatory
and transparent way. DAs have also shown their conmiitment to the national program by formingDWSTs
and allocating resources for sector activities. Finally, conununities have a high commitrnent to the program as
they have readily contributed to and taken ownership of their facilities under CWSP-1.
CWSA has been especially effective in implementing CWSP-1 with staff working long hours with high
levels of dedication. CWSP-2 preparation is being undertaken by CWSA staff, with assistance from a small
group of local consultants, using a US$750,000 Project Preparation Facility provided by the Bank.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The World Bank has developed a strong relationship with sector agencies at all levels during the past ten
years of work in Ghana by supporting pilot projects, policy development and CWSP-1. There is a high
degree of mutual trust, credibility in CWSA's capacity and a strong willingness by the Bank to strengthen this
Ghanaian-driven program. In CWSP-2, the specific added value of the Bank will be to assist in developing a
long-term, district-based CWS program that could serve as a common framework for other ESAs. In addition,
the Bank can act as a catalyst for mobilizing additional resources. Finally, CWSP-2 is part of a larger
portfolio of Bank interventions in rural areas in Ghana, including support for education,  health,
decentralization and agriculture.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (supported by Annex 4):
[x] Cost-Benefit Analysis:                  ERR - 18 to 35 %
L Cost Effectiveness Analysis:
L Other
The major benefits of this project are improved water services to approximately 550,000 beneficiaries in rural
conmnunities and small towns. These include direct user benefits from water consumed and consumer
surplus for users who now use less effective and more costly alternatives (such as rivers etc.). The project
offers improvements to communities that express a willingness to participate, and are scaled to a level of
service with affordable variable costs for beneficiaries. CWSP-2 also focuses on achieving service
sustainability, through intensive user education in effective use, administration, and operation and
maintenance. Thus, it is highly probable that user benefits, calculated on the basis of time savings related to
improved sources and associated consumer surplus, will be realized. Based on conservative assumptions
regarding time savings, share of productive time, and the value of time, for point sources, the NPV at a 15
percent discount rate is US$1,602 per hand-dug well, and US$758 per borehole. Further information is
provided in Annex 4. Detailed analysis on the small towns water subproject has not been prepared due to a
lack of accurate information. However, more detailed economic work will be carried out on the small towns
during the implementation of Phase 1 of this APL.
Additional benefits are expected from the on-site sanitation component, although these have not been
quantified. The strategy calls for strong promotion and demand generation of user investment in sanitation,
low-levels of subsidy (basically to cover the cost of a latrine slab and vent pipe), testing of revolving loan
mechanisms, targeted coverage of at least 60 percent of households per community to achieve full health
impacts and promoting a wider range of lower cost options. These should bring additional positive health
benefits to communities.



-13-
2. Financial (see Annex 5):
Financial policy for subprojects: CWSP-2 will apply GoG's policy for the sector of at least 5-10 percent
community cash contribution to the investment cost and 100 percent cost recovery for O&M. CWSA has
also developed a unit cost database that will be used to estimate the cost of individual subprojects. The
database will be updated periodically. A subsidy ceiling estimated at $30 per capita for water point sources
and $45 per capita for small towns has been established, and will be reviewed on an annual basis. Different
options will be tested for household latrines in an effort to reduce subsidy and increase density of coverage
within any community. Ideally, the project should prioritize investments where willingness to pay is highest,
and therefore higher levels of cost recovery from communities will be tested during Phase 1. Results from
this work will contribute to the Phase 2 design of the APL.
Financial Management System: CWSD/A has perforned adequately in the financial management of CWSP-
1. DANIDA is supporting the strengthening of its Financial Management System and is coordinating with
the Bank to ensure that the system developed will help CWSA achieve LACI requirements. CWSA will
continue to be responsible for managing CWSP-2 project accounts, meet planning requirements, complete
progress reports and implement auditing requirements.
Fiscal Impact:
At the national level, GoG will be expected to make a contribution of cedis 5 billion (indexed to 1999) to
CWSA at the beginning of each year, as a minimum contribution to the CWS sector. CWSA will use these
funds to cover its recurrent costs and meet counterpart funding requirements, as agreed with otherESAs.
This level of GoG contribution, albeit low (about 10 percent of the overall sector program), should be
affordable, as it represents an allocation amount similar to that received by CWSD during the past three
years.
The DAs will be required to contribute 5 percent to subproject costs. An average package of subprojects
would include about ten point sources, latrines and one small town water system, for a total value of about
US$300,000. A 5 percent contribution would represent US$15,000, less than 4 percent of the average DA
Common Fund Allocation. In addition, the DA will cover DWST operating costs, which they are doing
under CWSP-1.
3. Technical:
There are no major technical issues, since the technologies adopted in Ghana for the CWS sector are well-
known, appropriate and benefit from standardization. Water supply options will include hand-dug wells,
drilled bore holes small piped systems and rainwater catchmnents. Sanitation options will mostly include
latrines. Handpump options will follow existing standardization (Nira, Afridev, IM and Vergnet), as wil1
motorized pumps. Where appropriate, the installation of simple electric submergible pumps may be installed
in the place of handpumps.
Handpump supply: Although the sector strategy calls for the private sector to supply goods and services, it
has not yet hivested in importing and retailing of handpumps due to high capital cost and market
uncertainties. Under CWSP-1, CWSA pre-fmanced the private sector to importhandpumps. CWSP-2 will
continue to support CWSA in developing incentives to encourage the private sector to take over the purchase
and distribution of handpumps and spare parts.
Low cost technology: CWSP-2 will promote the use of simple and lower-cost water lifting devices and
pumps than those currently in use for small communities or households (including, for example, the SOPE
pump). Also, a wider range of lower-cost on-site sanitation options will be promoted in rural communities.
Small towns: Studies conducted during project preparation revealed that the per capita investment cost of
small town piped water supply systems is much higher than for small communities served with point sources
of water. CWSP-2 wi1l establish incentives to lower the per capita investment cost of small town water
supply systems. The small town study found that specific water consumption for small town water systems



-14-
(where consumers pay for water) is lower than the design values adopted. The project therefore proposes that
CWSA reduce design standards for a basic level of service from 45 I/c/d to 20-30 I/c/d, although communities
will be encouraged to pay for a higher level of service, if desired. Phased system upgrading will also be
promoted as a means for communities to progressively increase service levels over time.
4. Institutional:
a. Executing agencies: Subprojects will use a decentralized approach, with key roles played by districts,
communities and the private sector. The project preparation team worked with the DAs and community in
evaluating their capacity to implement the project cycle and assume responsibility for procuring and
contracting subprojects. Appropriate procurement and disbursement procedures for community and DA
contracting have been developed. In addition, capacity building will be provided (as needed) to project
stakeholders to enable them to effectively carry out their roles (see Annex 2 on capacity building and Chapter
5 of the Project Operational Manual). An important challenge will be to explore appropriate incentives for
the private sector that would facilitate long4erm sustainability of a spare parts distribution system.
b. Project management: CWSA will oversee project implementation as part of its role as facilitator of the
National Program. CWSA is an autonomous agency, operating under the Community Water and Sanitation
Act 564 of 1998, and has long-standing experience with water and sanitation projects in Ghana. The main
functions of the Agency are to: promote sustainable water supply and sanitation services in rural communities
and small towns ftrough the provision of support to DAs, encourage active community involvement,
formulate strategies for mobilization of resources, liaise with donors, encourage private sector participation,
provide technical assistance to DAs, assist and coordinate with NGOs involved in the sector, initiate and
pursue education programs for the creation of public awareness, prescribe standards and guidelines for water
supply and sanitation in rural communities and small towns, as well as attract extemal funds to the sector.
CWSA was originally created as a division of the Ghana Water and Sewerage Corporation in 1994, reporting
to the Ministry of Works and Housing (MoWH). CWSA has an adequate staffing level of 196 with 33 staff
working at the head office in Accra and 163 staff working in 10 Regional Offices (RWSTs). It was agreed
that this staffing level will remain constant. Oversight of CWSA operations will be provided by CWSA
Board (which should be in place by CWSP-2 effectiveness) and MoWH.
At present, CWSA's operational costs are about 5bn Cedis with 2.7bn Cedis going to staff salaries and
compensation. GoG has cominitted itself to guarantee the core operations of CWSA by an annual
contribution of 5bn Cedis (indexed to 1999) to the sector. Additional funding will be provided on a "fee-for-
service" basis, to be piloted by IDA under CWSP-2.
Initially, loan proceeds will provide 5 percent of the value of disbursed annual investments of CWSP-2
(including both Components 1 and 2). At the beginning of each year CWSA will receive 75 percent of this
amount as an advance payment. The total amount will be reconciled at the end of the year based on the actual
disbursements.
Ninety percent of the World Bank contiribution will be allocated to the operating costs (excluding staff
compensation) of the 4 regions participating in CWSP2. This will be shared by theRWSTs (70 percent) and
Head Office (30 percent). The remaining 10 percent will be allocated for staff development in the 4 regions
(which could include an incentive pay approved by CWSA Board and the State Enterprise Commission).
Since this portion of the fee is designed as a staff incentive package, RWST staff would be eligible to receive
this compensation only if the region achieves its agreed investment targets.
Once the key decisions for the introduction of the management fee to be applied across CWSA are adopted
by the CWSA Board, this 5 percent World Bank contribution could be used for broader institutional
strengthening of CWSA (and not just targeted to the CWSP-2 regions). CWSA would submit a workplan for
the use of these funds to the annual review conference. Eligible expenditures include vehicles, equipment,
staff remuneration, consultant fees, study tours and other training. The funds cannot be used to cover salaries
for core CWSA staff or basic CWSA operating costs which should be covered by GoG.



-15-
5. Social:
The project requires that communities pay 5 percent of capital costs and all of O&M. Since the project will
offer a variety of service levels (and correspondingly a variety of prices), poor communities should not have a
problem joining the project. The project's monitoring and evaluation (M&E) system will monitor the types of
communities accessing the project, to assess the percentage of poor being reached. Special efforts will be
made to ensure that poor communities (which are sometimes the more remote ones) are informed about the
project and given ample opportunity to participate if they choose. Orientation for project stakeholders will
include discussion of socio-cuhural issues such as gender. Those providing technical assistance to
communities during subproject preparation will ensure that the various community subgroups are involved in
decision-making, proposal development and WATSAN fonration.
Women in rural areas traditionally play a strong role in household water supply and sanitation, and there is a
variety of experience in Ghana on ensuring the appropriate involvement of men and women in projects. This
project will build on that experience, promoting active involvement of women and men in project planning,
O&M activities and WATSAN committees. This will be done through specific actions, including the
requirement that women representatives sign all community agreements. Furthermore, training will be given,
when needed, to enable community members to effectively undertake project roles.
A participatory M&E process will be used to ensure that all stakeholder groups and subgroups are involved
appropriately throughout the project. Through this process, communities and other stakeholders will decide
on indicators and monitor project progress. Their input will be used to guide the project, so that any social
issues that arise can be quickly addressed. Community indicators will supplement a standard list of indicators
to monitor project performance (linked to the APL triggers and the logical framework
6. Environmental assessment:                 Environment Category B
Building on progress made under CWSP-1, CWSP-2 aims at increasing service coverage and achieving
effective and sustainable use of improved CWS services in villages and small towns. CWSP-2 will sensitize
communities to the environmental aspects of their subprojects, and train them in the sustainable use of water
and sanitation facilities. The approach is meant to incorporate environmental concerns hito the project design
and focuses on environmentally sound criteria for siting boreholes and wells, construction methods for well-
heads and aprons, waste water disposal techniques, and appropriate on-site latrine location. Thus, there is no
need for an environmental analysis of CWSP-2, however subprojects will have to meet environmental
standards as described in the POM.
In terms of capacity building at the community level, the Ghana EPA has offices at the district level and will
assist DAs in environmental education and community awareness. Technical assistance will also be provided
to assist in training of DAs to handle environmental and related matters, in particular, the implementation of
any mitigative measures. The proposed training programs will primarily focus on water source
contamination, ground water depletion and vegetation loss, reduction in waste water production, erosion
prevention and control, proper human waste disposal, and hygienic use of water and sanitation facilities. The
latter will be further supported through the project's hygiene education strategy. CWSP-2 will support the
monitoring of water quality, particularly ground water contamination.
The Project Operational Manual includes a section covering environmental criteria for subproject appraisal,
environmental requirements for contractors, and terms of reference for technical assistance. As necessary,
CWSP-2 will coordinate its efforts with the ongoing Village Infrastructure Project and the recently created
Water Resource Commission, and will use existing environmental guidelines for watershed management and
related issues. The approach applied in this project, when properly implemented, will achieve the set project
objective with mifimal or no environmental impact.
7. Participatory Approach (key stakeholders, how involved, and what they have influenced or
may influence; if participatory approach not used, describe why not applicable):
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
CWSP-2 follows a demand-driven, participatory approach. The principal stakeholders are the communities
that will benefit from the new systems. Community women and men will have essential roles throughout the



-16-
project process and decide whether or not to apply to join the project. Should they become part of the
project, they will decide on the type of system and level of service they want, based on cost and other factors
and will manage these systems. The project is planning a participatory M&E system, and community
members will be involved in periodically assessing the progress of the project.
b. Other key stakeholders:
Other key stakeholders include, local govenunent (DAs), otherESAs, CWSA, the private sector (including
NGOs) and relevant government ministries (Health, Education, Finance, Science and Environment and Local
Govenmment). Representatives from these groups will meet at least annually to discuss sector performance
and specific priority issues. They will be part of the participatory M&E process and have key roles in project
implementation and coordination.
Identification/   Implementation        Operation
Preparation
Beneficiaries/community groups     COL                COL, IMP              IMP
Private Sector/NGOs                COL                COL, IMP             IMP
Academic Institutions              CON                CON
Regional Government                COL                COL                   COL
Local Govemment                    COL                COL, IMP             IMP
Other donors                       COL                COL
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The sustainability of the water and sanitation facilities rests on two key elements:
A. Community willingness and capacity to manage and sustain services: Experience under CWSP-1 and
elsewhere in the country demonstrates that community management of systems is feasible and promotes
sustainability. The participatory mid-term review of CWSP-1 indicated that conununities felt a sense of
ownership for their systems, were involved in key project decisions, and were collecting funds for O&M. A
study of a project, using community management in the Upper East Region found that after eight years all
systems were still functioning to user satisfaction with a management committee in place and 98 percent of
communities indicating they have funds set aside for O&M.
Under CWSP-2 communities will play even stronger roles in key areas of the project. For example, they will
be involved in contracting for provision of community level goods and services. This should further increase
their sense of ownership and help prepare them for on-going O&M roles. They will be required to
demonstrate their commitment to service improvement up-front, by taking the initiative to apply for the
project, prepare a proposal, make a cash contribution, and undertake organizational responsibilities. To help
communities manage their services in the long-term, capacity will be strengthened  in community
organization, operations and maintenance, fmancial management, hygiene education, and effective water
usage and disposal.
B. Availability of goods and services in the local markets, accessible by the communities: This will be
achieved by working through district and regional-based private and NGO organizations. The project will
include intensive capacity building to help these agencies better respond to conununity demand, support an
enabling environment for small business start-up, and look at the longer term incentives to keep these
agencies functioning, especially in selling spare parts and providing technical assistance to communities. The
public sector will also have to play a supportive role, especially at the DA level.



-17-
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                        Risk Rating        Risk Minimization Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Community demand does not guide investment         N          Ensure that project rules are widely
decisions, thereby jeopardizing sustainability.               promoted and enforced and that political
influences do not interfere in community
expression of demand.
WATSAN Committees/Water Boards do not have         M          Performance of WATSAN committees has
sufficient capacity to manage and sustain their               been positive under the first project, but
fabilities.                                                  trainhig and long-term availability of TA
are needed.
Community members do not internalize hygiene        S         On-going hygiene program will be
education messages and do not improve behavior                assessed for impact and, if required,
practices.                                                    improved. Linkages will be made with
MoE and MoH
Efforts are not made to ensure that women          M          Ensure that women representatives sign all
participate in key decision making before, during             community agreements and involve them
and after project implementation.                             in activities before the planning process
starts.
Private sector and NGOs do not have sufficient     M          Link after sales services and spare part
long-term incentives to continue to deliver goods             distribution to the investment component
and services.                                                 by establishing decentralized supply
capacity.
DAs are not committed to CWSP and are not          N          DAs will have to allocate resources to
willing to allocate resources in the long-term to             participate in project. TA will be provided
support community management.                                to DAs, CWS activities integrated into
other district development activities.
Strong reliance on community
management rather than DA support for
sustainability.
Sector policies are not upheld by other agencies and  M       Strengthen CWSA's leadership and
projects in Ghana                                             advocacy role in sector, ensure that other
IDA-funded projects adopt NCWSP rules.
From Components to Outputs
Communities are not able nor willing to formulate  N          Project preparation will develop and test
FMPs, make fnancial contribution and contract                 strategies for community/district
goods and services (with DA support).                         procurement. Project will build capacity
CWSA/DAs do not have capacity to promote           M          Develop and test procedures during
project, plan, appraise and approve sub-projects              preparation.
Private sector and NGOs do not have capacity for   M          Ensure adequate packaging of contracts
timely delivery of goods and services.                        and build capacity.
CWSA/RWST are not willing to shift role from       M          Develop procedures during project
implementor to Fund manager and facilitator                   preparation as part of the POM.
Good collaboration and participatory dialogue do   N          Ensure that stakeholders have a forum to
not exist between stakeholders at all levels                  voice opinions and influence directions of
the sector and that CWSA is open to
participatory dialogue.
Overall Risk Rating                                M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)



-18-
3. Possible Controversial Aspects
None
G: Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
Letter of GoG policy, including commitment to CWSA/sector fmancing.
CWSA Board in place.
Project Operational Manual endorsed by CWSA Board and MoWH and discussed with other sector stakeholders.
Signing of Subsidiary Agreement between GoG and CWSA and opening of project account.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
Annual GoG contribution to the sector is deposited into CWSA account each year.
CWSA operates within the approved budget.
H. Readiness for Implementation
The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
[ ] 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for
the start of project implementation.
[x] 1. b) Not applicable.
[12. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
[x] 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of
satisfactory quality.
[ ] 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
1.     Compliance with Bank Policies
1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
Je it/.Sara                               Letitia A. Obeng                    eterC.Harrold
yam  eader                              Sector Manager/Director            Country Manager/Director



-19-
Annex 1: Project Design Summary
GHANA: Second Community Water and Sanitation
Key Performance
Hierarchy of Objectives           Indicators          Monitoring & Evaluation    Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:      Sector Indicators:        Sector/ country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Improved living conditions and    % increase of households  Project records (MIS) and    Improved living conditions
health of people in villages and    with improved living  surveys.                 and health contribute to
small towns.                  conditions due to safe water                        increased productivity and
and improved sanitation                             poverty reduction.
services available and used
within the comnumity.
Program Purpose:              End-of-Program Indicators:  Program reports:        (from Purpose to Goal)
Extend coverage of sustainable    # of communities adequately  Impact surveys.    Water and sanitation services
water and sanitation facilities to 85 using, managing and                         are effectively used and are
percent of rural population in  sustaining improved service.                       sustained in order to achieve
Ghana by 2009. (Vision 2020)                                                      desired quality of life and
health improvements.
Project Development Objective:  Outcome I Impact        Project reports:          (from Objective to Purpose)
Indicators:
Increase coverage and achieve  550,000 people with access to Project MIS and impact  Continued GoG and donor
effective and sustahied use of  CWS and adequately using,   surveys in a sample of  commitment and fnancial
improved community water and    managing and sustaining their communities.        support to the subsector
sanitation services in villages and  improved services by end of                  throughout the proj ect period.
small towns in 4 regions.     Phase 1.
32 districts with functioning   Progress reports, field  Procedures developed by
private sector delivery system  surveys, implementation  CWSP-2 expanded to country
of goods and services to  support missions.         program.
support and sustain CWS by
end of Phase 1.
CWSA operates efficiently to  Progress reports, annual
assume its role of NCWSP    stakeholder and participatory
facilitator and policy    program reviews.
development.



-20-
Hierarchy of Objectives        Key Performance         Monitoring & Evaluation    Critical Assumptions
Indicators
Output from each component:   Output Indicators:         Project reports:           (from Outputs to Objective)
1. Demand-responsive community  1.1 # of communities that    Project MIS and progress  Project is adequately
proposals for improved services   submit acceptable proposals  reports, field supervision  promoted in all eligible
appraised and approved by DA.   which are appraised and  reports, # of female      communities and districts so
approved by DA according to WATSAN executive        that community demand
appraisal criteria.       committee members.         guides investment decisions
Acceptable proposals                                 (priority given to
require: genderbalanced                              communities that are
WATSAN committee/water                               prepared and express
board, community decision-                           demand)
making and service level
selection, financial                                 Women participate in key
contribution from users,                             decisions and in facility
adequate management plan,                            management.
community bank account,
clearly defined O&M plan.
2. Water and sanitation facilities   2.1 # of water facilities  Project MIS and progress  Private sector and NGOs are
constructed in project areas.  constructed in eligible  reports, field implementation  able to deliver quality goods
communities.              support reports.           and services in a timely
manner (see output 4).
2.2 Approximate population
served with adequate water
facilites
2.3 # of conununities where
50 percent or more of
households have latrines.
2.4 # of institutional facilities
completed.
3. Watsan committees and water   3.1 # of gender-balanced  Project MIS and progress  Watsan Committees/Water
boards formed and trained in  watsan committees and/or    reports, participatory M&E,   Boards have sufficient
organization, management and  water boards trained and   surveys, implementation    capacity to manage and
community members in hygiene   functioning.              support missions.          sustain the facilities.
education.
Community members
internalize hygiene education
messages and improve
behavior practices.
4. Private sector and NGO     4.1 # of service providers                            Sufficient long-term
capacity for long-term delivery of  (POs, TAs, artisans,                           incentives for private
goods, equipment and services to  contractors, suppliers, etc.,)                   sector/NGOs to deliver goods
communities strengthened.     trained and/or operational at                         and services in a competitive
the district/comnumity levels.                       manner.



-21-
5. DA capacity strengthened to    5.1 # of DAs with active  Project MIS, progress and    DAs are committed to
provide support to coimnunities in  district W&S programs,  audit reports, implernentation  CWSP-2, are willing to
planning, implementation and  trained and with capacity to   support missions.      allocate resources and
sustaining of services.       fulfill role in CWSP-2.                              provide long-term support to
community initiatives.
5.2 # of contracts signed by
commnunity and/or DA.
5.3 percent of participating   Reports, Field visits  Private sector and NGOs
DAs with certified audited                           accept project orientation
accounts.                                           towards district and
community contracting.
6. Efficient CWSA facilitation of  6.1 CWSA operates     Progress reports, stakeholder  Sector policies are upheld by
NCWSP, policy strengthening and  efficiently within approved    assessment, annual review,   other agencies and projects in
management of CWSP-2.         budget lines.              audit reports.             Ghana
6.2 Amount of resources   Annual Review.
disbursed by CWSA relative
to approved budget.       Annual review and other
stakeholder consultations.
6.3 Consensus built and
sector policies and guidelines
improved periodically
through consultation with
broad range of stakeholders.
Project Components / Sub-     Inputs: (budget for each   Project reports:           (from Components to
components:                   component)                                            Outputs)
Component 1: Subproject Grants Subproject grants: US$21 M;  CWSA quarterly and annual  Community able and willing
for community development and   includes: TA for community  progress reports.      to formulate proposals, make
water and sanitation facilities in   development and training,    Bank disbursement data.  financial contribution (and
villages and small towns      engineering studies (for small Independent audit reports.    contract goods and services -
towns) and construction                              with DA support).
grants for community/DA
activities.                                          CWSA and/or DAs have
capacity to promote project,
plan, appraise and approve
subprojects.
Component 2: Sector Support    Consulting services; US$3.2  Implementation support  Private sector and NGOs
and Training                  M limited goods and        missions.                 have sufficient capacity to
equipment and capacity                               deliver.
building for public, private
agencies; R&D, training and
material development, sector
policy development.
Component 3:                  Consulting services, US$2.5  Implementation support   CWSA managed efficiently
ProgramManagement             M limited goods and        missions.                  and within given budget.
equipment for CWSA,
recurrent costs.



-22-
Annex 2: Project Description
GHANA: Second Community Water and Sanitation
1. Community Subprojects Component: The subproject component will provide grants to communities and
schools through their DAs for construction of water and sanitation facilities and to finance technical
assistance and community development activities to strengthen community capacity to plan, implement,
operate and maintain water and sanitation facilities in an effective and sustainable manner.
2. Sector Strengthening: This component will support (a) local providers of goods and services (private
sector and NGOs), (b) DAs and their District Water and Sanitation Teams, and (c) national program
development
3. Program Management: This component will include CWSA remuneration on a fee-for-service basis for
the incremental costs of managing CWSP-2 and providing technical assistance to the DAs.
By Component:
Project Component I - US$21.0 million
Community Subprojects: All subprojects will respond to community demand and require a financial
contribution from the community and DA. Subproject rules and procedures are summarized below and
detailed in the Project Operational Manual (POM). The project cycle is attached to this Annex.
The physical works to be financed include:
*  Protected communal hand-dug well with or without a water lifting device;
*  Communal boreholes equipped with handpumps;
*  Mechanized borehole with overhead tank, limited distribution network and communal stand pipes
(house connection would be paid by users);
*  Surface water supply system based on slow sand filtration, storage and distribution network with
standpipes;
*  Protected spring source, with or without a simple distibution network and storage;
*  Rainwater catchment;
*  Household and school latrines;
*  Other water and sanitation technologies could be considered, as long as they meet all technical,
environmental, fnancial and sustainability requirements.
All civil works will be accompanied by the following community development/technical assistance (TA)
activities:
(a) Up-front TA through proposal stage: community and/or school mobilization; formation of gender-
balanced Watsan or water board; technical, environmental and financial guidance to assist community make
informed choice about preferred service level option; engineering services and technical design for small
town water systems, assistance with organizing community contribution, design of follow-on training
program (hygiene education, financial management, O&M, etc.) and proposal completion.
(b) Community development: assistance in subproject implementation (i.e. contracting, works supervision,
procurement of goods, etc. Watsan/water board training in administration, operation and maintenance;
hygiene education and other relevant training included in the subproject proposal.
Subproject Component Rules
District selection
All districts within project Regions are eligible to benefit from the project, and will be allocated an
investment ceiling each year by the RWST/CWSA, in consultation with the regional authorities. However, in
order to access subproject grants, DAs would have to (a) contribute 5 percent of investment cost of



-23-
anticipated subprojects for the district, (b) appoint qualified technical staff to manage subprojects
implementation, (c) prepare a rolling district water and sanitation plan (DWSP), and (d) submit acceptable
subproject proposals and procurement plans (approval conditions are outlined below).
Community selection
Communities are initially selected by the DA based on criteria that include: poverty, existing water and
sanitation facilities, district-development plans, and expressed willingness of community members to
contribute 5 percent of the cost and assume full responsibilities for O&M of the selected facilities.
Communities will be requested to submit an application form and deposit a minimum fee in their bank
account. Only communities that have submitted an application will receive technical assistance to prepare a
funding proposal. Proposals that fully meet the appraisal criteria will be funded, on a first-come, first-serve
basis.
Subproject appraisal criteria
The subproject appraisal process will be undertaken by the DA. This is strictly a technical review and its
purpose is to make sure that the subproject meets all criteria, including: minimum service level (number of
people per facility), environmental, technical, social, financial and institutional criteria. In addition, the
WATSAN will have to be recognized by the DA and the Water Board legally recognized. RWST will be
responsible for the final funding approval.
Financial policy
The investment cost of water and latrine subprojects shall be financed through a 10 percent contribution from
the DA and the community (the community and/or school will pay at least 5 percent) and the project
providing a grant of 90 percent. In small towns, individuals who demand a higher level of service (i.e. a
house connection) will be expected to pay the full incremental costs. The community and/or school
contribution of 5 percent shall be made before subproject appraisal. For small towns, half the contribution
shall be made before drilling (in the case of the need for pre-feasibility work) and the other half shall be paid
before detailed design. The project will establish a per capita subsidy ceiling, initially set at $30/capita for
point sources and $45/capita for small towns. Technical assistance and training for communities will be fully
financed by the project. Different options will be tested for the fmancial policy for household latrines,
including (a) a project subsidy to cover the slab and vent pipe, (b) implementation of a revolving loan fund,
or (c) other options that will be agreed between CWSA and IDA.
In order to test mechanisms for achieving higher levels of cost recovery, the project will pilot test
methodologies to prioritize communities with a higher effective demand, i.e. willing to pay 10 percent or
more of the investment cost
Technical design criteria
For boreholes, the grants for water supply shall finance a basic level of service of 20 liters per capita per day
with one water point serving a maximum of 300 persons within 250-500 meters. Hand-dug wells should
serve 100-200 people. In the case of small towns, the current population shall be used in sizing the
distribution system with an estimated consumption of 30 I/cap/day. However, the design should consider a
15-year population, and the source designed appropriately. Although a lower service level may be initially
constructed, the design should allow for future expansion and service level upgrading.
Minimum content of socialprocess
All subprojects shall include technical assistance and community development activities to ensure adequate
assistance to the community in making informed choices, organization, subproject implementation (including
contracting and works supervision), administering funds, and achieving effective and sustained use of their
facilities. Hygiene and sanitation promotion activities will be clearly defined in the community and school
proposals.
Linkage between community andDA
Conmnunities shall be involved in all stages of the project cycle. Each time a task or decisions that affect their
subprojects are made on their behalf by the DA, the community shall be consulted or involved. Conununities
shall sign-off on all official documentation pertaining to subproject implementation (i.e. contract award,
payment certificates, completion certificates).



-24-
Supporting documentation
CWSA has prepared documents that will be used to prepare and appraise subprojects and control the
management of funds. Those marked with an asterisk form part of the POM, and can only be modified with
prior Bank approval.
1. Project promotion flyer
2. Community application form
3. Subproject proposal format (*)
4. Subproject appraisal format (*)
5. Letter from the DA to the community informing if proposal is approved or rejected
6. Funding request for package of subprojects from DA to CWSA
7. Subproject Agreement between CWSA and DA (*)
8. MOU between DA and community (*)
9. Standard contract documents for goods, works and services
10. Completion Certificate (*)
11. Community user group constitution
12. MOUDA/CWSA
Project Component 2 - US$3.2 million
Sector Strengthening Component: The goal of this component is to strengthen stakeholder capacity in
order to ensure adequate and timely provision of high quality goods and services at the local level. This will
consist of support for: (a) the private sector and NGOs (as providers of hardware and software services), (b)
the public sector (DAs and DWSTs), and (c) national Program development. Chapter 5 of the Project
Operational Manual provides details on this component.
The component will be implemented in a demand-driven, participatory way in order to maximize efficiency
and effectiveness. Support and training will be provided on an as-needed basis, as determined jointly by
those receiving support and CWSA. A checklist of possible areas of skills training will be developed for
each type of sector actor. These checklists will be used by districts and RWSTs to prepare training plans.
A simple, focused orientation module will be developed for CWSP-2 stakeholders. This will include a basic,
overall section along with short sections which can be used with specific sector actors (for example, a section
to be used with hand dug well contractors would focus in detail on the project rules and components dealing
with hand dug well activities. A section for software providers would go into more depth on project
approaches and procedures relating to software). Overall orientation would also cover awareness of
environmental concerns and socio-cultural issues, such as gender.
(a) Support to the providers of goods and services engaged in CWSP-2 regions: Support will be
provided in three ways: training, logistical support and simplification of procedures to encourage
participation of small-scale entrepreneurs. The long-term objective is to ensure that there is a competitive
and efficient private sector available at the district level to provide quality goods, works and services to
communities. The project will therefore seek to increase the number of providers, as well as ensure the
quality and competitiveness of their work.
Specifically, support will be provided to drilling contractors, drilling consultants and supervisors, hand-dug
well contractors, spare parts suppliers, sanitation contractors, area mechanics, small town water system
operators and providers of training and community development services. The training will be contracted out
by RWSTs to qualified training institutes, including for example, TREND, ISODEC, GAS, etc.
(b) Support to District level public sector actors participating in the project: The project will support
District Strengthening in three ways (a) orientation courses for DA personnel, (b) DWST training, and (c)
logistical and operational support for DWSTs.
Orientation sessions: will be implemented by RWST for District Assembly staff, education officers,
school health program coordinators, and other relevant personnel. The orientation will cover infonnation
about CWSP-2 the demand-based nature of the project, contracting arrangements, financial management,



-25-
etc. In addition, CWSA will produce and distribute an easy-to-use district level Project Operational
Manual.
DWST strengthening: CWSP-2 support to DA and DWST strengthening will be tailor-made and
complement other ongoing DA capacity building efforts. To build the capacity of the DWSTs, newly
participating DAs will be allocated start-up sums not exceeding US$8,000 in the first year, while
repeater DAs will have a US$5,000 ceiling. Eligible expenditures include setting up of office space,
furniture and equipment, motor bikes, staff training, other support to DWST and Environmental Health
Officers.
(c) National Level Program Support: Limited funds are available for consultancy services, equipment and
training to support the National Community Water and Sanitation Program development. This component
will only fmance activities that are not covered by the Program Management Fee, and will include, for
example, initial equipment and vehicles for RWSTs, participatory program reviews by all stakeholders,
topical research, mass media campaigns for disseminating hygiene education, external impact assessments,
exchanges with other countries, and other special studies (for example, strategies for reducing unit costs of
boreholes, sustainable spare parts distribution, etc.)
Project Component 3 - US$ 2.5 million
Program Management: The cost is estimated at US$2.5 million, however, the actual amount will be staff
salaries covered by GoG (US$1.3 million) and five percent of funds disbursed by CWSA to satisfactorily
implement Components 1 and 2.
This component will support the staff and operating costs of CWSA to implement CWSP-2. The first
portion, estimated at $1.3M, include GoG's contribution to staff salaries, compensations, office costs and
other operating expenditures. This will be financed from the Sb cedis annual allocation received by CWSA.
In addition, the Bank will remunerate CWSA on a "fee-for-service" basis for incremental costs, of facilitating
project implementation and providing technical assistance to the districts.



-26-
Project Cycle
The guiding principle of subproject implementation is to empower the communities to identify, plan,
contribute, select, implement and sustain their facilities. In accordance with the demand-responsive approach, the
project cycle is as follows:
Information and Promotion
The information and promotion of the project shall be in two stages. The first stage will inforn all the
districts in the participating regions through workshops to solicit their interest and to vet their willingness and ability
to implement the project. Districts will be assessed and selected based on criteria developed for new-entry districts
and the current participating districts. The Regional Water and Sanitation Teams and Regional Coordinating
Councils will be responsible for this activity. This activity ends with the signing of a memorandum of understanding
(MOU) between the Regional Water and Sanitation Teams and the District Assemblies, and the opening of a project
bank account by the DA.
In the second phase of the promotion and information process, selected District Assemblies will go to the
communities and promote the project through the local media. Flyers and Application forms will be distributed.
Identification
Communities (including schools) will organize smaller meetings in their area to discuss and identify
interest in the water and sanitation project, and any assistance required to complete a subproject proposal.
Communities will fill in an application form, and show their willingness to participate in the project and indicate
their water and sanitation situation needs. Application is open to all communities.
Each interested community will open a bank account and deposit a minimum amount of 200,000 cedis to show
commnitment.
Pre-selection
The DA will nominate a team to carry out community pre-selection. The following criteria will be applied:
population, distance of existing water supply and time since last application or formal indication of need to the
District Assembly, other development projects undertaken by community, health issues, etc. The results of the pre-
selection will be made public through the local beating drums, community meetings, local FM stations and District
Assembly notice boards.
This pre-selection process allows the DA to choose a correct number of communities it can serve within a project
cycle, based on financial and staffing capacity within the DA. It also attempts to establish transparency and avoid
disappointing communities that will not be attended to, in any year, by reducing the number of full-blown proposals
that will need to be prepared. Finally, the process is a critical step in ensuring that investments will be programmed
to respond to community demand.
Proposal Formulation
Pre-selected communities will prepare subproject proposals, and can receive support from 'Technical
Assistants' contracted by the District Assembly. The proposal will contain all the information required to
adequately appraise the subproject. The DA will set a deadline for proposal submission.
Appraisal
The Appraisal process will use clear criteria to evaluate the funding requirements of each proposal.
Appraisal will be undertaken by the Technical SubCommittee of the DA and the RWST. Appraisal will be a one-
step process only for point sources but may involve a two-step process for small towns requiring pre-feasibility
work. Once a proposal meets all appraisal criteria, it should be funded.
Appraisal criteria include:
* Technical and environmental feasibility of the proposed civil works and goods
* Evidence that community made an informed choice about preferred service level
*   5 percent capital cost contribution deposited by community in bank
* Facility Management Plan, including procedures for O&M and tariff collection
* Plans for improved hygiene, environmental protection and sanitation



-27-
* Existence of gender-balanced Watsan/water board
* Financial: total costs, compared to the established per capita subsidy ceiling
Funds Disbursement
Approved subprojects wil be packaged by the DA and submitted to the RWST for funding. The RWST
will review the subprojects costs, using a standard unit cost database, and agree with the DA on the financing and
procurement plan for the subprojects. The RWST will also verify the DA has its 5 percent capital cost contribution
in the bank. A subproject agreement will be signed between the DA and RWST. Funds will be then be transferred
from CWSA to the DA project account, in tranches (30 percent, 40 percent and 30 percent). The District
Assemblies will transfer funds to communities or schools which opt to undertake contracting themselves.
Contracting and Community Development
Contracting of goods, works and services will be carried out by both the DAs and communities using
procedures detailed out in the operational manual. Software contracts will be let out for technical assistance for
community development activities, works supervision, hygiene education, training of WATSAN Committees,
establishment of community operation and maintenance capability, feasibility studies and training.
Construction
Construction involves the building of the facilities by private sector contractors.
Completion
All completed works shall be inspected by DAs and certified satisfactorily completed by the community
before the last payment is made. The last payment certificate shall be signed by the on-site supervisor as provided
for in the contract document. This document must be produced by the contractor before the last payment is made.
A sample of the completed works will also be inspected by the RWST.
A sub-project completion report shall be co-signed by the community and the DA to indicate that they are satisfied
with the completed works.
A guarantee period of 1 year will be provided for the major civil works, and payment conditions will be established
in the contract documents.
Operation and Maintenance
Operation and maintenance will be the sole responsibility of the conununity. Backstopping technical
services, however, will be provided by the DA and the RWST. These services could include:
-  Training of communities in the operation and maintenance of their facilties
-  Ensuring the availability of pump spare parts in the system
-  Training of Area Mechanics to carry out repair and installation.
- Promoting and establishing linkages to other support facilities
* Support for entering into a service management contract with small town operators.
Auditing
The RWSTs accountants and CWSA internal auditors will audit DA accounts on a continuous basis before
each funding tranche is approved and transferred. In addition to the regular internal auditing procedures followed
by the DAs, CWSA will hire an External Auditor to review the financial management practices of the DAs and
communities, as well as visit a sample of communities to verify the quality of the facilities and the effectiveness of
the community training activities. On the financial side, special attention will be paid to:
*  Compliance with Bank procedures
*  Whether community related procurement is being carried out according to methods prescribed in the
operational manual
*  Whether prescribed methods result in efficient use of funds
*  Whether community reporting is effective
Monitoring and Evaluation
Monitoring and evaluation will be an ongoing process carried out by the communities, district assembles
and the community water and sanitation agency.



-28-
THE SUB PROJECT CYCLE
PI PROMOTION
by DA and RWST
MONITORING & EVALUATION                                     APPLICATION
by Community/DA/RWST                               by Community to DA
AUDITING    |                                   COMMUNITY
by DA/CWSA                                     PRE-SELECTION
t                                                 by DA
O&M                                            PROPOSAL
by Community assisted by                            FORMULATION
DA/Private Sector                               by Community witi TA
t                                             (contracted by DA)
SUPERVISION &
COMPLETION REPORT                                    PROPOSAL APPRAISAL
Community & others                                by DA (technical team) and
t                                                RWST assistance
CONSTRUCTION &                                   Point Sources     Small Towns
CONSTRUCTION &                                   I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~st Phase
COMMUNITY DEVEOPMENT                                   One Step Only  initial contribution
by Community, Private Sector                           Fuil        borehole testing
and NGO                                    community    Final design
t                                         contribution
CONTRACTING                                                     2nd Phase
Responsibility for contracting:                                    Full contrbution
- Subproject: DA
- Pilot Subproject: corrununities                            Final appraisal
SUBPROJECT FUNDING
APPROVAL
DISBURSEMENT
by RWST/CWSA



-29-
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
GHANA: Second Community Water and Sanitation
Local         Foreign           Total
Project Cost By Component                         US $million     US $million     US $million
1. Subprojects grants                                                 21.10            0.00            21.1
2. Sector Strengthening                                                2.70            0.50             3.20
3. Program management                                                  2.50            0.00            2.50
4. PPF Refinancing                                                     0.80            0.00             0.80
5. Unallocated                                                         0.40            0.00             0.40
Total Baseline Cost                                                   27.50            0.50           28.00
Physical Contingencies                                                0.00            0.00            0.00
Price Contingencies                                                   0.00            0.00            0.00
Total Project Costs                    27.50            0.50           28.00
Total Financing Required                     27.50            0.50           28.00
Since most of the project cost is accounted for by financing for sub-projects, and physical targets are not the principal
objective, no contingencies have been provided for sub-projects. Any increase in the average subproject cost would be
reflected in a smaler number of subprojects being implemented. Given the projected 36-month execution period for the
project, no contingencies have been calculated for project administration either.



-30-
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
GHANA: Second Community Water and Sanitation
Introduction
The second Ghana Community Water and Sanitation project (CWSP-2) seeks to consolidate and extend the
achievements of the first project. The primary objective of CWSP-2 is to increase water supply coverage in
runal areas and strengthen cost recovery for water services from beneficiaries. To achieve these objectives,
phase one of the ten-year APL will invest in water facilities for approximately 550,000 people in rurl areas,
and assign responsibility for operations and maintenance costs to beneficiaries, as well as require a small
contribution to capital costs for project participation. It is intended that increases in communities' capital
contributions, indicating enhanced community capacity to replace these systems, be one of the triggers for the
subsequent phases of the APL. The project also includes a component for rehabilitation of existing water
systems in small towns.
The project requires communities to initiate project participation, and validate their commitment and need for
the project via a five percent contribution towards the expected capital costs. Ten percent of the ureal water
component funding is reserved for communities with a higher effective demand expressed through their
willingness to make at least a 10 percent contribution to the expected capital costs. That is, a share of
available project funding will be invested on a competitive basis. This will further the notion of demand
responsiveness and be an indicator of the importance of water projects when they compete for cash
contnbutions with other sectors such as health and education.
The self-selected project communities will choose their preferred level of service from a menu. of options.
The selection of specific investments will be subject to negotiations among prospective users and district
assemblies. The final size of the community and the level of service that will be achieved is not known at
this point, and would be determned during project implementation. However, the project design ensures that
technical solutions would be economically viable. Agreement to project rules regarding cost recovery is a
pre-requisite for project participation. In particular, the project rules require that user charges cover operation
and maintenance expenses, and that communities confmn and demonstrate their willingess to adopt these
charges. To ensure that investments are and remain economically viable, subproject performance will be
monitored and infornation collected on an ongoing basis.
Conceptual basis of assessing economic benefits
In rural areas, consumers use water for drinking, cooking, bathing, washing and productive uses, such as
cooking for sales, construction and so forth. A distinction between residential and commercial users is not
made. The water quality required depends on the purpose or use. Brackish water might be acceptable for
washing but not for drinking. People in the rural areas rely on a variety of traditional sources, such as rivers,
ponds, springs and rain water. Both the quality and (time) price of water from these sources are different, and
each water source serves different needs. When alternative sources, such as wells andboreholes become
available, they are potential substitutes for water from other sources.
The incremental quantity of water supplied under a project can be divided into two parts: one part replaces
the previous sources and quantity of water used, the other part is a net increase in water consumption. In this
context, benefit of the first part is equal to the savings of economic costs of consumers who no longer use the
former water sources. Benefit of the second part is equal to the area below the demand curve between the
with-project and without-project use of each consumer.
It is important to have a profile of consumption patterns which indicate the quantity of water used and the
amount of time and/or money spent for water from different sources. For CWSP-2, such a profile is provided
by the Impact Assessment study. In general, research has established that the value of consumers' time is
close to the market wage rate for unskilled labor. In the analysis for CWSP-2; the minimum unskilled wage
rate is used as the basis for deriving the value of time for rural Ghanaian communities.



-31-
Summary of Benefits and Costs:
The impact assessment of CWSP-1 provides the basis of the economic analysis for CWSP-2. The analysis
focuses on the community level subprojects in rural areas. For our calculations, results from one of the
regions studied are used. It is assumed that water consumption in project communities and from all sources
is replaced by water from improved sources provided under the project. The study results clearly show an
increase in water demand after provision of improved water sources, providing evidence of suppressed
demand. The additional demand has not been valued separately, but has been subsumed under the valuation
of replaced water consumption. This may lead to underestimation of the benefits from provision of an
improved source. Health benefits have also not been included separately, mainly because there is little
evidence of the existence of substantial, health related benefits. It is assumed that health benefits known to
users are captured in their willingness to pay for good quality water.
The time saved per bucket of water used is estimated from the impact assessment study. The time thus saved
is valued at 75 percent of the unskilled minimum wage rate to allow for differences between the minimum
wage and the unofficial rates prevalent. It is also assumed that only half the time saved can actually be spent
in commercially productive uses. Thus, half the time savings are valued in money terms. These savings
provide the base case retums for a well orborehole provided under the project. The decrease in the time cost
of water leads to increased demand for water; the benefits due to increased consumption are subsumed in the
assumption of consumption levels of 20 lpcd. For the base case, the NPV of a well is US$1,602/, and the
intemal rate of return 35 percent. For aborehole the NPV is $758/, with an intemal return of 18 percent. A
project rate of return is not attempted here; such a calculation would be based on an assumed distribution of
community choices of capital investments. It is considered more important to establish that each of these
possible choices generates acceptable economic returns. The returns to the phase one investment will be
estimated at the end of three years.



-32-
Annex 5: Financial Management
GHANA: Second Community Water and Sanitation
1.     The Community Water and Sanitation Project-2 (CWSP-2) is a follow up project to CWSP-1 which
is due to close end of December 1999. The Community Water and Sanitation Agency (CWSA) which
implemented the first project will be responsible for the implementation of this second project.
2.     The fmancial management system used by CWSA during the implementation of CWSP-1 has been
adequate, however certain deficiencies in the areas of the accounting software, mainly security features,
adequate and quality of data entry checks, and others are being addressed. In this regard a new draft
accounting manual has been prepared by a consultant which is being reviewed for finalization. In addition,
DANIDA is providing assistance to CWSA in the improvement of the Financial Management Information
Systems in operation at CWSA. This work is being undertaken in close coordination with the Bank to ensure
that the renewed system complies with BP/OP 10.02 on financial management.
3.     CWSP-2 will operate on a decentralized basis in four regions. CWSA will have overall
responsibility for guiding, supervising, monitoring, evaluating and reporting on project activities. CWSA will
also implement the Sector Strengthening and Program Management components, while DAs and
communities will implement the Subproject component. CWSA's regional offices (RWSTs) will provide
technical support to the DAs.
Accounting and Financial Arrangements
4.     There is little IDA experience in Ghana for implementing such a decentralized project.  All
experiences, especially in the Agriculture sector, have only achieved partial decentralization with
implementation control vested in the center. The Village ifrastructure Project (VIP) is designed to ensure
decentralized implementation, however it has only started and it will take sometime before lessons can be
derived. Due to the lack of capacity at the district leveL adequate arrangements and resources in the areas of
capacity building, monitoring and supervisory roles of CWSA and its regional offices have been included as
components of the project to ensure effective implementation at the district level.
5.     The Project Operational Manual (POM) details the funds flow anrangement from the center to the
regions and districts. The objectives of these procedures are to ensure consistent reporting from the districts
and regions, the roles and responsibilities of the center, the regions, the districts and the communities.
6.     The Districts will maintain simple but adequate books of accounting to enable them record, account
and report on all financial resources received and disbursed at the Districts. Simplified reporting formats
(included in the POM ) have been developed for use by the districts.
7.     The District's consolidated budgets for the appraised and eligible subprojects derived from
community proposals will be reviewed for completeness and approved by the RWSTs before they are
forwarded to Head Office (HO). The HO will then release funds intranches straight to District bank accounts
opened specifically for CWSP2. The DA will also deposit their 5 percent contribution to subproject costs into
this account, while communities will maintain their contributions in their own (Watsan/water board) account.
8.     The Districts will submit fnancial reports and all supporting documentation to the RWSTs, as
described in the POM, in order to receive subsequent disbursements for their subprojects. The Regions will
also submit their regular financial reports to HO on a monthly basis.
9.     HO will then consolidate all these reports into one comprehensive financial statement on the project.
10.    HO will be responsible for the preparation of the annual financial statements of the project. The
financial statements will be prepared in accordance with Intemational Accounting Standards and with
requirements of FARAH handbook. The financial statements will include at least Statements of sources and
uses of funds, reconciliation of special account, a balance sheet and accompanying notes.



-33-
Auditing
11.    There shall be two project audits undertaken each year: one for activities up to June (interim audit),
and the other at the end of the calendar year (final audit). These audits of the financial statement shall be
conducted by independent auditors acceptable IDA. The auditors shall provide opinions on: (i) the project
financial statements, (ii) statement of expenditures, and (iii) the special account. In addition, the auditors
should review the DA project accounts.
The auditors will also prepare management report to outline any weaknesses identified during the audit and
make recommendations for improving them.
Project Management Reports
12.    An assessment has been done and this project will not be able to produce the full set of PMRs,
however some of the reports will be produced on a quarterly basis and further work will continue to integrate
all of reports required with the FMIS being put in place with assistance from DANIDA. For the first year of
project implementation, the financial project management reports will contain: (i) summary of sources and
uses of fiuds; (ii) uses of funds by project activities and (iii) cash withdrawals (disbursements); and (iv)
reconciliation of Statement of Special account. It is expected that the project become LACI compliant by the
second year of implementation.



-34-
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
GHANA: Second Community Water and Sanitation
Procurement
Guidelines
1.     Procurement will follow the World Bank guidelines for procurement of goods, works and services;
Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (1995 edition revised January 1999), and
Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers (1997 edition revised
September 1997 and January 1999). Preference for domestically manufactured goods will be aRowed in
accordance with World Bank Guidelines. National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures will include: (a)
explicit statement to bidders of the evaluation and award criteria; (b) local advertising with public bid
opening; (c) award to lowest evaluated bidder, and (d) foreign bidders would not be precluded from
participation in NCB. Shopping procedures will include inviting for quotations from at least three different
suppliers, setting a deadline for submission of quotations and opening them at the same time. The project will
use Bank's Standard Bidding Documents for procurement of goods and works and the Standard Request for
Proposals for selection of Consultants. For small contracts, other simpler versions of documents acceptable to
the Bank wil be used. These simpler versions will be included in the Project Operational Manual (POM).
A draft copy of the POM indicates that appropriate procedures, standardized terns of reference and sample
documents for use by DAs will be included.
Procurement Notices
2.     A General Procurement Notice [GPN] will be published in the UN Development Business and in a
National paper of wide circulation as provided for in the Guidelines. The GPN would be updated annually in
case ICB procurement would not be completed in the first year of the project. Specific Procurement Notices
[SPN] will be required for goods and works contracts be procured on ICB and NCB basis and for consultant
contracts exceeding US$ 200,000 equivalent. SPNs will [as a minimum] be published in local newspapers of
wide circulation.
3.     As part of promotion and creating awareness to the private sector' of business opportunities
generated by DAs and Communities in water and sanitation programs, CWSA will prepare and publish
annually in national and regional newspapers of wide circulation a Promotional Procurement Notice
[PPNJ using a format to be prepared and included in the POM. The PPN will contain [but not be limited to]
information on estimated demand and contract opportunities by DAs and communities [rural and small
towns] for bore-hole drilling, hand dug well construction, hand pumps and hand pump spare parts and
installations of various water extraction systems.
Procurement Plans
4.     Except for community subprojects, a global procurement plan covering the entire project period and
a specific procurement plan for the first year of the project showing contract packages, and for each package
its estimated cost and procurement method and processing times till completion [including bidding
documents for items to be procured under ICB in the first year of the project] will be prepared and sent to
IDA before credit effectiveness. By September 1 of each year, the Project will prepare and submit to IDA a
specific procurement plan for the particular year as part of annual work program. For subprojects to be
implemented by DAs and communities, no global or annual procurement plans will be prepared as
subprojects will be generated by the communities from time to time during the project implementation
period. However the appraisal document of each approved subproject will include a procurement schedule
for completing the subproject.
1 Private sector includes local drilling companies, potential manufacturers, suppliers of water pumps and
spare parts, district-based contractors, artisans and mechanics.



-35-
Scope of Procurement
5.     Procurement under the project will involve the following:
(i)    Conmnunity subprojects component for facilities estimated to cost US$ 17.2 million will consist of,
but not necessarily be limited to, bore-hole and hand-dug well constructions, pumping equipment,
water supply and distribution systems for small towns, protection of water springs, household water
catchment facilities and latrines. These facilities will be prepared by communities through the
subproject appraisal and approval process. The community development part of the component
[estimated to cost USS 3.80 million] will involve community mobilization and assistance in
preparation of subprojects, employment of consultants for engineering services for design and
supervision of water, and for capacity building activities/training. Contracts under community
subprojects will be packaged by DAs and procured on basis of demands from communities,
following procurement procedures specified in the POM. No ICB procurement is envisaged in the
community subprojects.
(ii)    Goods estimated to cost US$ 0.90 miflion for sector strengthening and for supporting project
management by CWSA will consist of an initial and limited supply of vehicles, equipment and
miscellaneous items of supplies and furniture. Contracts for these goods will be packaged by
CWSA, incorporated into the project's Annual Work Plan (AWP) and Budget and procured
following specified procurement procedures. DAs will also procure a limited amount of goods as
specified in their annual institutional strengthening plan to be approved by CWSA.
(iii)    Consultant Services: the project will fnance consultant contracts estimated to cost US$ 1.00
million awarded to individuals, firms and NGOs to facilitate training of CWSA and District
personnel in project planning, implementation and financial management, including audit,
monitoring and evaluation activities, consultation and advocacy, information and education,
research and development, etc. Shortlists for contracts costing less than US$100,000 may consist of
national firms or individuals only. Where appropriate, the Bank's Standard Request for Proposals
(SRFP) will be used for the selection of consultants.
(iv)    Capacity Building: sector strengthening and training activities estimated to cost US$ 1.20 nillion
will cover training of CWSA and District personnel in delivering various services under the
subproject components, and also for consultation and review workshops. By September I of each
year, the Project would prepare and submit to IDA a training plan [as part of the Annual Work Plan]
for the particular year for IDA's review and comments before it is implemented.
(v)    Program Management:  An estimated amount of US$ 2.50 niXlion [of which the Bank will
contribute US$ 1.20 million] is included in the project for payment to CWSA as a management fee
for carrymig out the various project activities. The fee will be disbursed to CWSA in annualtranches
(see Annex 2).
IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS.
6.     Procurement for goods, works and services under the subprojects will be carried out by the DAs
(except for small towns up to a value of US$1.8 million which will be procured by CWSA) packaging several
subprojects to the extent possible in accordance with the subprojects prepared by the WATSAN Committees,
appraised by the DAs and approved by CWSA. The DAs will be responsible for calling for bids, receiving
and evaluation of bids, awarding and signing contracts, supervising performance and making payments.
However, according to current Govemment procurement procedures, contracts costing above a certain
threshold require approval of Regional or CWSA Boards. Where this will be the case, it is expected that this
procedure will be waived and if not, the Regional or CWSA Board will only be responsible for approving the
proposed contract award, leaving all other responsibilities to the DAs. The DAs will be encouraged to try
various ways of packaging the delivery of water points, e.g., use of one contractor to drill bore-hole, construct
well, supply and install pumping equipment, train selected members of the community on operation and
maintenance of the water point and hand over to the WATSAN a working water point.



-36-
7.     As part of capacity building and in order to ensure participation by WATSAN Committees in the
procurement process of subprojects, the DAs will include selected members of WATSAN Committee
members in specific procurement steps i.e. bid opening, evaluation and award of contracts, supervision and
certification of completed contracts. DAs will receive technical support from theRWSTs, as well as from
contracted firms and NGOs in [but not limited to], production of technical designs and specifications, bidding
documents, cost data and supervision of engineering consultants. DAs will build capacity in the WATSAN
Committees so that they can delegate some of the responsibility for procurement and accounting functions to
the better organized WATSAN Cominittees [small towns will be some of the early targets]. This capacity
will enable the WATSAN Committees to take on contracting for [but not limited to] procurement of hand-
dug wells, purchase of pumps, protection of water springs and construction of latrines.
8.     Procurement capacity of the CWSA at headquarters is weak but it is considered adequate for the
kind of procurement that is expected to be carried out under the project. However, RWST capacity is
adequate to support and provide technical assistance to the DAs. Procurement capacity inn the District
Assemblies is weak as indicated in procurement capacity assessment under other bank fnanced projects.
This fact is recognised in the project design. Under the project implementation arrangements, capacity of
WATSAN Committees will be enhanced by DAs while that of the DAs will be enhanced by capacity
building efforts and support by the CWSA Regional Teams, by any contracted firms andNGOs, as well as by
use of procurement and fnancial procedures to be specified in the Project Operational Manual.
PROCUREMENT METHODS
9.     Contracts for civil works will be awarded on basis of NCB but contracts estimated to cost below
US$ 50,000 for drillng and other works may be by solicitation of quotations from not less than three
contractors or by direct contracting to fimns with on-going similar contracts. Goods contracts estimated to
cost more than US$ 100,000 will be by ICB, contracts estimated to cost between US$ 100,000 and US$
50,000 will be by NCB and below US$ 50,000 by shopping procedures. Direct contracting may be resorted
to in exceptional circumstances, on a case by case basis, for which IDA's approval must be obtained.
Consultant services will follow the guidelines. Services estimated to cost less than US$ 100,000 may, with
IDA's agreement, be procured by sole source selection. Services for supervising drilling may be procured
under contracts in accordance with the provision of Least Cost Method of Selection specified in the
Consultant Guidelines.
Bank Review
10.    Goods contracts estimated to cost the equivalent of US$100,000 or more and civil works contracts
under community subprojects estimated to cost the equivalent of US$ 250,000 or more will be subject to
review in accordance with the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix I of the Procurement
Guidelines. First two contracts for each type of work (i.e. bore-holes, hand-dug wells, small towns piped
systems) per Region will be subject to prior review, regardless of cost.
11.    For Consultants services, all terms of reference and single source contracts will, regardless of cost,
be subject to prior review. Contracts estimated to cost US$50,000 for individuals and US$100,000 for fimns
or more will be subject to prior review in accordance with the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of
Appendix I of the Consultants Guidelines. Contracts not subject to prior review will be selectively reviewed
by IDA during project implementation and will be governed by the procedures set forth in paragraph of
Appendix I of the Procurement Guidelines and the last sub-paragraph of paragraph 2(a) and paragraph 4 of
Appendix I of the Consultants Guidelines.
Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
Use of statements of expenses (SOEs):
*      Contracts less than US$100,000 equivalent for goods
*      Consultant contracts of less than US$ 100,000 for firms and US$50,000 for individuals
*      Tramining



-37-
Operating Costs
Special Account:
The special account will have an authorized allocation of US$500,000 to cover 4 months of eligible
expenditure. An initial deposit of US$300,000 will be made to the project account opened in a commercial
bank upon effectiveness of the credit.
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method1
Expenditure Category             ICB          NCB         Other2        N.B.F.      Total Cost
1. Community Subprojects               0.00          14.00        7.10          0.00         21.10
(0.00)       (13.00)       (6.40)       (0.00)        (19.40)
2. Goods                               0.60          0.10         0.20          0.00          0.90
(0.60)       (0.10)        (0.20)       (0.00)        (0.90)
3. Consultant Services and Training    0.00          0.00         2.30          0.00          2.30
(0.00)       (0.00)       (2.30)        (0.00)        (2.30)
4. Miscellaneous (PPF)                 0.00          0.00         0.80          0.00          0.80
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.80)        (0.00)        (0.80)
5. Management Costs                    0.00          0.00         2.50          0.00          2.50
(0.00)       (0.00)        (1.20)       (0.00)        (1.20)
6. Unallocated                         0.00          0.00         0.40          0.00          0.40
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.40)        (0.00)        (0.40)
Total                                0.60         14.10        13.30         0.00          28.00
(0.60)       (13.10)      (11.30)       (0.00)        (25.00)
1/      Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies
2/      Includes shopping, direct purchase and selection of consultants
N.B.F. = Not Bank-Financed (includes government expenditures)
Miscellaneous includes PPF refund.



-38-
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Contract Value                                  Contracts Subject to
Threshold               Procurement              Prior Review
Expenditure Category              (US$)                    Method                    (US$)
1. Works                          Over 50,000                  NCB             Over 250,000 and first two
contracts for each type of
work per region
Drilling: Below 50,000  Quotations from at least 3   First two contracts
Other: Below 50,000          contractors or        Per region and direct
(exceptionally) direct       contracting
contracting
2. Goods                         Over 100,000                  ICB                   All contracts
50,000-100,000                NCB                      None
Below 50,000               Shopping                   None
3. Services                      Above 100,000                QCBS                   All contracts
Below 100,000             Other methods      (i) All contracts above
$50,000 and the first two
contracts below US$50,000
for individuals;
(ii) First two contracts
below US$100,000 for
firms;
(iii) All sole source
(iv) All TORs.
Total value of contracts subject to prior review: US$6.0 million out of
US$20.4 million
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
Average
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: Once every 6 months (includes special procurement
supervision for post-review/audits)



-39-
Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure Category           Amount in US$ million         Financing Percentage
(1) Community Subprojects                      19.40                         100%
(2) Goods                                      00.90               100% of foreign expenditures
90% of local expenditures
(3) Consultants' Services and Training         02.30                         100%
(4) Management Fee                             01.20                         100%
(5) PPF Refund                                 00.80                100% of amounts disbursed
(6) Unallocated                                00.40
Total Project Costs                            25.00
Total                                          25.00
Notes:
(a)    the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from
the territory of any country other than that of the Borrower.
(b)    the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the
Borrower.



-40-
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
GHANA: Second Community Water and Sanitation
Project Schedule                              Planned                 Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)   21
First Bank mission (identification)    02/15/98               02/15/98
Appraisal mission departure            06/25/99               06/25/99
Negotiations                           07/08/99              07/12/99
Planned Date of Effectiveness          01/01/2000
Prepared by:
Community Water and Sanitation Agency
Preparation assistance:
N/A
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                            Specialty
Jennifer Sara                   Team Leader - Water & Sanitation Specialist
Wendy Wakeman                   Community Development Specialist
Abdou Salam Drabo               Institutional Specialist
Raimundo Caminha                Community/Rural Development Specialist
Peter Akari                     Civil Engineer
Robert Roche                    Sr. Sanitary Engineer
Charles Boakye                  Projects Officer (Ghana Office)
Guenter Heidenhof               Sr. Public Sector Management Specialist (Ghana Office)
David Seth Warren               Social Protection Specialist
Kavita Sethi                    Economist
Mbuba Mbungu                    Procurement Specialist (Ghana Office)
Frederick Yankey                Financial Management Specialist (Ghana Office)
Edeltraut Gilgan-Hunt           Environmental Specialist
Said Al Habsy                   Sr. Counsel
David Webber                    Sr. Disbursement Officer
Emestina Attafuah               Program Assistant
Lizmara Kirchner                Team Assistant
Quality Team
Gerhard Tschannerl              Principal Municipal Engineer (Ghana Office)
Richard Verspyck                Principal Water & Sanitation Specialist
Lee Travers                     Principal Water & Sanitation Economist



-41-
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
GHANA: Second Community Water and Sanitation
A. Project Implementation Plan
Draft Project Operational Manual
Draft Implementation Plan
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Back to Office Reports
Capacity Building Component
Small Towns Study
C. Other
Documents/Studies carried out by CWSA
Mid-Term Review of CWSPI
Impact Assessment of Community Water and Sanitation Projects
Unit Cost Study
Water Quality Test Study
Hygiene Education and Sanitation Study
Small Towns Study
Reports from Pilot Projects Implementation
Project Preparation Team reports to CWSP2 steering committee
Management Fee Study (funded by DANIDA)
Review of the Financial Management System (funded by DANIDA)
Handpumps and Spare Parts Study (funded by DANIDA)
Sector Capacity Building Report (funded by DANIDA)
CWSA Annual Reports (1996, 1997, 1998)
CWSA Donor Conference Reports
Legal Recognition of Watsans
*Including electronic files



-42-
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
GHANA: Second Community Water and Sanitation
Difference between
expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions           and actual
disbursementsa
Project ID              FY     Borrower                    Purpose                              IBRD         IDA      Cancel.   Undisb.     Orig  Frm Rev'd
Number of Closed Projects: 74
GH-PE-40557              1999  GOVERNMENT                  ERSO II                               0.00      180.00       0.00      177.78     0.00      0.00
GH-PE-40659              1999  GOVERNMENT                  COMMUNITY DEV.                        0.00        5.00       0.00       5.00      0.00      0.00
GH-PE-50615              1999  GOV. OF GHANA               PUBSECTOR MNGT.PROG                   0.00       14.30       0.00       14.07     0.00      0.00
GH-PE-970                1999  GOVTOFGHANA                 TRADE GATEWAY& INV.                   0.00       50.50       0.00       47.44     1.17      0.00
GH-PE-974                1999  GOVT OF GHANA               NAT FUNC LIT PROG                     0.00       32.00       0.00       32.00     0.00      0.00
GH-PE-946                1998  GOVERNMENT                  NAT.RES.MANAGEMENT                    0.00        9.30       0.00        9.24     3.71      0.00
GH-PE-949                1998  GOVT OF GHANA               HEALTH SCTR SUPPORT                   0.00       35.00       0.00       27.13     3.33      0.00
GH-PE-41150              1997  GOVERNMENT                  VILLAGE INFRASTRUCTU                  0.00       30.00       0.00       23.44     .1.87     0.00
GH-PE-45588              1997  GOVTOFGHANA                 PUB. FIN. MGMT. TAP                   0.00       20.90       0.00       16.36    11.49      0.00
GH-PE-42516              1996  GOVERNMENT                  PUBLIC ENTERPRISEtPR                  0.00       26.45       0.00       18.50     5.11      0.00
GH-PE-943                1996  MINISTRYOFFINANCE           NON-BANKFININSAST                     0.00       23.90       000        17.39    14.35      0.00
GH-PE-957                1996  GOVERNMENT                  HVWYSECTINV.PROG                      0.00      100.00       0.00       59.47     6.31      0.00
GH-PE-973                1996  GOVT OF GHANA               URBAN ENV.SANITATION                  0.00       71.00       0.00       49.81    34.47      0.00
GH-PE-975                1996  GOVERNMENT                  BASIC EDUCATION                       0.00       50.00       0.00       42.39    22.25      0.00
GH-PE-926                1995  GOVT OF GHANA               THERMAL (P-VII)                       0.00      175.60       0.00       42.13    41.65     10.88
GH-PE-948                1995  REPOFGHANA                  EDUC/VOC.TRNG                         0.00        960        0.00       5.74      4.17     -0.03
GH-PE-98                 1995  GOVERNMENT                  PRIV SECTOR DEV                       0.00       13.00       0.00       8.52      737       0.00
GH-PE-962                1995  GOVERNMENT OF GHANA         FISHERIES                             0.00        9.00       0.00        4.62     2.49      0.00
GH-PE-968                1995  GOVERNMENT                  MININGSEC.DEV&ENV                     0.00       12.30       0.00        5.80     3.94      0.00
GH-PE-924                1994  TBD                         COMMUNITY WATER &SA                   0.00       21.98       0.00       8.25      6.87      0.00
GH-PE-936                1994  GOVERNMENT                  LOCAL GOVT DEV.                       0.00       38.50       0.00       14.96     6.90      0.00
GH-PE-961                1994  GOVTOFGHANA                 AGRICSECTOR INVEST                    0.00       21.50       0.00       4.17      1.91     -2.42
GH-PE-930                1993  GOVERNMENT                  LIVESTOCK                             0.00       22.45       0.38       2.71      3.66      3.27
GH-PE-953                1993  GOVERNMENT                  NATL ELECTRIFICATIO                   0.00       80.00       0,00       10.62    13.89      7.36
GH-PE-956                1993  GOVTOFGHANA                 URBANTRANSPORT                        0.00       76.20       0.00        7.97     7.94     -2.48
GH-PE-931                1992  GOVT OF GHANA               AGRIC EXTENSION                       0.00       30.40       0.00        5.83     5.46      5.46
GH-PE.918                1991                              AGRICDIVERS (TREEC                    0.00       16.50        1.85       4.82     5.88     -0.72
GH-PE-928                1991                              AGRIC RESEARCH                        0.00       22.00       0.00        0.76     -0.08    -0.08
Total:      0.00    1,197.35       2.23     666.92    212.37     21.24
Active        Closed
Projects       Projects         Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):        560.45       2,619.06        3,179.51
of which has been repaid:         0.00         250.23          250.23
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:    1,265.13          2,256.69       3,521.82
Amount sold:          0.00           0.38           0.38
of which repaid:        0.00            0.38           0.38
Total Undisbursed:       666.92           13.83         680.75
a Actual disbursements to date minus intended disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.



-43-
GHANA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
3 1-May-1999
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                       Disbursed
IFC                              I1FC
FY Approval                 Company                      Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic   Loan  Equity   Quasi   Partic
1988/89/91/93               Bogosu                       6.00    5.35    1.72   12.45    6.00    5.35    1.72   12.45
1989/91/93                  Cont Acceptances             0.00    0.00    0.88    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.88    0.00
1989/92                     Wahome Steel                 0.87    0.00    0.44    0.00    0.87    0.00    0.44    0.00
1990                        AEF Alugan                   0.05    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.05    0.00    0.00    0.00
1990/91/96                  GAGL                         4.50    8.11    2.55    0.00    4.50    8.11    2.55    0.00
1991                        AEF Packrite                 0.06    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.06    0.00    0.00    0.00
1991                        GHANAL                       0.00    0.00    0.44    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.44    0.00
1991/92                     Hotel Inv. Ghana             1.40    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.40    0.00    0.00    0.00
1992                        AEF BMK                      0.91    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.91    0.00    0.00    0.00
1992                        AEF CFL                      0.28    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.28    0.00    0.00    0.00
1992/93                     Ghana Leasing                2.01    0.00    0.75    0.00    2.01    0.00    0.75    0.00
1993                        AEF Afariwaa                 0.18    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.18    0.00    0.00    0.00
1993                        AEF GHUMCO                   0.05    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.05    0.00    0.00    0.00
1993/96                     ECOBANK                      4.85    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.75    0.00    0.00    0.00
1994                        AEF Shangri-la               1.10    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.10    0.00    0.00    0.00
1994                        GHACEM                       0.94    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.94    0.00    0.00    0.00
1995                        AEF Dupaul Wood              0.44    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.44    0.00    0.00    0.00
1996                        AEF Pako Bay                 0.00    0.00    0.05    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1996                        AEF Tacks Farms              0.37    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.37    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997                        AEF PTS                      0.00    0.31    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.31    0.00    0.00
1998                        AEFNCS                       0.00    0.67    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.67    0:00    0.00
Total Portfolio:       24.01    14.44    6.83   12.45   19.91   14.44    6.78   12.45
Approvals Pending Commitnent
FY Approval                Company                        Loan  Equity   Quasi  Partic
Total Pending Commitnent:      0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00



-44-
Annex 10: Country at a Glance
GHANA: Second Community Water and Sanitation
Sub-                                              9/29/98
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                        Saharan     Low-
Ghana    Africa  Income       Developmentdiamond'
1997
Population, mid-year (millions)                     18.0      614     2,048                Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas methoc4 US$)                  370       500       350
GNP (Atlas method US$ billions)                      6.7      309       722
Average annual growth, 1991-97
Population (%)                                       2.7       2.7      2.1
Labor force (Y.)                                     2.7       2.6      2.3     GNP                            Gross
per                           primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1991-97)                           capita                      enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national poverty line)  31
Urban population (% of total population)             37        32        28
Life expectancy at birth (years)                     59        52        59
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)             69        90        78
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)           27          .       61               Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% of population)               56        44        71
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                 36        43       47
Gross primary enrollment (% of schcoo-age population)  76      75        91             _Ghana
Male                                               83        82       100           _     Low-income group
Female                                             70        67        81
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1976    1986      1906      1997
Economic ratios*
GDP (US$ billions)                          28       5.7       6.3      6.8
Gross domestic investment/GDP               8.9      9.4      18.7     16.0                    Trade
Exports of goods and services/GDP          157      16.6     27.2      24.8
Gross domestic savings/GDP                  8.5      5.8       8 3      7.3
Gross national savings/GDP                  7.7      5.1      10.4      9.6
Current account balancetGDP                -a8      -3.6      -8.3     -6.4     .oes
Interest payments/GDP                       0.7      0.8       1.9      1.9     DomescInvestment
Total debttGDP                             257      47.9      96.8     93.9     Savings
Total debt service/exports                  5.8    28.5       27.1     33.7
Present value of debt/GDP                    ..       ..      58.5     55.3
Present value of debtlexports                ..       .      211.2    218.1
Indebtedness
19764B6  1987-97    1996      1997  1998-02
(average annual growth)
GDP                                0.0      4.4      5.2       3.0      6.0                Ghana
GNP per capita                    -2.8      1.6      2.4       0.4      3.1                  Low-ircome group
Exports of goods and services      -7.4     7.5    19.8       -4.0      6.2
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1976    1966      1996      1997     Growth rates of output and investnent(%}
(% of GDP)                                                                      40
Ayiculture                                 50Q6     47.8      44.4     47.4
Industry                                   19.2    17.2       16.6     16.6    20
Manufacturing                            131      11.1       9.4       9.5     o
Services                                   30.2    35.1       38.9     36.0                       04   95   s6   37
Private consumption                        79.2    83.1       79.4     82.3   -401
General government consumption             122      11.1      12.3     10.4               _    GDI    -..-GOP
Imports of goods and services              16.0    20.1      37.6      33 5
1976486  1987.97     1996      1997     growthi rates ofexports and imports (%I
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                 1.0      2.4       4.0      2 2     30..
Industry                                   -58      4.6       4.2       4.8
Manufacturing                             -61      2.9       3.0       4.0                                 A
Services                                    1.5      6.6       6.5      3.2    tO
Private consumption                        -0.1      3.6       5.0      4.6      0
General government consumption              2.2      5.6       3.4     -5.5            92   93         55    S    9
Gross domestic investment                  -47       6.1      -1.4     17.7    10
Imports of goods and services              -a8      5.2       12.1     -0.7            _Exports            Imports
Gross national product                     -01       4.5       5.1      3.1
Note 1997 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indcators in the oountry (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete



-45-
Ghana
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Domestic prices                             1976    1986       1996     1997      Inflation (%)
(% change)                                                                       so.0
Consumer prices                               ..    24.6       45.6      27.9    so                       )
Implicit GDP deflator                       28.1    41.7       33.1      29.6    40..
Govemment finance                                                                20
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                               a                               I
Current revenue                                .     13.6       19.2     17.6             92   93   94   95   96   97
Current budget balance                         ..     1.7        1.3      1.1               -GDP deflator -.*-CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                       ..    -3.3       -10.4     -8.6
TRADE
1976    1986       1996     1997      Export and import levels (USS millions)
(US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                           ..    749        1,571    1,511     2,500
Cocoa                                         ..    503       552       464
Timber                                        ..     44        147      165    200.*
Manufactures                                  ..                                 so
Total imports (cif.                                   805     2,119     1,964     1 0.d*
Food                                          ..     44        64        64                          1111113
Fuel and energy                                     125       261       278      s00
Capital goods                                       129       489       396
Export price index (1995=100)                 ..       99        91        92           91  92  93  94  95  98  97
Import price index (1995= 100)                ..       76       102       96               cE>ports       limports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                      .      130        90        95
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                              1976    1986       1996     1997      Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
Exports of goods and services                891      797      1,728    1,676      o
Imports of goods and services                951      968     2,388    2,265
Resource balance                             -59    -171       -661      -589      s 
Net income                                   -42    -106       -141      -142     15
Net current transfers                         -4       73       276       296    -10
Current account balance                     -105    -204       -525      -435
Financing items (net)                         46      147       513       461
Changes in net reserves                       59       57        13       -25    -20
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)       113      624       606      466
Conversion rate (DEC, locaVLUS$)             2.4    89.3  1t637.0   2,053.0
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1976    1986       1996     1997
(US$ millions)                                                                    Composition of total debt, 1997 (USS millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed         711    2,743     6,141     6,339
IBRD                                        38      134        44       30                G 64  A:30
IDA                                         56      446     2,530    2,617
Total debt service                            52      228       476       578          F 422
IBRD                                         5       18        13        15
IDA                                          0        5        28       30                                    B 2617
Composhion of net resource flows
Official grants                             31      118       206       216       E: 1,344
Official creditors                          19      217       419       350
Private creditors                           -8       77       -61       -76
Foreign direct investment                  -18        4        20       36               D:608
Portfolio equity                             0        0       100       46                            C: 654
World Bank program
Commitments                                 25       99       275        51     A - IBRD                     E - Bilateral
Disbursements                               14      169       244      237      B IDA    D - Other mutilateral   F - Prnate
Principal repayments                         2       10        20       23    IC - IMF                       G - Short-terml
Netflows                                    11      159       224       214
Interest payments                            3       13        21       23
Net transfers                                8      146       203       192
Development Economics                                                                                              9/29/98



-46-
Annex 11: Letter of Sector Policy
GHANA: Second Community Water and Sanitation
lr _                                                    Ministryrof WorkssandHousing
ASPF 4 and Am                                                      P. O. Box M.43
~"* - ' v .4                        s                                Accra, Ghana
my RE NoY*        ..
Yo rM    N .................. 18.  < 1
Your Ref No                      RB [OIGHG  (H A....                       19 ......
Telephone 665421
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
COMMUNITY WATER AND SANITATION PROJECT-Il
LETTER OF SECTOR POLICY
MR. PETER HAROLD
RESIDENT REPRESENTATIVE                  -
THE WORLD 8ANK
ACCRA
Dear Mr Peter Harold,
RE:  GHANA'S SECTOR POLCIES AND STRATO M NITY WATER
AND SANITATION SERVICES
The purpose of this letter is to describe the sector policies that the Govemment of
Ghana will follow during implementation of the Second IDA-financed Community Water
and Sanitation Project (CWSP-2)_
Backaroun andsll
The Government of Ghana launched the National Community Water and Sanitation
Program (NCWSP) In 1994, as part of the overall restructuring of the Water Sector. The
following Acts of Parliament have had impact on the water sector: Water Resources
Commission (WRC) Act 522 of 1996, the Public Utilities Regulatory Commission
(PURC) Act 538 of 1997 and the Community Water and Sanitation Agency Act 564 of
1998.
In addition, a Water Sector Restructuring Secretariat was set up in April 1997 and has
primarily been supporting the. urban water sub-sector to facilitate the transition to
enhanced private sector participation- In that light, the Ghana Water and Sewerage
Corporation (GWSC) is being converted to a limited liability company - the Ghana
Water Company Limited (GWC), created on July 1,1999. The PURC is mandated to set
tariffs whilst the WRC will have oversight responsibility over the entire weter resources
of Ghana. Finally, the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and the Ghana
Standards Board (GSB) are responsible for deflning environmental and drinking water
quality standards.



-47-
Furthermore, the sector is guided by the Govemment's overall decentralization policy,
whlich transfers authority, responsibility and capacity from the Central Government.
Sector Ministries and Departments to the District Assemblies (Local Govenmment Act
1993, Act 462 and L11589) by promoting grassroot participation with in administration of
programmes. Although sanitation is a responsibility of the distnct assemblies, CWSA
promotes an integrated approach to community water and sanitation.
Presently, it is estimated that only 36% of the rural population have access to safe water
while 1 1 % are estimated to have adequate sanitation. In the urban areas, water supply
is estimated to extend to 76% of the population while 61% have sanitation facilities.
Ghana's medium and long term plans in 'Vision 2020' gives priority to improved Rural
Water Supply, Sanitation, Health and the Control/Eradication of Water Borne Diseases.
The NCWSP aims at extending the coverage of sustainable rural water and sanitation
facilities to 85% of the rural population bv thA vApr '>MQ
uverall strategv for the Sector
The Government will continue to subsidise investment in rural/small towns water and
sanitation systems with the ultimate aim of improving the standard of living for people in
such areas. In all cases, however, investments will be demand-responsive, require a
minimum community contribution to the capital cost and communities will be responsible
for operations, maintenance and management. Urban areas will follow an "utility-
management approach" with private sector participation with a view to achieving cost
recovery. As the urban water sub-sector is restructured, Government is making sure
that the outcomes of this work do not negatively impact on the Community Water and
Sanitation Subsector and operations of CWSA.
During this transitional phas, thLar may bea 8m& afaa of overlap in the policy followed
for small towns, as some will be supported by CWSANDA and others included in the
private sector concession contract In the long run, the financial policies and service
management strategies will converge, based on the principle that local consumers will
have the ability to make their own choices regarding type of technology and affordability
of service; and negotake service management options with a range of private sector
operators-
The Community Water a2d Sanitahon Subsector
The NCWSP has made significant progress in the last 5 years, and has accomplished
the fotlowing;
* 3,124 Boreholes have been constructed
* 1.234 Boreho/es Rehabditated
667 Hand Dug Wells constructed
6,.282 Household Latrines constructed
496 Schools4rnstitutifnal Latfine constructed
5,146 Water and Sanitation Committees (WA TSANS) formed and trained



-48-
strong collaboration with NGOs, private sector and local stakeholders in
Program design and Management
In addition, through the NCWSP, the principle of community management of water
supply and sanitation in rural communities is now well established in the country. The
national program has also succeeded in bringing about a unified approach, adopted by
all External Support Agencies (ESAs) that are involved in the sub-sector.
Strategy and Policy for CWS
A.   Key elements of CWS Poli
The overall objective of the CWS sub-sector is to assist communities to: (a) improve
their access to improved water and sanitation services. (b) maximize health benefits by
integrating water, sanitation and hygiene education interventions and (c) ensure the
sustainability of these facilities through Community Ownership and Management.
The NCWSP is therefore anchored at the community-level and supported by the DA
DAs will create the enabling environment for communities to own and manage their
water supply and sanitation facilities.   The DAs would also assist in ensunng
recognition of community-based water and sanitation committees (watsans) and water
boards it funefion A1 f4AnLAM&  And Aet8uItbl Mntitiae.
Key elements of the policy include:
-r demand-driven aporoach through which communities: decide if they want to
participate and their preferred service level based on willingness to pay,
contribute towards the capital cost (at least 5-1 0% cash contribution) and pay the
normal operations, maintenance, and repair costs of their facilities;
'decentralization of p2anning. implementation and management of srvices by:
(1) making communities decision makers, owners and managers of the water
supply and sanitation facilities, (2) making District Assemblies (DAs) more
autonomous and better able to assist communities obtain improved services and
(3) linking CWS into broader district development plans and activities;
*: intensive community develo megt and tra inn    rams to ensure that they
have adequate information to understand the overall program concept and
strategy, make informed choices about preferred service level and management
options, and have the adequate skills to sustain their services;
L rivate sector grovLsion (including NGO) of all goods and services, and
responsiveness to the communities;
*P oublic sector olayina a facilitating role, with CWSA contracted by GOG to
manage the CWS Program, provide technical assistance to DAs and strengthen
private sector participation and capacity,



-49-
.stakeholder consultation, including  external support agency  and  NGO
coordination, joint annual reviews and sharing of experiences;
: adaptive  approach: encouraging  leaming, participatory  monitoring  and
evaluation, and impact assessments, especially in areas such. as:
. full participation of women in all levels of the programme,
* application of lower cost technology and service level options,
* effective hygiene education and training,
. sustainable supply chains of goods, and services and especially spare
parts at the local level,
targeting areas that have lower coverage, and
increasing role of communities in decision-making, service financing and
implementation.
B.   CWS Sector Financing:
The NCWSP will be funded as follows: (a) communities and district assemblies
will demand services and select their preferred service levels, pay a portion of
the capital cost and assume full responsibility for operations, maintenance and
service sustainability, (b) external support agencies would assist in covenng the
costs of increasing coverage , and (c) GOG will ensure the long-term
sustainability of the sector program by covering, at the very least, the core costs
of CWSA, as the govemment agency responsible for facilitating service provision
and channeling investment funds to the DAs and communities.
Communities would be required to pay at least 5-10% and the DAs 5% of the
capital costs of the water facilities, with levels of cost recovery expected to
increase over period of time. Community members will cover all of the recurrent
costs of their water and sanitation facilities. DAs will also provide staff and
logistical support to program implementation, as part of their normal functions.
Central Govemment will cover the core costs of CWSA's operations by allocating
at least five billion cedis (5billion) per year, indexed to 1999, to the sub-sector to
be defined (modalties and timin,), as well as honor any additional commitments
or existing obligations that it now has with other Extemal Support Agencies.
Extemal Support Agencies would be requested to cover 90% of the capital costs
for works (on a decreasing basis as community contribution increases over time).
software and training costs, incremental costs of program management for
CWSA, and support to sector policy development, program reviews and
stakeholder consultation.
C.   Program Manacement: CWSA
In December 1998, Government established CWSA through Act 564 of
Parliament. The CWSA has taken over the functions and responsibilities of the
former CWSD of GWSC. In the meantime, the Govemment has mandated the
Board of Directors of GWSC (now GWCL) to act as Board of Directors of CWSA



-50-
until the appointment of the new Board for the Agency. The CWSA Board will be
appointed soon
The Acting Chief Executive will submit staffing levels and job descriptions of key
positions for the consideration of the CWSA Board. As a public institution,
CWSA will draw up a staff remuneration and recruitrnent policy in line with the
guidelines established by the Public Services Commission, Key rnanagerial staff
will be recruited and approved by the Board, in accordance to the Agency Act.
CWSA is committed to cost-effective and efficient management and will not
increase its staffing-level beyond the 200 currently employed on a contract basis.
The Agency will prepare yearly budgets and be expected to cover its core costs
within the 5billion annual budget provided by Government. CWSA is also
designing a Management Fee system that will enable it to be remunerated for the
incremental costs of program management, linked to actual outputs - ie.
channeling investments to commlunities/DAs and strengthening institutional
capacity of the public, private and NGO agencies to fulfill their roles in the sub-
sector. The management fee would enable CWSA to improve its long-term
planning and overall support of a national program, rather than following a
project-by-project approach.
CWSA is also committed to strengthening its financial management and reporting
systems, especially to consolidate the various projects supported by ESAs into
the national sector program. This financial management system wsill be fully
operational by June 30, 2000.
This letter of sector policy will guide the implementation of all projects, including the
IDA-funded Second Community Water and Sanitation Project (CWSP-2), which is being
designed as an Adaptve Program Loan. Based on the results of Phase 1 of CWSP-2,
expected to be completed by mid-2003, CWS policy directions may be adjusted, in
consultation with all sector stakeholders.
Yours sincerely,
1. K. ADJEW
MINISTER FOR WORKS & HOUSING



IBRD 23606
3* ~      ~~                      ~~                      ~~~                               ~       ~       ~~~~~~ rr  P    2'
BURKINA FASO
te  UPPER'- . -                                                           GHANA
_   -        -   PRIMARY ROADS
* SECONDARY ROADS
TERTIARY ROADS
\   i  E                  C~~~~~NORTH'ERN       
RAILWAYS
(3   REGION HEADQUARTERS
2.  eole    \~~~~~  ~ 7~~ap) /   %    '  t     H    . j        .* ~~~~~~~ REGION BO>UNDARIES   p
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
The boundaries, calors,
other information shown
on this maxp do not
D'IVOIRE   ?                                                                        .rb               d Bank fGrasujp,
any judgment on the legal
-status  of  any  territory,
or any endorsment
ar acceptance of such
i   gS   ;t      )    oXhbU          _D  m<YO,LEv5          s p      O  lo wo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~010    30 -0 50 LES
<\                      L                                  f   (t            1  1  rio  30lull0mEtBes bounaries
/  ,sJ   i   e                             o     V    _   4    f;~~~~~~~(. 
7'                                                                                                                               7
( )   G_ /   L=\A~~SHANT aX<                                                FGV;TG
C..                                                                                          TOGO7g  < . < &  .OGO
\ A_ -, _    A
;jWESTERN                                                          A.C                          SOA  \ .
-J~1
r ~ ~ ~ ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ GL Of GUNAtDrui .                                                           a f
-                                                                                                                 'tf4QfliAMAtXNI
C-Om                                                                CDA
7;;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N                                                      DAN t     ^>tJ
oui~ ~ ~~~~FBRAY19



