Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3282-GH
Project Agreement
(Second Community Water and Sanitation Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
COMMUNITY WATER AND SANITATION AGENCY
Dated  December 14, 1999
CREDIT NUMBER 3282-GH
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 14, 1999, between INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (the Association) and COMMUNITY WATER AND SANITATION AGENCY (CWSA).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between 
the Republic of Ghana (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed 
to lend to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to eighteen million 
seven hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 18,700,000), on the terms and 
conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that 
CWSA agrees to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are set forth in 
this Agreement; and
(B)
by a subsidiary agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and 
CWSA, the proceeds of the Credit provided for under the Development Credit Agreement 
will be made available to CWSA on terms and conditions set forth in said Subsidiary 
Agreement; and
WHEREAS CWSA, in consideration of the Association's entering into the 
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the 
obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
Page  2
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Development Credit Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth. 
ARTICLE II 
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) CWSA declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement and, to this end, shall 
carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, financial, engineering, environmental, and technical 
practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services, and other resources required for the Project. 
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
and except as the Association and CWSA shall otherwise agree, CWSA shall carry out the 
Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement. 
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement. 
Section 2.03. (a) CWSA shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 
9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition) in respect of the Project Agreement.
(b)
For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, CWSA shall: 
(i)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, 
and furnish 
to the Association not later than six (6) months after the 
Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this 
purpose between the Association and 
CWSA, a plan for the future 
operation of the Project; and 
(ii)
afford the Association reasonable opportunity to exchange views 
with CWSA on 
said plan.
Section 2.04. CWSA shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary 
Agreement.  Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, CWSA shall not take or 
concur in any action which would have the effect of assigning, amending, abrogating, 
or waiving the Subsidiary Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) CWSA shall, at the request of the Association, exchange views 
with the Association with regard to the progress of the Project, the performance of 
its obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Agreement, and other 
matters relating to the purposes of the Credit. 
(b)
CWSA shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by CWSA of its 
obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Agreement. 
ARTICLE III 
Management and Operations of CWSA 
Section 3.01. CWSA shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, financial, and engineering practices under the 
supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in 
adequate numbers. 
Page  3
Section 3.02. CWSA shall at all times operate and maintain its plant, machinery, 
equipment, and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, make all 
necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, 
financial, water and sanitation practices.
Section 3.03. CWSA shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or 
make other provision satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such risks 
and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) CWSA shall establish and maintain a financial management 
system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements, all in 
accordance with accounting standards acceptable to the Association and consistently 
applied, adequate to reflect its operations and financial condition and to register 
separately the operations, resources, and expenditures for and in connection with the 
carrying out of the Project.
(b)
CWSA shall: 
(i)
have its records, accounts, and financial statements (balance 
sheets, 
statements of income and expenses and related 
statements) for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing standards consistently 
applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association; 
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six months after the end of each such year, 
(A) certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) above for such year as so 
audited, and (B) an 
opinion on such statements and a report of such audit by 
said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and 
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning such 
records, 
accounts, and financial statements and the audit 
thereof, and concerning said 
auditors, as the Association may from 
time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, CWSA shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the Association 
for the strengthening of its financial management system for the Project in order to 
enable CWSA, not later than twelve (12) months after the Effective Date, or such later 
date as the Association shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project Management Reports, 
acceptable to the Association, each of which: 
(i)
(A)
sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, 
both cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, 
and projected 
sources and applications of funds for the 
Project for the six-month period 
following the period covered by 
said report; and (B) shows separately 
expenditures financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit during the period 
covered by 
said report and expenditures proposed to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit during the six-month period following the period 
covered by said report; 
(ii)
(A)
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report; and (B) explains 
variances between the actual and 
previously forecast implementation targets; 
and 
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under 
contracts financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, 
as at the end of the 
period covered by said report. 
Page  4
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, CWSA shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the 
Association, and furnish to the Association not later than 45 days after the end of 
each calendar quarter, a Project Management Report for such period.  
ARTICLE V 
Effective Date; Termination 
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of 
CWSA thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall 
terminate; or
(ii)
the date twenty (20) years after the date of this Agreement. (b)
If the 
Development Credit Agreement terminates before the date 
specified in paragraph 
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association 
shall promptly notify CWSA of this 
event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions. 
ARTICLE VI 
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing.  Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex, or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party’s address hereinafter specified or at such other addresses as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request.  The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For the Community Water and Sanitation Agency:
Private Mail Bag, K.I.A.
Accra
Ghana
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any documents 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of CWSA or by 
CWSA on behalf of the Borrower under the Development Credit Agreement may be taken or 
executed by its Chief Executive or by such other person or persons as CWSA shall 
designate in writing, and CWSA shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of 
the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
Page  5
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Accra, Ghana, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Jean-Louis Sarbib
Regional Vice President
Africa
COMMUNITY WATER AND SANITATION AGENCY
By /s/ Moses Asaga
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1 
Procurement and Consultants’ Services 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with (a) the provisions of 
Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” 
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, 
September 1997, and January 1999 (the Guidelines); and (b) the provisions of the 
following Parts of this Section I. 
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. Preference for Domestically 
Manufactured Goods and Domestic Contractors The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 
of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the 
territory of the Borrower and works to be carried out by domestic contractors. 
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures  
1.
National Competitive Bidding
(a) 
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract and 
more than $50,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
(b)
Contracts for drilling works estimated to cost less than $250,000 
equivalent per contract and more than $50,000 equivalent per contract may be procured 
in accordance with the provision of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
2.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in 
Page  6
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
Direct Contracting/Procurement of Small Works
Contracts for drilling works costing $50,000 equivalent or less may, with the 
Association’s prior agreement, either be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines, or may be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price 
contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) qualified 
domestic contractors in response to a written invitation.  The invitation shall 
include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the 
required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Association, and 
relevant drawings, where applicable.  The award shall be made to the contractor who 
offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience 
and resources to complete the contract successfully. 
4.
Community Participation 
Goods and works required for Part A of the Project shall be procured in 
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association. 
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.  Procurement of all goods and works shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by 
the Association and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review 
(a)
With respect to each contract for works estimated to cost the equivalent 
of $250,000 or more, including the first two contracts for each type of work per 
region, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines 
shall apply. 
(b)
With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent 
of $100,000 or more the procedures set forth in paragraph 2 (f), 2 (g) and 3 (g) 
Appendix 1 to the guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with (a) the provisions of 
the Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the provisions of 
the following Parts of this Section II. 
2.
In paragraph 1.10 of the Consultant Guidelines, the references to “Bank member 
countries” and “member country” shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
“Participating Countries” and “Participating Country.”
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-Based Selection 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
Page  7
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  
The shortlist of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Single-Source Selection.
Services which are estimated to cost less than $100,000  equivalent per contract 
may, with the Association’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.01 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Least-Cost Selection
Services for drilling supervising consultants may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provision of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more and the first two contracts 
costing less than the equivalent of $100,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 
1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more and the first two 
contracts costing less than the equivalent of $50,000, the qualifications, experience, 
terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to 
the Association for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only 
after said approval shall have been given. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 2 
Implementation Program  
1.
CWSA shall carry out the Project in accordance with procedures set forth in the 
POM and, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, not amend or waive any 
Page  8
provision thereof if such amendment or waiver may, in the opinion of the Association, 
materially or adversely affect the implementation of the Project. 
2.
(a)
CWSA shall, not later than February 15 of each year, commencing from 
February 15, 2000, carry out jointly with the Association, and in conjunction with the 
Borrower, a comprehensive annual project implementation review aimed at 
(i) documenting progress towards realization of the objectives of the Project; 
(ii) identifying and resolving obstacles to Project implementation; (iii) adjusting 
targets to reflect progress achieved in the implementation of the Project in the prior 
years and ensuring responsiveness to changes to effectively achieve the objectives of 
the Project; and (iv) discussing the work program and budget for the forthcoming year.
(b)
CWSA shall, not later than four weeks prior to the review referred to in 
(a) above, furnish to the Association a report, in such detail as the Association 
shall reasonably request, including an evaluation of the progress achieved in Project 
implementation.
(c)
Promptly after completing such reviews, CWSA shall carry out 
recommendations arising out of said reviews with due diligence and efficiency and in 
accordance with appropriate practices, taking into account the Association's comments 
thereon.
3.
CWSA shall: 
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Association, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof; 
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about March 31, a report integrating the results of 
the monitoring and evaluation activities performed, pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure 
the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof during the period following such date; and 
(c)
review with the Association, by June 30 or such later date as the 
Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section 
and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Association’s views on the matter.
4.
(a)
CWSA shall be responsible for providing overall guidance and for 
promoting, facilitating, supervising, monitoring, evaluating, and reporting on all 
Project activities. CWSA shall carry out Parts B and C of the Project directly through 
its own agents and staff.  
(b)
The District Assemblies or small towns, as the case may be, shall be 
responsible for the execution of Subprojects on behalf of, and in close coordination 
with, the communities. 
5.
CWSA shall, not later than six (6) months after the Effective Date, furnish to 
the Association for approval, (a) a staff development plan, (b) a staff compensation 
plan, and (c) terms of reference of heads of departments.
6.
Eligibility for Subprojects:
(a)
All districts, communities, and small towns which meet the following 
criteria shall be eligible for Grants under the Project and shall be allocated an 
investment ceiling each year by the regional water and sanitation team (RWST), in 
consultation with the regional authorities: 
(i)
in the case of districts, DAs shall have (A) contributed 5% of the 
investment 
cost of the anticipated Subprojects for the district, (B) 
appointed qualified 
technical staff to manage the implementation 
of Subprojects, (C) prepared a 
rolling district water and sanitation 
Page  9
plan (DWSP), and (D) submitted 
acceptable community Subproject 
proposals and associated procurement plans 
which meet the 
criteria described in the POM. 
(ii)
in the case of communities or small towns, (A) the communities or 
small towns 
shall have been selected initially by the DA based on 
criteria including 
poverty, service coverage, and conformity to 
the district development plans, 
and (B) the community or small towns 
shall have expressed willingness to 
contribute 5% of the cost, 
and to assume full responsibilities for, the 
operation and 
maintenance of selected facilities.  Only communities or small 
towns 
that have submitted an application shall receive technical assistance to 
prepare a funding proposal.  Proposals that fully meet the appraisal criteria 
shall be funded, on a first-come, first-serve basis.
(b)
All Subprojects shall include technical assistance and community 
development activities to enable the community to make informed choices, organize and 
ensure Subproject implementation (including contracting and works supervision) in a 
participatory manner, administer funds, and achieve the effective and sustained use of 
their facilities and, in the case of the community school proposals, to include 
clearly defined hygiene and sanitation promotion activities.  
(c)
The Subproject shall comply with the environmental requirements described 
in the POM. 
(d)
Notwithstanding the provisions of subparagraphs (a) through (c) above, 
the investment cost of water and sanitation Subprojects shall be financed through a 
10% contribution from the DA and the community (the community paying at least 5%).  
7.
CWSA shall ensure that Beneficiaries are involved in all stages of the 
Subproject cycle.  To that effect, each time a decision affecting a Subproject is made 
by the DA, on behalf of the Beneficiary, the Beneficiary shall be consulted and 
involved, through the appropriate channels, and in accordance with procedures 
specified in the POM, in approving all official documentation pertaining to Subproject 
implementation (contract award, payment certificates, completion certificates).  In 
this respect, CWSA shall enter into a Subproject Agreement with a DA as specified in 
the POM.
8.
Subproject Agreement
In financing Subprojects, CWSA shall enter into a Subproject Agreement with a 
DA.  The terms and conditions of the Subproject Agreement shall include provisions 
pursuant to which:
(a)
the DA shall be responsible for Subproject implementation with full 
Beneficiary participation;
(b)
financing shall be on a grant basis;
(c)
each DA shall be responsible for (i) implementing the Subproject in 
accordance with the provisions of the Subproject Agreement and the POM, with due 
diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound technical, financial, 
environmental, and managerial standards; and (ii) maintaining adequate records;
(d)
each DA shall have the obligation to report to CWSA on the progress made 
in the implementation of the Subprojects;
(e)
CWSA shall have the right to obtain all such information as CWSA or the 
Association shall reasonably request regarding Subproject implementation, 
administration, operations, and the financial condition of the DA and the benefits to 
be derived from the Subproject;
(f)
the goods, civil works and services to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Credit for Subprojects shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement; and
(g)
CWSA shall have the right to suspend or terminate the right of the DA to 
use the proceeds of the Credit for a Subproject upon failure by any such DA to perform 
any of its respective obligations under the Subproject Agreement.
Page  10
