Documnt of
The World Bank
FOR OMCAL USE ONLY
RqwRt No. 12719
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
SECOND HIGHWAY SECTOR PRO JECT
(LOAN 2428-HE)
FEBRUARY 2, 1994
MICROGRAPHICS
Psport No:        12719
Type: PCR
Country Department II
Infrastructure and Energy Operations Division
La.:in America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CLRRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit       -      Peso (Mex$)
US $1.00 (1984)     =      173
US $1.00 (1985)     =     257
US $1.00 (1986)     -     612
US $1.00 (1987)     =      1378
US $1.00 (1988)     =     2273
US $1.00 (1989)     =      2461
US $1.00 (1990)     =     2813
US $1.00 (1991)     =     3018
US $1.00 (1993)     =     3104*
* May 20, 1993
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
UNmr OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metdc                            British/US Equivalent
1 meter (m)            =         3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)       =         0.62 mile (mi)
1 kilogram (kg)        -         0.0022 pound (lb)
1 mezric ton (m ton)   =         2.205 pound Ob)
1 liter (t)                      0.26 gallons (gal)
ABBREVIATIONS
AADT         Annual Average Daily Traffic
BANOBRAS  National Bank of Public Works and Services (Banco Nacional de Obras y
Servicios Piblicos)
CyPF         Toll Road and Bridge Authority (Caminos y Puentes Federales)
ERR          Economic Rate of Return
IDB          Interamerican Development Bank (Banco Interamericano de Desarrollo)
SCT          Secretariat for Communications and Transport (Secretarfa de Comunicaciones y
Transporte)
SHCP         Secretariat for Finance and Public Credit (Secretarta de Hacienda y
Crddito Publico)
SHSP         Second Highway Sector Project
VOC          Vehicle Operating Costs



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
February 2, 1994
MENORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:   Project Completion Report on Mexico
Second Hfihway Sector Project (Loan 2428-ME)
Attached is a copy of the "Project Completion Report on Mexico -
Second Highway Sector Project (Loan 2428-ME)", prepared by the Latin America and
the Caribbean Regional Office. The report incorporates borrower findings on
implementation and borrower comments (Part II).
Project objectives were physical improvements to the highway network,
institution building in the tranaport sector, and government-Bank dialogue on
land transport issues, including freight regulation. The project was formulated
as sector lending, and it comprised the full road sector programs of three
consecutive years.
Implementation suffered a delay of 100X due to institutional inertia,
defective procurement procedures and lack of counterpart funds for civil works.
Change in government and the 1987 Bank reorganization were contributing factors.
The project was ultimately successful in achieving the intended physical
improvements.   However, the economics were disappointing: the re-estimated
economic rate of return was below 10S for about half of the investment and
negative for at least a third.  Project impact on institution building was
positive, though the PCR noted the difficulty of assessing a single project in
isolation of other initiatives in the sector. Noteworthy, in particular, were
advances in rural roads maintenance.
The overall project outcome is rated as marginally unsatisfactory,
institutional development as substantial - and sustainability as likely as the
government is fully committed to pursue the objectives underlying the project.
The PCR is a quality product.
The project may be audited.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without world Bank authorization.



FOR OmCIL USE ONLY
MEXICO
SECOND HIGHWAY SECrTOR PR1JECT
t IAN 2428-hME
PROJECT CO£PLETION REK)RT
CONTENTS
Pge No
PREACE  ................................................                                         i
EVALUATION SUMMLARY  .                  ..................................    ii-h
L PROJECT REVIEW  FROM  BANK'S PERSPECTIVE  .                          ................        1
A.   Project Idendty         ......................................    1
B.   ProjjctBtBar o                                                       ndgod ....................................    I
C.   Projec         tObbetives adDedDrscrioti   ...........................   2
D.   PzojectDeslpnand Orgnkation   ............................    4
E.   ProjeatImplementation..................................    6
F.   MainResultsof theProject ............                ...................   13
G.   ProjectSustainabiity  .      ..................................   14
H.   Bank Perormance .....................................  14
I.    PerforianceoftheBorrowerandof theExexwutingAg cy  ....1.......  is
J.  PtojectRelationships .................................... 16
K.   ConsultantandContractorServices  .........                .................   16
L.   ProjectDocumentadon  .         .................................   16
l PROJECT iEVIEW FROM BORROWERS PERS E .                                 .................  18
nLSTATISICAL DMFORMATION ....................................... 21
A.   RedBa nkd Loans ....................................  21
B.   Project  mietable ......................................  22
C.   Loan Daa ..........................................  23
() LoaDisnDW emenXt  ...............                  ..................   23
(ii) LoanAllocations ...................................  24
D.   ProjectCoossandFinancing ...............................  25
E.   Finnndcg Plan .            ......................................   26
F.   PrjeResdu R   ts.          ......................................   27
0. UseofBank Resuces                                    ..                              29
(I) Staff Iputs by Stage of Project Cycl in Staff Week  .....          ........  29
(1i)dIsionData ......................................  30
H.   ComplancewithLoanCovenants  ...........................  31
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



i
AMEXCO
SECOND HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
LOAN 2428 - ME
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
i.    This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Second Highway Sector
Pitject in Mexdco for which Loan 2428-ME in the amount of US$200.0 milion was
approved on May 29, 1984. The loan was closed on June 30, 1991, three years behind
schedule. It was fully disbursed and the last disbursement was made on January
13,1992. The Inter-Ametican Development Bank was a co-financier.
n.    The PCR was jointly prepared by the Infrastrucure and Energy Operations
Division of the Country Depatent II of the Lain America and the Caribbean Regional
Office (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and m), and the Borrower (Part I[).
iii.   Prparation of this PCR is based, interaia, on the Staff Apprisal Report, the
Presdent's Report, the Loan and Guarantee Agreements, supervision reports,
conespondence between the Bank a-dJ the Bonrower and intemnal Bank memoranda.



- ii -
MEXCO
SECOND HGHWAY SECTOR PROJET
LOAN 2428-ME
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EVALUATION SUARY
Objectives
i.   The Second Highway Sector Project (SHSP) was designed to help finance work
inidated under the First Highway Sector Project, as well as other works to be carried out
by SCT under its 1984-1986 investment program. In addition, the project was to include
a pilot component in five staes to improve rual roads maitenance. The project
objecdves, as described in the appraisal report, were:
(a) To improve congested sections of the national highway network, including
scons of the country's toil roads; upgrade substnard pavements and
extnd the paved network to developing areas;
(b) To stgtn  the planing and execution of reailitaoand peiodic
maintenance of rural roads and to help the Government to ddemine and
alocate an appropriate maintence budget;
(c) To strengthen plnning capabilities in the newly organized Geneal
Directorate for Planning in SCr for all transport modes;
(d) To maintain a continued dialogue with the Govemment on land tansport
pricing poiicies and to monitor progress on road and rail png i ; and
(e) To assess th benefits and costs of existing road freight reguatons, with a
view to assist the Govemment in fonnulating an appropriate policy.
Iplentton liLe
ii.  The physical component of the proect was implementedwith a 100% dme overrun
and cost undefruns and overruns in individual subprojects anging from -32% to +468%.
Delays in project exwution were due to lack of: (a) counterpart funds (paa. 20); (b)
subproects eligible for Bank financing (pam. 21); and (c) incentives for SCT to use loan
funds (parA. 26). Both in terms of physical achiaemets and the quality of the dialogue
with the Govemmet with respect to sector issues, project execution could be divided in
two distnct phases. Until 1990-1991 project eecution procede  extremely slowly.
Except for the first year of the project, in which about US$43.4 millions was disbursed,
disburements were always considerably behind appraisal estmates (paras. 14 and Par
ml, Table C). However, a major effort to accede  implemention wasuccesly
carried out in the months preceding, and immediately subsequent to loan dosmg when



- iii -
the Government (through SHCP) exercised financial pressure on SCT to use loan funds
and the Bank took a finn stance on further loan extensions (para. 32).
iii.  It was not until a new adminstaion took office in 1989, that the Government and
the Bank were able to address the problems that were affeaking the tansport sector in
particular and the portfolio in general, in the context of a very open dialogue on
economic policy issues. As a result, several measures to expedite project execution were
taen. At the same time, the opening of the Mexican economy and the far reaching
structura changes implemented by the new Administaton to attain efficiency and
increase competiion in the provision of transport senrices, benefitted from the secto
work that the Bank had carried out over time to address the major issues in the sector
(para. 40). With respect to the implementation of the project, the Government took the
nessary measures in 1990 to ensure that SCT: (a) had the proper incentives to use loan
funds (pam. 27); and (b) followed Bank procurement guidelines for Intemational
Competitive Bidding (pam. 23). These measures resulted in record disbursements during
the last semester of 1991.
Results
iv. The project was successful in achieving its main objective of improving congested
sections of the national highway network, including sections of the country's toll roads,
upgring substandard pavements and extending the paved network to developing areas.
An evaluatior of the expected econoi: ic rens of the investment under the project,
however, show that some of those investments wilU have an economic impact below
original etmates (pam. 36 and Part m, Table F).
V.   The project also had a positive impact in the administatn of nral road
maintenance, probably beyond what was ewected from this minor project component.
Regional SCTs systematized the prepamion and anmual updating of nral roads conditon
inventories, a pre-requte for Bank financing. Also, the higher degree of accountability
required for Bank disbursements, encouraged the contracting to the private sector of road
rehabilitation and improved the admiion of force account works (pan. 38).
vi.  It is difficult to assess the direct insfituonal impact of this individual project
towards a sophisticated Borrower like Mexico, where Bank infence in policy and
insttutional changes can be ascribed to a substantive high level policy dialogue supported
by a large and diversified loan portfolio. Nevertheless, the project did: (a) through the
discussions on the investment progmm, focus attention of the Bank and the Borrower,
on the need to shift expendiures from road constucton to road maintance (subsequent
Bank projects for the road subsector finance of road rehabiliton and maintenance); (b)
encouraged the Government to improve works proglamming and preaation of multi-
anmal budgetary projectons; and (c) improved SCT's procurement p(actices (a. 39).
vii. During the preparation and implemnation of the First and Second Highway Sector
Loans, the Bank did raise in its discssions with the Mexican Government, the main



- Iv -
sector issues related to road pi.2ing and regulations. Although these discussions were
not fully reflected in the project conditionality they were the subject of several studies,
Bank sector-work and sector memoranda. Trhus, when the new administration that took
office in 1989 decided to deregulate road transport and eliminate most of the subsidies
to road users, it could rely on a body of theoretical and empirical work to support its
measures, that the Bank had been instrumental in developing (para. 40).
Project Susainabilit
vMi. The project L susinable. Most of the expected benefits from the project,
accruing to road users through reduced vehicle operating costs, should materalize.
Trffic growth is expected to either continue at past ates or even accelerate with the
implementation of NAFTA. Increased road maintenance budgets are anticited in the
short and medium term, which should result in an improved level of road serviceability
and gradual reduction of the highway sector mainnce bacldog (pan. 41).
Lessons Leared
ix. The main lesson offered by this project underlines the importance of ensuring up
front the commitment to the project of the Borrower and of AU the other agets imortant
for project implementation, In the case of the SHSP, it was clear that only when the
Government placed pressure on SCT to use Bank fands, the project started to move at
a satisfactory rate (para. 50).
X.   Another impootant lesson is that most of the bathoughs to accelerate project
execution were achieved in the framework of high level meetings to discuss overall
implementation issues and relations for the country's portfolio. These semi-annual
Country Strategy Implementation Review (CSIR) meeings proved extremely helpful and
they confirm the soundness of the Bank stmegy to focus on pervasive portfolio issues
across projects and sectors to find those common problems that cannot be addessed at
the project level (pam. 51).
xi   The project does point out one other important issue that the Bank will need to
address more specifically with respect to sector lending in countries like Mexico. Sector
lending is assumed to reduce the amount of Bank staff time necessary >r routine project
supervision and to concentrate on policy and other key implementation issues. In
practice, however, the Bank required considerably more time for this project to review
the investment program and procurement documents for Bank financed cor.tacts, than
in an investment loan (para. 52).



MCO
SECOND HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
LOAN 2428-ME
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
A.   Project Idetity
Project Name:           Second Highway Sector Project
Loan No.   :            2428-ME
RVP Unit   :            Latin America and ITe Caribbean Region,
Country Department II
hifrastructure and Energy Operations
Division
Country     :           United Mexican States
Sector      :           Transportaion
B.   Project
1.   During the 1960s and early 1970s, substantal amounts were invested in
Mico's trasport sctor, particularly in roads, railways and aviation. The network
that was in place at the time was considered sufficient to meet expected demands.
The sector, therefore, did not pose a constraint to economic growth. Hence fom the
mid seventies emphasis was placed on operational improvements and on pricing, and
ansport investments were used to foster decentralization and the development of
outlying areas. Tan t investments declined from 21% of total pubLc sector
investment in 1972 to under 10% less tan a decade later. However, the accleated
development generated by the oil boom in the late 1970s resulted in unecedet
growth in transport demand and revealed serious def T;encies in tranSport operations
and infrastruct  affecting both internal as well as ini;aaional trade (especially on
shipments through ports) between 1978 and 1982. The Government responded to the
new demand by incresing real investments in the railways by 173%, ports by ten-
fold and highways by 86% between 1978 and 1981.
2.   The First Highway Sector Project (Loan 1671-ME, for US$120.0 million,
approved in March 1979) was to support the Government's efforts to expand and
"modeize (widening roads from 2 to 4 lanes) the road network. To avoid the
shortcomings of the Seventh Highway Project (Loan 968-ME, 1974) which took
almost nine years to disburse, it was decided to use a more aexible leading
instrument, financing a time-slice of the Goverment's road investnent progmam.
After a slow start, to a great extent caused by Mexiwo's 1982 debt crisi, funds from
Lon 1671-ME were fully committed in December 1983, although not all the
individual subprojects had been completed. Of the 41 subprojects in the original



- 2-
proposal, only 28 were eventually constructed and only 6 completed before loan funds
were exhausted. (Tbe remaining 22 were to be completed under the subject project).
3.    The Second Highway Sector Project (SHSP) was designed to continue the
financing of a time-slice of Mexico's road investment program initiated under the
First Highway Sector Project. The transfer of resources through the loan, in
conjunction with Bank support for the railways, was expected to be particularly
relevant in 1984-1985, the last two years of the Government's then on-going
sblization program. This comprehensive Bank involvement in the transport sectoi
was part of a stategy to maintain a close policy dialogue with the Govermnent on the
main subsector issues, partiularly on land transport pricing. The Government's
indication that it wanted substantial Bank involvement in the sector (mainly through
relatively quick disbursing lending operations), coupled with important actions already
taken to address some of the sector issues (para. 4), were considered sufficient
evidence that the Bank could effectively influence progress in key sector areas.
4.    The new admiistraton which assumed office in late-1982, as a first step,
combined aU transport modes under one 1iinistry, the Secretariat of Communications
and Transport (SCI), and then proceeded to establish a Planing Directorate in SCT
to deal with all modes. Formerly, policy-making, planning, administration,
construction and operations had been dispersed among many separate ministries and
agencies. The reorganiZAtion also faclitated coordination of investment priorities and
made them more compatible with national transpot policy objectives and budgetary
constaints. Most importantly, the Govemment made it clear that it was ready to
implement substantial refonns in railway tariffs and road user charges, issues on
which previous Bank concerns regarding the possible impact of prcing distortions on
mod-l choice had only limited impact. In particular, the government expressed its
commitment to reduce subsidies and took actions affecting the transport sector, such
as rasing fuel prices and rail triffs and eliminating tax benefits to the automotve
industry. The SHSP was to support Grovemment efforts in reviewing the costs of
monopolistic practces in the road freight industry and the possible suboptimal use of
tne existing toll road infrastructure.
C.   Project Objectives and Description
Project Objetes
5. The SHSP was to continue to help finance the work-s initiated under the First
Highway Sector Project (see para. 2), as well as other works to be carried out by
SCT under its 1984-1986 investment program. In addition, the project was to include
a pilot component in five states to improve nual roads m nce. The project
objectives, as described in the staff appraisal report, were to help:



-3 -
(a)  imnprove congested sections of the national highway network, including
sections of the country's toll roads; upgrade substandard pavements and
extend the paved network to developing areas;
(b)   strengthen the plnting and execution of rebabilitation and periodic
maintenance of rural roads and to help the Government to determine
and allocate an appropriate maintenance budget;
(c)   stengthen planning capabilities in the newly orgaie Geal
Directorate for Planning in SCT for all transponi modes;
(d) maintain a continued dialogue with the Government on land tansport
pricing policies and to monitor progress on road and rail pricing issues;
and
(e)   assess the benefits and costs of exing road freight regulations, with a
view to assist the Govemment in formulating an appropriate policy.
Projet DeciptIon
6.    The loan of US$200 million was made to the National Bank for Public Works
and Services (BANOBRAS), the Government's financial agent for infrastucue
financing with SCT as the executing agency. It was intended to finance part of the
1984-1986 time-slice of SCT's 1984-1988 investment program, based on the expeced
rate of execution for candidate subprojects. In 1984-1986, SCT was exected to
spend US$1.6 billion on road works (excluding rural road construction) with a foreign
exchange component of about US$0.5 billion. The loan represented 12% of the total
program and 37% of foreign exchange requirements. The main components were as
follows:
(a)  the civil works component (about 82% of total proyect cost), which
would help to fmance the constucion, reconstuction and
modernization of sections of the federal road network including toll
roads;
(b)   the mral roads component (about 18% of total project cost), which
would help to finance the rehabilitation and periodic maintenance
including regraveling, spot improvements and betterment of sections of
the SCT ural roads network; and
(c)  the technical cooperation component (about 0.1% of total project cost),
which provided funding for consultant services.



-4 -
7.    The Bank loan was approved on May 29, 1984, signed on August 8, and
became effecdve on November 27, 1984 after a one month postponement. An Inter-
American Development (IDB) loan providing US$64.0 million towards the financing
of SCT's mOad investment progtam was also approved by EDB's board also on May
29, 1984, the same date as the Bank Loan. (The project timetable is given in Part
m, B).
D.   Project Design and Organization
8.   The project was designed as a follow-up of the First Highway Sector Project
and shared the same conceptual foundation. The SHSP focused on completing the
expansion of the road network initaed under Loan 1671-ME, a Justified approach
considering that: (i) there was a need to relieve congestion in important sectors of the
rad network; and (ii) there were already important sunk cost incurred in some of the
major subprojects (partcularly innational bridges), which increased the economic
soundness of completing works that were already at an advanced stage of execution,
even when some of them were clearly premate (pan. 36). During project
preation, however, the issue of the balance between expansion and m nce of
the network was at the forefront of project design, and the agreed 1984 budget
included an increase in the allocation of road expenditures for maintenance from 33%
to 38%. In the follow-on project, the Highway Maintenance Project, Loan 2875-ME,
for US$135 million equivalent, which was approved in October, 1987, the Bank
shifted its emphasis away from expansion of the network and toward rehabilitatic
and maintenance of the existng inastructue.
9.    The project was designed using a sectoral, time-slice approach which was felt
to be a rnore flexible instrument than financing specific subprojects, as well as better
suited to address sector policy issues. Although the rationale under sector lending of
quicker disbursement was somewhat undennined by the budgetary process (pam. 20)
the broader benefits of using sector lendinw, i.e. allowing the Bank to participate in
the review of the road investment program, were still valid. Also, if the sector
format had not been applied, particularly after the First Sector Loan, the Bank would
not have had the possibility of participating in the major policy issues which began
during the then ongoing administration and culminated with the present
administration. It should be noted that the Bank involvement in transport sector
policy issues in Mexico very seldom were translated into Government obligations in
the legal documents. Nevertheless, the rich policy dialogue under the First and
Second Highway Sector Loans resulted in an important body of Bank sector work and
economic memoranda which contributed to provide the intellectual underpinning for
the sector structural changes implemented by the present administration (para. 15).
10. Project design was enhanced by the experience gained under Loan 1671-ME.
In particular, to avoid the problem encountered during the First Highway Sector
Project, the SHSP included measures to: (i) improve the methodology for the



- 5 -
economic evaluation of subprojects avoiding common underestimation of costs and/or
double counting; and (ii) avoid the excessive substitution of subprojects in the
investment program (which plagued the previous loan) through the initial restriction
of Bank financing to the continued execution of civil works contracts pertaing to
eligitle subprojects approved under the First Highway Sector Project. Not all the
additional subprojects were expected to be financed until their completion, since loan
funds were supposed to be depleted earlier. Although most contracts were expected
to be completed witiin six months of the full disbursement of the loan, SCT agreed
to complete the works stll under construction when loan funds were exhausted in
accordance to a schedule defined for each unfinished subproject.
11.   The designl of the project benefitted from the merger of the Port and Railways
Division with the Kighways Division in the Bank's Latin American and Caribbean
Region, which encouraged a more comprehensive view of transport sector issues in
Mexico. In fact, the prxject was prepared as part of a sequence of loans for the
tansport sector which included Bank assistance to the railways in 1985. Processing
of the railway loan was to be tied to progress in the implementation of pricing
reforms in land transport. This was a complete deparue from the First Highway
Sector Project, which had no major sectoral objectives outside the physical
improvement of the road network (i.e. both roads and railways). Also, the
Government agreed to have periodic consultations with the Bank on designing,
implementing and monitoring pricing policy reforms, a substantial improvement from
previous opeaions in which the Government had resticted the scope of the Bank's
policy dialogue. Project conditionality however, continued to be limited to
completion of studies and exchange of views between the Bank and the Government
on key sector issues (see Part m, H for the description of the main legal covenants).
12.   The sectoral issues expected to be partially or fuly addressed under the project
were: (a) user charges in the road subsector, for which the project included a study
and provisions for the subsequent exchange of views between the Bank and the
Government; (b) improvements in nual roads administraion, through the financing of
road rehabilitation in five pilot states subsequent to the completion of road inventories
satisfactory to the Bank; (c) optma utilization of the existing road infrastructure in
the case of toll roads and their free alternatives, for which the project included semi-
annual reviews of traffic in toll and free roads and a review of depreciation
procedures in the Toll Road and Bridge Authority; and (d) review of the freight
transport industry, with a view toward assisting the Government in changes in the
egultory framework. These issues, together with the need to reduce the bacldog of
road rehabilitation and maintenance, correctly reflected the priority problems to be
addressed in the sector.
13.  It was agreed during project preparation that since the issue of fuel pricing had
implications beyond the scope of the SHSP and the transport sector in general, it
would be dealt with outside the context of a single project. Instead, substantive
consultation with the Secreiat of Finance and Public Credit (SHCP) was expected to



-6-
be conducted in the framework of economic and sector work. Fuel pricing
agreements were subsequently reached in the context of the Transport Air Quality
Management Project for the Metropolitan Area of Mexico, Loan 3559-ME.
E.   Project Implementatio
(i) General Overview
14.  The physical component of the project was implemented with a 100% time
ovenin and cost underuns and ovemms in individual subprojects rnging from -32%
to +468%. Delays in project execution were due to lack of: (a) counterpart funds
(par. 20); (b) subprojects eligible for Bank financing (pam. 21); and (c) incentives
for SCT to use loan funds (pam 26). Both in terms of physical achievements and the
quality of the dialogue with the Government with repect to sector issues, project
execution could be divided in two distinct phases. Until 1990-1991 project execution
proceeded extremely slowly. Except for the first year of the project, in which about
US$43.4 million was disbursed, almost until the last semester before closing,
disbursements were always behnd appraia estimates, ranging from US$1.3 million
to US$12.9 million per semester, as compared to the appraisal expected disbursements
of about US$25 million per semester. During the first year, disbursements were
substantially above avenage because of the US$20 million retoactive financing for
woks initiated under the First Highway Sector Project. Also, after the 1985
earhquake, the Govermment requested the Bank to increase the disbursement rate
from 35% to 70% to finance, in,r-a. some reconstruction works, including the
seriously damaged SCT bilding (para. 32). This resulted in a boost in disbursements
during the following year.
15. Two institutional factors contributed to delays in project implementation: the
change in the adminisrtion in Mexico in November, 1988 and the Ban's internal
reorganizaton in 1987. Once these transitions were completed, both parties took a
fresh look at the problems that were affecting the portfolio in general and the
transport sectr in particular. With respect to the implementation of the project, the
Government took the necessary measures in 1990 to ensure that SCT: (a) had
adequate incentives to use loan funds (para. 27); and (b) followed Bank prouent
guidelines for Interntional Competitive Bidding (para. 22). These measures and SCT
renewed interest in Bank assisance resulted in disbursements of US$47.8 million
during the last semester of 1991. Although project implementation would have
improved if the remedial actions would have been tabn earlier, it is doubtful that
that would have been possible in the midst of the nonnal disnrutions caused by the
changes both in the Bank and the Government of Mexico.
16.  With repect to tansport sector policies, the new administration embarked in a
profound reform of the sector, implementng several far-reaching measures, some
surpassing substantally those advocated by the Bank since project preparation:



trucking was deregulated (partially with Bank support under the Industral Sector
Policy Loan and the Road Tansport and Telecommunications Sector Adjustment
Project, Loan 3207-ME, May 3, 1990.); fuel subsidies were eliminated; cost recovery
is also being improved through the concessioning of the road network, incrases in
diesel prices and the gadual revision of road user charges, and, more recently, the
Govemment started to take actions to restructure the railways and ports subsectors
and increase the parcipaton of the private sector in their operation. The following
paragraphs discuss in greater deail the implementation of each project component,
and the major issues affecting them.
17.  (ii) Implementation of the Federal Highway Component.1/ Albeit with
substantial cost and time ovemms (paras. 34 and 35), almost 2000 km of highways
were constructed under this component, which included wors carried over from the
First Highway Sector Project. Subprojects financed under the loan included: i) 666
km of new constrction, of which 479 km were to two lane standard, 175 km to 4
lane standard, and 12 km to 6 lane standard; ii) almost 1090 km of modernizaion,
mostly to 4 lane standard but incling a few short sections to 6 and 8 lane standard;
iii) rehabilitation of 57 kn; iv) paving of 125 km; and v) the constructon of about 24
km of brdges and other stuctures. This extensive program was carried out at a cost
of about US$1 billion.
18.  About US$181.1 million of loan fiuds were allocated to this project
component, only about 2% below the apprais estimate. Appoximely 70% of loan
funds were used to complet the works carried over from the First Highway Sector
Project and the remainder on works initated under the SHSP. Of the 48 contacts
carried over from the Loan 1671-ME, 35 were completed under the SHSP, 7 were
suspended or abandoned, and 6 were rebid and continued without Bank fiancing.
Regarding the 111 contracts initiated under the SHSP, 90 were completed by the loan
closing date, one was abandoned, nine were rebid and continued without Bank
financing, and 11 were being completed with Government funds according to a
schedule agreed with the Bank.
19.  (iii) Rural Roads Component. It was envisaged at appraisal that the
Government, after discussions with the Bank, would select during project
imnlementation five pilot states which would be targeted for financing under the nural
roads rehabilitation and maintenance component of the project. The selection was to
be based on the maintenance need of the state and the ability of SCT to carry out a
condition inventory and to develop an annual perodic maintenance program in a
timely manner. After a slow start, mostly due to the lack of familiarity of the state
agencies with Bank operations, the rural roads component was successfully executed.
Although a relatively small component, it was expanded from the originally expected
1/    Because the loan financed a time-slice of a program of undefined works, no physical
targets were established at appraisal. Financial targets are discussed in para 34.



- 8-
five pilot states to include all 31 states. Mexico's long experience in lural road works
contributed to the success of this component. Most of the works were carried out by
force account, but contacted rual road rehabilitation increased significandy duritg
the project. Between 1987 and 1991, approximately 6900 km of rual roads were
rehabiltatd or improved under the project at a total cost of US$19.92 million.
Moreover, prpration of annual road condition inventories and ppation of rumal
roads rehabion and maintenance programs were systemaized in the 31
participatng states. About US$16.9 million of loan funds were allocated to this
component, 21 % above the appraisal estmate of US$14 million. The project
flexdbility to allow the works to be carried out through force account contrbuted to
the success in impleme  this project component.
20.  (iv) Tedhnical Asistne Component. The project financed about US$1.4
milhon of technical assistance of which about 70% were for a Road Transport Plan
which was carried out with assistance of a French consulting firm. The quality of the
work was satisfactory, and the rsulting study served as a basis for the Government's
subsequent short and medium-run road investment programs. The remainder was
largely utilized for several small individual studies dealing with road user charges,
updagt  road progams and identfying or preparing specific road projects. At
appraisal it was esimated that US$1 million of technical assistance would be financed
under the project.
(v) Main Implee tio
21.  (a) Countert Funding. Lack of sufficient countert funding, mainly due
to severe budgetauy constints, was initially identfied as one of the main causes for
lack of progres in project implemenation. The Bank supported the macoeconomic
policies of the Govemment which required a reduction in public expenditur  to
eliminate the public sector deficit. However, in additon to being below the levels
expected during apprisal, the budgets were tinly spread over the whole network,
with small amounts allocated to those contrcts financod under the project. In fact,
the lack of incentives for SCT to use loan funds, and investment programs that
allocated scarce funds on the basis of other than economic criteria, compounded the
effect of Hmited budgets.
22.  (b) ProJect Eligbilt. Progress in project implementation suffered from a
shortage of sub-projects eligible for Bank financing. The problem was caused in part
by submission of subprojects that the Bank considered prematre or without sufficient
economic merits. In addition, in some cases of otherwise eligible subprojects the
Bank's procurement guidelines were not followed. Contracts were rejected for a
number of reasons, including iadequate justification and failure to include an
adequate analysis of bids to support the recommendation for award or proposed
awards to other than the lowest bidder without adequate reasons. A further cause for
delays in project execution was SCT's laxity in contract letting and admition,
again a result of failure to follow Bank guidelines. Specific shortcomings included:



(i) absence of clearly defined bid evaluation procedures; ii) too short a time allowed
for bidding; iii) inadequate justification for rejection of low bids; iv) quantity
increases in excess of allowed limits and clearance with the Bank; v) addition of items
not originally included in the contract without pnor clearance with the Bank; and vi)
transer of contract work to other than the original contractor when substantial work
remained.
23.  A major step towards resolving the procurement problems that were affecting
the subject project as most of the Bank's Mexican loan portfolio, took place in 1991,
when the Bank and the Govement, after extensive negotations, agreed on what
became known as the "Cuernavaca Documents". These documents standardized the
bidding for all Bank financed projects in Mexico. After the adoption of the
Cuermvaca Documents, procurement was substandally improved, pardicularly by
SCT's which adhered to the Ban's procures for international competitive bidding.
24.   Problems were also encountrd with the economic justification of some of the
projects submitted for Bank financing. The modus operandi developed for project
implementaion was based on the assessment, at apprisal, that the executing agency
had a satisfactory planning capability. Plui-anmual road investment programs were to
be updated annually and discussed with the Bank, fadhtating thereafter Bank appoval
of prjects within the agreed program. Although SCT complied with the letter of the
covenant, it was extremely difficult for both SCT and the Bank to fulfi its spirit.
The chalenge in a large road investment program as in M[exico is to establish a
balance between types of prqects and how to approach and design the marial works
which would not normally be prsented for Bank financing. Becase of the sheer size
and complexity of Mexico's road investment program, it required very substartfil
supervision time to monitor the progm  on a pemanet basis. Moreover, as it
tred out, the Bank slowly moved away from the detiled evaluation of most
subprjects witiin the Government's sector investment program (contary to present
practice the sector investment program as a whole did not have to be saisfactory to
the Bank) to the analysis of only those subprojects rqiring Bank financing. In
retrospect, the reasos for the change seems to be explained by: (a) a realstic
recognition of the Bank's limited abiity  influnce pacular investments it was not
fiuding dirly, (b) lack of staff contnuity and time to meaningfillly carry out an
evaluation of all major projects in the sector investment program, which requires very
extensive knowledge of the Mexican network to be effective; and (c) the Bank's
decision to rightly concentae its efforts in eng the overall soundness of the
program based on: (i) the concentration of available investment resources to complete
ongoing proects, avoiding the start of new works; and (ii) an acceptable balance
between construction and m nce, given budget constints.
25.   Although SCT has a cadre of able professionals, the evaluaion process mostly
became a mechanistic exmcise to satis  Bank requiments, and not a step in the
decision making process. In seveal cases SCT proposed for Bank fiancing large
projects with insufficient jusdficato, which were rejected. Although the need to



- 10 -
improve economic evaluations, including the study of less costly technical
alternatives, was discussed at length in several supervision missions, progress in this
area was only marginal. The issue became moot after the project came to a close,
due to the decision to rely on the private sector to construct and operate toll roads,
lmiting new construction by SCT to a minimum. However, the toll road scheme as
developed (without Bank involvement) has sarted to encounter some problems that
are being addressed in the context of Bank economic and sector work.
26.  (c) Incentives to Use Loan Funds. By early 1989, it was clear that SCT had
no incentives to use Bank funds, as budget funds without the onerous Bank econoumic
evaluation and procurement requirement were readily available, up to SCT's annual
highway budget ceiling. Government budgetay funds were easier to use than Bank
funds. Also, whenever contracts were approved for Bank financing, it took an
inornate amount of time for the intemal processing of disbursement requests, which
involved both SCr and BANOBRAS. Requests for disbursements were often made
about two years aft expenditures were incurred and paid, and loan funds were
disbursed at the prevailing rate of exchange which due to constant devaluation resulted
in a much lower dollar equivalent.
27.   Following extensive discussions concerning Government budgety procedures
for Bank projects which included the possibility of cancelling the loan for the subject
project and also for the ongoing Road  innce Project (Loan 2875-ME), the
Govetnment took steps to improve its budgtar procedures to encourage SCT to
draw on the proceeds of the Bank loans and accelerate disements. In pancular
(i) from the beginning of the anal budget process the Govemment identified those
projects to be financed with Bank funds and defined the share of the budget that was
expected to be financed by the Bank; failure to draw on this alocaion could not be
offset by using additional gener budgetay rurces. Thus for SCT the choice was
either to use Bank funds or to reduce its investments accordingly; (ii) SCT staned to
sticty follow Bank procuent guidelin; (iii) SCT improved the monitoring of
project performance; and (iv) internl procedures in SCT and Banobras were
steamlined to accelet the prmcesing of disem   requests. Also, SCT
requesed, and the Bank agreed, to incre   the ceiling for individual civil works
contacts under local competitive bidding from US$5 million up to an aggregate of
US$50 million equivalent. The latter step was designed to speed up and put
procurement more in line with reality, as foreign firms had not shown any interest in
ening the Mexican market, and were not bidding on ICB prement.
28.  (d) Cost Overus. About 37% of the subprojects faced sbstanl cost
overruns in real terms. Cost increases were, mostly caused by SCT's contracting
practice, which de-facto involves recont.acting woris every year, according to budget
availability. As a result, wors which c rld reasonably be expected to require two to
thre years to complete, took five to se   "sars. Delays were exacelated by the
practice to initiat new projects when ther. were still many others in the process of
implementation. Additional costs were incurred by: a) lack of adequate engineering



- 11 -
designs at bidding time; b) the increased number of contractor mobilizations and de-
mobilizations; c) added works due to deterioration during extended work stoppages;
and d) higher escalation charges due to extended contract periods. A detailed rview
of the civil works contracts financed under the project was carried out by the Bank
following project completion. It found that of 159 contracts, 48 had been canied
over from the First Highway Sector Project and 111 contracts had been initiated under
the SHSP. By the end of the project, 21 contracts were sill unfinished either due to
suspension, rebidding or works still underway. Thus 138 contracts were completed
under the project.
29.   To determine the extent and causes of cost and time overuns, contracts were
analyzed according to major causes of cost overuns as shown below. The various
causes were found to be frequently interrelated and contracts were often affected by
more than o.- cause which was why the percentages below exceed 100%.
No. of
contracts
a. Increase of quantities but basically same design.  12   (7%)
b. Additional work items.                      31  (19%)
c. Substantial modification to design.          7    (4%)
d. Cause fbr overrun not Inown.                21  (13%)
e. No substantial overruns.                   100  (63%)
30.  In general, cost and time overruns were the result of four basic flaws in the
management of highway construction projects in Mexico: i) inadequate engineering
iesign and specifications of the subprojects, mainly with regard to foundation work
and soil studies (particularly for the brdges), which required during the construction
phase costly modifications; ii) the budget allocation procedure, which required that all
contracts be validated on a yearly basis. The resulting disruptions led to unplanned
stops and starts, idle crews and equipment and related problems which caused long
implementation delays and higher costs for the contactor, which were then passed on
to SCT; and iii) defective procurement documents and procedures, that at least up to
1990, limited competition and resulted in inadequate bid preparation and award of
conats to other than the lowest bidder.
Procurement
31.   As already noted, the Bank freqently refused to approve subprojects under the
civil woriks component due to failure to follow the Bank's procurement guidelines.
Adherence to Bank guidelines improved towards the end of the project when standard
bidding documents (the Cuernavaca Documents) were developed and agreed upon.
As SCT's fmiliarty with Bank guidelines increased, its reluctance to strictly adhere
to them diminished. The Government's Project Completion Report (see Part 11)



- 12 -
explicitly mentions that the Executing Agency has now a much more positive attitude
toward working with multilateral financial organizations.
Disbursements
32.   Loan funds were fully disbursed and the final disbursement was made on
January 13, 1992, six and a half months after the revised closing date of June 30,
1991, which was extended on an annual basis three times, as shown in Part m, Table
C(i). (These extensions were conditioned to the preparation and subsequent
implementation of work progmams to complete ongoing subprojects). As alrnady
noted, disbursements strted off well but gradually fell behind the appraisal estimate,
especially during FYs 1988-89. Disbursements picked up again in FYs 1990-91 and
acceleated greatly in FY 1992 following the implementation of incentives for SCT to
use Bank loan funds.
33.   The pari-passu for Bank participation in subproject financing was revised
several times during project execution. In the case of civil woris in Federal
Highways, the appraisal-expected disbursement rates were 70% until June 30, 1985
and 35% thereafter. Disbursements at the 70% rate was extended until December 31,
1986, to take into account the additional need for funds caused by the 1985
earthquake. On July 1, 1988 disbursement rates were again increased from 35% to
45%, due to the fact that the delays in implementing the project, the rapid devaluation
of the Mexican peso, and the lag between the time in which expenditures were
incurred and disbursements were effected, had substantally eroded real Bank
participation in sector financing. Similar revisions took place in the disbursement of
funds for the rual roads component. The originally agreed disbursement rates were
70% until June 30 1985; 50% from July 1, 1985 to June 30, 1986; and 35%
thereafter. The actual rates were: 70% until December 31, 1986; 30% from January
1, 1987 to December 31, 1987; 35% from January 1, 1988 to June 30, 1988; and
45% thereafter. In spite of the continuous revisions of the disbursement rates, the
Government estmated that the Bank financed 8% of the investment program, rather
than the 12% envisaged at appraisal. The difference is mostly due to the increase in
real terms of the cost of the program and to the loss in the dollar equivalent actually
reimbursed by the Bank as a result of the Govenmment's delays in requesdng the
disbursement of loan funds and the Bank's policy to disburse at the exchange rate
prevailing at the time of the disbursement request (as opposed to the time in which the
expenditure was incurred).
Projed Costs
34. The total cost of the project estimated at appraisal was US$1,601.5 million
with a foreign exchange component of US$541.2 million. However, this estimate
included an item for the maintenance of trunk roads which was not Bank financed.
By netting out this item, the adjusted total cost of the project is reduced to US$940
million with a foreign exchange component of about US$340 million. The estimated



- 13 -
total cost at completion was US$1,202.5 million with a foreign exctange component
of US$478.1 million.
35.   As the project consisted of a time slice of undefined works at the time of
appraisal, appraisal and final costs of the project cannot be compared. However, final
subproject costs were often substantially higher than those estimated at the time of
subproject appraisal. Cost overrun of 32% were incurred on the contracts carried
over from the First Highway Sector Project, for which about 70% of loan funds were
used. (For more data on costs see Part m, F). Cost overruns, however, were
substantially reduced in those contracts initiated during the project.
F.    Main Results of the Project
36.   The project was successful in achieving its main objective of improving
congested sections of the national highway network, including sections of the
country's toll roads, upgrading substandard pavements and extending the paved
network to developing areas. An evaluation of the expected economic returns of the
investments under the project, however, show that some of those investments will
have an economic impact below the level orginally expected. A sample of 17
subprojects was subjected to an economic reevaluation. The results are shown in Part
m, Table F. The estimates for the ER's at the time of approval of individual
subprojects ranged from 14% to 72%. Actual EER's were consistently below original
estimates. In fact, about 54% of the amounts invested in the sample projects, have
expected returns below the cut-off rate for Bank financing of 12%. If two major
works, Puente Tampico and Puente Coaftacoalco, are excluded from the sample,
about 70% of the remaining investments are expected to have economic retums above
12%. These two major bridges, initiated under the First Highway Sector Project,
represent about 33% of the investments, and both have negative EER's. Problems
encountered with the construction of these bridges are discussed in the PPAR for the
First Highway Sector Project (Report No. 6896 of July 20, 1987). In addition to
having suffered cost overruns of about 180% and 66%, respectively, actual traffic is
about half original expectatons. Although traffic in these bridges could improve with
a better toll policy, it is clear that those investments wtre premature.
37.   The fact that construction progressed at a satisfactory rate once the fmancial
resources were available, despite the often preliminary designs available at the time of
bidding and the sometimes unexpected site conditions, is evidence that an effective
procedure is in place for evaluating problems and quicldy makdng the decisions
necessary to allow construction to continue.
38.   The project did have a positive impact in the administion of rural road
maintenance, probably beyond what was expected from this project component.
Regional SCT offices systematized the prepartion and annual updating of rural roads
condition inventories, a pre-requisite for Bank fnancing. Also, the higher degree of



- 14-
accountability required for Bank fundig, encouaged the contracting to the private
sector of road rehabilitation and improved the aministation of force account works,
39. It is difficult to assess the direct institutional impact of an individual project on
a sophisticated borrower like Mexico, where much of the Bank's impact on policy and
institutional changes can be ascribed to a comprehensive high level policy dialogue
supported by a diverse loan portfolio. Nevertheless, the project helped: (a) through
the discussions on the annual sector investment program, to focus the attention of the
Bank, the Guarntor and the Borrower on the need to shift expenditures from road
construction to road mainnance. (Subsequent Bank projects for the road subsector
concentrate on financing road rhbilitation and maintenance); (b) to encourage the
Govenmment to improve wors programming and preparation of multi-annual
budgetary projections; and (c) to improve SCT's procurement practices.
40.   During the preparation and implementation of the Fint and Second Highway
Sector Lans, the Bank did raise in its discussions with the Meican Government, the
main sector issues related to road pricing and regulations. Although these issues are
not fully efcted in the project conditionality, they were the subject of several
sties, Bank sector-work and sector memoranda. Thus, when the new adminisaon
that took office in late 1988, decided to deregulate road transport and eliminate some
of the road user subsidies, it could rely on a body of theoretical and empirical work
to support its measures, that the Bank was instrumental in developing.
G.   Project Su bi
41.  The project is sustinable. Most of the expected benefits from the project,
accruming to road users through reduced vehicle operating costs, should materialize.
Traffic growth is expected to either continue at past rates or even accelerate with the
implementation of NAFrA. Increased road mance budgets are anticipated in
the short to medium term, which should result in an improved level of road
serviceability and gradual reduction of the highway sector maintenance backlog.
H.   Bank Peformance
42.  With the assistanc of exerienced Bank staff the project was well prepared in
a short period of time. Preparation of the SHSP was caried out in close coordination
with that of the Railway Project which was presented to the Board one year later
(Loan 2575-ME, 6111/85, US$300 million). The reorganizaion of the LAC
Tansport Division in 1983 to cover all forms of trsport (par 11) and followed the
reorganization of Mexican modal agencies, under a single Government agency, helped
in the design of the strategy for the Transport Sector in Mexico.



- 15 -
43.   Project execution was supervised by the Bank through satisfactorily spot
checks, to the degree Wropriate for a sector type project. The supervision reports
were well prepared and provide adequate information on the progress of the work.
Furthermore, Bank staff carried out a very heavy volume of work in reviewing over
150 subprojects throughout the execution period. SCT's earlier lack of compliance
with agreed procedures and procurement gidelines added considerably to the work of
Bank staff. Apart from supervision visits, SCT staff visited the Bank from time to
time, which facilitated coordination between the Bank, the Executing Agency and the
Borrower. Bank staff made extensive visits to the field on most of their trips to
Mexico to inspect ongoing works. They gave particular attention to the niral roads
component and encouraged the expansion of that program. (See Part m, G (i) and
(ii)).
44.   The Bank was far too optimistic as to the time needed to carfy out the project,
and in anticipating that the loan would be "very quick disbursing", and would "avoid
the problems which had delayed the earlier sector project". In retrospect, the Bank
substntially underestmated the extent of Mexico's budgetary constraints and the
problems which would be encountered in executing the project. The outcome was
that project completion was delayed over three and one half years.
45.   On the institional side, the Bank became progressively more effective,
developing with SCT a relationship of openness and trust which appears to be
extremely productive. The Bank studied the major issues facing the sector, though
its BSW, thus providing a sound underpinning to its sector dialogue with the
Government, and developing credibility and support for its recommendations.
I.    Performance of the Borrower and of the Executing Agency
46. The Bonrower's performance, mostly limited to aspects of financial
ntermediation, was satisfictory. With respect to SCT, once the incenives to use loan
funds were in place, the Executing Agency actively contributed to the successfil
implementation of the project. In paricular, SCT made every effort to aceerate the
disbursement of loan funds through (i) actively promotig the steamling of
disbursement procedures involving Banobras and the Trasury; (ii) imprving its
adherence to Bank pruement Guidelines; and (iii) gathering information on past
expendiures eligible for Bank financing. SCT's project administrtion was good, and
progress  rts wer thoroughly and timely prepared. SCT was also instumental in
the successful implementation of the annual project reviews called for the legal
agreements, which provided the right foumn for the idenfiion of the issues
affecfing project executing and for the prparation of work programs for the
subsequent year. SCT's weakest point, however, was the selection of investments
essentially on the basis of other than economic criteria and the preParation of
economic evaluations with the sole purpose of satisfying Bank requests (pam 24).



- 16 -
J.    Project Relatiolships
47. ReLations between staff of the Bank and of the executing agency were
generally good. However, SCT's early lack of compliance in varymg degrees with the
Bank's procuremen guidelines and poor economic analysis of subprojects was a
recurring cause for concem over the initial period m the Bank's tansport sector
relations with Mexico, at least in so far as transport projects were concerned.
Relations improved following the Govemment's intervention to speed up use of loan
funds.
K.   Consultant and Contractor Services
48.   The consultant services contbcted under the project, which mostly
conentrated in the preparaton of a five year Road Transport Plan, was satisfactory.
L.   Project Documentation
49.   The project documents provided a sound basis for the execution of the Project.
The Aide Memoires left with SCT, the supevision reports and letters to SCT
provided a deailed record of the problems encountered during project excuton and
of the action recommended and take to improve perfonance. Progress reports
submittd by SCT were well prepared and provMded a good record of proect
executon.
50.   The main lesson offered by this project undeies the importance of ensrng
up front the commitment to the pioject of the Borrower and of alt the other agents
important for project implementat. In the cae of the SHSP, it was clear that only
when the Government placed pressure on SCT to use Bank funds, the project stared
to move at a satishctory rate.
51.   Another importa  lesson is that most of the breatrughs to acceleae
project execution were achieved in the framework of high level meeings to discuss
overal implemenion issues and rlato  for the country's portfolio. These semi-
annual Countly Sateg Implementation Review (CSIR) meengs proved extemely
helpful and they confirm the soundness of the Bank strategy  focus on pervasive
portfolio issues across projects and sectors to find those common problems that cannot
be addressed at the project level.
52.   The project does point out one other impotant issue that the Bank will need to
addre  more specifically with respect to sector lending in counties like Mexico.



- 17 -
Sector lending is assumed to reduce the amount of Bank staff time necessary for
routine project supervision and to concentate on policy and other key implementation
issues. In practice, however, the Bank required considerably more time for this
project to review the investment program and procurement documents for Bank
financed contracts, than in an investment loan.



- 18-
PART H. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
1.   A final report by SCT on the execution of the project dated September 1992
(the title is "lffonne de Terminaci6n del Prstanmo 2428-ME, Segundo Proyecto
Sectorial de Carreteras") was received in the Bank in early December 1992. The
report, in four volumes, is the result of SCT's effort to evaluate the experience with
project implementation. In view of its size, it could not be incotporated in this report
but is available from Bank files.
2.    The report includes a detailed review of the contracts awarded under the
Lederal highways component of the project. This review focus on a detailed analysis
of conuact costs and the reasons for the deviations from original estimates, as
discussed in paras. 28 to 30 of Part I of this report.
3.    SCT considers that the country's macro-economic siuation was the principal
cause for problems encountered during execution, mainly the delay in completing
contrcts which resulted in an eight year program rather than the three year execution
process foreseen at appraisal. SCT also commented on the delays in the submission
of disbursement applications which resulted in lower Bank paricipation and a longer
disbursement period (see Banobras and SCT letters sating in para. 5). SCT states
correcty that the civil works caried over from the First Highway Sector Project were
the cause of most of the cost and time ovenuns. These were substantially reduced in
those contacts totally financed and executed under the Second Highway Sector
Project.
4.    Banobras and SCT also commented on Parts I and m of this report as follows:
BANOBRAS (etter dated June 7,193 signed by Lic. Ismael Diaz
Aguilera, Manager, Deparment of International Finace Organizations).
With respect to the preliminary version of the referenced Project Completion
Report. I would like to make the following comments relating to point 19 of the
document:
With respect to the additional cost of the loan due to the delay in the
disbursement process, this was due to the payment system that was previously in
effect, in which the Pederal Treasury paid accounts receivable and the documentation
was sent to BANOBRAS with an average delay of 12 to 14 months for the subsequent
processing of World Bank disbursements.
This situation has been remedied with Loan 2878-ME, in which BANOBRAS
began to make direct payments for certified accounts receivable.



- 19 -
SCT (letter dated June 8, 1993, signed by C.P. Juan Ahuactzin Ponce,
Director General of Flnancial Resources.
I refer to the letter of May 13, in which comments are requested of this
Secretariat on the preliminary version of the Project Completion Report that was
prepared by that International Financial Institution, regarding the implementation of
the program financed by the credit referred to above, the "Second Highway Sector
Project."
In that regard, I would like to make the following comments:
1. We would like to emphasize the efforts that had to be made by this Secretariat to
satisfactorily execute this project as well as the interest shown by the direct executor
of the project to conform to the lines of action, which played a vital role in achieving
the expected objectives and targets.
2. With respect to the described problems with project implementation and
considering that this loan was on the verge of being cancelled when the first extension
came into effect and when only 50% of disbursements had been made, to have
achieved the total implementation of the project should be considered as a real
product of the concerted effort of the Mexican Govemment to promote actions that
strengthen the relationship with the Bank and that permit greater efficiency in the use
of the resources.
3. With regard to the described disbursement problems and the participaton of the
Bank, it is important that the mechanisms are brought up to date in order to ensure
the participation that was originally agreed upon with the World Bank. For example:
-the exchange rate of the payment date should invariably be used in the recovery of
the disbursement.
-the mechanisms used to process disbursements should be changed, in order to
minimize the disbursement delays so that these are synchronized with the effected
payments.
4. With regard to the comments on bidding, considering the mininnmm established
periods outlined in the Bank guidelines on this subject (specially on internatonal
bidding), the principal problem stems from the amount of time used for each process,
especially if one considers the little interest that is shown by the interational
community to bid for civil works in Meidco, as proven by the lack of pardcipation of
foreign firms in Loan 2428-ME. It would be useful to exhaustively analyze the
historical record of Mexico on this matter, in order to place limits on ICB according
to ranges that can be of interest to the internatonal community or, otherwise, modify
the processes for bidding of this type: for zxample, by reducing the period of 60 days



- 20 -
before the call for bids to send the general announcement for its publication in
Development Business.
5. Finally, with regard to contract awards, it is considered that, in the selection of a
fum under a competitive bidding process, in addition to economic factors, the
experience of the firm and its economic situation should also be taken into account.
This would allow an evaluation of the winner's technical and financial capacity to
implement a specific contract and ensure the timely completion of a contract.



-21 -
PART m. STATIMCAL INFORMATION
A. Related Bank Loans
Year Of
Loan/Credit Tite                Purpose              Approval              tatus
1. Loan 268-M                  Consotuct 3,160 km of          1960         Completod in 1968
First Highway Project       feder roads.
2. Lon 317-ME                  Constu  385 km of toll         1962         Complewd in 1967
Second Highway Project      roads, S toll bridges and
1 fery boat
3. Loan 3s4-Mz                 Rehabilita  1000 km of         1963         Completed in 1972
Third Highway Project       federal highways and
manenance                   ____
4. Loan 401-ME                 Consltuct 350 km of toll       1965         Completed in 1970
Pouh Highway Project        roads and 3 toll bridges
S. Loan S28-M                  Rehabilitate 2200 km of        1968         Completed in 1973
Pih Highway Project         federal highways
6. Lean 695-MR                 Rehabilt  1040 km of           1974         Completed in 1977
Sixth Highway Project       federal highways
7. Lon 96%-ME                  Rehabilitate 1216 km of        1974         ComWleted in 1982
Seventh Highway Project     federal highways
8. Loan 1671-MR                Contuct reabila                1979         Completed in 1984
(First) Highway Sector      and expand federa and
Project                     state highways and urban
9. Loan 2525-ME                Rural roads consruction        1985         Pary caneled in
Chiapas Rural Roads Proec    and rehabilitaton, and a                    1987 and the
maintenane program                         remainder in 1988
10. Loan 2875-ME               Resrfaing and                  1987         Ongoing
Highway Maintenance Project  rehabilion of 6,000 km
of roads and surfac
treauent of about 5,000
kn of roads. 
11. Loan-. ME                  Rehabilitate, resurface        1993         Not yet eff6ctive
Highway Rehablitaton and    and maintan the federad
Traffic Safety Project      highway sytMem.                             .
une 1993



- 22 -
B. Project Timetable
Date                Daft                  Date
Planned              Revised              Actual
Identifitcation            09/82                                     09/82 7
PreparatIon                05/83                                     05/83
PIe-Appraisal                             ___
Appraisal Mission           10/83                                    10/83
Loan Negetiations          -                                         03/26-30/84
Board Approval             _                                         05/29184
Loan Signature             -                                         08/08/84
Loa Effectiveness           11108/84                                 11/27/84
Lean Closing                06/30/88            06/30/89, 06/30/90   06/30/91
Project Completion          12/31/87                                 09/30/91



- 23 -
C. Loan Data
(i) Loan Disbursenents
Bank                          Disbursements (n US$ million)
Fiscal year
and
Semester             Estimated               Actual            Actual % of
Cumulative al         Cumulafive hL         Estimated
1985       1                20                   31.80               159.0
2                60                   43.39                72.3
1986       1                95                   67.95                71.5
2               120                   79.59                66.3
1987       1                145                  87.88                60.6
2               170                   92.88                54.6
1988       1                195                  102.30               52.5
2               200                   103.60               51.8
1989       1                                     107.80               53.9
2                                     115.00               57.5
1990       1                                     127.86               63.9
2                                     138.74               69.4
1991       1                                     148.24               74.1
2                                     152.16               76.1
1992       1                                     199.98               99.9
2                                     200.00              100.0
a/     Source: Table 4.1 of SAR
b/     Source: Statements of ILnrs
December 1992



- 24 -
(u) Loan Alocations
(in US$ million)
Category                 At Appraial el         At Completion bJ
1) Civil works                              184,501,247          181,127,029.54
2) Rural Roads                               14,000,000            16,872,532.84
3) Consultant services                        1,000,000             1,474,036.23
4) Fees                                        498,753               498,753.00
5)J Adjustment of Special Account   |_ __-_____                       27,648.39
TQhai                          200,000,000          200,000,000.00
Al    Source: Schedule 1 of the Loan Agreement
*/    Source: Disbursements
December 1992



- 25 -
D. Project C-st
(i) Project Cost Estinates
(in US$ million)
C -    ,   _              At Appraisd a/               Actual bk
Lo_ea    Foreign   Total   LAl_   Foreign    Total
1. Civl Works                    468.0     300.0  768.0    695.1    463.4    1158.5
2. Trnmk Roads Maintenance       462.0     200.0  662.0      -         _        _ C 
3. Rural Roads                   130.0      40.0  171.0    29.0       13.0      42.0
4. Technical Cooperation           0.3       0.7    1.0      0.3       1.2      1.5
5. Project Cost                  060.3    540.7  L601.0    724.4    477.6    1202.0
6. Front-ed Fee                    0.0       0.5    0.5      -         0.5      0.5
7. Total Cost                   1060.3    541.2  601.5    724.4    478.1    1202.5
8. Adjusted Cost (Total cost     598.3     341.2  939.5    724.4    478.1    1202.5
less item 2 d)                                         _        _ _
Source: SAR
W/    Source: LA2E
-/    As the Bank did not finance Trunk Road Maintenance (see Table C(ii) for the allocation of the Loan),
item 2 is removed from the adjusted total project cost in line 8.



- 26 -
E. Financing Plan
(in US$ mollon)
l_______________________              Total Cost                Foreign Exchange
IBRD                                               200.0                        200.0
IDB                                                 64,0                         64.0
National Treasury                                 1337.5                        27i.2
Total                                  1601.5                        541.2
December 1992



F. Projec Results
ORIGINAL FEASIBILITY STUDY                                          REEVALUATION
DATE         ESTIMATED COST         AADT        EER I           ACTUAL COST            AADT               EER
(MILLIONS)
PESOS        US$                                 PESOS         USS                      WITH        WITH
ROAD/LINK                                                                                                                      VALUE OF    VALUE OF
TIME        TINE
______________________________________                                   __________   _________(1)                                                     (2)
1. MEXICO - ACAPFLCO
LIBRANIENTO DE CUERNAVACA                   1984        3107        16.14        13800         29        96000        31.93        14896       27.20  _  23.06
2. LtBRAMIENTO PONIENTE 0f TAMPICO             1984        9350        48.56    _   5200          14        98597        32.80         7708       17.10       11.40
3. TUXPAN - TAMPICO                            1984        8985        U6.66         8000         16       395000       131.36         3000
PUENTO TAMPICO Y ACCESOS     ,_-___
4. ACATUCAN - VILLAHERX0SA                     1984       24104       125.18        6900          25        62500       207.86         3000
PUENTE COATZACOALCOS It                                        _                  _                                                  ___ _
5. COLINA - NAANILLO                           1985        2610         7.02        6200          70       120000        39.91         6528       28.00       23.81   o
LIBRANIENTO DE _MNZAMILLO                                                                           _      _                                                       '4
6. CHIHUAHUA - Cd. JUAREZ
TERM. ZONA URBANA - KM 33                   1984        2325        12.07        6600          28        22000         7.32        3681        18.56
KM 83+000 - EL SUECO                        1990       55000        18.71        6055          24        61000        20.29         4654        18.26
V. AHUMADA - SA1ALAYUCA                     1990       65000        22.11        5847          22        73000        24.28         4322        12.19
7. IRAPUATO - LEON
IRAPUATO - SILAo                            1984        6805       35.34        15200          40       127316        42.34        7270        26.28       23.65
SILAO - LEON                                1984        5007        26.00       14400          44        86684        28.83        13514       36.76       33.30
8. GUADALAJARA - CHAPALA
ENTR.PERIFERICO - ENTR.AEROPUERTO           1984        2316        12.03       27600          14        22369         7.44        14238        14.54
ENTR.AEROPUJERTO - ENTR.OCOTLAM             1984        2436        12.65        13000         48        59029        19.63         9916        41.40      35.39
ENTR.OCOTLAN - CHAPALA                      1984        1570         8.15         5700         41        46602        15.50        4749'       30.73       26.80
9. ECATEPEC - PACHUCA
ENTO. NWRELOS - TIZAYUCA It                 1984        5755        29.89        10700         34        78000        25.94        10447        14.40
TIZAUtCA - ENTR. COLONIAS                   1984        2259        11.73        11900         62        67000        22.28         9483        27.35      21.81
10.NEXICO - TOLUCA
LA VENTA - LA XARQUESA                      1983        3640        25.29        40100         38       266332        88.60        23096        14.30       9.30



ORIGINAL FEASIBILITY STUDY                                         REEVALUATION
DATE         ESTIMATED COST         AADT        EER X          ACTUAL COST          AADT               EER
(MILLIONS)                                                                               _  __
ROAD/LINK                                 PESOS        US$                                 PESOS        US$                     WITH      WITHOUT
VALUE OF    VALUE OF
TIME        TIME
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   ( 1 )   ( 2)1 )  (2
11.PATZCUARO - 4ORELIA
PSRELIA - TIRIPETIO                            1984        3345        17.37         6700         29       55800       18.56        7219       20.11       12.19
12.PUEBLA - TLAXCALA - APIZACO
PUEBLA - STA. ANA CHIAUTENPAN                  1990       12000         4.08        9000          23       64830       21.56        9000       20.21       12.68
STA. ANA CNIAUTENPAN - OCOTOXCO                1984        2166        11.25        8300          24       35000       11.64       11815       17.38       10.20
I3.WUERETARO - SAN LUIS POTOSI
OUERETARO - ENTR. SAN MIGUEL ALLENDE           1984        3364        17.47        19700         65       70000       23.28       12158        54.98      49.66
T.SAN MIGUEL ALLENDE - ENTR. Dr.PORA           1984        2754        14.30        14700         69       83000       27.60        8663       45.50       40.76
ENTR.STA MA DEL RIO-ENTR.VILLA DE REYES        1984        2136        11.09        13200         61       66000       21.95        7953       42.54       37.10
ENTR.VILLA DE REVES - SAN LUIS POTOSI          1984        3203        16.63        18300         72       66000       21.95       11398       53.40       47.20
I4.NATAMOROS-REYNOSA
GLORIETA MORELOS - ENTR.AEROPUERTO             1984        2699        14.02        10500         21       56900       18.92       15054       19.20       12.69    ^
ENTR. AEROPUERTO-RIO BRAVO                     1984        2990        15.53        9900          23       58100       19.32        9402        13.48               co
15.COATZACOALCOS-CARDENAS-VILLANERNOSA
ENTR. NUEVO TEAPA - RIO TOMALA                 1984        4193        21.78        12400         35       77800       25.87        6631       20.21       16.86
CAIDERAS - VILLAHERNOSA                        1984        9604        49.88        13700         32      137200       45.63       12712       29.00       24.67
16.OUERETARO - CELAYA - IRAPUATO
OUERETARO - APASEO                             1984        4000        20.77        14000         38       32000       10.64        9954       23.04       13.16
APASEO - IRAPUATO                              1984        8640        44.87        10500         31       72000       23.94        9954        22.21      14.71
17.PUEBLA - ESPERANZA-ORIZABA
PUEBLA - ENTR. ACATZINGO                       1984        5400        28.04        11300         32       47000       15.63        9119        31.03      22.60
ENTR. ACATZINGO - ESPERANZA                    1984        6125        31.81         7800         27       47000       15.63        9119        35.31      25.54
Negative rate of return
1) Takfng in consideratfon time saving
2) Not taking In consideratfon time saving



- 29 -
G. Use of Bank Resources
(i) Staff Inputs by Stage of Project Cycle in Staff Weeks
Stage of Project Cycle
Preappraisal                                                         21.3
Appraisal tc Board                                                   37.7
Supervision                                                          154.8
TOTAL                                       213.8
December 1992
Source: LA2IE



- 30 -
(ii) Mssion Data
Stage of      Month/Year    No. of    Days In       Specialzation    Performance      Dates of
Projat Cycle                   Prsons       Field      Represonted        Rating        Reports
.__________  ____ __                     _                      status
Idendfoation 1        09182          2         17      HE,EC                            11/23/82
Idendficaton 2        02183          4         15      HB, 2 EC, C                      __   _ _
Preparation 1         05183          3         18      HE, EC, C                        na
Preparatiou2          05/83          1          5      EC                _a us
Preparaion 3          07/83          1          4      EC                               08/05/83
Appraisal             10/83          4         21      HE, BC, 2 C                      12101/83 al
Post-Apprabal 1       01/84          1          6      EC                               02/01/84
Supervision 1         06/84          2         14      HE, BC                           07/20/84
Supervion 2           06/84          2         11      2 EC                             08/184 b/
Superviinn 3          10/84          2          6      HE, BC, C          1,1,1,1       11/16/84
SupervWnon 4          05/85          3         14      2 HB, C            2,1,1,1       07/31/85
Supervison 5          09/85          1          3      EC                                Q1002J85
Supervion 6           10/85          2         19      HE, EC             2,1,1,1       11/27/85
Supervidon 7          03/86          3          9      HE, EC, C          3,1,1,2       05/23/86
Supervison 8          11/86          1         18      HE                               12/24/86_O
Supefvision9          01/87          3         13      2EC,C                            02/11/87
Supervision 10        10/87          4         17      HE, eC, C, RS      3,1,1,2       12101/87
SupevS on 11          03/88          3         10      2 HE, EC           3,1,1,2       04/21/88
Suprison 12           09/88          2         10      HE, EC             3,2,1,2       10/21/88
Supevision 13         04/89          2          7      HE, BC             3,3,2,1       05/22189
Supervison 14         09/89          2          2      HE, EC             2,2,1,2,3     dl
Supervison 15         04/90          2         12      HE, EC             2,2,2,2,3     05/08/90
Supervision 16        09/90          1         e/      HE                               .1
Supevision 17         02/91          1         16      HE                 2,2,2,2,2     03115/91
BC   Econornist         C = Consultant
HE  Highway Engieer    RS  Road Safety Expert
a/ Issues Paper
bi This report took the form of an Issues Paper prepared by a sector mission to review the status of the road freight induwty.
el Misson covered the rural roads component only.
d/ Vist made in conjuncdon with other highway work. No report on files but findings conveyed to SCr in a letter dated 1119/90.
e/ Visit of SCr and BANOBRAS to Washiingt. Fnding conveyed to SCIr in a letter dated 10/05/90.
Source: Supervision reports, November 1992



B                                       B  --       
Waj  WoE [^ j 0 j    EE   [t  E  §S ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3 
1,1XtIf }  }XTI[|[H'Irp    0        | {~~~~~~~~~~
H~~~~~~~~~ _I   .                V. _



- 32 -
Section 4.07       Adequate main_enae of highway and nual roads     Due to budgetauy consamnts, the
network.                                        Governmmet's annual budgetau
allocations have been short of the
requireents. Maintenane budget for
1990 was increased by about 40% in real
terms. For 1991, the budget declined
about 10%, followed by another 10%
decline in 1992. In 1993 the budget was
I___________    ________________________________    increased about 40%   over 1992.
Loa. Agreement    Audiing of Specia Account by inxdependent auditors  Audits up to 1991 provided to Bank.
Section 4.02       with adnn  repots to the Bsak.                   Audits found acceptable.
December 1992
Source: Superon rs  updad by LAIE



