Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3805-ME
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$200 MILLION
TO
BANCO NACIONAL DE OBRAS Y SERVICIOS PUBLICOS, S. A.
WITH THE GUARANrEE OF
UNITED MEXICAN STATES
FOR A SECOND HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
May 3, 1984
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authiorization.



Currency Unit - Peso (Mex $)
On April 30, 1984, the exchange rate in the controlled market was
' US$1 = Mex$159.58; the free market exchange rate stood at US$=Mex$177.70.
Both exchange rates are currently sliding at a rate of Mex$0.13 per day
against the US dollar.
Fiscal Year
January 1 to December 31
Acronyms
BANOBRAS           Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios Publicos, S.A.
National Bank for Public Works and Services
CyPF               Caminos y Puentes Federales
Toll Road and Bridge Authority
EFF                Extended Fund Facility
FOGAIN             Fondo de Garantia y Fomento a la Industria Mediana y
Pequena
Trust Fund for Guarantees and Development of Medium and
Small Industry
IDB                Banco Interamericano de Desarrollo
Inter-American Development Bank
IMF                Fondo Monetario Internacional
International Monetary Fund
NDP                Plan Nacional de Desarrollo
National Development Plan
N de M             Ferrocarriles Nacionales de Mexico
National Railways of Mexico
PEMEX              Petroleos Mexicanos
Mexican Petroleum Monopoly
SAHOP              Secretaria de Asentamientos Humanos y Obras Publicas
Secretariat of Human Settlements and Public Works
SCT                Secretaria de Communicaciones y Transportes
Secretariat of Communications and Transport
SHCP               Secretaria de Hacienda y Credito Publico
Secretariat of Finance and Public Credit
SPP                Secretaria de Programacion y Presupuesto
Secretariat of Programming and Budgeting



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MEXICO
SECOND HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:        Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios Publicos, S.A.,
(BANOBRAS)
Guarantor:       United Mexican States
Project
Executing
Agency:          Secretaria de Comunicaciones y Transportes (SCT)
Amount:          US$200 million, including capitalized front-end fee.
TermF            Fifteen years, including three years of grace at the stand-
ard variable interest rate.
Prod
Descr   ton:    The proposed project is a part of SCT's 1984-1986 highway
program, including: (i) construction, reconstruction and
expansion of national and toll roads and bridges and urban
bypasses; (ii) rehabilitation and periodic maintenance of
rural roads; and (iii) a technical cooperation component
providing consultants' services. The project would help (i)
improve congested sections, upgrade substandard pavements
and extend the road network to developing areas; (ii)
strengthen the planning and execution of periodic mainten-
ance for rural roads and determine appropriate budgetary
allocations; (iii) strengthen sectoral planning in SCT; and
(iv) maintain a dialogue on land transport pricing and road
freight regulatory policies.
Beneficiaries:  Because of the geographic dispersion of the investment pro-
gram, project benefits would accrue to the economy at large
in the form of vehicle operating cost and time savings.
While the benefits initially would accrue to road users, it
is expected that in the long run they would be passed on to
consumers through lower transport costs and improved service
levels. The technical cooperation component would provide
significant support to improving the general planning capa-
bilities of SCT, assessing major sector policy problems and
articulating the required action programs.
Risks:           The proposed project faces three risks.  First, a prolonga-
tion of the economic recession could reduce sectoral invest-
ment levels below those assumed for the proposed project,
but the flexible format of the sector loan and the setting
of the loan amount at a relatively small percentage of the
Government's highway investment program should minimize the
risk of delay in project execution.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their off-icial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Second, potential monitoring and technical difficulties of
the rural road maintenance component would be minimized by
concentrating on a limited number of states and adopting
detailed road inventory and maintenance programming
procedures. Finally, progress in areas such as fuel price
subsidies and rationalizing user charges will hinge on the
degree of success achieved in overall economic management.
Estimated Cost: The cost of the 1984-1986 time slice of SCT's highway in-
vestment program is estimated at US$1.6 billion, with a for-
eign exchange component of US$541 million. The Bank loan
represents 12 percent of the total program and 37 percent of
the foreign exchange requirements.
Cost of Project:                                 Local      Foreign      Total
…-    (in million US$)-----
Civil Works                     468.0       300.0       768.0
Trunk Roads Maintenance         462.0       200.0       662.0
Rural Roads Maintenance         130.0        40.0       170.0
Technical Cooperation             0).3        0.7         1.0
Project Cost                  1,060).3      540.7    1,601.0
Front-end Fee                     -           0.5         0.5
Total Cost                    1,060.3       541.2    1,601.5
Financial Plan:                                  Local      Foreign      Total
------(in million US$)-----
IDB                               -          45.0        45.0
IBRD                              -         200.0       200.0
Government                    1,060.3       296.2    1,356.5
Total                         1,060.3       541.2    1,601.5
Estimated
Disbursements:                                      (US$ million equivalent)
Bank Fiscal Year
1985    1986    1987    1988
Annual                          60.0    60.0    50.0    30.0
Cumulative                      60.0   120.0   170.0   200.0
Rate of Return: According to agreed technical and economic criteria Bank fi-
nanced subprojects would have a minimum rate of return of 12
percent.
Staff Appraisal
Report:         Report No. 4908b-ME dated April 26, 1984.



INTERNATIONAL BMANK FOR RECCNSTRICTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDAITCION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO BANCO NACIONAL DE OBRAS Y SERVICIOS PUBLICOS, S,A.a
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF UNITED MEXICAN STATES
FOR A SECO&D HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
1.         I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios Publicos, S.A. (BANOBRAS), with the
Guarantee of United Mexican States for the equivalent of US$200 million to help
finance a Second Highway Sector Project carried out by the Secretariat of
Communications and Transport (SCT).  The loan, which in:cludes a capitalized
front-end fee of 0.25 percent on the Bank loan  would be repaid over 15 years,
including 3 years of grace, at the standard variable interest rate, The
Government would bear the foreign exchange risk.
PART I: THE ECONOMY
2.         Since the Bank's last economic report on Mexico, which was issued in
August 1981, the Mexican economy has faced severe economic and financial
strains.  Several economic missions have visited the country to revLew mayCo-
economic developments and prospects. Their Lindings have been incorporated in
an economic report which is expected to be distributed to the Executive
Directors in May. The report's main conclusions are summarized below.
Background
3.         After almost three decades of relatively stable and high economic
growth, Mexico experienced a serious financial and economic crisis in 197b and
an even more serious one six years later, in 1982. When the Bank's previous
economic report was prepared in 1980 and early 1981, an underlying trend
towards structural economic imbalance was already evident, and the potential
dangers were recognized. However, the issues were not addressed by the
outgoing Government with the vigor that was required as oil revenues and
external loans had temporarily eliminated foreign exchange constraints to
development.
4.         Today, Mexico is struggling to emerge from a crisis worse than any
other in its modern hi-story, and faces a severe resource constraint. In this
struggle, the Government cannot afford to delay implementation of corrective
policies on a broad front. Moreover, the prospects for a resumption of econo-
mic growth depend more than ever on favorable international conditions.  The
path leading to Mexico's economic recovery is a narrow one, with limjited
options and little room for maneuver in domestic policy.
Developments During 1977-1982
5.        The stabilization umeasures initiated in 1977 and the disc-verv and
exploitation of large oil resources in the mid-1970s allowed the Lopez Portillo



-2-
Administration (Jan. 1977 - Dec. 1982) to overcome the serious financial crisis
of 1976 and to start working on structural, social and economic problems, includ-
ing poverty, income and wealth inequality, unemployment, regional imbalances and
relatively slow agricultural growth. In the early years of that Administration
(1977-1980) GDP growth was high (8.5 percent a year), 2.5 million Jobs were
created, domestic consumption recovered, and the share of investment and savings
in GDP surpassed historical levels.
6.         Rapidly rising public expenditures unmatched by revenues led to in-
creasing public deficits and an overheated economy. Although inflationary pres-
sures mounted, the exchange rate was not adjusted.  By mid-1981, the economic
situation began to mirror the scene prevailing before the 1976 financial crisis.
The appreciation of the real exchange rate contributed to a current account defi-
cit of 5.8 percent of GDP, while the deteriorating international oil market con-
ditions caused large revenue shortfalls with respect to budget expectations. The
public sector deficit rose to just under 15 percent of GDP. External borrowing
was used to finance part of the domestic fiscal deficits and to defend the ex-
change rate. Mexico's foreign debt increased rapidly, at a time of high and
rising international interest rates. A stabilization program initiated by the
Government in mid-1981 was not sufficient to redress the growing fiscal imbal-
ance, the high cost of foreign loans and the increasing private capital flight
fueled by the public's anxiety over Mexico's financial troubles.
7.        The crisis came to a head in 1982.  In February, as capital flight
intensified, the Bank of Mexico had to stop supporting the peso, which then
experienced a 40 percent devaluation in dollar terms. A large wage adjustment
granted in March 1982, which tended to undo the effects of the devaluation, and
continuing slack in the oil market kept the balance of payments under strain.
Under the circumstances, the international banking community was unwilling to
commit new funds to Mexico, in the amounts required. These factors led to a
second devaluation of the peso in August 1982, while the acute shortage of
foreign exchange forced the Government to suspend the amortization payments of
most of Mexico's external public debt pending a broader agreement on its
refinancing. Capital flight continued as private sector confidence was shaken by
the nationalization of the banks in September 1982, and the mandatory conversion
of US dollar deposits into pesos. Also put into effect were a generalized system
of exchange controls and strict external trade restrictions.
Recent Developments
8.        The Administration of President de la Macdrid, that began its term in
December 1982, lost no time in taking steps to deal with Mexico's grave economic
situation. The EFF agreement, approved by the IMF in December 1982, laid the
basis for the re-negotiation of that part of Mexico's public external debt on
which amortization payments had been discontinued in August 1982.  Commercial
banks agreed to restructure some US$19 billion of public sector debt and provide
US$5 billion in net new loans for 1983. All obligations falling due between
August 23, 1982 and December 31, 1984 were restructured over an eight year
period, starting from January 1983, with a grace period of four years and at an
interest rate of 1-7/8 percentage points over LIBOR (or 1-3/4 over the New York
prime rate). The US$5 billion syndication had a 6-year maturity, with a 3-year
grace period, at a spread of 2-1/4 over LIBOR (2-1/8 over prime). The restructu-
ring exercise included an understanding that the international banks would
maintain their exposure to the Mexican banks that had been nationalized. At the



- 3 -
same time it provided a mechanism that would eliminate 1982 private sector
interest arrears and facilitate payment of the rescheduled principal on such
debt.
9.        A new two-tier exchange rate system was introduced, with a controlled
market for imports, most proceeds from merchandise exports (except those of
in-bond industries) and debt related transactions, and a free market for all
other transactions including those relating to tourism. The controlled rate was
originally set at Mex$95 = US$1, a depreciation of some 35 percent in relation to
the previously prevailing ordinary rate of Mex$70 per US dollar.  It has been
depreciated at a rate of Mex$0.13 per day, and is currently about Mex$160 per
dollar. The free market rate had remained at about Mex$150 per dollar until
September 1983, when the authorities decided to let it slide at the same rate as
the controlled rate, and is now about Mex$175 per dollar.  The differential
between the two rates, which in December 1982 stood under 60 percent, is now down
to 11 percent. Although inflation continued to be high (about 80 percent in
1983), the real effective exchange rate in the controlled market remains competi-
tive, and non-oil exports have risen considerably.
10.       Under the IMF Agreement, the Administration committed itself to a dras-
tic reduction of the public sector deficit, from 18.0 percent of GDP in 1S82 to
8.5 percent in 1983, 5.5 percent in 1984 and 3.5 percent in 1985. Substantial
progress was achieved during 1983 in meeting the program objectives. The public
finances were strengthened considerably and the public sector deficit in 1983
remained at all times below the ceilings established under the program. The
brunt of public expenditure cuts in 1983 was borne by public investment. The
cuts were made virtually across the board, but the authorities gave priority to
completing projects that were already far advanced and to those that were import-
ant for employment, equity, or foreign exchange earnings. Overall, public
investment expenditures are estimated to have declined in 1983 to about 7.4 per-
cent of GDP, from 11.7 in 1982. The fiscal performance of 1983 was also aided by
significant price increases for nearly all public goods and services, including
petroleum products, electricity rates, food, etc. The Government has committed
itself to a substantial reduction and eventual elimination of most subsidies,
including those provided in the form of low interest rates.
11.       The balance of payments experienced a major turnaround, the current ac-
count moving from a deficit of almost US$5 billion in 1982 to a surplus of. US$5.5
billion in 1983. The strength of the current account and the availability of ex-
ternal finance permitted Mexico to replenish its international reserves while
paying a large part of the arrears that had accumulated in 1982. The net use of
foreign financing by the public sector was US$4.2 billion for the year--below the
ceiling of US$5 billion under the stabilization program. The errors and omis-
sions account of the balance of payments dropped from US$11 billion in 1982 to an
estimated US$0.4 billion in 1983, largely reflecting the decline in unrecorded
capital outflows. The swing in the current account was mainly the result of a
very sharp contraction of merchandise imports, to US$7.7 billion represenling a
decline of about US$7 billion from their 1982 level. The recession, the 'Large
devaluation of the peso and the quantitative restrictions all contributed to
this. The performance of non-oil exports which had been poor in the earlier part
of the year, improved considerably in the second half and showed an increase of
10.6 percent in dollar terms for the year as a whole. Growth in tourism and in-
bond industry was particularly strong, and helped in alleviLating unemployaent.
The Government's stabilization program, together with a moderate incomes



- 4 -
policy helped bring down inflation; it averaged 70 percent (annualized rate) in
the last quarter of 1983 compared to 125 percent in the first quarter. The flow
of savings into the banking system was in line with the projections of the
program, reflecting both the exchange rate and interest rate policies. The
impact of the severe and sudden adjustment of public expenditures and imports on
economic growth has been serious; GDP is estimated to have declined by close to 5
percent in 1983. However, some signs of economic recovery have appeared in
recent months: the demand for credit in the private sector has increased, and
employment in the modern sector has risen somewhat.
12.      The new Government took steps to regain the confidence of both domestic-
and foreign private investors. These included efforts to deal with the problems
of private external debt, procedures to compensate owners of nationalized banks,
and a more flexible application of the foreign investment law.   Negotiations are
now being completed with commercial banks and other private creditors for the
refinancing of a total of US$11.6 billion of private sector obligations at
stretched out maturities varying between 6 and 12 years, with 3- to 4-year grace
periods. Moreover, the Government undertook the restructuring of Mexican private
sector obligations guaranteed by official credit agencies abroad. The Government
recently announced a program to transfer back to private sector ownership most of
the 400 private firms that were controlled by the commercial banks prior to their
nationalization. These measures and announcements have been beneficial, but much
more remains to be done to restore full confidence of Mexican entrepreneurs and
foreign investors. The Government fully realizes that this is an issue of the
greatest importance as economic recovery beyond the current stabilization period
will depend critically on the resumption of vigorous private investment.
Short-term Economic Outlook
13.       The Administration's stabilization policies will continue in 1984.
The authorities expect a gradual resumption of economic growth and a further re-
duction in inflation, while maintaining a strong balance of payments. Real GDP
in 1984 is projected to grow by about 1 percent, while inflation is expected of-
ficially to decline to about 40 percent, on a December-to-December basis, com-
pared to 80 percent the year before although that may turn out to be somewhat op-
timistic.  The increase in economic activity is to be based mainly on a revival
of the private sector and a small increase in public investment. Total employ-
ment should continue to rise as the authorities proceed with the implementation
of an emergency program to create and maintain between 700,000 and 800,000 addi-
tional jobs in 1983-84. Declining domestic inflation (combined with the steady
slide of both the controlled and t'he so-called free market exchange rates - see
para. 9) is expected to provide adequate incentives to export development and ef-
ficient import substitution. The Government expects merchandise imports to in-
crease to US$14 billion in 1984, partly as a result of recent measures reducing
the restrictiveness of the import licensing system, and merchandise exports to
US$24 billion (from US$22 billion in 1983) with most of the increase coming from
non-oil exports. The current account surplus for the year is expected to be
about US$0.7 billion in 1984. For 1984, the growth in public sector debt out-
standing and disbursed is to be limited to US$4 billion. An important source of
external financing for the year will be a US$3.8 billion syndicated loan from
commercial banks. This loan will 'have a 10-year maturity, with a 5-3/4-year
grace period, comparing favorably with the 1983 US$5 billion loan of 6-year matu-
rity and 3-year grace. Further, the spreads on the new loan are 1-½ percent over
LIBOR (1-1/8 over prime), down from 2-1/4 over LIBOR (2-1/8 over prime) in 1983.



Mediur-term Prospects
14.       The Governmentis strategy, as outlined in the National Development Plan
(NDP) for 1983-1988, combines special efforts to recover from the present crisis
with a longer-term perspective on regaa4ninrg balanced and stable growth to over-
come structural- prolblems.  The main structural problems fac'Lng Mexico in the
years ahead include the very high rate of population growtlh (2v6 percent
estimated for 1983) together with an even higher rate of labor force growth (a
little under 4 percent), slow groTwth in agricuiture, poverty, a highly skewed
interpersonal and interregional income distribution, and an overly oil-dependent
economy wi th a manufacturinig sector that has been inward looking for too long.
15.       The mediur-term  strategy presented in the NDP focuses on the need for
structural changes in the economy incitd ing a greater export orientation of the
industrial system, Doverty alleviation through basic needs policies and improve-
ment in labor absorption, decentralization of economic activity, revision of
external trade policies and modernization of the commercial structures  The basic
elements of policies to address structural problems are mentioned in the NDP and
it is expected that further details cn specific programs and schedules for policy
adjustments will be provided in the sectoral plans which are now under
preparation.
16.       Mexico's medium-term  prospects for recovery and stable economic growth
are good, provided economic management continues to be prudent, private sector
confidence is restored, and the international environment remains favorab:Le.
Adequate domestic policies include inter alia continued efforts to reduce the
fiscal deficit, liberalize trade and minimize price distortions.  Restoraltion of
private sector confidence i s crucial since only a strong and dynamic private
sector will be able to raise investment from the present depressed levels and to
supply the increasing norr-oil export surplus required for the resumption of
growth. Success in this regard will depend critically on the quality and the
effectiveness of Government's policies. As regards the external environment, the
commercial banks are expected to maintain their exposure in Mexico in real terms,
and foreign markets to be open to Mexico's non-oil exports.,  Mexico's  prospects
would benefit from a continuing fall in interest rates in the world financial
markets (a one percentage pcint drop would mean a savings of about US$800 million
in overall interest payments) and rising petroleum prices (a one dollar change in
the price of a barrel of oil would alter export receipts by $550 million i.or the
year).
17.        Under favorable external and domestic conditions, Mexico's economic
growth could reach 6 percent a year--the histori4cal average for Mexico --t:owards
the late 1980s.  This growth would materialize through a sustained recover-y of
the commodity producing sectors.  Contrary to the recent experience with public
expenditure-led growth, Mexico's future economic performance will depend
critically on the recovery of private sector investment.
External Debt and Creditworthiaess
18.        Mexico's external pu'lic debt increased by about US$4 billion during
1983 and is expected to rise by a similar amount this year.  With an expected net
new borrowing of some US$3 to iJS$4 billion a year, the ratio of external debt to
GDP would decline steadily from 41 percent in 1984 to 33 percent by 1990.  The



6 -
debt service ratio (32 percent in 1984 after rescheduling) would peak at about
60 percent in 1987--as amortizations on new borrowi,ng and the rescheduled debt
fall due--and would decline thereafter to below 40 percent by the end of the
decade. The ratio of public debt outstanding to exports of goods and
non-factor services would fall from 2.5 in 1984 to 1.5 in 1990.
19.       As its debt repayment schedule implies large gross financing needs
during the 1980s, Mexico will need to count on the continued cooperation of the
international financial community in refinancing amortization payments and
providing some additional net new borrowing.  Such cooperation is already
evident from the favorable terms of the US$3.8 billion jumbo loan from the
commercial banks for 1984 (see para. 13), reflecting the improvement in
Mexico's external position. At the end of 1982, the last year for which a
comprehensive external debt report is available at this time, the Bank's share
in Mexico's debt was 5.3 percent. The Bank share in Mexico's total public
external debt service payments during that year was 3.7 percent. In view of
the good medium and long term potential of its economy and the prospect of
continued pursuit of sound economic policies by the present Administration,
Mexico is considered creditworthy for IBRD borrowing.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPEERATIONS IN MEXICO
Bank Operations
20.       As of March 31, 1984, Mexico had received 82 loans from the Bank
amounting to US$6,486 million, net of canceLlations and terminations; of these,
53 loans totalling US$2,887 million were fu:Lly disbursed. The Bank held
US$5,335.9 million, of which US$2,327.4 milLion had not yet been disbursed.
Some 42 percent of Bank lending has been for agriculture and rural development,
23 percent for industry, 11 percent for power, and 13 percent for
transportation; the remaining 11 percent has been for water supply, tourism,
urban development, vocational training and pollution control projects. Annex
II contains a summary statement of Bank loa-ns as of March 31, 1984.
21.       Of the US$6.48 billion total lending, about US$3.2 billion was for
establishing or strengthening institutions for channelling credit to areas
where credit supply was deficient or nonr-existent, and setting up in the com-
mercial banking system the ability to carry out project-related appraisal of
investments in agriculture, industry and tourism These credit programs have
facilitated lending to low-income farmers and small- and medium-scale
industrial and tourism enterprises based on productive investment plans, rather
than credit granted on the basis of collateral.
22.       The Government arranged adequate budget financing in the years 1978
to 1981, which significantly improved project im'lementation. Government and
Bank officials met periodically to review project implementation, and greater
attention was focused in Mexico on project monitoring. As a result of these
measures, most of the Bank-assisted projects were being implemented satisfacto--
rily until mid-1982 and disbursemenits rose from US$91 million in FY78 to US$448
million in FY82. However, the present financial crisis is again causing delays
in the provision of counterpart funds, consequently, disbursements in FY83



- 7 -
declined to US$389 million. A Special Action Program (SAP) was established in
early 1983 to help the Government by alleviating the counterpart funding cons-
traints on development projects, and 18 Bank financed projects are receiving
support under the Pr6gram. Partly as a result of the SAP, disbursements during
the first three months of 1984 improved significantly and, at US$195 million,
almost equalled thrice the amount disbursed in the same period of 1983.
IFC Operations
23.       As of March 31, 1984, IFC had made investment commitments in 23
companies in Mexico, for a total of US$730.4 million, of which US$542.8 million
had been sold, repaid or cancelled. A summary statement of IFC investments is
presented in Annex II. IFC has been working together with the Bank in
preparing proposals to establish a facility for provision of foreign exchan2e
financing to private sector companies for the importation of machinery,
equipment and spare parts required for production of exportable products, for
efficient import substitution and for improvements in the utilization of their
existing productive capacity. IFC approved a US$100 million facility
(including funds mobilized from foreign commercial banks) in 1983, which is
providing finance for fixed investments of a larger size than those assisted
under the Bank loan for an Export Development Project.
Bank Strategy
24.       The main objectives of Bank lending in Mexico in the past eight years
have been to: (a) support policies and programs leading to a wider distribu-
tion of the benefits of economic growth; (b) help finance projects that, di-
rectly or indirectly, contribute significantly to output and employment; (c)
help reduce Mexico's urban-regional imbalances; and (d) help free bottlenecks
which prevent rapid growth. More recently, however, in response to Mexico's
requirements following the 1982 economic crisis, the Bank, in close cooperation
with the IMF, also supported the Government's stabilization program through as-
sistance for export promotion and intensified and broadened economic and sector
work. As for medium term prospects, the volume and composition of Bank lending
to Mexico would be related to progress in the implementation of policy reforms
needed for structural economic adjustments, through broad policy conditionality
affecting the entire lending program or important parts of it. Specific policy
reforms that would be pursued through a dialogue with the Government, to be
conducted in parallel with the processing of lending operations, would cover
priority macro-economic and cross-sectoral issues, such as interest rate
policy, energy pricing, subsidy reduction and export development.
25.       Because of the difficult structural problems of agriculture and the
sector's crucial importance for the one-third of the nation's population living
in the rural areas, the Bank has made agriculture the leading sector for its
lending. The Bank's agricultural lending program in Mexico has four goals:
first, to help increase productivity of presently cultivated lands in generaL;
second, to give emphasis to improving the productivity of small farmers; third,
to complement infrastructure investments with support services, such as exte-r
sion, marketing programs and credit; and fourth, to promote employment-generat-
ing investments in rural areas. The Bank has made 13 loans in FYs78-83 total-
ling US$1,829.4 million for irrigation, rural development and agricultural,
agro-industrial and livestock credit programs. A US$175 million loan for a



- 8 -
rural development project and a US$180 million loan for an irrigation rehabili-
tation project were approved by the Execut've Directors in FY82, and a US$138.4
million loan for San Fernando rainfed agricultural development was approved in
early FY83. A US$115 million loan for marketing perishables was approved by
the Executive Directors in April 1983. Projects for rainfed agriculture,
regional development and rural credit: are in preparation.
26.       Bank lending for industry has aimed at:  (a) reduction of the balance
of payments deficit; (b) decentralizing industrial activities away from the
major, increasingly congested, urban areas; and (c) promoting greater employ-
ment. A steel project which the Bank helped structure and finance is now
operating in a previously underdeveloped area on the west coast of Mexico, and
the city in which it is located, Lazaro Cardenas, is developing into a new
growth pole. The timing and location of the proposed project would also
contribute to the further development of this region. Four loans for indus-
trial projects to promote the development of small- and medium-scale industrial
enterprises,  to finance expansion of small- and medium-scale mining, and to
support an industrial equipment fund (FONEI) were approved by the Executive
Directors in FYs78-80. A loan for a vocational training project was approved
by the Executive Directors in July 1981; it is assisting a program to increase
the supply of skilled workers and technicians. A US$152.3 million loan for
development of a capital goods industries project and a US$60 million loan for
pollution control were approved by the Executive Directors in FY82. A modi-
fication in the capital goods project was approVed by the Executive Directors
in early 1983 to set up a pilot export development fund to help satisfy the
foreign exchange needs of Mexican exporters. A US$350 million loan for an
Export Development Project and a US$175 million loan for a Third Small and
Medium Scale Industry Development Project were approved by the Executive
Directors in FY83.
27.       Bank lending for physicaL infrastructure has been focused on regional
development and strengthening of institutions and sector policies. A highway
sector project (FY79) and the fourth railway project (FY81) support these
goals. The first and second medium-size cities water supply and sewerage pro--
jects (FY76 and 81) reinforce the planning, management and finance of spe-
cialized water supply and sewerage institutions at the federal and municipal
levels, and contribute to the establishment of tariffs more closely related to
costs; a third project was approved by the Executive Directors on May 17, 1983.
28.       The Government has adopted a National Urban Development Plan that
spells out its regional development priorities in operational terms. A project
to assist in the development of the Lazaro Cardenas urban area was approved by
the Executive Directors in FY78, and a second urban project for oil-producing
southeastern Mexico was approved by the Executive Directors in FY81. A loan
for the preparation of a deconcentration program for the Mexico City Region was
approved by the Executive Directors in August 1982.
29.       The Economic Development Institute (EDI) is assisting CECADE (Centro
de Capacitacion de Desarrollo Economico under the Secretariat of Programming
and Budgeting) in training Government staff in project preparation, monitoring
and evaluation. EDI assistance is directed at courses on urban and regional
development, agriculture, rural development and agro-industries. The Bank has
also assisted the Mlexican authorities in training personnel for managing water
supply and industrial credit projects.



- 9 -
30.       The Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) is the second largest-
source of multilateral ai d to Mexico.  The IDB has made loans to Mexico total-
ling US$3,039.3 million as of September 2-0, 1983.  Over 50 percent of the tot:al
has gone to agriculLtural and rural development projects, and the balance to
transportation, industry, water supply and sewerage, tourism infrastructure,
education, municipal development, and pre-investment.  The IDB and the Bank
have coordinated their assistance on several projects. Each has made loans for
the national integrated rural development program (PIDER), agricultural and
livestock credit, small- and medium-scale industries development, and hotel
development projects,  The International Fund for Agricultural Development
(IFAD) has approved a loan of US$22 million for a rural development project in
the state of Oaxaca which was appraised by the Bank's staff and for which the
Bank is acting as cooperating institution for administering the loan.
31.       Bank-supported power, steel, fertilizer and tourism projects in
Mexico have been co-financed by several bilateral export credit agencies and
commercial banks.  In January 1982, Mexico borrowed US$500 million from com-
mercial banks to provide complementary financing for Bank-assisted projects
where project specific co-financing would have been difficult.
III. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR IN MEXICO
General Background
32.       The accelerated development generated by the oil boom in the late
1970s resulted in unprecedented growth in transport demand. Since transport
had declined as a percentage of public sector investment from 21 percent in
1972 to around 9 percent by 1979, serious deficiencies occurred in transport
operations and infrastructure affecting national and international trade
between 1978 and 1982. The Government responded to the new demand by
increasing real investments in railways by 173 percent, ports tenfold and
highways by 86 percent between 1978 and 1981. The budgetary restrictions which
accompanied the economic crisis in 1982 and 1983, however, resulted in reducing
transport investment to 1979 levels, postponing major investments which were
not near completion and shifting emphasis upon maintenance and rehabilitation.
The lull in transport demand caused by the recent recession has given the
Government some leeway, in terms of timing, to reorder its transport
priorities. But, critical investment decisions will have to be made withiri the
next few years, in order to serve any economic recovery effectively. The
Second Highway Sector Project is the initial element in a comprehensive Bank
lending strategy for the transport sector, which is designed to provide
assistance in meeting the immediate financial needs of the sector, as well as
to help in developing medium- anad long-term sectoral investment programs and
policies.
Development of the Transport Network
33.       Mexico has developed an extensive transport network which comprises
over 212,000 km of roads, about 20,000 km of rai'lways (all except 500 km beling
standard gauge), some 30 ports, of which 13 serve international traffic, about
50 airports servicing medium or large size aircrafts, and over 20,000 km of
pipelines handling crude oil, refined products and gas.



- 10 -
34.       The highway network had expanded rapidly from a total of 27,000 km
in 1952 to a little over 212,000 km by 1980.  About 67,000 km of this total
are paved, including 1,000 km with four or more lanes. The federal highway
network under SCT's administration consists of 42,500 km, and close to 1,000
km of toll roads are operated and maintained by the Toll Road and Bridge
Authority (CyPF). State Highway Boards plan, construct and maintain 52,500
km of state and local roads. Also, since 1971, a comprehensive federal
program has created a network of over 80,000 kl of unpaved rural roads.
35.       From 1972 to 1982, traffic on the nation's roads grew by about 10
percent annually, reaching an estimated share of 48 percent of total traffic
in ton-km and over 90 percent in passenger-km. Railway freight traffic,
representing about 14 percent of total ton-km, grew at about 7 percent
annually in the same period. Even more significant growths were registered
-- mainly because of the oil boom -- by coastal shipping and pipelines,
ranging between 13 and 15 percent per annm in ton-km.   Slow growth in port
traffic before 1977 was followed by sharp increases in the next five-year
period, on average reaching almost 1L7 percent per annum. Domestic aviation
became particularly important in passenger transport, which increased by
over 17 percent annually, with the total passenger-km now about equal to
that of railways.
Sector Investments
36.       During the 1960s and 1970s, substantial amounts were invested in
transport, particularly roads, rai'Lways and aviation. In the late 1970s,
however, transport sector investments declined, until it was evident that
the transport network would be unable to cope with the accelerated growth in
traffic. Even with operational improvements, capacity restrictions and ser-
vice levels deteriorated. To eliminate the bottlenecks and to improve
capacity, in 1979 the Government launched an imiortant industrial ports
development program and a major track improvemenat plan for the railways.
Highway investment expenditures, however, were maintained at constant
levels, so that its share of transport sector investments declined from 68
percent in 1972 to 51 percent in 1981.
37.       With the onset of severe budgetary restrictions after the
recession in 1982, transport investment priorities had to be shifted again.
Transport investment levels, not including urban transport, were reduced in
1983 In real terms to about US$1 billion (roughly equivalent to the 1979
levels), focusing on maintenance, reconstruction of existing infrastructure,
completion of high priority ongoing construction works, and deferring the
initiation of new investments. But, the transport sector's cuts were less
severe than those in public investments in general and, therefore, its share
in the total rose from 9 percent in 1979 to 11 percent in 1983. Given the
lull in transport demand caused by the economic recession, this strategy is
satisfactory for the time being. Rail traffic ceclined by 12 percent in
1982, highway traffic dropped by 10 to 15 percent in 1983, and several
industries, which experienced transport bottlenecks in the recent past, do
not anticipate difficulties in the near future.
38.       The current Government established a six-year plan for 1983-1988.
As part of their stated strategy, the 1984 budget does not envisage major
new investments.  During the remainder of the six-year period, however, the



- 11 -
Government will have to face the need for additional major investments, in
order to provide adequate transport services required by economic recovery.
These investments may be in areas of rail infrastructure, including
completion of the electrification of the Mexico City-Queretaro line and new
lines between Guadalajara and Monterrey and, possibly, initiating a new line
between Tampico and Veracruz; expansion and improvements expected to be
needed at the industrial ports of Lazaro Cardenas and Altamira; the highway
network, particularly provision of dual carriage ways for toll roads; in
addition, substantial investments may be needed for the airport at Mexico
City to expand its capacity. The decisions needed for these new investments
will depend oIn the timing and structure of the economic recovery, projected
levels of import substitution and its impact on grain imports and related
transport requirements, the evolution of non-traditional exports, and the
prospects for industrial and urban deconcentration.
Institutional Framework and Planning
39.       The current Administration introduced a far-reaching institutional
reform soon after taking office in December 1982 by incorporating all trans-
port agencies under SCT. Previously, highway and airport development
was under the jurisdiction of the former Secretariat for Human Settlement
and Public Works (SAHOP). The earlier dispersed institutional arrangement
hampered coordination of planning and investment and limited the scope of
the Bank's dialogue on sectoral issues. A new Subsecretariat for Infras-
tructure in SCT now handles infrastructure development for almost all
transport, and a Subsecretariat for Operations has responsibility for opera-
tional, regulatory and tariff matters. A Directorate General for Planning,
which reports directly to the Secretary, is in charge of overall planning.
40.       SCT is presently reorganizing the Directorate General for Planning
and the other modal planning offices within the Subsecretariats for
Infrastructure and Operations. Once fully implemented, it is expected that
planning units in the various modal directorates will be responsible for
identifying and proposing capital investments and will provide the technical
details required for the analysis of such investments. The Directorate
General for Planning will have the responsibility for carrying out the
economic feasibility analysis and providing a consistent multimodal
framework for the preparation of the medium- and long-term investment.
program. Sectoral planning within SCT is complemented by the Secretarial:
for Programming and Budgeting (SPP), consisting mainly of reviews and
approvals of the proposed SCT investment and operating budgets. These
arrangements have proven effective and are satisfactory. Based on a rev:Lew
of training requirements for planning in SCT, the Bank is already providing
assistance to enhance SCT's planning capabilities under various ongoing
transport loans (1671-ME, 1929-ME and 1964-ME) and, to assure continuity,
further assistance would be provided under the proposed project.
Fuel Pricing
41.       In the late 1970s petroleum products were being priced at the pump
well below world market prices in Mexico. As domestic inflation surged,
this situation worsened since gasoline and diesel prices were not allowed to
increase above US$0.42 and US$0.18 per gallon, respectively. Gradual price
increases initiated in December 1981 by the previous Administration had



- 12 -
taken greater momentum in December 1982 when the current Administration took
office. By April 1984, the price per gallon of extra and regular gasoline
was raised to US$1.30 and US$0.96 respectively, representing real term
increases of 84 percent and 240 percent. Diesel prices rose to US$0.63 per
gallon, which represented a real term increase of 430 percent. Current
gasoline prices are now slightly above the relevant--Caribbean-based--inter-
national price, while diesel prices stand at 78 percent.
42.       The current Administration in Mexico has demonstrated a strong
commitment to the gradual elimination of price subsidies. The upward price
adjustments discussed above represent serious action taken to resolve the
fuel pricing issue, including a reduction of the price differential between
diesel and gasoline. With the present level of prices, no major distortions
are apparent in the transport sector. Recent analyses by the Bank also show
that the impact of relatively low diesel -prices on the choice between labor-
or equipment-intensive construction techniques for rural roads is not
significant. It is the stated policy of the Government to continue
adjustments in fuel prices in 1984 and beyond, with a view to approaching
opportunity cost levels and reducing subsidies. The Bank will continue to
monitor progress on the fuel pricing issue and assist the Government in
assessing the implications of its pricing policies and the need for further
action consistent with the stated policy.
Road User Charges
43.       In Mexico, road user charges include road and bridge tolls, fees
for licensing, permits and public transport concessions, producer taxes for
tires and vehicles, special import duties on vehicles and special taxes on
fuel. Revenues collected under these charges are not earmarked for trans-
port sector expenditures. Even road and bridge tolls are turned over to the
Federal Treasury as general revenue. A 1975 Bank financed study showed that
gross receipts from user charges covered all administrative, construction,
reconstruction and maintenance costs for the federal, state and local road
networks. Since, however, fuel tax revenues represented a major share in
user charge collections, and pump prices were generally below international
prices, a major portion of user charge rev7enues could not be considered, in
economic terms, as a contribution to road expenditures. In this sense, the
economic value of road user charges that were collected covered little more
than the maintenance and administration of the road network.
44.       Because of sharp rises in inflation over the last 18 months as
well as the very significant fuel price and road toll increases, the
diagnosis of user charges needs updating. To ensure an overall balance
between user charge receipts and road expenditures, and to allocate
equitably the taxes among the various types of road users, SCT would carry
out a study to update the analysis of road user charges in Mexico. The
study's first phase has already been started, in accordance with terms of
reference agreed between the Bank and SCT. During negotiations it was
agreed that SCT would, by December :31, 1985, complete a study on road user
charges and subsequently, exchange views with the Bank on the findings and
recommendations of such study and on the implementation of the
recommendations (Section 3.07 of the Guarantee Agreement).



- i13-
Railway Tariffs
45.       Among the objectives of the present Administration is the
improvement of the financial status of the Mexican railways--Ferrocarriles
Nacinales de Mexico (NdeM)--through a well planned combination of
operational measures and tariff actions. Unlike railways in many other
developing countries, Mexican railways have experienced consistent growth in
traffic over the last decade. The Government's pricing policy and failure
to permit tariffs to keep up with inflation, however, limited improvements
to the railways' financial status through 1982. Real term increases in
freight tariffs of llO percent by the new Administration during 1983 are
expected to help NdeM to cover nearly all of its working costs, including
maintenance, despite a recent decline in traffic levels caused by the
economic recession. This achievement is generally in accordance with the
targets established urnder the ongoing Fourth Railway Project (Loan 1929-ME).
46.       Previous tariff increases have been applied across the board.  The
Government and NdeM are currently preparing to raise tariffs for selected.
commodities--representing about 30 percent of total rail tonnage --which pay
too little to cover even the varfable costs of the railways.  To restruct:ure
railway tariffs as needed, the Government and NdeM have prepared a plan of
action for tariff measures that would be initiated in 1984.  The Bank ex--
pects to monitor NdeM's tariff developments under ongoing preparation work
for a proposed railway sector project.
Road Freight Regulations
47.       Prior to 1971, the Government had substantial regulatory autho-
rity, but had not exercised it. The Government believed that, as a resu:Lt,
the trucking industry had become chaotic in the 1970s. In an effort to dleal
with the problem, SCT--through its Directorates for Motor Transport and for
Tariffs--introduced and began to enforce tightened regulations, covering
entry, capacity, commodity restrictions, geographical operating rights,
tariffs and corporate structure. These regulations are now applied to all
trucks operating on federal highways with a load capacity of over three
tons. To be able to operate, truck owners must belong to a company or coop-
erative, and to avoid monopolistic practices, more than five permits cannot
be issued to the same owner.
48,       Although the Government is relatively satisfied with the existing
regulatory system, the Bank--in the course of the proposed project's prepa-
ration--has discussed with the authorities the need to review the status of
the trucking industry and the costs and benefits of the regulatory system,
including, inter alia, the service benefits of the existing system, the
impact on freight tariffs, the effects of capacity and utilization measures
applied by route committees, and the administrative costs of the system.
The Government has agreed to participate with the Bank in carrying out a
study, in order to answer these questions. The study's terms of reference,
timing and resource requirements would be reviewed between SCT and the Bank
before the next semiannual project implementation review (para. 65)<.
Past Bank Participation and Experience
49.       Between 1960 and 1979, the Bank made eight highway loans totalling
US$387 million to assist in the development of Mexico's highway network,



- 14 -
improving and constructing 15,000 sm of primary roads.  There have also been
four railway loans, helping to finance track rehiabilitation, locomotives,
rolling stock and equipment, and promoting improvements in planning, opera-
tional and financial efficiency.  In addition, a port loan was made in 1972,
a regional airport development project was approvied in 1971, and a port
engineering loan -- made in 1981 -- helped prepare an industrial ports
project for appraisal in late 1983.
50.       The Seventh Highway Project (Loan 968--MIE) of early 1974 was a
critical turning point in the Bank's relation wilth Mexico's highway sector.
Large cost increases, caused mainly by high inflation and design modi-
fications required by increased traffic project ions, slowed the pace of
implementation of the project and, together with the effects of a major
devaluation of the Mexican peso in 1976, reduced Bank disbursements-As a
result of severe austerity measures, Mexico's roadi investment budget was
cut, and SCT had to reevaluate its investment priorities. Consequently, the
number of Bank financed road sections had to be reduced from 16 to 11, as
the project's traditional design--in contrast with sector operations--did
not allow for sufficient flexibility for redefining the project
description.  A project completion report of June 22, 1982 illustrated these
difficulties, and argued that conventional project lending had limited the
Bank's ability to respond to changing requiremernts during the economic
recession, including shifts in investment priorities. The Bank's first
highway sector loan in Mexico (Loan 1671-ME) was designed to overcome these
limitations.
51.       This first highway sector operation of March 1979, started up
slowly, because of the approval requirements of subprojects and the slower
than expected tendering procedures.  But, by micd-1981, the loan's progress
was fully satisfactory and it was expected that funds would be disbursed by
end-1982. The economic crisis and devaluations in 1982 and the ensuing
severe budgetary restrictions caused considerable delays in both
construction works and Bank disbursements. The latter were aggravated by
slow processing of disbursement applications.  SCT, however, mounted a major
effort to overcome these difficulties, and loan ftnds were committed by
December 1983 and full disbursement is expected by June 1984, the current
closing date.
52.       Following the successful implementation of the first highway sec-
tor loan, the introduction of institutional reforms and action taken by the
current Administration to reduce subsidies, the Bank has an expanded role to
play in Mexico's transport sector. While the tranfer of resources through
the proposed loans would be particularly relevant in 1984-1985, the last two
years of the Government's on-going stabil-ization program, the Bank's
assistance strategy for the transport sector as a whole would also provide
support for further action in several key policy areas. The ground work for
an intensive and fruitful policy dialogue has been laid in areas where the
Bank has had long standing objectives in Mexico.
IV. THE PROJECT
53.       The Government of Mexico has requiested a Bank loan of US$200 mil-
lion, to help finance the 1984-86 time slice of SCT's 1984-88 highway
infrastructure program. The project was identified in February 1983, and
subsequently prepared by SCT. A Bank missjion appraised the project in



- 15 -                        I
October 1983 and negotiations were held in Washington on March 26-30, 1984.
The Mexican Delegation was headed by Mr. German Sandoval Faz, Manager of
BANOBRAS. A Staff Appraisal Report entitled "Second Highway Sector
Project", No. 4908b, dated April 26, 1984, is being circulated separately to
the Executive Directors. Supplementary project data are included in Annex
III.
Project Objectives
54.       The proposed second highway sector loan would continue to help
finance the works initiated under the first highway sector project, as we]Ll
as other works to be carried out by SCT under its 1984-1986 investment pro-
gram. The project objectives are as follows:
(a)  To improve congested sections of the national highway network,
including sections of the country's toll roads, upgrade
substandard pavements and extend the paved network to developing
areas;
(b)  To strengthen the planning and execution of rehabilitation and
periodic maintenance of rural roads and to help the Government to
determine and allocate an appropriate maintenance budget;
(c)  To strengthen planning capabilities in the newly organized General
Directorate for Planning in SCT for all transport modes;
(d) To maintain a continued dialogue with the Government on land
transport pricing policies and to monitor progress on road and
rail pricing issues; and
(e) To assess the benefits and costs of existing road freight regula-
tions, with a view to assist the Government in formulating an
appropriate policy.
Highway Investment Program 1984-1988
55.       Mexico's road investment program is undergoing a shift in response
to the unprecedented traffic increases of the 1970s and early 1980s, and to
the severe budgetary restrictions introduced since 1982. With limited bud-
getary allocations SCT has had to spread available funds to deal with the
most critically congested and deteriorated road sections. As a result,
today reconstruction needs are growing, and so are periodic maintenance
requirements. Taking these conditions into account, SCT prepared a draft:
investment program for 1984-1988, assuming substantial real term budget
increases after 1986, but restricting funding levels for 1984-1986. The
investment program has been reviewed and found to be appropriate for the
sector's needs under current budgetary restrictions. During negotiations it
was agreed that SCT would furnish to the Bank, by November 30, 1984 and
annually thereafter until comlpletion of the project, an updated version of
SCT's road investment program for the following four-year period, in
accordance with agreed economic and technical criteria (Section 3.04(a) of
the Guarantee Agreement).



- 16 -
Modernization and Improvement of the Primary Network
56.       The total road investment program for 1984-1988 would require
US$3.6 billion, of which US$1.6 billion would be invested from 1984-1986 for
modernization, new construction and reconstruction of national and toll
roads, bypasses and bridges, as well as maintenance works. The first road
sections to be submitted for Bank financing under the proposed loan have
been tentatively selected.  Proposed subprojects include the provision of
dual carriage ways, urban bypasses and bridges in sections with daily
traffic between 3,800 and 40,000 vehicles in 1983, as well as toll road
sections carrying in excess of 9,400 vehicles per day in 1983.
Maintenance
57.       While the 1984 highway investment budget will decrease in real
terms from 1983 levels, the share allocated to trunk road maintenance will
increase from 33 percent to 38 percent of the total trunk road investment
budget. Routine maintenance is carried out by force account. Only major
rehabilitation or periodic maintenance works on the trunk road network are
contracted. As a result of this strategy, the relatively high funding
level--some US$3,400 per km--will assure good quality maintenance of the
aging and deteriorating road network. Since routine maintenance is
generally done by force account, SCT has an extensive renewal program for
equipment. In 1984, SCT will spend US$20 million on new equipment to
satisfy current minimum replacement needs.
58.       Rural road maintenance, under the Directorate General for
Maintenance, has been somewhat neglected in the past. With over 80,000 km
of rural roads built in the last 12 years, maintenance requirements have
outstripped SCT's resources. Inventory procedures have not been adequate,
the programming of routine and periodic maintenance works is not up to
acceptable standards, and it is clear from limited field inspections that
the US$300 per km that was available in the 1983 budget hardly met 50
percent of the requirements, especially if the incidence of deferred
maintenance works is taken into account. To tackle these problems, the
Government has increased the rural roads maintenance budget for 1984 by over
45 percent in real terms, and further budget increases are planned in
subsequent years. It also has initiated a rural roads inventory.
Cost and Financing
59.       The costs of the 1984-1986 time slice of SCT's road investment
program are estimated at US$1.6 billion, with a breakdown summarized in the
table below. The proposed US$200 million Bank loan would finance about
12 percent of the 1984-1986 time slice, and 37 percent of the foreign ex-
change requirements.



1 I7 -
SCT Higlhway Investments 1984-1986
(in millions of current US$)
Projected                         Bank Financing
Category                   Biudget   Foreign     Bank         as % of
1984-1986  Exchange  Financing  Projected Budget
Civil Works                   7,58.0      300.0      184.5           24
Trunk Roads Maintenance       662.0       200.0       -               -
Rural Roads Maintenance       170.0        40.0       14.0            8
Technical Cooperation           1.0         0.7        1.0          100
Sub-Total           1601.0       540.7      199.5
Front-End Fee                   0.5         0.5        0.5          100
Total               1601.5       541.2      200.0           12
60.       The following three components would be supported by the proposed
loan:
(a) Civil works, consisting of construction, reconstruction or rehabi-
litation of sections of the federal highway network, including
toll roads;
(b) rural roads maintenance, consisting of rehabilitation and periodic
maintenance works, such as re-gravelling, spot improvements and
minor upgrading, over the rural road network; and
(c) technical cooperation, consisting of consultant services to sup-
port a number of sectoral studies to be undertaken by SCT, includ-
ing road user charges, modal costing, review of manpower and
training requirements for planning in SCT, and other issues
related to the transport sector.
Project Execution and Administration
61.       The proposed US$200 million loan would be made to BANOBRAS with
SCT as the project executing agency. Evidence that contractual arrange-
ments, satisfactory to the Bank, between BANOBRAS and the Government for the
transfer of funds have been executed, would be a condition of the proposed
loan's effectiveness (Section 5.01(a) of the Loan Agreement). Subprojects
under the 1984-1986 time slice of SCT's investment program would be comple-
ted by end-1987 and the loan would be fully disbursed by mid-1988.
62.       SCT has qualified and experienced staff and it is also experienced
in the implementation of Bank projects.  SCT's project appraisal and super-
vision procedures are satisfactory. SCT would prepare, for each subproject,
a technical and economic evaluation to assess the rationale for the proposed
works, justify the design standards, present the alternatives considered,
estimate costs, evaluate project benefits and propose a tendering schedule.
Bank-financed road construction or modernization subprojects, in addition to
being in conformity with agreed designed standards, would also have a mini-
mum estimated economic rate of return of 12 percent (Section 3.05 of the



- 18 --
Guarantee Agreement).  The scope and presentation of documents to be submit-
ted to the Bank for each subproject proposed for loan financing were con-
firmed during negotiations. To ensure the orderly implementation of some
45-50 subprojects, it was also agreed during negotiations that SCT would
furnish to the Bank, not later than March 15, 1987, all subproject proposals
for financing under the loan. SCT also gave a commitment during negotia-
tions that it would complete all subprojects included in the project in a
timely manner and provide the funds,, facilities and other resources required
for the purpose (Section 3.06 of the Guarantee Agreement).
63.       The Bank financed portion of SCT's rehabilitation and periodic
maintenance program for rural roads would be carried out initially in three
states, which is expected to rise later to 5 or 7 states. It was agreed
during negotiations that SCT would carry out an. inventory of its rural roads
network and complete such inventory by June 30, 1987.  In addit:ion, SCT
would, not later than November 30, 1984 and every year thereafter, until
completion of the project, prepare and furnish to the Bank an annual rural
road periodic maintenance program for the following year, in a manner
acceptable to the Bank (Section 3.04(b) of the Guarantee Agreement).
64.       At least once every six months, the Bank and the Government would
exchange views on the project's overall implementation, including actual and
proposed levels of expenditures for construction as well as maintenance
activities, the selection process of subprojects, the rural roads
maintenance program, and transport sector issues (Section 3.08 of the
Guarantee Agreement). To assist the Bank in monitoring this proposed sector
operation, SCT would submit periodic progress reports to the Bank, including
a project completion report summarizing the execUtion of all subprojects,
their costs, benefits and commenting on the accomnplishment of the overall
objectives of the proposed loan (Section 3.11 of the Guarantee Agreement).
Disbursements and Procurement
65.       Initially, the Bank would disburse 70 percent of the total costs
of civil works required for eligible road construction/reconstruction sub-
projects, but--after June 30, 1985--this percentage would be reduced to 35
percenit. Higher initial disbursements are proposed, as part of the Bank's
Special Action Program for Mexico, in order to help alleviate the current
shortage of counterpart funds arising out of the stringent austerity
measures adopted for public sector expenditures. For civil works required
for the rehabilitation and periodic maintenance of rural roads, the Bank
would, until Jane 30, 1985, disburse 70 perceni: of the agreed SCT budget for
subprojects, provided, however, that it is supported by statements of
compliance with the itemized physical goals of the agreed maintenance
program. From July 1, 1985 through June 30, 13986 Bank disbursements would
cover 50 percent of agreed expendiitures, and thlereafter 30 percent.
Disbursements would be made against statements of expenditure, both for
highway construction/reconstruction and rural road maintenance. For
consultant services, it is proposed that the Bank disburse 100 percent of
the cost of contracts.
66.       To help speed up loan disbursements, a special account would be
set up in the Banco de Mexico, which would be operated in accordance with
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank (Section 2.02(b) and Schedule
3 of the Loan Agreement).  Satisfactory auditing arrangements for the



- 19 -
special account were agreed during negotiations, including an assurance that
the Banco de Mexico would cooperate, as needed, to satisfy the auditing
requirements of the special account (Section 4.02 of the Loan Agreement and
Section 4.04 of the Guarantee Agreement). Appropriate arrangements for
auditing were also agreed for the project accounts maintained by SCT
(Section 4.03 of the Guarantee Agreement) as well as for the accounts and
financial statements of CyPF (Section 4.06 of the Guarantee Agreement). In
addition, the Government would take all measures as necessary to assure that
CyPF would, by June 30, 1985 and annually thereafter during the project's
implementation, furnish to the Bank statements of the costs of toll
collection and revenues, and exchange views with the Bank on such costs
(Section 4.05 of the Guarantee Agreement). The Government would also carry
out an analysis of depreciation procedures and asset valuation methods fcor
toll facilities and exchange views with the Bank on the results of the
evaluation.
67.       Civil works for construction/reconstruction of national and toLl
roads--estimated to cost more than US$1.0 million equivalent--would be
procured thrGugh international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank
guidelines (Schedule 2 to the Guarantee Agreement), allowing for SCT's
standard pre-qualification procedures, which are satisfactory to the Bank.
Because of the advanced stage of development of the local contracting
industry, foreign contractors have not been able to compete effectively with
local bidders in the past. Nevertheless, the tendering packages would be
sufficiently large to attract potential bidders from abroad. Civil works
contracts on the trunk road network estimated to cost less than US$1.0
million equivalent, would be procured through local competitive bidding
procedures acceptable to the Bank, with the works so procured not to exceed
in the aggregate US$15 million. Civil works for rural road maintenance
would be carried out by force account or through local competitive bidding
procedures. In carrying out the project's technical cooperation components,
SCT would employ consultants in accordance with Bank guidelines, with
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
satisfactory to the Bank (Section 3.03 of the Guarantee Agreement).
Retroactive Financing
68.       To ensure continuity in financing for SCT's investment program and
the eligible subprojects initiated under the First Highway Sector Loan,
retroactive financing up to US$20 million is proposed. The availability of
this retroactive financing would be critical to filling the gap between the
date when funds under the first sector loan were committed (December 1983)
and the date when the proposed operation is expected to be signed (July
1984).
Project Justification
69.       Road transport, together with other transport modes, is expected
to play an important role in the short term recovery and the medium-tern
development of the Mexican economy. While the demand for transport services
has been suppressed since the 1982 economic crisis, it is expected to re-
bound, as the Mexican economy regains its momentum. Apart from increased
general economic activity, MLexico's dynamic export drive may, in particular,
contribute to substantial traffic growth in the access corridors to major
ports and production and consumption centers. Taking these changes into



- 20 -
account, Mexico's transport sector priorities and related resource require-
ments are being directed at restoring service levels and avoiding further
deterioration of the infrastructure in the short run, while improving capa-
city in the most efficient manner in the mediuma term. The proposed sector
operation would play a key role in this process.
70.       The main benefits from the Bank assisted federal highway
investment program would accrue to the economy as a whole in the form of
savings in vehicle operating costs as well as time savings by road users. A
requirement that appropriate procedures and criteria be applied in updating
the road investment program would ensure that the economic benefits of the
program as a whole, and not just the Bank financed components, are
substantial and the investments are timely. Improved maintenance of the
rural road network would ensure that the benefits of regional development
are fully realized, and the substantial investments made in rural roads are
protected. While the benefits will initially accrue to road users, it is
expected that such benefits would, in time, be broadly distributed to
consuamers through improved transport costs and service levels.
71.       The project's impact, however, would a:Lso be felt in other areas,
which cannot be assessed in quantitative terms. It will be particularly
significant in strengthening the institutions of the transport sector, con-
tributing to the assessment of the problems of, and the articulation of
policies for, transport planning, maintenance, fuel pricing, user charge
allocations, and the regulation of the trucking industry.  In this sense,
the proposed project's technical cooperation component would have a strong
long term impact, helping to raise the awareness of policy makers over these
sector issues, and to articulate plans of action for dealing with problems
in the transport sector over the next five years
Project Risks
72.       The proposed sector operation has been designed for the difficult
present economic circumstances in Mexico, the outlook for 1984-1986, and
taking into account the lessons of experience under the previous sector
project. There is a risk, nevertheless, that if the economic situation does
not improve at a pace now anticipated, or if   inflation accelerates,
further restrictions to transport investments may be required, delaying
implementation of the 1984-1986 time slice of SCI's road investment
program. If this were to occur, SCI should be able, with its experience
over the past few years, to respond to the challenge by further redirecting
the limited funds available toward priority works, particularly
maintenance.  Since the loan amount has been set well below the full
potential for eligible subprojects, SCT would also have the flexibility to
substitute eligible
subprojects as needed. In addition, SCT is also taking precautionary steps
by requiring that contractors adopt job schedules which permit completion of
short segments of the road sections under contract. This would ensure that
benefits of initial investments under the program could be realized without
delay. The semi-annual project implementation review would provide an
appropriate forum for introducing adjustments in SCT's 1984-1986 time-slice
of road investments.
73.       A second risk faced by the project: concerns the counterpart fund-
ing levels for rural road maintenance and the technical difficulty of moni-



- 2 l --
toring a large number of relai:ively small subprojects located across the
nation. To minimize this risk, the project's maintenance component has been
designed as a pilot program, concentratIng efforts initially on a limited.
number of states which would be progressively growing during project imple-
mentation. Agreed procedures for the road inventories and the preparaticn
and review of periodic maintenance programs would further reduce the chances
that technical difficulties might adversely affect this project component.
The setting of physical target:s and financial accountability for rural rcad
maintenance would enhance the effectiveness of the built-in controls.
74.       The extent to which the Bank can influence sector policies and the
Government can maintain its course toward gradually reducing fuel price
subsidies and rationalizing user charges, depends on overall economic per-
formance and political stability.  The proposed second highway sector pro-
ject is presented at this time in response to substantive actions taken by
the current Administ7ation in areas of long-standing concern to the Bank,
such as, for instance, transport sector pricing and institutional reforms.
Barring unforseen difficulties of economic recovery, two features in the
proposed project would help avert the risk of inadequate progress by the
Government in key policy areas. The first would be the proposed technical
cooperation program which, together with the Bank's economic sector work,
would assist in analyzing the important sector issues and formulating appro-
priate policies. The second would be semi-annual project implementation
reviews which would also provide a forum for an exchange of views on
progress. The Bank's assistance strategy for the transport sector would,
through a proposed railway sector operation, enhance the effectiveness of
the policy dialogue.
V.   LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
75.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and BANOBRAS, the draft
Guarantee Agreement between United Mexican States and the Bank, and the
report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the
Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately.  A special condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan would
be evidence that arrangements between BANOBRAS and the Government for the
transfer of loan funds have been executed (para 61). Special conditons oE
the project are listed in Section III of Annex III.
76.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agrement of the Bank.
VI. - RECOMMENDATIONS
77.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
by Ernest Stern
Attachments
May 3, 1984



-- 22 -
ANNEX I
T A B L E  3A                                            Page   I  of  5
MEXlCO                    - SOCIAL INUICATORS DATA SHEET
MEXICO                                     EFPi.ENC_U GROUPb (hEIGHTED 4ULRLLCUJ /a
HOST                         (!:CSr PECiUT ES':0LUt.T) /b
lb           lb  itECE;.T  / I       iiDIL L    UCi              lIDi: lXCUilU
1960-        1970-  ESTIMATF           AT  hl 11144 & CA.S  LAUECL
AREA (THOUSAND SQ. QI)
TOTAL                                  1972.5       1972.5        1972.5
AGRICULTURAL                           IO0.0        976.4         97B.3
GN? PER CAPITA (US$)                       370.0         740.0       2250.0              208d.                        2453..6
ENERGY COliSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQLIVAL£NT)          786.0       1145.0       1684.0              .4(7.6                       15.S
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION,MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)   37073.0          51176.0      71215.0
URBAN POPULATION (7 OF TOTAL)            50.8         59.0          67.3                45.9                        47.8
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILL)                                  115.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILL)                                    215.0
YEAR STATIONARY POP. REACilED                                   2i05
?OPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                            Id.d         25.9         35.2                35.5                         d2.i
PER SN. KM. AGEi. LAND                 37.1         52.4         7u.9                93.                         .57.2
POPULATION AGM STRUCTURE (4)
0-14 YUS                             45.6          40.5         44.7                40.1                         31.9
15-64 YRS                              51.0         50.0         51.6                55.b                         6J.9
65 AND3 ABOVE                           3.4          3.5          3.4                 4.1                          7.2
POPULATION GROWTi0 RATE (7.)
TOTAL                                   3.0          3.2          3.0                  2.3                         !.6
URBAN                                   4.d          4.7          4.2                 3.7                          3.4
CRUDE 31RTH RATE (PER THOUS)             45.4         43.4         36.0                 31.5                        25.0
CRUDE0  EATH .tATS (PER TilOUS)          12.2          9.7           7.0                 6.l                         9.1
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                   3.3          3.2           2.4                 2.0                         1.7
FAMIILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (TIIOUS)               ..         25.1       1145.0
USERS (Z OF MARRIED WOMSN)               ..           ..         36.0
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                            97.U        100.0        109.0               113.0                        118.4
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (7 OF REQJIREMENTS)          117.0       I11.U         121.0                111.3                       129.4
PROTEINS (GRAMSI PER DAY)              69.0         65.0         74.0                67.9                         92.3
OF WlHlCH ANIMAL AND PULSE           29.0          27.0         27.0/c              34.1                         34.6
CHILD (AGES 1-4) DEATih RATE             10.1          6.5           3.5                 5.3                         0.4
PELTHt
LIFE EXPECT. AT BIRTH (YEARS)            57.0         6i.3         65.6                64.6                         d.C
INFANT MORT. RATE (PER THIOUS)           91.1         73.6         54.4                62.6                         71.4
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (7POP)
TOTAIL                                 23.5         49.0/d       5d.0/d              64.8
URBAN                                    . .        6. 5/d       61.4 /d             77.6
RURAL                                    ..         21.0/d       51.0/d              44.3
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
(Z OF iOPULATION)
TOTAL                                    . .        37.0/d       3B.3/d              54.6
URBAN                                               60.U/G       50.1/d              69.6
RURAL                                    . .         4.0_/       13.0/d              29.8
POPULAIION PER PHYSICIAN               1830.U       1510.0       1260.0/e            1776.3                       1094.8
POP. PER NURSING PERSON               3650.0        1640.0       1420.S/e            1012.2                        762.5
POP. PSR HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                                 590.0        970.0        870.U/e             477.0                        334.0
URBAN                                 570.0/f    1170.O        1060.077             667.5                        216.U
RURAL                                    ..       1370.0       1120.07W            1921.6
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL B61                ..            ..           ..               27.2                         ZO.U
HOUSING
AVi RAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                   5.4          5.7            .
URI 3 c                                 5.7          5.7            ..                  .
RURAL                                   5.2          5.8
AVERAGL JO. OF PERSONS/ROOM
TOTAL                                   2.9          2.5
3R53 A                                  2.8          2.2
RURAL                                   3.4          3.2
ACCLSS TO MLECT. (/ OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                    ..         58.9
URBAN                                    ..         80.7
RURAL                                    ..         27.8
… --                                                                 - - - - - - --_ _- - - - - - - - - - --…- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -



- 23 -
ANNEX I
T A B L E  3A                                    Page  2  of  5
MEXICO                   - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
MEXICO                                  REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES) In
MOST                      (MOST RECENr ESTDMATE) /b
l 9 6-b  l97/b  RECENT   ,         MIDDLE INCOME            MIDDLE INCOME
1960-       1970-9  ESTEMATE-       LAT. AMFRICA & CARIB             EUROPE
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:   TOTAL                    80.0        104.0       120.0               105.0                      102.2
MALE                     82.0       106.0        123.0              106.3                      107.2
FEMALE                   77.n       102.0        116.0             13.6                        97. 9
SECONDARY: TOTAI                   11.0         22.0        37.0               40.0                        56.5
HALF,                    14.0        26.0         39.0               38.6                       63.4
FEMALE                    8.0        17.0         34.0               41.2                       48.9
VOCATIONAL (Y OF SECONDARY)           23.6         26.7         10.4               34.0                       22.4
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             44.0         46.0        39.0                30.7                       24.7
SECONDARY                           13.0         14.0        17.0                16.7                       22.1
ADULT LITERACY RATF (%)               65.4         74.2         82.7               79.5                       69.7
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS/THOUSAND POP           12.9         24.5         46.1/c             45.6                       52.9
RADIO RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP          89.0        273.7       295.4              228.2                       165.5
TV RECEIVERS/THOUSANID POP            17.5         58.5       108.1               108.3                      124.2
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION
PER THOUSAND PCPJLATION              73.3           . .        64.5/g             64.1                       96.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE/CAPITA        9.8          4.9          4.4                2.9                        2.9
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUS)          11191.0      14722.0     20819.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    15.2         17.4         19.8              24.8                        34.5
AGRICULTLRE (PERCENT)               55.1         45.2         35.6               31.3                       40.7
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  19.5         22.9        25.8               23.9                        23.4
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               30.2         28.8        29.2               31.3                        42.0
MALE                                51.1         47.4        46.7               49.8                        55.2
FEMALF,                              9.2         10.1        11.6               14.8                        29.1
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.6         1.7          1.6                1.4                        0.9
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
'IGHEST 5% OF HOUSEHOLDS               ..          ..           .
HIGHESr 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS           61.1/h       60.7        57.7l/e
LOWEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS             3.4/h        3.3         2.9/c
LOWEST 40% OF HOUSEHOLDS             9.87T        9.9          9.97..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  ..          ..           ..              289.8
RURAL                                 ..           ..           ..             154.5
ESTIMrATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (0S$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..       471.0              519.8
RURAL                                  .     .      .       471.0              372.1                       409.0
ESTIMATED POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (%)
URBAN                                  ..          ..           ..
RURAL                                 ..           ..           .
NOT AVAILABLE
V                      . NOT APPLICABLE
N O T E S
/a  The group averages for each indioat-r are population-weighted arithreeic means.  Coverage of countries a.mong te
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b  Unless otherwise noted, "Data for 1960" refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; "Data for 1970" between 1969 and
1971; and data for 'Most Recent Estimate" between 1979 and 1981.
/c  1977; /d Served from water supply and sewerage; /e 1974; /f 1962;  g 1976; /h 1963.
May 1988



-24-                                                                    ANNEXI
Page 3'-of 5
DEFINITIONSSOF _44C;L S0ODICaTOSO
Noe:0N-       u   oefaaaeloefr more                               hee  yjdedSems   ohrtt o   o   e  al,Scsol   lob   oedtette   o   o  b   tarstell
coseroie  ecoseof  oe  to  ofaoadadled dflotlts  od   onept  osd b  dfteetocootr.e...cllc-os  es dts   Pb  dsa  re,ooothees, oetedt
des 0~beAcoos gteogh otd de  SdrSotoed.            e   hrceoecrao  eo    lfroe   eee    000C 
The ceterebc  gro..    are h )Sress  cuor   ody-khesojc    oofyed(l  cahorgoo   Oo mOe                                      Ogo   nseSoes.btt.ecste   gopofSo
suolcoconto   leceytfor"000 Inome  355torrtes" soopshor  0SddleSnoss  orthOttSos  od   idde te 0'ts oose-beoueIof  trooer  eotecolara
of oooeI Inoh   efeoc  -dop  es  h  oceage  or   ocsoosegtdeleses    oe   o   ac   o -tr-d  he   tyeetmjrt   fttecpes.S 
grocybat  ate  or ost lfAcdO tottecteeso  coolsamn   N                             -Sdctt  depen aft    or Ott11 arlab hSt   fdat   o   ittotfr,ca  o   St
rhrcoour     -f--noiofgrloiorleratetnorri-r.....l .stdsasrdutotes,  eitatnuss  patSetresb
For crope , peaores , osreet on  kShobeo soolh o   or. 00le  slo;590                     ncog         hSsSs
T.O,192,an  181doe,bya  lJes oner phycoels                                                                                       Asrllbets  pr-odlgy  prtbSa If tItiog
190,190,sd 197.eo..r.ohsptas..loe  Os.r.c.toea                                                                                                          hos Itas hed cora
PlPle100  0   10.OOITt                                                                                 pc Se    opil   r Aitododed only... Irtoal
hioolsoSoo rrod lecdiAc'                                                                        - 0  ouehl  c-nehece ofagro   f  nlSdetab   bseSI'gna t
toneS-dpby  _to   ya arreodtei                                                                                                                              _l .adtciIySh   itnod  o   00loSa   optt
ra6nee.1,  yroocd  o p198    tet1orcodoltraeoosric   fre                                         *bor,gci            d~ ectntRr-1-ool                                  bye.errl   orgtse
itoesaooelg  IOc epoooncao   Srthioceaocgaohcooor'o   oc   tpeoooepercoo  Sooilurba, ad rraloccuIed                     dh..ntooa
oult  lcoo  eil,en  fmae  of  epetac  asOlSSn  0  0.0doellrg -er-,cSoly   lhelle  eelfde no-y                                     oarn   erctce-n
react.   ho coroctoce   orfecolltrraoelootaoohroc  lotit         uoocoyoc   rarhh
uooin   role  nteolIoacodigSoSoneled  adpeofeSpOcee  oOlorily  prc_                                       o   eelogl-  oal_chc  adcoa 
ENRGiOnricFTONPER CrAPITAccotr   tte   atIndcoofSienc .o..e. .oaEdellng   elnclf                                                           oofyS  Iongqobota
noohoneicosur  crcallo eno frool ic  ncord  fon Acb-hoco  poyoe                         idhSona i:i, ra. ad   rrlaeicoepcSen
;cpclaoocoit--eeo           -mioooch   oasi of  oneprj- oe  oherctr-pIeNG                                   tho-g   casohs    onlyIcodeciO                            gd01
Pe  t,Se     nd-er   oolnlcyi   nareklooor:11hotro  Io                                      yoidt  eer-.  occodf   or22    ce-e   Iranigdceruc- ooI                 o
Octal are;   96,  1970   ani90dt.0pldooll   fI   o1   er   Sai;  orapoec    ore   t
Oeou  de erluloo.  ln  -to           ..c..0.000 .  o . glutoa   an                                eeiiyeelO
ony;lSf.ylaolofdee                                                                icaSodloc1leolorccororoi-bliootinl  ceSOhlo
dooano; 190,197,at-       0  data.ll        ....l-..cho.nai.   cr....r.and Ioeoodarc-tSo   ec-dn-o p-o-ld  S
oopolatloctfor 1550-0,  1907-77,acd 1510-0.                                            0tecOtio  f  ccl  dut  oolt onugd-5  OaS t_000
7ean yyoloooc;  lot, lol, cod:9J1  tho-e-.1                                                                                -t-lfjh-O_dftjt-11191-1
lyodo00005tate  ycr Oooneo) - STialdah   e   huadofsdyaieenotrj~ooenryltol    soegcaaoyieo
aoc..lolc;1967,  970,  nd :90  dots                                                       cor -p-dl-   Iot  Oo  ei htp.-tone; roc ..ode. A.oloe..           harr.an
into Otrid ocooc Out-icerar  cueltr if do--oor    Thoana 1--1 tenI-eibr   rtclo
hernornol  recrid-uc-rhlo-o -re-Jod Syne_rioc    ronog-pcfo                                 el   eaIery~j~e _-d               pofeoldof--Ilpc otre                  ofrdo
cacet; If    ouullynlc-r--netr,aoero2Scoondc         Inh 907 1 977  an"o  treot  genera.p..l.  pr   toae   Sprlsln    tro                                               n
:001.i                                                                                             l --    APAi-euc  reeler   Oncotconr        easaereitrtonte
?ooclcplonnco-ocrarocro    eocoltohcoondol    1-         --keclooryfoeoio                  rsosloSeo;ootcton                          ocaro~ cur,  beotusbteot
oh: h ~~~~~~0- On                                                                                                                     050.., c-o    fio  o,2 - .P rd o  o 
nor--f    oio,Icil,o  -coo'linIoo.. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~'..
lon,rI   nn,;      ndr  en   di960ntdolocrr 1970c                                                     uhr. o-cdoo    enirtr    co-ao-  nSt  nerLo
ooaloihorrcloo    oalkrccoc cro-on   n ldn    deIcndrcroc    -ot.aoo
of-ra-co  intr  oo - od:   idono jd          CI                         (5-y                                d~--1         r   -,-
o,oc-cd  fnnoc;occcrnceoo                               opc -0dr 0,-~    1    ..i                --ohL c0 0 1nooncl coo                -louolc   eror              -nl.o;o  an
cre---fOi'olc.tofoelcod Ioyo   lt.o:hcooo-                 ooa0p.o.ndnecehtcon0ou                                                                    .... .. ..  . e.r...
co  co  AGlouplc   ni98lt                                                                         ..c.oo     coon i..o top.alcncaoc rfdniloi  on
Icco  noo 0cscto,    ooylo-              oldoooied oed_aol    Sho J"                                               an    Sldc
ron cf I   nopp2L6Ctol 19     coeco -   ed  -    tocroncto9ercrio07   odS1   oe
oor.aylon0  f-S  poroan    hcoopplp-fh.ooriLhef -no   O etio,-                         c.r.i...ipAnlnotlocn  Id -ooa,ab,ndttolc-Peoooailoa
Oooroet.fca       onrlocrolnndttoorull0cnniceaciih--cuaeco0tt ...a,el,ad.eaoah.f..a
1ic    96Ce,o 1970    oo poeioc o,diganc c-aa-Ieoocico-oSa,aiOfoelycieii9                                                                                clgoroetiey
00anoo-ocfr-     h - cold -roooo   t  nor Sn6d   1970   -dt,ootsoo-gae f                                                                   In oa ic
-o,nircdioe-lI itOlerd190000.icnroeoceo    ol-aocfouatoodnlndf,d itl
prrnocfonnc                         nol,-riiuclndidrcn:loofcC
oorir-rci-lolond    clSt-1tgantperdun  lO1 0                                                                                                --0 00"i.
F-i~~~ fl-~~~~ilg  -p                                                                               li-ittg-                            1.r 10107'lohIr-10
nnolo:aotl-o  or-oro c-           c-uood -Ona lOoh   po- tt1 oanTl  E-o icrl;nna acio7C ridplhc
cgeior--       cr,aoldolnhogegoofoeo0000.nocnot,ono                                                                            _croc ,1ioc.pecn  adt-ru                   rooto
IcOc totleo;  Sm, 0071 cod 100   000  00---oCho-                                                                   T
-rolS                                                                                               Otrn-    vo    tot phl-1111
1,fhccococ  ctioc<cono-conoeoan0  .0con,a  l-nnanon                     ¶c         _ 1o'oociferi oniC        J-pocioa-rCuonifcoooLeo-,
ict;noi;1000, lOOoodIOSlena.                                                       onlPr'cOcrrmoconoori-cr-tIou,dian
nnannoocoiaclpnnoocnl-ccufca-nof                                                  hoi                       tloor OblItleciccu-aha-oruul
ocaofocpothinod.       . h..   te   lOt...rdOhtlCconloncloiotc                                                                             an   coloi"iouiia
ocoeocfofCooroorroocociolotlo)-ota   ortn  od rual                                          00                        oO  Ocroocnn...on-ood.....oncco   00c
horhenufoople  (rnol,  cr00,000 nroll eon  reaso1
cutoorI,     l)o    cricuf-O conoiccoo   rlu,on                         co-rroc-00.:    t---oro                                          ra
0 pacHo  nocna Ir or oaodpcot  locter coo miCccnttoa                         iritdjtoctfr0100000o -                       iO  in..    cro.  aeS
roootrch  oroee   o0c0ito    ctiooocoo  oa                                                   oiac  rrol:to   iolt   oooyIct   o1lycoo7-co
Otercooi,   o        hc- 00to ap oitrod rOon                  r don  of                   0000 b-
ourol -hoonhoraf pooicAt-du,fanto---000  oro P  orced-6
ol-nlor-                 17 inclolc -dOcr d903



- 2 5 -
MEIiCO  - ECX 11   DEVL0F?TFN7   D4TA SHEE'
-----------
----------------  -------------------------
F.g. 4 f 5
ACTU;,                                                           PROjECTICN                                        BROWTH  RATES                                                                       Z  i  rOf
--------------  ----------------------------------                               -------I--------------                             ------- --------------------------                                       --------------  ----------------
i?S!         iK           198:         :58,          181          IN%                    t970-7!   197E-80   198'J-8'   i98-9(                                    ;71         i't,          i`21          1q, 
----         ----          ----                       ----          ----                  -------   -------   -------                  -----                        ---          ----          ----            ---
4-IUNA   L-X '                                                           31bTA NT  1780  PFICSE, 6E$  EI,LICNS
--  ---- -------                                                       --  -  -----------  - ---------------
211.14    'Of,  17         19",'         1",.4b        199. K       267.,2                         ..,O         6.71,            4         b.                      1,K           I 00.                        ),.2'
Of
185,7'          !.-'4      199.16       is".        :P,12         IF2.16          i.4'                        6119            36        r, ."I        61 'IO                  I al,        I D L't-    i      I
1417        18.a         21.91        "".6,                        7.51        14-O         -8.12'        !.i:
B.O4         t.21                                                  ia.           1.4,
45.4                                                                                             7.06
-1.15        -1.4,
I           i,bP         11           il.4           .b4
6.7(,                                                                          -.7-4          1,
4            51.5:         4:.r                                     79                                                                                                            '2.56        '4. I5             K
464         1 .7'        n.
13.41                      ;:.4!        ;G. t         -4                       4:.',        46.0          61.17                        7 .10       IC-. 4C                                                19.74             76       :,R!           - I
-11         -4,24                      -8.RI                      -8.07         -6.ill        -6,97                      !4,I)f)       !819         10.41       -7.01i
i,.-.?       - 41          -,-1,5,      4             44.7         7.55         ',4,4T        7.F!          C4.80                        6.10         9.10                                                                 I16
IF GDP
-------------                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ----------  --- ----------------
Abl,                                                                                 :L.h          ill.lt                     !.'S         :6.14        !,.14         17.1         19.64                                     4. v(,        i.bE         :.Bb
4.4C        bq.4Y         7b.12                      7,,.I3            U,                     R,7                         7. 4,j
-7,                                    1j,7            7. 45                   IOI..:        0,4!
P.           LN:                                                             -UFFNT  PRTEES,   j                 INS
--  --  -------                     -------  ------                                     ---------  -----------------
-,.,,4                                   -Cl               P`,      44-
--------  ----                                                           ------         -----   -------   -------   -------   -------   -------   -------   -------
24-         :"v                        i5i7           5'          lj,          it"I
7E:          E.         ii.           1,541         3412                        6!110       1)5I
-7'          4t,,-'        !Riq         45o,          567          15912
EP                                                                                                                            7-,B,                                    U7'
:.-.7       -.7:        1                            l911,         86%                      _1',26
:842        '120(,
_07;        -                                                       7
-------- ----                                                          -------   -------   -------   -------   -------   -------   -------   -------   -------
912          _7           14K          12",           B4
IF-FLL',,-!,PINEPAL-,                                                                    4,        i'91"        i4l.1,
AAN[]FkC',SEE   1                                                         ;44          1---,         65-1                        86         4 ', I       b'C,,        71P         1 5 7 7Q
zEF" T-E-1  AN". ZTH"                                                     929                       w4l'l        IP6.                       '14;         IS,),        1 !.'I 4     '4 lbz
IP11-7  XIi-ES   ip
impoR, PRICE  I NDEI                                                   41. 1,         4 . :6     1911. v     1 14. 1       I I E 4        69  46     1 1 5. 5 6    1 ', 5. 94    1 5 B. 59
EIPC;' PPI'E  : VOE                                                                6 4 .5      'I) . ('    1 1 ?. i       2? as         '. I        9 :. 119    I 60. i 6     1 46. 79
TE "S  OF  '0E  TNDEi                                                 9 4 . 4 A     R..0        1     03       '5, g            96       S&  6:        76. 'i       30. C        87 .)7
CCF DE-- -A T. 3                                                      q .                O      P C . 1))   I ". 2D      75. )-       ;E. I '     00. 7C        "be, RD   :09. 4q
TNHANSE RATE                                                           !:.0          l,.47        2 -1,         '4.5,        57. i B      12.21
-CNSJIDATEC PljKl'  3-rT3P  PINNE-l                       DP
-------- --------------------------
IS.",        22.88                      19.i2         22.42         22t,!D       2b.6E          8.74        28.7t,
CURRENT  EXPERDITJPES                                                  1 4 . , 6     : 5 . 7 3     IS.                        22,-!       2..,2         24.4,'        24. 36       2C. 0
CURRENT  S'JRFLOS                                                                       .la         I  .0      _6 .              65       - I22             26         4. J, E       . sq
CAP7TAL  !NVESTMEN,                                                                  I 0. 65        5.66        1 3. K        il.2i          55'             aq         7 . 7B       S. 44
D-FICI'  A ll                                                                                       7 . 36      1 4, z4     - I 7. 66      -L  I 8       -5. 6 4           4 1           94
ALLOCA710M  ]F  SROSE  PUDLIC                                                                                                                                                                                                                        AS    OF  TOTAL
--------------------------                                                                                                                                                                                                                            -------------
SECIOF  ET.FENDIURES  iCqRREkT  31LI [ON  MElt                                                                                                                                                                                                             19 62
------------------------------------------                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ----
ENERGY                                                                               il.06           7              i
TRANSPORT  AND  COMUNIZATIONS                                                         4.46         7 41        6'            91.
..                            K                                                                                                                       2.76
SO'IAL  EXPENDITURES                                                                     ti      1 4 6. 02    '28. B4       21 . 7,                                                                                                                     1 t.49
14CUSTRY   COrEMERCE                                                                    09       16. A4      1 E4. 1 P     722. 1 ',                                                                                                                     6. 6 9
AERIC. AND  RURAL  OEYELOPMENT                                                        4-4         74.9       i27.98        22.9b                                                                                                                        7.92
SEN. ADMINIST. AND  DEFENSE                                                          16.48       157_16       29:.40
ruiRism                                                                               (.2'I         4JE         7,,I-,        S.?'                                                                                                                       C.25
PJBLIC  DEBT                                                                        34,4,        197.07       :996C        594.&5                                                                                                                       i7.90
ENTERPRISES                                                                        [55.Ee        K4.34        6?100   :104.1E
OTHER                                                                                            14.36        2'7Z6       256.77                                                                                                                        7.72
TOTAL                                                                                          146.16   23,2.72   -321..,                                                                                                                              1%.00
r                                -----                                                               -------   -------   -------   -------   -------                                                                                                                                    ------
LABOP, FORCE                                                                 IN  MILLIONS                                         AS      OF  TOTAL                AVERAGE  INNUAL  GROWTH  RATE                          VALUE  ADDED  PER  KK R                                                      I  OF  AYERASE
-----------                                                                -------------                                          ---  ---------                   --------------------------                             ----------------------                                                      -------------
1971        Inc                                      197          19BC                               11110-80                                        971)       198C                                                   197D          !9po
----         ----                                     ----          ----                               -------                                        ----         ----                                                   ----          ----
AGRICULTURE                                                             4.47          4.YO                                   '4.72                                                   0.30                                     -49           3.19                                                 '2.!
INDUSTRY                                                                2.7,          4.97                                   21.21         'L  .46                                   1.?U                                    12.l         I,.7                                                157.1i        i40.95
SERVICES                                                                5.67          9.91                                    44.06        47.48                                      `.la                                     9.6t        ii.:                                                125.66        114.49
TOTAL                                                                  12.8         18.80                                  100.00        100.Do                                      1.50                                     7.64         RINI                                                10c,00        lorLoo
-----                                                                ------        ------                                   ------        ------                                    -----                               -------- --------                                                       ------       ------
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
11 INCLUDES 'HAQU'LADORAS'.
2 IF7C FIGURES ARE NOT AV41LABLE IN A CCNSISENT 0Y HITF FOLONING IFARS.
'Y   FAST  1975 FISliRES  ARE  INCLUDED  IN  AGRICU'URE                      AGRI"LLTURA  &  REEUFSOS  H  )RAULIC3S
EDULD NET BE DRIqINED.
NOT A01LABLE SEPERATELY 3UT INCUDED 14 TK TCTAL.
SOURCES: EPP, MINISTY OF FtNANCE, 1, 'HE PRESIDENT, BANP gAFF ES-INATES.
MAI It, 1934



-26 -
B19L88(  BF PAYMENTS, EXTERNI ASSISTISE AMD DBT a/                                                                   ANNEX1I
(US$ MILLION AT CLIERENT PRICES)                                                                        PAGE 5 OF 5
ACTUAL                                         PROJECTIONS
1970      1975      1980     1981      1982      1983      1984      1985      1990
SUMMARY BALANCE OF PAYRENTS
EXPORTS (INCLUDING 9F5)                             3117      6793    23606    29079    21259    26842    31200    35584    66770
I WORTS (INCLUDIWF MFEA                             3892      9910    26206    34364    21920    12673    22000    27595    60442
RE80800 BALANCE                                     -765    -3117    -2600    -5285         5438    14169       9200      7989      632!
ACT FACTOR IECNE                                    -479    -1459    -4898    -7548   -10591    -9990    -B473    -9170   -t0588
(PIILIC SECTOR INTEREST PAYMETS)                    -290    -1032    -3958    -3476         B400    -7346    -9569   -10032   -x1546
CURRENT TRANSFERS, NET                                56        133      275       289       265       356        .       ..        ..
CURRENT AOCODONT BALANCE                           -1188    -4443    -1223   -12544    -4978          5545       727    -1181    --4253
PRIVATE DIRECT INVESTMENT                             183      204      1254      1189       105       374       600       660      1063
PUBLIC NED. AND LONE TORN LOANS, NET                 262      3583      4059      8657      0962      3465      4003       380      5239
DIS9V1SEME8TS                                      828      4422      1771    13923    14250        8305      6452    11164    22763
REPAYMENTS                                         567       839      3712      5166      5388      4940      2449    18784    4.524
IMF (NET)                                             --         -       128      -197       221      1300      1200      1200      -600
OTHER CAPITAL                                        844       921      31B95     3999    -8009      -7579    -1000          0         0
CHANGE IN RESERVES I-=INCREASE)                     -102      -163    -1151    -1012        3195    -3106    -5530    -1059    -1449
00R ALLOCATION                                         45      ---        74        70--                                   --        --
GRANT AND LOAM CORITRERTS
PUBLIC NED. MD0 L.T. LOANS
lORD                                              146.90   310.00   625.00  1021.00   586.70
IDA                                                  1        ..        ..        ..        . .
OTHER MULTILATERAL.                               11 2,40   121.80   358.00   291.50  1063.10
9IIEUINT                                           79.90   265.88   78. 20   640.90   639.00
SILPPIERS                                          70,00   167.00   108.00   240.30    43.00
BANKS A8O FIVICIAL INSTITUTIONIS                  370.40  3513.30  5179,00 11066.90  9592.40
DE9T AND BEET SERVICES
n1189C1DEBT DIITSTADING AND D1IS8t560            3206.30 11537.40 33818.00 43447.00 50910.00                                                                EXTERNAL DEBT                      EXTERNAL DEBT
(END OF PERIDO)------I-------
INTEREST ON P1101  KEBT                           216.40   931.88  384 1.90  4702.70  5991.00                                                                                            OUTSTANDING AND DISEASED
REPA9PLTS ON P11I9.IC DEBT                        475.60   761.10  4026.40  3779.00  3072.60                                                                                              -------------
n01C.1  KIT SERVICES  MET)                        692.00  1592.90  7868.30  8484.70  8964.40                                                                                                   ON DEC. 31, 1982
8818008 EDPDET EARNINGS OF                                                                                                                                  PUBLIC M & L. T.
9911 IC DE7 SERVICES (i)                     22.28    23.45    33.33    29.1lb    32.89                                                                    LOWE                              AILLIONS  PERCENT
18R0                                         26918    5.30
899100  TEES OF PUBLC 868W CWITMENTO                                                                                                                        DTHER OFF. SOUNCES                           4404      6.85
a.INTEREST AS I OF PEION YEAM'S                 7.40      9.00    11.40    13.91    13.56                                                              0THER PRIRATE                                43888    87.95
.9. 0.AN9.                                                                                                                                           DOOUCS
6.  A4EAM   TUTEITY  F MEN LOWI                   ---       6.90      9.40      7.80      6.80
IYENS)                                                                                                                                             TOTAL                                       50910    100.00
138 EDROUM
I.M88  9.9. AN   ). AS?I OF                    18.20      9.73      6.10      5.56      5.30
h.  188  MEIT SERVICES AS I OF                    7.80      7.29      3.24      3.35      3.65
P8811 9BU7 SERVICE
a/  ALL F18853 MME  TO 9(911.8  II  LOWl TERN P899IC DEBT O18LY lOPS).
U.   T MAILABLE6 SEPUTELY lIT  NCLlIED IN THE TOTAL.
SENSz INK OF 9EIIC0, DES, NAM STAFF ESTOMTES.
my4 lit  1914



- 27 -                     ANNEX II
Page 1 of 2
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MEXICO1/
A. Statement of Bank Loans (as of March 31, 1984)
Loan No.    Year        Borrower       Purpose                   Amount Less    Undis-
Cancellations   bursed
53 Loans Fully Disbursed                  2,887.1
1111-5       1975       NAFINSA        Irrigation                     50.0          6.6
1186         1975       BANOBRAS       Water Supply                   40.0          3.1
1553-5       1978       NAFINSA        Agriculture                    56.0          7.1
1643-5       1979       NAFINSA        Small-scale Agri.              60.0         14.7
1671         1979       BANOBRAS       Highways                      120.0         24.5
1686-5       1979       FERTIMEX       Industry                       80.0          '_7
and NAFINSA
1706-5       1979      NAFINSA         Irrigation                     92.0         58.2
1712-5       1980       NAFINSA        Industry                      175.0         47.4
1820-5       1980       NAFINSA        Small and Medium
Scale Mining                40.0         30.0
1858-5       1980      NAFINSA         Irrigation                    160.0        151.3
1881         1981       NAFINSA        Small and Medium              '00.0         10.9
Scale Industry
1891-5       1981       NAFINSA        Agricultural Credit           325.0         92.5
1908         1981      NAFINSA         Irrigation                     23.0         10.1
1913         1981       BANOBRAS       Water Supply                  125.0         92:.4
1929         1981      BANOBRAS        Railways                      150.0         71.9
1945         1981       NAFINSA        Rainfed Agriculture           280.0        176.2
1964         1981       BANPESCA       Port Development               14.0         11.6
1990         1981       BANOBRAS       Urban Development II          164.0        126.6
2042         1982      NAFINSA         Technical Training             90.0         26.7
2043         1982       NAFINSA        Integrated Rural
Development                175.0        150.9
2100         1982       NAFINSA        Irrigation Rehab II           180.0        177.3
2142         1982      NAFINSA         Capital Goods
Industry                   152.3        127.5
2154         1982      NAFINSA         Pollution Control              60.0         565.7
2191         1983       NAFINSA        San Fernando Agri.            138.4        133.7
2194         1983       BANOBRAS       Urban Engineering               9.2          7.6
2262         1983       NAFINSA        Agri. Marketing               115.0        104.0
2281         1983      BANOBRAS        Third Water Supply            100.3        1OD.0
2325         1983       NAFINSA        Third Small Medium
Industry                   175.0        157.1
2331         1983       BANCOMEXT      Export Development            350.0        349.1
TOTAL                            6,486.3
Of which has been repaid to the Bank            1,150.4
Total now outstanding                           5,335.9
Amount sold                      92.3
of which has been repaid         92.3               0.0
Total now held by Bank2/                        5,335.9
Total undisbursed                                            2,327.4
1/  The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report
on all Bank!IDA financed projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly and
circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30, and October 3;.
2/, Prior to exchange adjustments



- 28 -
ANNEX I I
Page 2 of 2
B. Statement of IFC INVESTMENTS (as of March 31, 1984)
Fiscal                                                                  US$ Million
Year      Obligor                       Type of Bus:Lness         Loan   Equity   Total
1958/59   Industrias Perfect
Circle, S.A.1/              Industrial Equipment    0.8          --      0.8
1958       Bristol de Mexico  S.A.l/  A.C. Engine Overhaul    0.5              --      0.5
1961       Acero Solar, S.A. /           Twist Drills                0.3       -       0.3
1962/65/  Compania Fundidora Fierro y
66/68      Acero de Monterrey, S.A. Steel                          2.3    21.4    23.7
1963       Tubos de Acero de
Mexico, S.A.1/              Steel                      0.9      0.1      1.0
1963       Quimica del Rey, S.A.1/    Sodium Sulphate                0.7       --      0.7
1964/66   Industria del Hierro,
S.A.1/                      Construction Equipment   --         2.0      2.0
1970       Minera de Norte, S.A.'/    Iron Ore Mining                1.5       --      1.5
1971       Celanese Mexicana, S.A.1/  Textiles                      12.0       -      12.0
1972       Promotora de Papel Perio-
dico, S.A. de C.V.1/        Pulp and Paper             2/                2/
1973/79   Cemento Veracruz, S.A.         Cement                     15.9       --    15.9
1974/81   Cancun Aristos Hotel           Tourism                     1.0      0.3      1.3
1975/78   Mexinox, S.A.                   Steel                     12.0      3.2    15.2
1978 /81/
83       Papeles Ponderosa, S.A.    Pulp and Paper               10.7      5.0    15.7
1978       Tereftalatos Mexicanos,
S.A.                        Petrochemicals            19.0       --    19.0
1979/83   Cementos Tolteca, S.A.3/   Cement                       168.0       8.0   176.0
1979/81   Hotel Camino Real
Ixtapa, S.A.                Tourism                     --      3.1      3.1
1979       Conductores Monterrey,        Electrical Wire
S.A.3/                        and Cable               18.0       --    18.0
1980       Industrias Resistol, S.A.3/Particleboard                25.0        -      25.0
1980       Vidrio Plan de
Mexico, S.A.3/              Flat Glass               114.9       -    114.9
1980       Minera Real de Angeles,
S.A. de C.V.3/              Mining                   110.0       --   110.0
1981       Celulosicos Centauro,
S.A.3/                      Pulp and Paper            59.5       --    59.5
1981       Corporacion Agrioindus-
trial, S.A.                 Agri-Business             11.3      3.0    14.3
1983       Capital Goods Facility        Capital Goods
Financing             100.0        --   100.0
Total Gross Commitments                                684.3    46.1   730.4
Less Cancellations, Terminations, Repayment            520.6    22.2   542.8
Total Commitments Now Held by IFC                      163.7    23.9   187.6
Total Undisbursed (including participants)             135.8       6.9   142.7
1/         Investments which have been fully cancelled, terminated, written off,
sold, redeemed or repaid.
2/         US$25,000.
Gross Commitment including amounts solc to participants.
A US$4.4 million operation with METALSA for auto chassis manufacture is
pending signature.



- 29 -
ANNEX III
MEXICO
SECOND HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section  I -  Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:  About seven months
(b)  Project prepared by             :  SCT
(c) First Bank mission to review project: February 1983
(d) Departure of appraisal mission: October 24, 1983
(e)  Negotiations completed:  MIarch 30, 1984
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:  September 1984
Section  II - Special Bank Implementation Action
None
Section III - Special Conditions
(a) SCT to complete a study of road user charges by December 31,
1985, subsequently to exchange views with the Bank on study
findings and recommendations (para. 44);
(b) SCT to submit, by November 30, 1984 and annually thereafter
until completion of the project, an updated four-year highway
investment program (para. 55);
(c) Execution of cont:ractual arrangements, between BANOBRAS and
the Government for the transfer of loan funds would be a
special condition of loan effectiveness (para. 61);
(d) Construction/reconstruction subprojects to conform with agre!ed
design standards and to have a minimum economic return of 12
percent (para. 62);
(e) SCT to submit to the Bank, by March 15, 1987, all subproject:s
for financing under the loan (para. 62) and SCT to carry out:
an inventory of rural roads by June 30, 1987, and furnish
annual rural roads maintenance programs not later than
November 30, 1984 (para. 63);
(f) SCT to exchange views on overall project implementation,
including transport sector issues, at least once every six
months during project execution (para. 64); and
(g) BANOBRAS to set up a special account in accordance with agreed
procedures and to make satisfactory auditing arrangements,
including the financial statements of CyPF (para. 66).



A            -



IBRD 17957
,ANf0ARY 1984
Mex,cali    114'                       108,                                                         1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~02'                                        MovbleonMoalo                                    tcml.
UNITED   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IMorelia  ~ inpcao                                                                           ~/Ipea
p   r i k  * s R O Codo                                     I0F g                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~U N Ir E D  S T A T E S  O F  A At E R IC A                                .Mv I-                         x       2Atcm   
Quiroga       HuajembOro                    \Nuap                       ecc
Ciudad Juarez                                                                                                      u             H                      a,                             Lee Rea     ; 
P'ta. Pea sC            Nogales-
. ''aP?Agua Prelta                          El Porvenir                                                                                                                          TemescaltepeC)                                         Pue
5 i E EC'olonett l 0                                                                                                          (:                                                                                                                                    f/  tf   \   : Cuern vaca  Aflixce
30:                                                                                      uevoC '   k0Gro  es                                                                                               30  -
Sa  F-eiipe                                                                                                                                                                          0
Ciudad              "'
Altamiroano,.~
Igual              LoPea s
0 2 4;    J :\  g >\   X   t(             > kn                                                   0_ m enez<<_                                  g         {                      2:Sahu.r.p                                   "P     I,  E                                               en
Piedras Negras                                                         /Balsas                                                  eortd
errero                                                                0   20   A0   6080   I0                                    C0
Gutty                                                                                                                                                     K~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~, Ziutnj  ILOMETERS  Chilapa
Cd Obrego                     "L'C,y0                                                                   uevo Laredo           '                                          0      20      40       60''
M Chilpancingoa                     Tlap
MILE5
Catro Cinog              Moncaa               C.Ge,
96'                                                          go,
StCON   HaiG 3HWAyY   SECTOR   PROJECT                                                      Tppic                                               Falipe  XiIIa                     18, RdFedo
-*- illern a   bonol~tu'16           Tbpolq~pamuchil                              Tepe                rrle erreydii                                                                                                                                                              -
O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 1                                                                   0      0            C200y        3      l de *-ro, : ,e                Notla                                                CEePuert                    aAngell  Pl     'T1 
i  114  10Se ; ' & 102 j 9t 904 _¢ 4 >~~~~~~~Sui                                                                                                   iare
Culiac  Papa ;qui~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Veacu
Highways  financed  by loans  268-ME, 317-ME  354ME,                Mercrn                                                                                                                                                                                               24oJj-S    .,   ''Otran  -eo
Acaputcef               ~~acuion                                                          oid              .     I 
-  The ,eopas beef,  CReAIe  y O P Agascal                                                                                                                                     Progesoh o  r cneere fMaotleAnoo  <        ..  ~ 1-
________________________________________defe leal fatr nI eV eroffc'or ay adoeenuodor oooTend                                      poaacMerideae
SECOND HIGHWAY SMIECTRPOETS)~i 0,,"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  a
114'                                      108'                                                         102'~~~~~~~~~~~~~cS  F90p



L'
it



