Document of
The World Bank                    FILE COpy
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Repot No. P-2923-RO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
BANK FOR AGRICULTURE AND FOOD INDUSTRY
WITH THE GUARANTE OF
THE SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF ROMANIA
FOR A
BUCSANI-BUZAU-SIRET-PRUT IRRIGATION (BBSP) PROJECT
December 3, 1980
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit; Leu (Plural Lei)
1. Official Rate
Lei 4.47 = US$1.00
Leu 1.00 - US$0.22
2. Tourist Rate
Lei 12.00 = US$1.00
Leu 1.00 = US$0.08
3. Conversion Rate for Traded Goods (as of January 1, 1981)
Lei 15.00   US$1.00
Leu 1.00 = US$0.07
The Official Exchange Rate of lei 4.47 per US$1 is used only for accounting
purposes. The rate used for tourist transactions is lei 12 per US$1.
Beginning on January 1, 1981, a trading rate of lei 15 per US$1 will be used
to convert the prices of all traded goods.
Fiscal Year
January 1 to December 31
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
BAFI                      -        Bank for Agriculture and Food Industry
(Banca pentru Agricultura si Industrie
Alimentara)
CAP                       -        Agricultural Production Cooperative
(Cooperative Farm)
ERR                       -        Economic Rate of Return
ICA                      -         Inter-Cooperative Association
IAS                      -         State Agricultural Enterprise
(State Farm)
MAFI                      -        Ministry of Agriculture and Food Industry
SMA                      -         Agricultural Mechanization Stations
(State Mechanization Units)
UAC                       -        Unified Agro-Industrial Councils



FOR 01FFICIAL USE ONLY
ROMANIA
BUCSANI-BUZAU-SIRET-PRUT IRRIGATION (BBSP) PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:          Bank for Agriculture and Food Industry (BAFI)
Guarantor:         Socialist Republic of Romania
Beneficiary:       State enterprises and cooperatives
Loan Amount:       US$75.0 million
Terms:             Repayable in 15 years, including 3-year grace period,
through semi-annual installments. Interest at 9.25
percent per annum.
Relending
Terms:             The loan from BAFI to Agricultural Production Cooperatives
(CAPs) for buried pipelines would be for 25 years including
5 years grace, and for on-farm irrigation equipment 12 years
including 3 years grace. The loans from BAFI to the Cereal
Central would also be for up to 15 years including 3 years
grace. The interest rate would be 3 percent for CAPs with a
penalty rate of an additional 3 percent for late payments.
The interest rate would be 2 percent during construction and
4 percent thereafter for the Cereal Central with a penalty
rate of an additional 3 percent for late payments. The
Government would bear the exchange risk.
Project
Description:       The main objectives of the project would be to increase and
stabilize crop production and to raise productivity in a
gross area of 158,485 ha (154,350 ha net) consisting of four
separate subprojects in the areas of Bucsani, Buzau, Siret,
and Prut located in the south eastern part of Romania. This
would be accomplished through construction of irrigation and
drainage systems and related facilities. The project works
would include construction of 184 km of open canals and 187
km of pipe conduits, nine repumping, two fixed and 97
pressure pumping stations, surface and tile drainage
systems, soil erosion control, valley training and saline
soil reclamation works. Equipment for operation and
maintenance and farm machinery would be provided under the
project. Concrete silos for a total capacity of 0.18
million tons would also be constructed to meet the
additional cereal storage requirement. Benefits from crop
production in the project areas would increase from a
fluctuating annual average of about $106.1 million to a
relatively stable annual average of about $242.8 million.
Yield increases in various crops would range from 25 percent
to over 200 percent and the cropping intensity would increase
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- 11 -
by about 16 percent. The project would more than double labor productivity.
The economy at large would be the main beneficiary of the project. However,
it would also somewhat increase the income of the 96,500 active members of
CAPs and the 9,000 employees of the IASs in the project area, and is expected
to create about 2,000 new jobs during construction and 1,500 thereafter. The
project faces no special risks.
Estimated Cost                                    Local        Foren          Total
----------US  Million---------
Bucsani Subproject                                  49.4         12.3         61.7
Buzau Subprojet                                    128.7         30.0        158.7
Siret Subproject                                    31.8          7.8         39.6
Prut Subproject                                    41.3          11.0         52.3
Grain Storages                                     12.0           3.3         15.3
Research Stations                                    3.0          2.5          5.5
Base Cost                                          266.2        T679         3TT1
Physical Contingencies                              18.9          4.5         23.4
Price Contingencies                                  6.1         12.7         18.8
Total Cost                                        291.2          84.1        375.31/
Financing Plan                                    Local        Foreign       Total
----------US$ Million--------
BAFI                                                55.6          -           55.6
State Budget
including cofinanciers                          218.9          9.1        228.0
Sub-borrowers                                      16.6          -           16.6
IBRD                                                            75.0         75.0
Total                                              291.2         84.1        375.3
Estimated Disbursement    Bank FY    1982   1983   1984   1985   1986   1987
Annual                              18.0   20.0   15.0   10.0    6.0    6.0
Cumulative                          18.0   38.0   53.0   63.0   69.0   75.0
Rate of Return:   About 22 percent
Appraisal Report: Report No. 3152-RO dated November 26, 1980
EMENA Projects Department
1/ Includes $0.75 million as taxes and duties



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE IBRD TO THE EXECIJTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO THE BANK FOR AGRICULTURE AND FOOD INDUSTRY OF ROMANIA
FOR A BUCSANI-BUZAU-SIRET-PRUT IRRIGATION (BBSP) P'ROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Bank for Agriculture and Food Industry of Romania, with the guarantee
of the Socialist Republic of Romania, for the equivalent of US$75 million to
help finance a Bucsani-Buzau-Siret-Prut Irrigation (BBSP) Project. The loan
would have a term of 15 years, including 3 years of grace, with interest at
9.25 percent per annum. Cofinancing of up to US$100 million is being sought,
all from commercial lending institutions.
PART I. THE ECONOMY!!
2.       The first basic report on Romania (Report No. 1601-RO, "The
Industrialization of an Agrarian Economy under Socialist Planning") was
circulated to the Executive Directors on April 20, 1978. An updating Country
Economic Memorandum (CEM) discussing the New Economic Measures was introduced
in January 1979. The CEM was circulated to Executive Directors on August 20,
1980 (Report No. 2757-RO). Country social and economic data are given in
Annex 1.
A. Long-term Trends and Development Strategy
3.       Over the past three decades, Romania has pursued a development
strategy designed to industrialize a primarily agrarian economly. The main
features of this strategy have been (a) a high rate of investTment; (b)
development of a broad industrial base, with priority given to heavy industry;
(c) development of local natural resources, including the reorganization and
modernization of agriculture; (d) balanced regional distribution of production
and incomes; and (e) training of a skilled labor force. This strategy had
been carried out through a system of comprehensive central planning and
management, guided by central party and government authorities.
4.       As a result, Romania's economic development since 1950 has been
impressive, characterized by a rapid economic growth and considerable
structural change. According to official statistics, national income has
grown in real terms at an annual average rate of about 9 percent. Per capita
GNP in 1978 is estimated to have been US$1,750, according to the Bank Atlas
methodology. Since 1950, investment has grown at an average annual rate of 13
percent, as a result of which the share of gross investment in GNP has risen,
averaging about 33 percent in the 1976-80 plan period.
1/ This Part is identical to that contained in the President's Report for
a Fourth Power Project and a Fourth Livestosck Project and which have
been circulated to the Executive Directors for their consideration on
December 23, 1980.



- 2 -
Industry, which has grown at more than 13 percent per annum over the past
decade, has been the driving force of economic growth, receiving around 50
percent of investment, most of which has been allocated to the capital goods
industry. As a result, industry has become the leading sector, accounting
in 1978 for about 50 percent of GDP and for 33 percent of the labor force,
compared with agriculture's 14 percent share of GDP and 33 percent of the
labor force. With the transfer of labor from agriculture to industry, the
population has become increasingly urbanized. Standards of living have
increased substantially, partly because of the growth of personal incomes
and partly because of provision through the state budget of expanded and
improved education, medical services, housing and social expenditures of
other kinds. Furthermore, Romania's integration into the world economy has
increased, as the level of trade has grown and its composition altered.
B. Recent Economic Developments
5.        During the first four years of the present Plan period (1976-80),
the expansion of the Romanian economy has slowed down perceptibly. The
average annual rate of national income growth of 8.4 percent was below the
planned growth rate of 11 percent, and growth has been decelerating, falling
annually from 10.5 percent in 1976 to 6.2 percent in 1979. These changes
reflect the emergence of a number of internal and external constraints,
notably the pace at which improvements in productivity and efficiency can be
attained; the ability of the economy to bring new capacity into operation as
planned; a serious deterioration in the terms of trade; and trade
restrictions in important export markets.
6.         Industry continued to be the leading sector of the economy.
However, the growth of industrial production also slowed down from an
average of 12 percent per annum during 1976 and 1977, to 9.0 percent in 1978
and 8.1 percent in 1979. As in the past, the growth of capital goods
exceeded that of consumer goods and the fastest growing subsectors were
metallurgy, machine-building, chemicals and construction materials.
Agricultural production grew at a respectable average rate of 6.3 percent
between 1976 and 1979, displaying however, large annual variations due to
changing weather conditions.
7.        As elsewhere, energy has become a critical sector for the Romanian
economy. In the aftermath of the 1973 fuel price increase, an emergency
decree was issued, fostering domestic energy production and imposing cuts
and stringent restrictions on industrial energy consumption. These steps
were followed by further measures in 1977 and 1979, designed to conserve
domestic oil and gas resources and expand use of domestic coal and
hydropower resources. Although small increases in domestic oil production
were originally planned in the present plan period, production has in fact
fallen while natural gas production has stabilized. Coal production
increased only 8 percent in the first three years of the plan, but jumped by
12 percent in 1979 and strenuous efforts are being made to expand it
further. In spite of the campaign to restrain the growth of energy
consumption, the difficulties in bringing new coal mines into operation on
schedule has resulted in a tripling of oil imports between 1975 and 1979.



- 3 -
The comprehensive directives for the preparation of the energy development
program for the period 1980-2000, published in July 1979, is designed to
make Romania self-sufficient in energy by 1990, through further development
of coal and hydropower resources, through the rapid introduction of nuclear
power and through development of non-conventional renewable energy sources.
This may be optimistic, given the rapid pace of coal and nuL-lear power
development required to meet the target, but the vigorous adjustment of
policies and priorities by Romania to the changed energy situation is
expected to result in striking changes in the pattern of energy production
by 1990, and further improvements in the efficiency of energy use by
consumer.
8.        Between 1976 and 1979 investment fell about 6 percent short of
planned levels. The shortfalls occurred chiefly in industry where the
planned annual growth rate of investments of over 20 percent could not be
met, partly because of the diversion of resources in 1977 to the repair of
earthquake damage. Industrial investment, in fact, grew by 13 percent a
year--in itself a very respectable achievement. The shortfall in investment
does not reflect difficulties in mobilizing sufficient financial resources,
but a number of supply-related factors, in particular, capacity constraints
of design institutes, shortfalls in the production of construction
materials, capacity constraints in the construction sector, production
shortfalls for some domestic equipment and more restrictive foreign exchange
allocations for imported capital goods.
9.        Changes in the level and distribution of employment accompanied
the growth and structural change of production. The total labor force
increased by only 0.5 percent per year between 1976 and 1979, but large
intersectoral shifts in the labor force continued. Between 1976 and 1979,
the agricultural labor force fell from 38 percent to 33 percent of the
total. The outflow from agriculture, which is determined chiefly by the
needs of non-agriculture sectors rather than the ability of agriculture to
compensate for the loss through mechanization, appears to be leading to some
seasonal labor shortages; recourse has been necessary to students and other
groups to meet short term labor needs. The Government recogn,izes that the
transfer of labor has to slow down to some degree, to avoid adverse effects
on agriculture output, and is thus giving even greater emphasis to increases
in labor productivity. Between 1976 and 1979, labor productivity in
industry rose by 7.9 percent per annum, about one and a half percent more
than was achieved between 1971 and 1975. In agriculture, labour
productivity rose by 10 percent per annum.
C. New Economic Measures
10.       The slow-down of growth during the current plan period reflects to
some extent the increasing maturity and complexity of the economy and the
difficulties of moving from a development strategy emphasizing growth
through increases in capacity to growth from using existing capacity more
efficiently. As part of its efforts to improve productivity and efficiency,
the Government introduced in January 1979 a number of changes in the
planning and management system, commonly referred to as the "New Economic
Measures". Their main purpose is to increase the responsibi]Lity of



- 4 -
enterprises for implementing plan targets by extending the scope of
enterprise autonomy and by sharpening the impact of financial rewards for
success and financial penalties for failure.
11.       The centerpiece of the New Economic Measures is the replacement of
gross production by net production as the major performance indicator
complemented by physical output targets. The change from gross to net
production is to heighten the inducement for reducing inputs. To reinforce
concerns about net production at the enterprise level, a new system of
enterprise revenue and expenditure budgeting has been introduced which
combines evaluation criteria, computation of income bonuses and penalties
for over and under-fulfillment of net production targets, and the tax
assessment of enterprises. The second major element of the New Measures is
the modification of the planning system. The changes introduced have two
components; first, the greater involvement of enterprises in the resolution
of inconsistencies and constraints in the planning process. Second, the
measures increase the use of purchasing and delivery contracts. Whereas, in
the past enterprises could make annual contracts only after the finalization
of the plan, they are now able to make multi-year contracts which will form
the basis for the first draft of the annual plan. Both of these changes are
intended to bring greater reality to plans.
12.       The New Measures also involve important changes in financial flows
between the enterprises and the state budget. In the past, enterprises
retained very little of their profits, and transferred most, in the form of
taxes and other payments to the state budget. In future, enterprises will
retain a greater share of profits. The major payment to the budget will be
a "prelevation tax", which is calculated on the value of net production and
paid from profits, but the enterprise will retain a greater part of its
profits for distribution between funds for investment, working capital,
housing, socio-cultural activities and profit-sharing fund. The New
Measures, however, are explicitly not intended as a step towards
"decentralization". Central planning remains the foundation of the system
and will not be relegated merely to determining major macro-economic ratios
and setting price or policy parameters, on the basis of which enterprises
would autonomously prepare their own output plans. The New Measures are, in
fact, a conservative attempt to strike a balance between extended enterprise
autonomy dictated by the growing complexity of the economy on the one hand
and a firm belief in centralized planning and control as the means of
obtaining high growth rates and structural change on the other.
D. External Trade and Foreign Borrowing
13.       In foreign trade, developments have in the current plan period
been substantially different from and decidedly less favorable than those
planned. The five-year plan envisaged growth rates of 13 percent per annum
for imports and 18 percent for exports in real terms aiming at a trade
surplus which would allow the country to repay some of its foreign debt.
Between 1976 and 1979, in fact, imports increased at an annual average rate
of 16.4 percent and exports of 13.1 percent in current prices. This
resulted in a sharply growing trade deficit which in 1979 reached $1.3
billion, virtually all of it in the convertible currency area. On the



- 5 -
import side, the deteriorating trade balance reflects rapidly rising
international prices, especially for petroleum. Export growth has been
unable to keep pace with import requirements, partly because of less
favorable price movements in Romania's principal export markets. The
insufficient growth of exports is also explained by the vulnerability of
Romanian exports to import demand fluctuations and import policies of the
receiving countries, and to difficulties in meeting design and quality
standards and establishing marketing policies essential to extend the
foothold in highly competitive product markets.
14.       The large trade gap together with rising interest payment has led
to a current account deficit of US$1.7 billion by 1979. The deficit has been
financed through increased capital inflows, with total medium and long-term
debts rising from US$2.8 billion in 1975 to about US$5.6 billion at the end
of 1979. Most of the inflows have been suppliers' credits and eurocurrency
borrowings; Romania has borrowed almost US$1.1 billion on the eurocurrency
market since 1975, and has been able to lengthen maturities and reduce the
spread over LIBOR considerably during the period. The scale of term
borrowing available to Romania has not been sufficient, however, to finance
the current account deficit fully and the Government had to resort to
substantial short-term borrowing between 1977 and 1979. The net inflow on
short-term debt was particularly large in 1979, about US$1 billion, and by
the end of 1979, outstanding short-term debt had increased to US$1.8 billion.
E. Development Prospects
15.       In November 1979 the Twelfth Congress of the Romanian Communist
Party approved the Directives for the preparation of the new five-year plan
1981-85. Although they suggest the continuation in broad terms of the
present development strategy, they project lower growth rates than envisaged
in earlier drafts of the Directives and than those achieved during the
present plan period. However, one major change is the planned reduction of
the share of national income allocated to investment. The share of
investment in GNP is projected to decline to around 30 percent, compared
with 33 percent during the current plan period, and the growth rate of
investment is planned to be only around 6 percent compared with 13 percent
achieved in the first four years of the current plan period. These changes
indicate government recognition that a major issue underlying the
development path of the economy in the 1980s is the allocation of resources
between consumption and investment. In our view, this planned slowdown of
growth momentum is commendable for three particular reasons. First, there
is a need to allow Romanian consumers, who compare their economic position
increasingly with that in Western European economies, to share more fully in
the fruits of economic growth than the high investment levels of the past
have permitted. Second, due to the growing complexity of the economy, its
rate of growth is increasingly influenced not only by the rate of investment
but also by improvement of productivity and efficiency, and, as is now
widely recognized within COMECON countries--this cannot be accomplished
without tangible incentives translating into higher consumpt:ion. And third,
as the more recent empirical evidence suggests, the Romanian growth path is
approaching the margin of absorptive capacity. It remains t:o be seen



- 6 -
whether the consumer goods industries have the capacity to increase
production and to improve their output mix sufficiently, and whether the
investment goods industries can provide for the investment requirements of
the consumer goods industries.
16.       The directives and back-up documents prepared for the Twelfth
Congress make clear, that the economy is becoming more dependent upon
imported raw materials and--at least temporarily--energy, and more
vulnerable to sudden changes in the terms of trade. The Romanian
authorities, recognizing the need to economize on the use of energy and
imported raw materials, have been reexamining the composition of investment
in a number of sectors prior to finalizing the new five-year plan for
1981-1985. It is clear that to contain the growth of imports to manageable
proportions, domestic production must be stimulated in certain areas (i.e.
energy, investment goods) and the efficiency of input use improved. To
finance the necessary imports, exports must be increased, and export growth
will require both improvements in the sophistication and quality of
Romania's industrial goods and improvements in export marketing.
Improvements in the planning and management systems will be needed to ensure
that all these interlinked goals can be attained.
F. Creditworthiness
17.       With the large increase in the current account deficit and the
associated increases in external borrowing described in paragraphs 13 and 14
above, the debt service payments (including interest on short-term credits)
rose to $1.24 billion in 1979 or the equivalent of 12.2 percent of gross
foreign exchange earnings. In the convertible currency area where most of
Romania's debts were incurred, the debt service ratio was 20.6 percent
compared with 17.4 percent in 1978 and 18.6 percent in 1977. For 1980,
another large current account deficit is expected reflecting in part the
sharp increase in oil prices. To contain future deficits and to keep the
service burden manageable, the Government has recently adopted a series of
measures aimed at increasing exports and restraining imports. Besides the
steps taken in the crucial energy sector (see para. 7), these measures
include new financial incentives for exports; a directive giving priority to
export production over production for the domestic market; renewed emphasis
in offsetting trade arrangements; a consolidation of the investment program
which will result in lower imports of investment goods; and increased
recycling of raw materials. Changes in the foreign exchange system are
envisaged in the near future to reflect the changing economic priorities and
world market conditions. Given Romania's strenuous development efforts
within the context of well articulated plans, these measures and possible
future steps aimed at enhancing exports and economizing the use of imported
inputs, are likely to succeed in keeping the country's debt burden within
manageable limits, thus preserving its creditworthiness for medium and
long-term borrowing.



PART II. BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ROMANIA
18.!/    The proposed loan would bring total Bank commitments to Romania to
$1,782.6 million for 29 loans2/ in agriculture, industry, power and
transport. Disbursements under the Bank's initial loans were slow during
1975, but this situation has improved considerably since 1976. Annex II
contains a summary statement of Bank loans to Romania and notes on the
execution of ongoing projects as of October 31, 1980.
19.      Foreign exchange, especially in convertible currencies, continues to
be a major constraint. It remains one of the major objectives of Bank lending
to help alleviate the country's shortage of foreign exchange by providing
long-term external capital and by financing projects which will expand foreign
exchange earnings or savings. The Bank has also assisted the Government to
mobilize cofinancing for appropriate projects. The Bank helped to attract
foreign commercial banks to provide $100 million cofinancing in August 1979
for the Second Livestock Project for which a Bank loan of $75 million was made
in April 1979. In addition, syndicated cofinancing loans of $200 million in
total have recently been concluded for the Mostistea and Calmatui Irrigation
and Drainage Project for which a Bank loan of $70 million was made in April
1979 and the Third Livestock Project for which a Bank loan of $85 million was
made in December 1979. Through their contacts and subsequent negotiations
with commercial banks, the Romanian authorities now appear convinced of the
positive value of cofinancing in the form of financial credits, and have
indicated their intention to seek similar arrangements for future projects.
Bank lending also aims at supporting the steps being taken by the Government
to introduce new industrial technologies, to improve the quality of products
and production efficiency, to reduce production costs and to provide for
necessary electric power development. Marketing, especially for export goods,
is also emphasized. Special attention is given to agriculture where
production is still unnecessarily dependent upon weather and where
productivity levels are still comparatively low.
20.      A number of further loans are under consideration, including loans
for irrigation, industry, power, road and rail transport and regional
development. The Government has also proposed that the Bank consider lending
for a port project and the development of additional petroleum resources.
21.      In addition to lending, the Bank (through EDI) has assisted Romania
by conducting training courses on economic and financial evaluation and
methods of analysis in various sectors, including industry and transportation,
for 169 Romanian officials in Belgrade in 1973 and in Bucharest annually since
1975 in collaboration with a Romanian academic institution. Additional
1/  Paras. 19-22 are substantially the same as those in the President's Report
for the Orchards Project dated June 2, 1980, and those in the President's
Reports for a Fourth Power Project and a Fourth Livestock Project which
are being considered by the Executive Directors simultaneously with this
project.
2/ Including a $125 million loan for a Fourth Power Project and a $80 million
loan for a Fourth Livestock Project.



courses, including one for agricultural project appraisal, are under
discussion with the Government. The methodologies taught in these courses are
becoming more widely known in Romania and are expected for some projects to
begin to supplement the methodology normally used by the Romanian planning
authorities.
22.      The projects, for which assistance has been committed or is being
considered, represent only a small portion of Romania's total need for
external financing. However, they will provide a substantial net addition to
the inflow of convertible currency, and are helping to set a pattern for
obtaining longer-term convertible finance from other sources. The disbursed
debt outstanding to the Bank is expected to constitute about 13 percent of
Romania's total projected convertible currency debt in 1980; the Bank's share
in Romania's debt service payments in 1980 is expected to be about 5.5 percent.
PART III. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR IN ROMANIAd /
23.      Agriculture continues to be a key sector in the Romanian economy,
providing almost all of the nation's food, the raw materials required for
agricultural processing industries and significant foreign exchange earnings.
In 1978 agriculture accounted for 14 percent of GDP, 33 percent of the labor
force and 14 percent of export earnings. The proportion of the total labor
force employed in agriculture declined from 74 percent in 1950 to 33 percent
in 1978, thereby releasing a large number of people for employment elsewhere
in the rapidly growing Romanian economy. National income increased at an
average rate of about 9 percent from 1951 to 1978. During this period
national income in agriculture grew at a rate of 3.5 percent per annum.
Agriculture's share of national income declined from 28 percent in 1950 to 15
percent in 1978.
24.      About 14.9 million ha, or 63 percent of Romania's land area, are used
for agriculture. Of this area, 66 percent is arable, 29 percent is grassland
and 5 percent is used for orchards and vineyards. There are three principal
agro-climatic zones; the Plains Zone, the Foothills Zone and the Mountain and
Tableland Zone. The Plains Zone which is the richest agricultural area,
including all of the land in the Danube plains, includes 53 percent of
Romania's arable land. About 64 percent of all arable land is devoted to
production of grain (mostly wheat and maize). Other crops include sunflower,
sugarbeet, soybeans, potatoes, vegetables, fodder crops, grapes and fruit. In
1978 crop production accounted for 56 percent of total agricultural output,
while livestock accounted for 44 percent.
Sector Organization
25.      Romanian agriculture has undergone a major transformation following
the collectivization measures introduced since the Second World War. Today
agricultural production, especially crop production, is dominated by state
1/ Paras. 23-35 except for para. 32 are substantially the same as those in the
President's Report for the Orchards Project dated June 2, 1980, and those
in the President's Report for the Fourth Livestock Project which is being
considered by the Executive Directors simultaneously with this proposed
project.



- 9 -
agricultural enterprises (IASs) and agricultural producticn cooperatives
(CAPs). For example, in 1978, 87 percent of cereal production was in the
socialist sector. Production by individual farmers and from small private
plots of cooperative members is important for fruit and livestock but not for
field crops.  Agricultural mechanization stations (SMAs) play a major role in
providing machinery hire services. Recently a number of Inter-Cooperative
Associations (ICAs) have been formed through combining the activities of a
number of individual cooperatives. These ICAs are engaged in various large
scale agricultural operations such as pig and poultry production.
26.      In 1978 Romania had 396 IASs with an average size of 5,100 ha and
average a labor force of 660. They farmed 2.0 million ha, equivalent to 14
percent of all agricultural land. Other state agricultural units covered to
2.5 million hectares, or 17 percent of agricultural land. In the same year,
there were 4,400 CAPs, with an average size of 2,060 ha and 550) members. The
total area of land under CAPs was 9.1 million ha, equivalent to 61 percent of
all agricultural land. There were 709 SMAs which provide machinery services
to producers. Each SMA had an average of 140 tractors plus a wide range of
other equipment. Each working member of a CAP is allocated a small plot
(normally 0.15 ha) which he can use for production of crops.  ]Members are also
allowed to keep limited numbers of livestock on CAP land. About 10 percent of
the land controlled by CAPs is used for individual members' plots. Individual
farmers number almost half a million and own about 9 percent of total
agricultural land. Most of their farms are in the more mountainous regions.
They use only 5 percent of the nation's arable land, although they have 19
percent of the grasslands and 21 percent of the orchards. They own 61 percent
of all cattle, 14 percent of sheep, 12 percent of poultry and 3 percent of
pigs. Together with CAP plotholders they produced 54 percent of all milk, 59
percent of eggs, 41 percent of wool, 53 percent of poultry and 57 percent of
fruit in 1978.
27.      At the national level, the major State institution in the
agricultural sector is the Ministry of Agriculture and Food Industry (MAFI).
MAFI plays a major role in preparing the Five Year Plan for th,s sector and is
the supervisory institution for plan implementation. In each district, the
Ministry is represented by a general directorate, which is responsible for all
agricultural activity in the district including both IASs and CAPs. Marketing
is organized nationally under MAFI, with general economic directorates
responsible for processing and marketing specified commodities. Foreign trade
companies are responsible for the exports of the general economic directorates.
Performance in the Agricultural Sector
28.      Although considerable progress has been made in developing
agriculture in Romania, the sector remains relatively undeveloped. Between
1951 and 1978 gross agricultural output increased at an averages rate of 4.5
percent. During this period the area of arable land has remained about the
same but crop yields have increased markedly. For example, the average yield
of wheat increased from 1.1 tons per ha in 1951-1955 to 2.8 tonls per ha in
1976-1978, while maize yields increased from 1.3 tons per ha to 3.2 tons per
ha over the same period. Livestock yields have increased while there have
also been significant increases in the numbers of all types of livestock.



- 10 -
Milk yields for instance, increased from 867 litres per cow in 1950 to 1,968
litres per cow in 1978. Nevertheless, crop and livestock yields in Romania
are still appreciably lower than those obtained in a number of other
countries. While agricultural production has been increasing, the labor force
in agriculture has been falling. Labor productivity has thus increased much
faster than agricultural output. In 1978 gross agricultural output per worker
was more than six times the level in 1950. Despite this substantial
improvement, the absolute level of labor productivity is still relatively
low. Labor intensive methods of production, such as hand harvesting of maize
and the use of animal-drawn carts, are still common, especially on
cooperatives.
Sector Issues and Development Strategy
29.      The growth of Romanian agriculture has been constrained by several
factors, especially rainfall, lack of machinery and farm inputs and problems
concerned with organization and incentives. Rainfall in Romania is both low
and erratic, especially in the main cropping areas in the Plains Zone.
Flooding has also been serious in many low lying areas. Fortunately the soils
in the Plains Zone are good while there are excellent sources of water in the
Danube and its tributaries. Romania has therefore given high priority to
development of irrigation and drainage. The total area under irrigation has
increased from 200,000 ha in 1960 to 2.2 million ha in 1979. Government plans
to increase this to 3.7 million ha by 1985. By then 38 percent of arable land
would be irrigated.
30.      Serious shortages of machinery and farm inputs, especially
fertilizers, insecticides and herbicides have been experienced. These
shortages have been aggravated by Romania's foreign exchange needs, for
Government has sometimes exported fertilizers or restricted imports of other
inputs needed by the agricultural sector. Hitherto, Government policy has
given much greater emphasis to development of IASs rather than CAPs. IASs
have been provided with the best managers and have received much higher levels
of investment and supplies of tractors, machinery and fertilizers, while CAPs
have been neglected. In 1978 the level of investment per ha of IASs was more
than five times that of CAPs and they were therefore more productive than
CAPs. This neglect of CAPs has been one of the key weaknesses of Romanian
agriculture, for CAPs control more than 60 percent of all agricultural land.
In 1978 Government decided to accord equal treatment to IASs and CAPs. This
new policy is to be implemented through the creation of Unified
Agro-industrial Councils (UACs) which are responsible for providing equal
levels of service and material inputs to IASs and CAPs. About 700 UACs have
been established, and for each one there is an SMA. Each UAC will be
responsible for coordinating all agricultural activities undertaken by the
IASs and CAPs for which it is responsible. On average each UAC will be
responsible for about 20,000 ha of land. Implementation of this new policy is
still underway and it is too early to assess the effectiveness of the UACs.
These organizational changes are being complemented by changes in the
structure of wages and incentive bonuses. These changes, which link payments
to workers to achievement of profit targets, were introduced in 1978 under the
"New Economic Measures". These changes have already been introduced on IASs
and their extension to cooperatives is planned.



- 11 -
31.      Agricultural policy is formulated within the framework of a national
plan approved by Government and the Romanian Communist Party. For the 1981-85
plan, the guidelines forecast that national income will increase between 6.7
and 7.4 percent p.a., gross industrial production will increase in the range
8.0 to 9.0 percent p.a. and gross agricultural production at 4.5 to 5.0
percent p.a. Investment in agriculture in this period will amount to 155
billion lei (US$8.6 billion), equivalent to 12 percent of total national
investment for the plan period. The main thrust of agricultural development
strategy will be to increase crop and livestock yields through improved
organization, the use of more efficient techniques, especially greater
mechanization, increased use of fertilizers and other inputs, and further
large investments in irrigation.
The Need for Irrigation Infrastructure
32.      Instability in agricultural production results from vulnerability to
erratic weather conditions and the lack of infrastructure to mitigate their
impact. Excessive precipitation and flooding during planting and harvest
seasons, and inadequate rainfall during summer growing seasons, have resulted
in year to year fluctuations in national output of the order ofi 10 to 20
percent. Fluctuations of production in particular regions can be even
greater. Only production of vegetables has increased steadily, reflecting the
relatively more controlled conditions under which they are produced. The
Government is well aware of this problem and has placed high priority within
the agricultural sector on solving it. Forty percent of agricultural
investment in the 1971-75 Five-Year Plan was for land reclamation, irrigation
and drainage; the comparable figures for the 1976-80 Five-Year Plan and the
1981-85 Five-Year Plan are about 20 percent and 18 percent, respectively,
reflecting a relative decline in infrastructure investment and increasing
emphasis on investments to make productive use of irrigation facilities
already established. Since 1960, total irrigated land has been increased from
about 0.2 million hectares to 2.2 million hectares in 1979, and, the relative
reduction in the share of the agricultural budget allocated for irrigation
notwithstanding, another 700,000 hectares are expected to be brought under
irrigation by the end of 1980. The Government plans to irrigate about 3.7
million ha by 1985. Irrigation works to date have concentrated on large
schemes using waters pumped from the Danube. Six such projects have already
been financed by the Bank since 1975; execution of these projects, which also
include drainage, soil erosion control and farm mechanization components, is
proceeding satisfactorily (see Annex II), and the proposed project would
continue Bank support in this subsector but this time, waters would be
diverted from the rivers other than the Danube. In this and in the previous
irrigation projects, the Romanians have accepted a number of the Bank's
suggestions which improved project design, particularly in canal alignment,
location of pumping stations, the design of canals in loess soils, the design
of drainage works and methods of soil reclamation. Also close understanding
on technical and policy matters in this basic sub-sector has been attained by
continuous dialogue with the Romanian authorities through miss:ions and
negotiations. This has enabled the Bank to become more involved in recent
years in detailed discussions of projects at an early stage in their
preparation which has increased the Bank's influence on project formulation.



- 12 -
Agricultural Investment Financing
33.      The Bank for Agriculture and Food Industry (BAFI) is the Government's
specialized agency for financing projects in agriculture, irrigation and food
processing. As such, BAFI has been the Borrower for all Bank loans in support
of agriculture and would be the Borrower for the proposed loan. BAFI was
established in 1968 as a channel for, and administrator of, all investment
funds provided under the State plan for the agricultural sector. It lends to
both IASs and CAPs and repays the Government as it receives repayments of
subloans. BAFI is involved in all phases of project appraisal, execution and
supervision, and it has a large technical and economic staff located in
Bucharest, in 39 district (judet) branch offices and in 92 sub-branches
throughout the country. BAFI has thorough review and approval procedures for
all investment projects. In addition to BAFI's review, all agricultural
investments for more than lei 10,000,000 ($50,000) are reviewed and approved
by MAFI and those greater than lei 70,000,000 ($3.9 million) must be approved
by the Council of Ministers. BAFI also provides short-term credit to, and
maintains settlement accounts for, all cooperative and State agricultural
enterprises; and acts as fiscal agent for the Government for collection of
State revenues from these enterprises. As the Government's channel for
investment financing in agriculture, BAFI's primary source of funds is the
State budget; the Guarantee Agreement therefore includes a provision that the
Guarantor shall provide all necessary funds for the implementation and
operation of the project.
Bank Contributions in the Agricultural Sector
34.      The Bank's lending strategy is based on the findings of various
reports, including the Agricultural Sector Survey of October 1976 (No.
953a-RO), the Basic Economic Report of March 1978 (No. 1601-RO) and a number
of recent appraisal reports. A cattle and sheep survey was also carried out
during 1979 and its report is under preparation. Beyond the provision of
foreign exchange, the main objectives of Bank lending remain to assist the
Government in addressing the problems of production instability and low
productivity. In addition, in appropriate cases, foreign exchange earnings or
savings are an objective. Attainment of these objectives will help to raise
the level and quality of domestic food consumption.
35.      With increasing experience in the agricultural sector and a greatly
improved relationship with the Romanian authorities, the Bank has been able to
make other significant contributions. Technical improvements in project
concept and design have been attained in a number of fields including
irrigation, poultry and pig production and horticulture. Additionally, BAFI
has decided to introduce the Bank methodology in its economic evaluation of
subprojects. The Bank has made thirteen loans for agriculture totalling
$821.54/ million since 1975. The Giurgiu-Razmiresti Irrigation Project, the
first agricultural project financed by the Bank in Romania, has been
successfully completed and a completion report on this project is under
preparation. No reports of the Bank's Operations Evaluation Department have
yet been prepared on agricultural projects in Romania.
1/ Including an $80 million loan for a Fourth Livestock Project.



- 13 -
PART IV. THE PROJECT
36.      The project, which is included in the Government's Five-Year
Development Plan, was originally discussed with an identification mission in
February 1979 for possible Bank financing. A preliminary preparation report
was provided to the Bank in the middle of October 1979. After the Bank's
request for additional data and information in November 1979, a preparation
mission visited Romania in February 1980 and had extensive discuLssions with
the Government authorities to complete the project preparation. Through these
stages of preparation, the Bank has made significant contributions to
improving the engineering and agricultural aspects of the projec-t design. The
project was appraised in April and May 1980, and negotiations were held in
Washington in November 1980. The Romanian delegation was headed by Mr. Ion
Rusinaru, President of BAFI and included representatives from BAFI and the
Ministry of Agriculture and Food Industry. A report entitled "Staff Appraisal
Report - Bucsani-Buzau-Siret-Prut Irrigation Project" No. 3152-RO dated
November 26, 1980 is being distributed separately to the Executive Directors.
The main features of the project are mentioned in the Loan and Project Summary
and in Annex III.
Project Objectives
37.      The project addresses the two major problems in the Roraanian
agriculture sector, namely production instability and low produc:tivity. In
particular the project addresses the production instability resulting from
erratic weather conditions and the shortage of facilities and management
skills to mitigate their impact. The project would aim to increase and
stabilize crop production and also to raise labor productivity in a gross area
of 158,485 ha (154,350 ha net) consisting of four separate subproject areas
located in the south central and south eastern part of Romania (see Map); this
would be accomplished through the construction of irrigation and drainage
systems and related facilities. The project's cropping patterns for the
project areas have been related to domestic needs and foreign markets. These
cropping patterns include a range of crops with varying growing seasons which
together cover the entire summer period ensuring an almost continuous use of
labor and farm implements. The area under major crops would be maize (38
percent), wheat (20 percent), alfalfa (10 percent), sunflower (7 percent),
fruit and vegetables (12 percent), sugarbeet (3 percent) and soybeans (3
percent).
Project Description
38.      The project would consist of four distinct and geographically
separate subprojects in the south central and south eastern areas of Bucsani,
Buzau, Siret and Prut. Water sources for these gubprojects are the Olt,
Buzau, Siret and Prut rivers respectively, which are tributaries of the Danube
river. Project works consist of 184 km of open canals, 187 km of pipe
conduits, nine repumping stations, two fixed pumping stations on the Siret
River, 97 pressure pumping stations to irrigate a net area of about 138,400
ha; surface drainage works to serve a net area of about 122,400 ha, and tile
drainage works to serve a net area of about 32,600 ha. In addition, soil



- 14 -
erosion control works to protect an area of about 11,000 ha would be carried
out in the Bucsani and Prut subprojects, and valley training works for a total
length of 321 km in the Bucsani, Buzau and Siret subprojects. Saline soil
reclamation for a net area of about 16,200 ha would also be carried out in the
Buzau and Siret subproject. The project would also provide equipment for
operation and maintenance of irrigation and drainage works and farm machinery
to intensify agriculture on the area to be irrigated by the project. The
existing capacities for processing vegetables, fruits, sunflowers, soybeans
and sug.rbeet are considered sufficient to absorb the incremental production.
However, in view of the expected shortage of storage capacities for cereals,
concrete silos with a total installed capacity of about 0.18 million tons
would be built under the project.This would meet the storage requirement for
cereals under the project. The project would also provide for strengthening
the agricultural research station at Caracal and establishing new research
facilities at Tirgu Bujor to undertake additional research in irrigation
methods, fertilizer application, and green house production. The Government
would make a suitable arrangement for timely submission of a program for such
-:esearch activities (Loan Agreement, Section 3.03).
39.       Water intakes for some of the project irrigation systems would
depend on the timely completion of the multi-purpose dams now under an
advanced stage of construction by the Government outside the project.
Assurances have been obtained from the Government that Arcesti and Strejesti
dams on the Olt River be completed by December 31, 1981 to permit timely
irrigation of Bucsani subproject (Loan Agreement, Section 4.01(d)).
Assurances have also been obtained from the Government that the Siriu dam on
the Buzau River would be completed by December 31, 1983 to enable irrigation
in the Buzau subproject (Loan Agreement, Section 4.01(f)). Since some of the
drainage works under the project would be more successfully carried out if the
works that the Government is now undertaking are completed on time, assurances
have been obtained from the Government that remodeling the lower reach of the
Beica stream in Bucsani subproject area be completed by December 31, 1983 and
that the training (river embankments) of the Birlad River be completed by
December 31, 1982 to enable proper drainage of the Siret subproject (Loan
Agreement, Section 4.01(e) and (g)).
Project Implementation and Operation
40.      The Ministry of Agriculture and Food Industry, through its various
departments and trusts, would be responsible for planning, construction and
supervision of the project. Planning and design of all project works would be
carried out by the Institute of Land Reclamation and Design, and construction
by the Construction Trust for Land Reclamation Works. Both organizations are
part of the Ministry's General Economic Directorate for Land Reclamation and
Agricultural Construction. The irrigation, drainage and soil erosion control
works would be operated and maintained by the Ministry's Directorate for
Exploitation of Land Reclamation Works. The Ministry of Electrical Energy,
through its subordinate enterprises and their units, would be responsible for
construction, operation and maintenance of power transmission facilities and
for supplying energy to the project area. BAFI would serve as financing agency
for all project works under the arrangements noted in para. 33 above. All



- 15 -
agencies are competent to carry out the proposed works and have undertaken
previous Bank financed works satisfactorily. A panel of independent qualified
experts would review the design of the dams involved in the project and the
associated structures and construction of these facilities. After completion
of the construction of these facilities, they would be periodiically inspected
according to procedures to be established between the Bank and the Romanian
authorities concerned (Loan Agreement, Section 4.01(h).
Cost Estimates
41.      The total project cost, including physical and price contingencies,
is estimated at lei 5,627.7 million ($375.3 million).  The foreign exchange
component is estimated at $84.1 million or 22.4 percent of total cost. The
cost estimates are based on unit rates of work that are prevailing in Romania
under the system of regulated prices of materials and wages. Cost of
equipment and spare parts expected to be procured from foreign suppliers, has
been calculated at the international prices likely to prevail at the end of
1980 and is estimated at $75 million. Taxes and duties on imported equipment
which now average about 10 percent amount to lei 11.3 million ($0.75 million)
and are included in the cost estimate. Because detailed engineering has
already been carried out, physical contingencies have been provided at 7.5
percent of irrigation, drainage, soil erosion control works and other minor
items. Price contingencies on foreign costs are compounded ainually at 9
percent (1981), 8 percent (1982), 7 percent (1983-85) and 6 percent
(1986-87). Due to near zero inflation in Romania, price cont:Lngencies on
local costs are compounded at 1 percent per annum.
Financing
42.      The proposed Bank Loan of $75.0 million, representing about 20
percent of total project cost, net of taxes, and about 89 percent of foreign
exchange costs would be made to BAFI for fifteen years including three years
grace. The Government of Romania would bear the foreign exchange risk. The
State budget would contribute about lei 3,420.7 million ($228.0 million) or 61
percent of total project costs through budgetary allocations l:o the General
Economic Directorate for Land Reclamation and Agricultural Construction,
Central for Exploitation of Land Reclamation Works, and agricultural
mechanization stations (SMAs), for which funds would be channelled through
BAFI. BAFI credits of lei 833.7 million ($55.6 million) to CAPs and marketing
centrals would contribute about 15 percent of total costs, with the remaining
4 percent or lei 248.3 million ($16.6 million) contributed from subborrowers'
own resources. The Government has, in principle, agreed to seek cofinancing
of up to $100 million for this proposed project. Judging by the response of
cofinanciers to other Bank-financed projects in Romania it is expected that
offers of cofinancing will be obtained. The amount and timing of cofinancing
will depend on market conditions and amounts being raised by Rtomania on other
Bank-financed projects. It is likely that for this project cofinancing will
be in the range of US$50-100 million equivalent.
43.      About 30 percent of the costs for buried pipeline, on-farm sprinkler
and furrow equipment and small secondary open drainage canals serving
CAP-owned lands would come from CAPs' own funds with the remaiining 70 percent



- 16 -
financed through BAFI loans. These loans would be recovered in accordance
with BAFI's standard on-lending terms. For on-farm buried pipelines, the
loans would be for 25 years including 5 years grace, and for on-farm
irrigation equipment, 12 years including 3 years grace. The loans from BAFI
to the Central Cereals for construction of silos would be for up to 15 years
including 3 years grace. The interest rate would be 3 percent with a penalty
rate of an additional 3 percent for late payments. The interest rate would be
2 percent during construction and 4 percent thereafter for the Cereal Central
with a penalty rate of an additional 3 percent for late payments. As in
earlier projects, these rates result in a positive spread over BAFI's
financial and administrative costs in providing the loans. As a result of
Government controls on domestic prices, Romania maintains a domestic inflation
rate of around 1 percent per annum, and no significant further increase is
expected in the future. Thus BAFI loans under the project would be made at
positive real interest rates, on the same terms and conditions as are extended
to other borrowers in the agricultural sector.
Investments in IASs subprojects would now be made directly by the State budget
and go through BAFI and the Directorate for Exploration and Land Reclamation
Works.
Audit
44.      BAFI would keep separate accounts for all project expenditures and
its transactions are subject to continuous control by internal auditors and an
annual. audit by inspectors appointed by the Ministry of Finance and from the
Court of Superior Control which reports directly to the Council of Ministers
and the President. BAFI's accounting system and the audit of its transactions
are satisfactory and BAFI's audited operating and financing results would be
sent to the Bank not later than six months after the end of BAFI's fiscal year.
Recovery of Costs
45.      The project investment and annual operations and maintenance (O&M)
costs would be recovered through both direct and indirect mechanisms. The
direct mechanism consists of water charges levied on all CAPs and IASs using
the irrigation water. The resulting recovery from this direct mechanism would
amount to about 8 percent of total project costs discounted at 9 percent or 37
percent of O&M costs. The State also recovers a part of the project costs
from IASs and CAPs through the compulsory portions of income paid into various
funds and through the recovery of BAFI loans, to ensure future investments.
The cost of farm machinery would be recovered by the State through unit rates
paid by CAPs and IASs to SMAs for mechanization services and through
contributions to the Depreciation Fund for machinery. In addition, profits
made by the State from the purchase of tradeable commodities at administered
low farmgate prices and subsequent export at higher world prices and general
linkage benefits to the economy resulting from incremental project output are
also indirect cost recoveries. Since the State is the main beneficiary, the
revenues accruing to the State from these various cost recoveries are very
high and could result in the combined direct and indirect cost recovery index
of 100 percent or more.



- 17 -
Markets
46.      Market prospects for internal consumption end export of pro tct
output indicate that no marketing problems need be expected. ft is expected
that Romaria will remain a net exporter of grains (wheat, maize) anL sunflove2
oil, and a net importer of soybean, feed concentrates, and sugar. The
incremental production from the implementation of the project for major cr(.ys
would be: maize 287.4 thousand tons, wheat 30.7 thousand tons, alfalfa hay
47.1 thousand tons, vegetables 230.0 thousand tons, sugar beet 197.4 thousand
tons and soybeans 10.6 thousand tons. With the introduction of the silos
under the project, a double crop maize production of 878.8 thousand tons would
become possible. An estimated 70 percent of maize, the major commodity under
the project, would be used as animal feed, with the remainder used for human
consumption, industrial purposes, and export. Maize and sunflower by-products
would be purchased by paper and housing material factories, used as
combustibles, or turned back into the soil as fertilizer. Anaual exports of
maize averaged over 350,000 tons during the 1970's through 1978. Despite
increases in incremental domestic feedgrain requirements, the grain balance is
expected to remain positive, and prospects for continued exports are
favorable. Areas under alfalfa, and double crops (maize silage and vetch hay)
would also serve the growing feed demand. Most of the sunflower production
would be processed into oil, for which demand is increasing, with cake used
for feed. Imports of soybean have averaged 100,000 tons per year, and project
output would contribute to the goal of self-sufficiency in this product. The
incremental output of sugar and vegetables under the project are intended to
contribute to planned increases in domestic per capita consumption, and a
portion of vegetable production could also be exported. Incremental project
output would be handled by the appropriate marketing Centrals and their
enterprises and collection centers in the project areas.
Procurement Arrangements
47.      Equipment and materials equivalent in cost to the proposed Bank Loan
($75.0 million) would be procured following international competitive bidding
in accordance with the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and
IDA Credits - March 1977". Romanian manufacturers would be aLlowed a
preference of 15 percent or the applicable customs duty, whichever is lower.
The application of the preference has not affected so far the outcome of
bidding on previous irrigation projects, and is not expected t:o significantly
affect the result of bidding on the proposed project. It is expected that
foreign suppliers would win contracts estimated to cost about $7.5 million for
some of the construction and maintenance equipment (wheeled dozers,
drag-lines, motor scrapers, concrete pumps, truck cranes, dumpers and air
compressors and their spare parts). Other items to be procured through
international competitive bidding (about $67.5 million) are available
domestically and, based on experience with previous Bank-financed irrigation
projects, it is expected that the Romanian manufacturers would be successful
in bidding for most of these items. Cost estimates are based on the
conversion rate of US$l-lei 15. The remaining equipment and Tnaterials, all
domestically produced, would be procured under Romanian procedures and would
not be eligible for disbursement under the proposed Bank loan. The Bank would



- 18 -
not be financing construction works under the project which would be carried
out by the Romanian Construction Trusts which are familiar with local
conditions, methods and regulations.
Disbursements
48.      The proposed Bank loan of $75.0 million would be disbursed for (i)
100 percent of foreign expenditures for imported equipment, spare parts and
materials procured through international competitive bidding, (ii) 100 percent
of the ex-factory price of equipment, spare parts and materials manufactured
locally and procured through international competitive bidding, and (iii) 25
percent of the amounts disbursed by BAFI for the silos and the agricultural
research stations. Disbursements for this component would be made against
statements of expenditure and BAFI would retain the supporting documents for
inspection by the Bank's supervision missions.
International Water Rights
49.      About 14,500 ha in the Prut Subproject would receive irrigation
supplies from the Prut River, which is an international river forming the
boundary between Romania and USSR. All irrigation supplies would be pumped
through pumping stations which are already in existence on the Prut River. No
new pumping station or any extension of the capacities of the existing pumping
stations is envisaged under the project. At present the pumps are being used
to (a) fill the Lake Brates (fishery), (b) drain agricultural land, and, (c)
irrigate an existing area of 3,400 ha. The pumping stations being reversible
can operate either for discharging drainage effluent into the Prut River or
lifting irrigation supplies from it. An agreement for the use of Prut River
waters already exists between Romania and USSR and the extension of
irrigation under the project would not cause any riparian problems. The
Government has furnished a letter of representation to the Bank, similar to
those provided for other Bank-financed projects, assuring that the withdrawal
from the Prut River, and also from the Olt, Buzau and Siret rivers which are
tributaries of the Danube river, would not cause any water rights or
navigational rights problems with other riparian states in accordance with
Romania's treaty obligations on the use of Danube waters.
Environment and Health
50.      The project area is free of endemic diseases such as malaria and
bilharzia. The project would not adversely affect the environment or public
health. Construction of irrigation works, with variable water flows in lined
canals, a storage lake and a piped distribution network would not promote
mosquito breeding and spread of malaria. Drainage of several areas and
training of 321 km of stream courses would promote healthier conditions.
Benefits and Risks
51.      The quantifiable benefits from the proposed project derive mainly
from the increase in the value of production with some unquantifiable benefits
from valley training (river embankments) which will eliminate sporadic



- 19 -
flooding and interruption of communications. Benefits from the crop
production in the project areas would increase from a fluctuating annual
average of about $106.1 million to a relatively stable annual average of about
$242.8 million, based on the same input and output prices as used for the
economic rate of return calculations. This would be achieved .nrough increases
in the yields of various crops ranging from 25 percent to over 200 percent and
through an increase in cropping intensity of about 16 percent made possible by
irrigation. The project would more than double labor productivity, and is
expected to create about 2,000 new jobs during construction and 1,500
thereafter. About 96,500 cooperative workers and about 9,000 State farm
employees would participate in the project. Return from the project is mainly
to the economy as a whole but some indirectly goes to beneficiaries through
general wage increases, better public services and better availability of
goods. In addition, there would be benefits derived from private plots in
CAPs and bonuses. Foreign exchange earnings are expected to accrue to the
economy mainly from grain exports, while increased self-sufficiency in crops
like soybean will help to save foreign exchange. The project would also
result in general linkage benefits to the economy by ensuring increased and
stable raw material supplies to processing and marketing channels. The
overall economic rate of return for the whole project is estimated to be about
22 percent including the silos, the separate rate of return for which is
estimated to be 15 percent with a cost of $15.3 million. The economic rates
of return for Bucsani, Buzau, Siret and Prut subprojects whose costs are $68.5
million, $21.3 million, $45.6 million and $61.8 million, are 28 percent, 17
percent, 22 percent and 31 percent, respectively.
52.      The risk of not attaining project objectives due to construction
delays, cost overruns, or inadequate supply of inputs or services is
considered low. Experience with other Bank-financed irrigation projects to
date confirms this assumption. The design institutes and construction trusts
have experience with similar successful schemes.  Project costs are based on
officially regulated prices which are relatively stable. The supply of
adequate agricultural inputs and services is assured (Loan Agreement, Section
4.01(b) and (c)). Projected yields and their development are based on applied
research and experience in comparable areas and are considered reasonable.
Sensitivity analysis using switching values shows that the project is
moderately sensitive to adverse variations in benefits, but is not sensitive
to other variables. A decrease of 28 percent for the Buzau subproject and 50
percent for the Prut subproject in benefits will, other things remaining as
expected, make the net present value zero at 9 percent discount rate. Since
both ecological and soil factors are favorable, and the proposed technologies
are relatively simple, aggregate output should not go below its crossover
value, even with some bad agricultural years.



- 20 -
PART V. LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
53.      The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and the Bank for
Agriculture and Food Industry of Romania, the draft Guarantee Agreement
between the Socialist Republic of Romania and the Bank, and the report of the
Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of
Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
54.      Features of the project of special interest are listed in Section III
of Annex III.
55.      I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI. RECOMMENDATIONS
56.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve this proposed Loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
iDecember 3, 1980
Washington, D.C.



ANN*EX I
- 21 -                                           Page 1 of 5 pages
ROMANIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
ROMANIA                              REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVUGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. [M.)                                                               - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
TOTAL             237.5                                 MOST RECENT             CENTRALLY PLANNED          INDUSTRIALIZED
AGRICULTURAL       149.6             1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b                ECONOMIES                 COUNTRIES
GNP PER CAPIrf  (US$)                 180.0        510.0    1750.0                       1188.8                   8104.2
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)    1342.0       3013.0    4042.0                       2116.2                   7021.1
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)      18.4         20.4      21.9
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) .34.1         40.8      46.5                         35.5                     76.0
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                        26.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                          30.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                   2090
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. EM.                        77.0         85.0      92.0                        83.6                    142.8
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    126.0         135.0     146.0                       228.0                    523.3
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          28.2        25.9       25.9                        30.8                     23.5
15-64 YRS.                          65.1        65.5       64.1                        62.1                     65.1
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    6.7         8.6       10.0                         7.1                     11.4
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               1.2          1.0       0.9                          1.4                     0.7
URBAN                               3.8          2.8       2.5                         2.9                       1.3
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      20.0         20.0      19.0                         18.2                     13.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       9.0         10.0       9.0                          7.1                      9.1
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               1.2          1.3       1.2                          1.3                     0.9
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..            ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
'PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)          89.0         89.0     152.0                        108.5                    110.8
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                   108.0       115.0      130.0                       113.7                    131.6
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           86.0        90.0      103.0                        75.1                     98.0
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        30.0        34.0       43.0                        28.6                     62.1
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE       3.0          2.4       1.0                          1.1                      0.8
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    66.0          68.0      70.0                        70.1                     73.5
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                            75.7         49.4      31.0                        22.4                     13.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..           ..
URBAN                                ..           ..
RURAL                                ..           ..
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..           ..
URBAN                                ..           ..
RURAL                                ..           ..
POPULATION PER. PHYSICIAN           780.0Lc      840.0/d   734.0                      2070.8                    624.8
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON       620.0c          ..     638.0                       240.1                    218.9
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             130.0/c      120.0     109.0                        96.7                    121.2
URBAN                              50.0/c       50.0      60.0
RURAL                             620.0/c      770.0     730.0
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..         23.0        ..                          ..                     17.0
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                ..          3.2/       .
URBAN                                ..          2. 8/e     .
RURAL                                            3.4/e      .
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                ..          1.4/
URBAN                                            1.3/       .
RURAL                                ..          1.4e       ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OP DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                ..         49.
URBAN                                *-         86. O       ..
RURAL                                *-         27.0/e      ..



- 22 -                                                 ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5 pages
ROKANIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
ROMANIA                              REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES
- MDST RECENT ESTIMATE) la
MOST RECENT             CENTRALLY PLANNED          INDUSTRIALIZED
1960  /b    1970 lb ESTIMATE /b               ECONOMIES                 COUNTRIES
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 98.0        113.0     102.0                       118.7                    100.1
MALE                 101.0       112.0      102.0                       117.5                    102.2
FEMALE               95.0        114.0     101.0                        120.0                    102.3
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                 24.0        45.0       77.0                       100.2                     87.1
MALE                  27.0        51.0       81.0                       101.9                     84.4
FEMALE                22.0        38.0      73.0                         97.8                     84.3
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (% OF SECONDARY)  54.0          58.0      70.0                        47.4                     19.0
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            25.0         21.0      21.0                        16.2                     21.3
SECONDARY                          16.0         18.0      19.0                        13.0                     16.4
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)           ..          ..      98.0                          ..                     98.9
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           ..          2.2        ..                          ..                    339.9
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        120.0        152.0     146.0                       403.5                    932.9
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          3.0         73.0     139.0                       200.5                    354.8
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                 147.0        169.0     129.0                       354.3                    327.4
CINElfA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  9.0          9.8       8.7                        14.4                      3.3
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    10509.5    11408.2  12015.8
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   44.9        44.5       45.0                        40.7                     36.1
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              64.5        47.0       33.0                        50.2                      7.6
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 20.5        26.3       33.2                        30.8                     38.8
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                57.1         56.0      55.9                        47.3                     44.6
MALE                                 64.5         63.3      62.8                        57.1                     58.1
FEMALE                               50.1         49.0      49.1                        37.0                     31.7
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               0.7          0.7       0.7                         0.7                      0.8
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
hIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..
RURAL                                ..
EST IATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..     394.0
RURAL                                ..           ..     394.0
EST DMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..
RURAL                                * 
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averagea for each indicator are population-veighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Moat Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1978.
/c 1962; /d EHO estimates; /e 1966.
April, 1980



- 23-ANNEX I
Page 3 of 5 pages
ynPFMifiTT IP Of ctAL tnplrAfTMS
H---t:eoith..J   rdt             dente  ftcol so          -.e1oerli  loaned th. meet  -h-ettat- and reliable. It should see bs noted that th.y a. oat ha ltete-
10,  oS   1'It.,.'..',.,ia tI,v  ,.I  'n~llucrdt'-dtt e'*lt,onl  InI--'.lTs.co,t hdo.e T           ...eta ...o.e
The ,  nrn.ota  ec   Il-the .t'ta-IIo-....ondlIs                                                    tcrtutsreha    ietseeo    taItthnhtcoroeu
soofo-cltoalatttfoes.   I  tn  ea h. ene  t-u  da.ta the sneeoss see              -oplatonei 1te   seith-ertl  means for teh ttdle--  and sh-nm, onl, oes at
lathlofthe  ncnlsinta getup hss as-  for that f,dictc    tnsi.              Lha coaetf nounrlTetseuoth   ndntesneedso  the en-slie1bIlIty of
ot ceip, psencet, mrke,   odhtoln   guodens or to II. fali1t  1977 dste               sal  end femaegad1          enune   r-siti    oass.ad sItarese.
Poroletlen err Ifonj41p  r11d-t                  1hr0,  ard_    oultenfonl
ftP PEt CATIT(Pll)  GNiP Per uapita ostimutes an  -estu  markt prices. cal-                     _ehn, and tutul  dxvidcd by theit ropetio  ousher if hospital beta
enaedh -nn  -onee ioo method as World tank~ Atlas f197t-7t hofaf; uhf0,                    -oifeble  in nblieadpnsetee I               and spl,d iil:eeLd h-npital end  e-
9),ed Isfdt.hhlttocntt                                                                                                uptl   r   eahihet   omnni   nffet
ENtitlY CIONSL'OiTlON PitR CAPITA - Anna. IonsumPtion of --eeris  enorgyfInl                      aeseno  Pniude.tari-             honp.biale.L hraoe.- indludeo,hso    al
sod Iole. piecc ,etneL1 gsa and hydee-, nuolo..r so  teheoa   io-                              neteson   ee anooly staffd hr a physician  (but ho a -dtinel  sisaot,
tInio   onhI     gseo  ce           isotPee t-pita; 1960, 1970, usd 19hnuse  euite.  etc.)  hiub offer t-ptintu -ivodtioo an ,pnda a
data.                                                                                          Iiimtd ecese of meical facilities.   Poe  ns ,ist"c.I puerese u..        be.  boat-
ti- inlde tAOi principoI toer-,and npeiielod heteitals, set   Inll
POPIILATIOS 0011 VUIITALOTAISTICS                                                                 htioolalo   ua    erti   n   eds   o    aeti   etss
Tonl.P1      an Mn id-Spr- mili Aa.-h  of July 1; 1960, 1970. aed 1.978                      Adetoetoom pee Honyftal ted - Tonl.  nnehst of emaoitO or dis-bsege
dt.-                                                                                         fret hopinlal  dinyided by the omber ef bes
UnTba- -Pir-a io  Ireenn  oftotl)-ai  ofnbs   otota  popula.tlo;
dlbirnidclvtino   f  rhnso    my affct ioyarbtlityorf data                   HOUSIfNG
ao~nhu~.riet;19h1  1510  and1976  ata.Aenca-  Sits uf Oshuld ;I porsn  pr household  - oaL.-nban. and rma
Poonianico Peo       I,,(je"Ii9uontt                                                    A he....hu1d eunins  f        ls oea  et tojudul  wh  share linig   a'ts
irulotten in ne.r 2000 - Crresot population proJckeos ore base.d am 1980                     so   asenomel.  A bhoo.der or lodgee may or nay eon ha iseldad IN
tot  . iclanion by at sod eon and th1le eeenlin.yL aodhfornilitY eaten                the hn...nehldf foe  tatistina1 PuePess.
PojinL-penentfoe ..etaL.ity  estee  _eple  f tree leel  ......                       hoertgnurhbe of rer.ots pee oun -to.ta.1 aebe. ard rural - hate-  S
Ing lIto  rupoiancy at bieth  inrso    ith .u.nney's per to pits bom                      heo   psore  pee~ root.. Ia Cl b- nea. ad   utlnutsd unmati-mal
booT1, and fe...lo liftepnac   sniang t77.5 years,  The pasDeeioa,rseoiey.telioga   - oo dlna teo.-pnea t et_ttit-t eaa
T r   ter tItl ftr   ao...     hn t tesh    eenevnitdoolinef in.un .e ..pPo pet.
itti ir  imd io  no It-,oIn   - nel ad puat casu plann..ing porformame.           AeCcr  to. ilonteftofereeofdeite)-toa,ure.sd  oa
at bo-t-.cy tcodi fbe poje_ti_n  P.ren.o..                                                 of otot1. onhue. sod .rura  delligu  rs-pe-tinely.
StutonJ_ry  ipust inn-tea .  s.taieay pupolanton there Is -e geeto  si-.
the hlenh ran IaIqu-l to the desob reto, and aleo tho agt etruotureIO5
.aIn   ou .an   Thia Is onbiovd only after fertility  teatn  doJie  . t           Ad.totd fEellmeot Rtaits
e.oh.  unon         -lve  of odeno  cped       rtit  at,  h-t e..b g ...ostlot             Poisury sihol - totml. malt ad femel  - f..a  tenl, male  ed feesI.
ofonncplact  iteteatly.  The anetioumy Poplatioo ailo  weerollment ofall ages at the poimary lavo  as p-romngos of roage.onin
r.itiand en the beets ofI the peuy ce   nhrctran               of theIP pultio               pitse  sbtl-oge popelutteos; neo-aly ineludes  hildmo  Sged 6-li
In theo roan lOl..ad Ottcone of declino of feretiliny rate ne replace                        yeats hut ad)nned foe- differont lengoho uf priasep edunt.ti-   fur
- a.- - -  t opttltlc  toneahod - Th. ynur ohm  sn-t.onury pepaletle                                                                            eduisaehlno   hretoefnu   colao
nioe in bee   cahod.                                                                  S-oodarvso.hol -  eta.tI nab  sod feolo -Computed .s abets; eoudary
Popilun ion ltttoltr                                                    edanae~~~..tooequte t bus..t four yours ofaprovdposy instenotloaf
Mty-.-tid-yoa- pupa1anioo Pee  qua.. kilumter (107 hoensees) of                         p_eiden gt.r..    toaieo,or           -ah-e tretnin      intution Tfor pupi'
tact  area.                                                           utuall~~~~~~~~~.1y ef 12 tn 17 ysurn  t sge; eoreenp,,dtone conooau are goalbIy
-cic-licea  land - Computed ao abro  foe sgei-lt-1 1-nd                            -eIuded.
___________________________  -Children (0014 plru)  ciehkiny-et  Ill-                 inl- etbe,  ccnil   eioo    e  en   no  upeae   ndepa
i.au. ioa   oleed it5 peace and enrl to pe-netagt of sid-yoar pepn-                    d.otly or to"depanto_nt  ed eooodoe   nsiutu
la- ti; 1%;), lilt, and 1978 duta.                                                           Pnl  ece   ai-rne.sdacnon-Ttlsunt   v ldi
P     ,Zani Coc   ten  tenen) - ;tois  - A-ou.I groth rates ef setal  ideme   o   eoosylvl   ilddb   ubo   f    eosi  h
C.u pe  I.n.o  f or 1950-hO. 196f-Ol. sd 1970-791.                                        e-erepoodioglels
_oou  i   ot h tale (po-uet) - uban - Acous1 growth este  of orben POO-                  Adult litsoe   ruts froretn) - Liostatt ado1ts (e,bls no teed ad wine)
buena,  fee lilt-ho. i9b0-7I, ao   17-7.                                                        as      eeet.ge of total adult popalstiuo aged  I yeses aed  -TO.
Codo -beh Pan  (pee the...a.d)- ho            v.ln  births par the.ased of mid-year
pu    19n60 li, 1970, and 1978det. ..CONiSUMTOrN
C.ende-bet  tuno (eer th-aoa-d) - Annual dsethe pee thonasod of mid-ynt                      PoesrCore foer thonseed rpelntiun     P-eeSog,t ears comprise non
.p~ipouli-; 1960, 1970,sd17.           aa                                                     uesaigls   hoegt  etn;snue   etlut   era   e
icno ",cdnco tet-Ateg   nmbo  of daughters a  oe   ill beer Is                              silinsey -ehilee.
bee n .Iroo   . _edaetAno perio  ifaeenolnnsprcn   teaifl to  5                              d iad  Rennlnns fete thu....nd pvnitir)- Al t-Peofonnseoeti
tlllo   cans; ceallyfineyear  neriee nding in 1960. 1970,  :an  1977.             hPutost  gnrlphleprteam                             ofppueffs- .,dg Ao1i
Ilantn ilaa. ii-Acipiono  Anna.l (theaaande  - Annual onhe f ac..sPt.r                 censa.d orotivoos in J. atts sd Ln 70000 nho  eagListranias of radio nfl
ofbeh-nnuldni-n  -f- au-pictu  of eatonl ..   feily Plaeing pregra.                wa .i effect; date fet  ...aat pesos map not be ctpso..blm  slos amat
nooenhId-haao  ego (15-44y prab)ue'e   hith-netre1 device  tO                         TV         E Xehov..s..e t Mnen   opulotion) -  5eTV ein fedu  broadnaet to
oi  oeied wome  Io sam_ag g        p.                       geeseo.  puhlie pr theutand p.pol.ti..; . seldes aeltoend TV os..oi-em
Ff08 47ND  ITf'RtITION                                                                            In tounteiss sod ft ysars thou orgitstr Lioe  of Ti sole en  10 effeot.
loden of Find F-d-onion Per Cpyita (1969-TI-10l) - fnI  o.f Pere.cpita ascl                    ie    f"ul   eea   neeeoeppe,dfndO       etdelpb-
Pe-dunc- uf all feud  -cmodiltn-  'reductio   olut  neadfnd and                              liceeion dennted peimoetly to ernording  ..na o-1        e   It Is ..omdt...ed
inc   aedryor bo_Ie.Cf-edonirneo   poftury geedo  sg   aaon                          tt he "daily" If it  ppaoa   en  four tims   each.
fotdc  titan) which ...edbl  so otanntriotno  (e.g. -effen so                          iesAva   .tednertC n  roe .las-eAse    en nba mbor ef
tee urt eon lndsdf.  iggrefent ~peouee  ofech elnoiry Iv haeod  t0iokets  oddon   h   no   nldngaesto   odm-r   las
anfena. I--rge ptedcLer poine ecights; 1961-b5.  AT7O, and 1978dte.                          ae   oi.le un  it.St.yT,ied.;t    1-i.m
Poe  -o-t.c ttilt uf colorioc (neecert ci reeti renos)    Computed from
regy eqi-lnlet of net feed ouppi fr  -ovallah   it  -tounn   pnr espIta              LABO  FORCE
por dy.  Aailale oppliencne e   oooi  pedu_olo     iopert  less                    OcT-1 Labor Fero   thfoh..ea,de         " oeiealy setie Peron., toeludieg
eupeen,ZadnaguIn stick,  Not -uppliot e-clda  ora  fntd_..sedo,                            aend forces and untopled hue inldn    onofte   tnat Oo
qu..aiin - lt  sd..int feed peni-asiog:,,cd baton. In disteibucion.  Require-              Detinitie..na  loosiou.ea   uttlee ooo out coperab.le; 1961i, 1970 set,d
onctuneo  on 1nd hr Phi hatdonphyoiboeg-1e .. enda tot  .-Iu aeti-                   1ops daoa.
tin .ad halh -onood-ingeteumta    eeeuao  body enighte, ego                         FeaeIec ) -               1Peai  labet fernees. pe-cetge ef tfo1 lbhee force.
and nndistributio  of IPpeputeifo. aed slot   i  prooson foe easte onttr    crro
heasoold  onri;1961hO,  970. sodl7T  daaitlater fone c.  fun ,feety  hooting -ad
I                                              ~          ~~~ ~~~~~~~~~Ittn   0poe-oongo of teno1 lohor fLee; 190  1970 and 1978 den..
Pee  ceIta o-2rn   f p-tnin igams lee dun) - Protein econeno of per ospi ta                Industy  lece)- Laber f..r.cL in anig, ceoonno   os -at-rieg,
eon  "uP"' of fed pee  fu-   len supply of fee.d Is defleod as  -huv . te                  ed e1uotoiity. wter sod gas as pereon.tago of total1 lebue f..o.; 1960,
Llenu-te  fnr all countIes   tb iahed by  DOA pefettiosm107   n   97 aa
aleur   f hI green ob tofal peotefo per day aed20grase          anislsd            Partctontd n9en dnren    tnl  ml.ud  eae-  otcpeima
piv   ecei,o  which 10 gee  ahenld St untai  rotin   These stasd-                  atit Rateooecactdetnl,ml.adfeaeserfesm
sdn  e   oe   han these of 75 goo    of Ltota  pretoin and 23 gram  ofpeeccof                           f  eo,sl   n   iaepplt                    f all age   osettvalyl,
aoinl ponet  as  n asnag Ifo  Ito  crld;. propose.d by PFM to the Third            ibihI.sd15deo Tkearlceptnisitearfeta
held  Fud  ur 6y b-hL. 1971 ond 1977 data.
Pe cptaereio  ocyfe  Aimal sodrue- Peotet  supply of fee  d-                           seeeto          reof the populatin  sod log tIse trend.  A for eefd
rie "rnuioule end pulo.a in  .ta.  per day; li61-b5, 1970 aed 1977 data,             manves are fro    stolsucs
Chid(en01tctlt   eele   huidl-Aoe   otspttaat   s                                          fcot Sec..eedono  Patio  - Ratio of PePuIatlt under 11 sd 65 and  -nt
Child (... ~ 1-4)   R.L.               d..th. p.. th.,,-,d 1,           no she otutl lsbor deree.
ogo trop I-h4rta  n  ohildern in this age gteup; fee              t  ma .i.oelp iogees
telie date deelved frao life tablue; 1961. 1970 and 1977 dots. IeffIfE DIStTRlIB'lTIO
HEALTH                                                                                          rercteaty of Prinate 1ooe-  (both It cashso   ho4)- tcit.d by  ibs
li-f-e nect rntoh(er)-Aoet   ubro   er   flf  oenintmg                                         .5fpLern. r, ichest 20 percat, Pu tst1peCte. aed poorest 40 pa...est
_?e_cL   Ay ... 9- .-b.r -f y..r. of lifof boasohlds.
an hionth; Ih,1970 sod 1970 dots.
Intetf   totlit Itono(ro  Ihoos.nd).   Atonal deaths of ifasts under us, year    POVETY7 TAfRCT GOnUfPS
of ace pr thuusad ln    itho.                                                         itoedAaLoePnntfcs    nefilrvoio)-uhtodra-
Aster scypip  Iftilude   trnstrd  surface ootee ot noireeeed hot  econteotoofed  oocri.tndllytreqtet..dietypue essential oee-f-ed requfremenes is.ve
atcto astha  ita  neoc-ted berebeLos, spring.  atdsco tarp. 00110)                                           - atrtrel__eroeoln_ IiteiY   ee     ..fa  -goba  endtar'
fe....f  00 sedpoot fIc-ned not  -,r then 1001  -erne    from  ehousoremay ha                  ....Iit          .       h   ll,U,-I-h:dlidf.t' ..
co,,nidrrdCu bte   ltbi  erseonble acies ,If the  to. nalras                       pee         er.  of. th.rntr.  rbtirtl _:is  eie.               reeeua
resnhlates Adfpp thnseb-ewf  n   oo  of the ho-.ohld                                          feoslI Lihajsoomorkge   eto   om    eehtaes
do no  hoo  to seed   disptepoeeic...ns part of the day On fenehin  the               -alatdPeustc  9dm_  Abufe   betrt fncee -.I)e (rro f -                          porba
colo  ~                                              adenri -  erorf a  poplantn  fuhee  nd rraf  wheare   bsolte pmr5
A--_ocIoj it ten   fcjcu
of hutat  ucreta en  evsio-ooee by eatr-hoet,t  ystett  er the .  of      *April, 1960
pit pefone end s1.ic fle   totiltIe_e



- 24 -
ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5 pages
IcoxMogC INDICATOM
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 19T8
Average Annual Rate of Grovth (S)
US$M1.            %          1961-65            1966-70           1971-758
GNP at Market Prices                      36,040          100.0          9.0J              7.7T             11.3J              9.11"
Gross Fixed Domestic Investment           10,905           30.3         11.3              11.2              11.2              11.9
Gross National Saving                     10,126           28.1
Current Account Balance                     -779            2.2
Export of Goods, NFS                       8,639           24.0          9.0 -/3          10. 9J/           23.63 3           11.5 13
Imports of Goods, NFS                      9,174           25.5         l0.7o             12.7a/2           22.3JJ            1 5.
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1978
Net Value Added   /               Labor Force                      N.V.A. Per Worker
us$ Bln.         S            Mln               S               US $                S
Agriculture                                 4.46           15.3          3.36             32.7              1,327             46.8
Industry                                   16.87           57.9          3.41             33.2              4,947            174.6
Const   ction                               2.97           10.2          0.92              8.9              3,228            113.9
Other2                                      4.83           16.6          2.59             25.2              1,865             65.8
Total/Average                      29.13          100.0         10.28            100.0               2,834            100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE IN 1978
Central Government
Lei Billions       % of GDP
Total Receipts                             300.8           52.4
Total Expenditures                         299.3           52.1
Total Surplus                                1.5            0.3
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES
(in billions of Lei, end of year)
1975         1976          1977              1978
Money Supply                               176.4          201.4        207.5             232.5
Short-Term Bank Credit                     170.2          194.0        194.5             212.8
Retail Prices (1975 = 100)                 103.9          104.4        105.0             107.3
Percentage Changes in Retail Prices          0.2            0.5          0.5               2.2
J Growth rate of national income                                                                            EMENA CP1D
2/ In current prices                                                                                        May 23  1980
3) Growth rates of exports and imports only.                                                                         1
AI National income (SMP methodology) and output of the non-productive sector.
5/ Includes net output of the non-productive sector.



- 25 -
ANNEX 1
Page 5 of 5 pages
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS (Convertible Currencies)
1977                   1978                   1979
$m      Conv.(%)l/    tm    Conv.(%)I/   Sm            Conv.(/)l/           MERCHANDISE  MXlORTS, 1978
Exports of Goods, NFS           7,357         55       8,728         52      10,094         59                Capital Goods                 2,289         28
Imports of Goods, NFS           7,529         55       9,319         55      11,389         63               Consumer Goods                 1,405         17
Resource Gap                     -172         75        -591        102      -1,295         99                Foodstuffs                      784         10
Interest Payments (net)          -132        108        -168        102        -358        101                Intermediate Goods              667          8
Balance of Current Account   -304             90        -759        103      -1,653        101               Raw Materials                  2,411         3,
Industrial                (2,538)        32
MLT Borrowing                                                                                                   Agricultural                 (373)         5
Disbursements                  861        98        1,174         99       2,0b5         99                                             8,056        100
Amortization                 -562         99         -586         99        -809         99
Net                            299        94          588         99       1,256         99               EXTERNAL DEBT, December 31, 1979
MLT Lending                                                                                                                                          tSS MHn
Disbursements                  485        51          483         62         486         59               Total MLT                                S,564
Amortization                  -127        44         -137         71        -177         57                  of which convertible
Net                           -358        53         -346         58        -309         60                  currencies                            5,467
Short-term Credit                 256         69         487         94         981         99               DEBT SERVICE RATIO, Dec. 31, 1979             x
Net Errors and Ommissions           -          -         -13          7          -68        98
IMF                                38        100         -20        100           21       100               All Currencies, gross 2/                     12.3
IBEC                              101          -         103          -           96         -               All Currencies, net 3/                        6.6
Change of reserves                -32        100         -40        100        -324        100                Convertible Currencies, gross 2/            20.6
1977            1978            1979                            IBRD LENDING, December 31, 1979           US$Mln
Imports of oil and oil products               875           1,218           2,051                            Outstanding and Disbursed                  58O.6
Exports of oil and oil products               688             746           1,744                            Undisbursed                                 58n.7
Outstanding arnd Undisbursed            1,170.3
EXChANGE RATES
1.    Official Rate
Before August 1971                       6.0  Lei: UStl
August 1971-February 1973                5.53 Lei: US$1
February 1973-March 1978                 4.97 Lei: UStl
Since March 1978                         4.47 Lei: UStl
2.    Tourist Rate
Before August 1971                      18.0  Lei. UStl
August 1971-February 1973               16.0  Lei; UStl
February 1973-October 1974              14.35 Lei: UStI
Since October 1972                      12.0  Lei: USSI
3.    Conversion Rate for Traded Goods
July 1973-March 1978                    20.0  Lei: UStl
Since March 1978                        18.0  Lei: US11
Starting January 1981                   15.0  Lei; USS1
1/ Convertible currency as a percentage of total.
2! Debt service payments for credits received only..
3/ Net of debt service payment receipts for export credits extended.
August 20, 1980
EMENA CPID



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 7 pages
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ROMANIA
Statement of Bank Loans
(As of October 31, 1980)
US $ Million
Loan       Fiscal                                                 Amount    (less cancellations)
Number      Year    Borrower            Purpose                    Bank    TW   IDA   Undisbursed
Five loans fully disbursed                                         280.0                    -
1083-RO    1975    BAFI a/                 Agricultural Credit    30.0                      1.5
1169-RO    1976    BAFI                    Flood Recovery           40.0                    1.6
1242-RO    1976    Investment Bank         Hydropower               50.0                    8.6
1247-RO    1976    BAFI                    Irrigation               60.0                   4.2
1368-RO    1977    BAFI                    Irrigation               60.0                   12.5
1436-RO    1977    Investment Bank         Bearings                 38.0                    7.1
1447-RO    1977    Investment Bank         Glass Fiber              18.1                    0.1
1448-RO    1977    Investment Bank         Polyester                50.0                   10.2
1479-RO    1978    BAFI                    Agricultural Credit    71.0                     26.7
1509-RO    1978    BAFI                    Irrigation               40.5                   21.1
1536-RO    1978    Investment Bank         Tire                     85.0                  50.8
1581-RO    1978    Investment Bank         Post Earthquake          60.0                  34.3
1634-RO    1979    Investment Bank         Chemicals                40.0                  27.0
1651-RO    1979    Investment Bank         Pipe                     40.0                  38.6
1652-RO    1979    Investment Bank         Thermal Power            70.0                  45.2
1669-RO    1979    BAFI                    Livestock                75.0                  46.5
1670-RO    1979    BAFI                    Irrigation               70.0                  70.0
1764-RO    1980    BAFI                    Livestock                85.0                  76.2
1794-RO    1980    Investment Bank         Canal                   100.0                  90.9
1795-RO    1980    BAFI                    Irrigation               90.0                  90.0
1876-RO    1980    BAFI                    Orchards                 50.0                   50.0
Total                                       1,502.6 c/               713.1
of which has been paid                         24.2
Total now outstanding                       1,478.4
Amount sold                 19.8
of which repaid             15.1                4.7
Total now paid by Bank_A/                   1,473.7
Total undisbursed                                                    713.1
a/ Bank for Agriculture and Food Industry.
b/ Excluding exchange adjustments.
c/ In addition, a $125 million loan for the Fourth Power Project and a $80
million loan for the Fourth Livestock Project are being processed ahead of
this proposed loan.



- 27 -
Annex II
Page 2 of 7 pages
PROJECTS IN EXECUTIONI/
Ln No. 1020         Bacau Fertilizer Project; US$60 Million Loan of June 28,
1974; Date of Effectiveness: December 31, 1974; Closing
Date: September 30, 1980
After initial delays due to changes in site and project scope, and
delays in design and construction, most plant units have been commissioned
during 1978/79 except for the urea plant. The urea plant is delayed due to
slow delivery of local equipment and is now expected to be commissioned in
late 1980. The final project cost is expected to be close to the appraisal
estimate.
Ln No. 1027         Otelinox Special Steel Project; US$70 Million Loan of July
10, 1974; Date of Effectiveness: April 3, 1975; Closing
Date: December 31, 1979.
Execution of the project was delayed about one year, primarily
because of the complexity of two large bid packages, the Romanians' lack of
familiarity with international competitive bidding procedures under the Bank's
Guidelines, and lack of interest and competition among suppliers. More recent
delays have been caused by late delivery of Romanian manufactured equipment.
The cold mill was commissioned in July 1979 and construction oln the bar mill
is progressing somewhat behind contracted schedules with commissioning
expected in June 1980. Total project costs are expected to be essentially
equal to appraisal estimates. The project is expected to be fully completed
in 1980.  The loan is now fully disbursed.
Ln. No. 1028        Turceni Thermal Power Project; US$60 Million Loan of July
10, 1974; Date of Effectiveness: November 6, 1974; Closing
Date: June 30, 1979.
Delays in construction due to late delivery of equipment and skilled
labor shortages are likely to result in a 15-month delay in commissioning of
generating units. Project execution is otherwise according to plan, but in
connection with Turceni II some modifications in the coal handling equipment
mills are underway because the coal (lignite) was found to be lharder and of
poorer quality than originally expected. Training of future operational staff
is in hand. The loan is now fully disbursed.
11 These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution and, in particular, to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 7 pages
Ln. No. 1083        Sadova-Corabia Agricultural Credit Project; US$30 Million
Loan of February 6, 1975; Date of Effectiveness: April 29,
1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1980
Progress continues to be satisfactory in implementing subprojects.
Construction of the pre-mix feed mill is satisfactory and final project
procurement has been carried out under contracts tendered internationally.
Ln. No. 1169        Flood Recovery Project (Agricultural Component); US$40
Million Loan of November 12, 1975; Date of Effectiveness:
December 2, 1975; Closing Date; December 31, 1980
Project execution is proceeding well except for the installation of
the flood warning equipment which has been slow. Equipment procured under
international competitive bidding has been delivered and only small quantities
of spare parts remain to be procured. Delivery of flood warning equipment is
expected to be completed in 1980 and installation will extend into 1981.
Ln. No. 1242        Riul Mare Retezat Hydropower Project; US$50 Million of
April 28, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: July 26, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Due to shortage of manpower, tunneling works have been delayed and
mechanized excavation is expected to begin early in 1980. Project execution
is currently about one year behind schedule. Civil works for the dam and
underground power station are well underway, and 100 percent of the loan
amount has been ommitted.
Ln. No. 1247        Rasova-Vederoasa Irrigation and Agriculture Development
Project; US$60 Million Loan of April 28, 1976; Date of
Effectiveness: November 3, 1976; Closing date; June 30,
1981
Construction of pumping stations, canals, and other project works is
progressing satisfactorily. Out of 11 dairy farms, six farms are completed
and contracts for purchase of 9,130 imported heifers (100 percent of total)
valued at over US$8 million have been awarded. Procurement contracts for all
equipment have been awarded. The feedmill and silo in Negruvoda is completed
while the silo for 44,000 tons in Baneasa is delayed. Work on soil erosion
control and the land levelling is behind schedule.
Ln. No. 1368        Ialomita-Calmatui Irrigation Project; US$60 Million Loan of
March 2, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: June 23, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Contracts for all equipment and materials have been awarded. Some
construction equipment and about 50 percent of pipe has been delivered.
Construction of project works is underway, progress is satisfactory. In 1979
about 18,000 ha have been irrigated. Works on surface and tile drains, land
levelling and soil erosion control works are behind schedule.



- 29 -
ANNEPX II
Page 4 of 7 pages
Ln. No. 1436        Brasov Bearings Project; US$38 Million Loan of June 15,
1977; Date of Effectiveness: August 11, 1977; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982
Contracts on virtually all major packages except one, have now been
signed and implementation of the project is proceeding ahead of the original
schedule.  Project costs are expected to be close to, or slightly over,
appraisal estimates. Overall economic aspects of the project look somewhat
more favorable than at appraisal due to the improved market outlook, improved
*            product mix, and changes in project design to achieve lower product costs.
Ln. No. 1447        Bucharest Glass Fiber Project; US$18.1 Million of June 15,
1977; Date of Effectiveness: August 11, 1977; Closing
Date: December 31, 1980
Project implementation is progressing satisfactorily. The Bank has
reviewed the procurement of roving machines and has decided that procedures
undertaken by the Borrower were inconsistent with those required under the
Loan Agreement. Therefore the portion of the loan (US$197,080) that would
have otherwise been eligible for disbursement has been cancelled. The
procurement of equipment for Section II (Spinning) financed by the Bank is
nearly completed. Start-up of this section has been delayed about 12 months
behind appraisal estimate. This is mainly due to civil construction delays
because of severe winter conditions and also delays in imported equipment
delivery and erection. Commissioning and three-shift operation is targeted
for June 1980.
Ln. No. 1448        Cimpulung-Muscel Polyester Project; US$50 Million Loan of
June 15, 1977; Date of Effectiveness; October 3, 1977;
Closing Date: March 31, 1981
The main supply contract has been signed, and execution of the
project is proceeding satisfactorily with production expected to begin in June
1980.
Ln. No. 1479        Pig Production and Processing Project; US$71 Million Loan
of July 15, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: September 28,
1977; Closing Date; June 30, 1982
The project represents the Bank's first participation in Romania in a
development plan on a nationwide basis. It provides for the development of a
large multiplier herd, establishment of testing and selection centers,
expansion of industrialized swine production, and provision of slaughtering
and processing facilities. Project implementation is proceeding
satisfactorily, although disbursements are lagging 31 percent behind Plan
targets. Construction materials and slaughterhouse equipment procurement
under ICB is almost complete.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 7 pages
Ln. No. 1509         Viisoara Irrigation Project; US$40.5 Million Loan of
January 27, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: May 15, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Bids for all procurement contracts were received in November and
December 1978, and almost all contracts have been awarded. Construction of
project works is proceeding satisfactorily, and about 25 percent of irrigation
works have been completed.
Ln. No. 1536         Tires Project; US$85.0 Million Loan of March 31, 1978; Date
of Effectiveness: June 9, 1978; Closing Date: December
31, 1981
Construction of the Zalau plant (truck tires) is slightly behind
schedule with expected completion in the second quarter of 1980. The
Turnu-Severin plant (off-the-road tires) has been delayed 2 years mainly as a
result of difficulties in obtaining adequate responses from prospective
suppliers of the main technology and equipment package. The Romanian
Government is now at an advanced stage of negotiations with a prospective
supplier for the OTR package.
Ln. No. 1581         Post Earthquake Construction Assistance Project; US$60.0
Million Loan of June 12, 1978; Date of Effectiveness:
September 5, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Procurement is proceeding satisfactorily and contracting is around 70
percent complete. The pace of disbursement has also picked up in recent
months and is expected to be maintained. The enterprises assisted under the
loan generally recorded substantial output growth in 1979.
Ln. No. 1634         Craiova Chemical Project; US$40.0 Million Loan of January
15, 1979; Date of Effectiveness: May 2, 1979; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982
Initial procurement and execution of the project are proceeding
satisfactorily, and the final commissioning is expected by end 1981, as
scheduled, although partial commissioning of some units is delayed by a few
months. The final project cost is expected to be close to the appraisal
estimate.
Ln. No. 1651         Roman Seamless Pipe Project; US$40.0 Million Loan of
February 26, 1979; Date of Effectiveness: July 30, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
After an initial delay of nine months procurement is proceeding
satisfactorily. The contract for the main technology package was signed in
November 1979 and other packages have been prepared for international
bidding. Site clearing started in May 1980. The project is expected to start
commercial operation in the first quarter of 1983.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 7 pages
Ln. No. 1652        Second Turceni Thermal Power Project; US$70.13 Million Loan
of February 26, 1979; Date of Effectiveness: June 29, 1979;
Closing Date; December 31, 1982
The project is expected to be delayed by about one year because of
delays in Turceni I and the necessary sequential arrangements for
implementation of both projects. Orders for the three Bank financed 330 MW
thermo-electric units have been placed. Procurement for about 3 percent of
the goods being financed from the loan is in process.
Ln. No. 1669        Second Livestock Project; US$75.0 Million Loan of April 16,
1979; Date of Effectiveness: July 6, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984
Progress in project implementation is satisfactory and disbursements
are in line with appraisal forecasts. Tender documents for procurement of
construction materials and slaughterhouse equipment have been approved.
Ln. No. 1670        Mostistea and Calmatui Irrigation and DrainaLge Project;
US70 Million Loan of April 16, 1979; Date o)f
Effectiveness:  July 16, 1979; Closing Date;  June 30, 1984
Initial preparatory works are proceeding satisfactorily. Bids for
procurement of equipment and material, under ICB, have been opened and are
being evaluated by the Borrower.
Ln. No. 1764        Third Livestock Project; US$85.0 Million Loan of December
17, 1979; Date of Effectiveness: April 15, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1985
Project implementation is beginning. Tender documents for
procurement of construction materials have been approved subject to some
modifications.
Ln. No. 1794        Danube-Black Sea Canal Project; US$100 Million Loan of
April 30, 1980; Date of Effectiveness; (Selptember 5,
1980); Closing Date: December 31, 1983
The bidding process for both equipment and materials is proceeding on
schedule.
Ln. No. 1795        Covurlui Irrigation Project; US$90 Million Loan of April 8,
1980; Date of Effectiveness; July 8, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1987
Preparation of tender documents for procurement of equipment and
materials and initial execution of the project are proceeding satisfactorily.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 7 pages
Ln. No. 1876         Orchards Project; US$50 Million Loan of June 19, 1980; Date
of Effectiveness: September 16, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985
This loan became effective only recently. No problems are
expected with the initial execution of the project.



- 33 -
ANNEX III
ROMANIA
BUCSANI-BAZAU=SIRET-PRUT IRRIGATION (BBSP) PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
a)  Time taken by the country to prepare             13 months (February 1979 -
the project:                                                 February 1980)
b)  Agency which has prepared the project:           Ministry of Agriculture
and Food Industry
c) Date of first presentation to the Bank,
and date of first Bank mission to
consider the project:                            October 1979 and February 1980
d)  Date of departure of appraisal mission:          April 4, 1980
e)  Date of completion of negotiations:              November 17, 1980
f)  Planned date of effectiveness:                   March 1981
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
The Government should complete:
a) Arcesti and Strejesti dams on the Olt River by December 31, 1981
(para. 39).
b)  Siriu dam on the Buzau River by December 31, 1983 (para. 39).
c) Remodelling of the lower reach of the Beica stream in Bucs,ani subproject
(para. 39), and
d) Birlad River training (river embankments) for the Siret subproject by
December 31, 1982
(para. 39).






ROMANIA
A    t                             BUCSANI -BUZAU-SIRET-PRUT
I  0 0                               IRRIGATION PROJECT
BUCSANI
CmlS                :          u                             Propexi Areav noundaryr
it",i Rxpunpixg Storio-
l-t,  PressLre Pumping Stations
It    Exiting Pumpxg Station
/      | Xj9={l                                 -~    Cc-1i, wth Mixed Operotiox-
-  - M-i Dxanog  C-ci
wxtx  eli eripxx
P ,  o 2                                                                  T typioxi I gxtih- Nxtxxdk
E- Stlig Daxix
.~~~~~~~~~~~~. :~. C-t-t-S E
I~ ~ ~ ~ ~~j                 Dcxx cod Sncrgo Uxdxr D.xx
~Z ZRicar and Stxaam
Sp-iklxn -nngaxi-
'                                                    Sc i Ecixe E   Cctlnci
V I LC EA
Asphaix Rxadx
- -       ctxix t -  co      - xcxx
o                                x        0
HYDROPOWER DEVELOPMENT
ON THE OLT RIVER
C---ondVicx
21e ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~at     ~:::CdoCnoooo
R 0  M  A N   I A ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~nxoxu
yxcnnoCoVtoAxxc  - ox5                                                                                                            V,oisr~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P..
ceTS






IBRD 15176
-  SfT /VSET FOR f PPIJfER DEVELOPMENT VF                                                       _   Q SEPTEMBER 1U0
ROMANIA
BUCSANI -BUZAU -SIRET-PRUT IRRIGATION PROJECT                                                                                   -. 0-                                                                                             f
BUZAU                                                                     CiNUDE I IDRORPOVVER PLAN
Pruieps Area Bou1 oary                            Spri-kle Irrigation                                             j                                                                            INTAye
Re.uampieg STari-ns                               Fu,ro,  IrrigTon                                                |IAE
a Fr Pressure Pumpimrg StoeSuer               f :       1- Salinity Recamotiu                                                                                                                                d- 
t     E-tisTig Pumping Stit-ons                        VTe Dainuag                                                       N                                                                                                                                                      -
M-      "rrig-T on Canuis.                        Towns
Secoenadry Ir" gai- C-enos                        Rgads                                                                                                                                                                                                                 eWTER ROURCES &
OPELOnc uIi.,                                                    - TROPOWER
Wate, Dal1eeRy Pipes                              RodIYras                                                                                                                                                                                                                          DIURULOPMET,T PN
Sur,fce Drairaga                                  Dikes           5                                                                                               10 NC                                                                                                             '4PER  EACIes 0
K      ______LO________ETE__________5__                                                                                                                       Ueu.      ELZA   RIVER
T Fl   Typical IrsigoT on  NeT- urk                         Cut-ours (MStsers abuse Slck S.u)                          MILES
T .   Pypinal Draieuge NeTwork                         Disrrt BouRdeTies                                                 U                                    S 1-d'                                                             T'-
TO,Si,,T,, (St-,O,VR Isy)                                                                                                                                                                                      S           /
E-tis,ig Dams                                                                                                       f E-r -: T Ti   OJsF4IkE  *                                                                               spn                                 t
Da Cms Ueder CUrETruUtIoT                                                                                           B                                                                                                                                 >      SEP54oser  /_, so
sSt<~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ y                                                                                                                                                                                                               f
j F Wi, X ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~B   U   Z                                                                                  U
4~~ ~       ~       ~~~                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  P i i      NROMANI A    lLT6       
-J  -  WdAnSTmreams                                                         Dr'  TtI 
SPA7 rTLmimrrm=^@yAyspseM           SPE_
SP139~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ VA:~u                                                                                                               SPA                 aniae
r~ ~ ~~~ ~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E
D-b
n~~~ ~~~zt$aa  r-, ~      ~        ~       ~       PP6 
P    R     A     H    0       V    AaTu.osriaisun
d. I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~e.aoeIaiaierre
arennseT,IrreeTserTReeeLseIae        Sr~~T






IBD 151 78
SEPTEMBER t9E0
ROMANIA
BUCSANI -BUZAU -SIRET-PRUT IRRIGATION PROJECT
-S'p~~~~2~~3                                                 SIRET   AND    PRUT
Pro ect Bojod-r
Z-P  Mom  Pumping Soton
a     r-~~~~~~~~     ~           ~          ~          ~          rn'~I   Rep-pirsio  Stw-on
SiteS  mis-a                                                                  tS~~~~~~~~~~pt  P--ur Pump op StWton
4DPno  E-ipig Somp,op Stotiti
We    NOISe5  tops                                                   M~~~~~~~~~~~~~InPt  E.,ittiog Pm5ip  Soitig nito
-  - M-r D--inopeC-n1l
~~fl~~~~'                               - - ~~~~~~ S ..ondottiD .tonge Con1h
eT--ng I Dnt  oIp
an,,,..  'K ~~~~~~~~       mneit       ~       ~       ~       ~      ~      ~      Ss-~~~ E-iting D..,
Oee~~~~~.et,-             I                                                        I9~~~~~~~~~~~~-  ~Dom-ond StorpnUde Cngttto
-  itettist,  ~         ~         ~         ~         t-
A'                                             Boone~~~~~~~D -   B-d,
KIOEES-     - DttitBtdtt
Stop,,                            1,                      ~            ~          ~~~~~~~~~~~5 10
SPt                                                                                Pt PL
R.s,it,ti.sttMdb A   N    ltI AitittO
Itint elt,OteeStSe001moS tsetttn   ttSeelOIl
5255 ensEpAdoeS ~ ~ ~~~~ ~



