Document of
The World Bank    FIL                          g
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 3152-K'
ROMANIA
BUCSANI-BUZAU-SIRET-PRUT (BBSP) IRRIGATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
November 26, 1980
Project Department
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



BUCSANI-BUZAU-SIRET-PRUT IRRIGATION PROJECT
ROMANIA
CONVERSION RATES AND ABBREVIATIONS
CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Lei 15.00 = US$1.00
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 millimeter (mm)                        0.0394 inch (in)
1 centimeter (cm)                    =   0.3937 inch (in)
1 meter (m)                              3.2808 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)                     =   0.6214 mile (mi)
1 square kilometer (km2)                 0.3861 square mile (mi2)
I liter (1)                          =   0.2642 gallon (gal)
1 liter per second (1/sec)               0.0353 cubic foot per second (ft3/sec)
1 cubic meter per second (m3/sec)        35.3147 cubic feet per second (ft3/sec)
1 atmosphere (at)                        14.2239 pounds per square inch (psi)
1 kilowatt (kw)                      =    1.3410 horsepower (hp)
1 kilogram (kg)                      =    2.2046 pounds (lb)
1 metric ton (ton)                        2,204.6225 pounds (lb)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BAFI     Bank for Agriculture and Food Industry
CAP      Agricultural Production Cooperative
DELIF    Directorate for Exploitation of Land Reclamation Works
DGEIFCA Economic General Directorate for Land Reclamation and Agricultural
Construction
IAS      State Agricultural Enterprise
ICA      Intercooperative Economic Association
IELIF    Enterprise for Exploitation of Land Reclamation Works
ISPIF    Institute for Land Reclamation Studies and Design
MAFI     Ministry of Agricultue and Food Industry
SMA      Station for Agricultural Machinery
TCIF     Construction Trust for Land Reclamation Works
UAC      Unified Agro-industrial Council
ROMANIAN FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
APPRAISAL OF
BUCSANI-BUZAU-SIRET-PRUT IRRIGATION PROJECT
ROMANIA
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.    THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ..............................                 1
A.    The Resource Base ...............................                1
B.    Role and Performance of Agriculture in the
Economy .........................................                1
C.    Development Constraints and Issues ....              ..........    3
D.    Development Policy and Planing Strategy .... .....               3
E.    Development in the Irrigation Sub-sector .... ....    5
F.    Bank Strategy and Role in Agriculture ....             .......   6
II.    THE PROJECT AREA AND NATIONAL INSTITUTIONS ....              .......    7
A.    The Project Area ................................                7
B.    Natural Resources  ...............................               9
C.    Agricultural Production and Livestock ....             .......   11
D.    Agricultural Production Organizations  ....            .......   11
E.    Farm Inputs .....................................    14
F.    Agricultural Research and Extension ....             .........   15
G.    The Bank for Agriculture and Food Industry ......   16
H.    Investment Financing ............................   18
I.    Marketing ........................................    18
III.    THE PROJECT ..........................................    21
A.    Objectives ......................................    21
B.   Detailed Features ...............................   21
C.    Project Description .............................    24
D.    Water Requirements, Water Availability and
Quality .........................................    27
E.    Status of Engineering ...........................   27
F.    Cost Estimates ...................................   27
G.    Financing .......................................    30
H.    Cost Recovery ...................................    30
I.    Implementation Schedule .........................   31
J.    Procurement .....................................    32
K.    Disbursements  ...................................    33
L.    Environment and Health ..........................   33
M.  Role of Women ..................                                  33
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission to Romania
in April-May 1980, consisting of Messrs. Mahmud H. Tirmazi, Petros Aklilu,
Mohammad Hussain (Consultant) and Ms. Nereita Mangosing.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



(ii)
Table of Contents (Continued)                                   Page No.
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION    ,            ....  34
A.   Organization and Management .......... ...........   34
B.  Operation and Maintenance and Supervision of
Construction        ..                  .........  35
C.  Accounts and Audit ............. .. ...............   36
D.   Project Monitoring and Completion Report ........   37
V.  BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION ...........................   37
A.   Project Production and Markets ......... .........   37
B. Prices ..........    40
C.  Main Benefits and Beneficiaries ........ .........   41
D.  Economic Analysis ............. .. ................   41
VI.   AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS .......................   47
ANNEXES
Annex No.   Table No
1          1       Climatological Data
2           1      Present and Future Cropping Pattern-Bucsani
2      Present and Future Cropping Pattern-Buzau
3      Present and Future Cropping Pattern-Siret
4       Present and Future Cropping Pattern-Prut
3           1      Equipment to be Procured Following International
Competitive Bidding
4           1      Cost Estimates - Bucsani
2      Cost Estimates - Buzau
3      Cost Estimates - Siret
4       Cost Estimates - Prut
5           1      Financing Plan
6           1      Schedule of Expenditure - Bucsani
2      Schedule of Expenditure - Buzau
3      Schedule of Expenditure - Siret
4      Schedule of Expenditure - Prut
7           1      Estimated Schedule of Disbursement
8           1      Annual Operation and Maintenance Costs
9           1      Summary of Economic Analysis - Bucsani
2      Summary of Economic Analysis - Buzau
3       Summary of Economic Analysis - Siret
4       Summary of Economic Analysis - Prut
5      Summary of Economic Analysis - Total Project



( iii)
Table of Contents (Continued)
10           1        Financial and Economic Input Prices
2       Financial and Economic Output Prices
11           -        Project Description
12           1        Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project
Implementation File
CHARTS
1. Project Implementation Schedule
2. Organization of BAFI
MAPS
Bucsani         - IBRD 15177
Buzau           - IBRD 15176
Siret and Prut - IBRD 15179






APPRAISAL OF
BUCSANI-BUZAU-SIRET-PRUT IRRIGATION PROJECT
ROMANIA
I. THE AGRICULTURE SECTOR
A. The Resource Base
1.1      Romanian agriculture benefits from relatively good soils, a cli-
mate reasonably suitable for production, and exploitable water resources.
Out of a national total of 23.8 million ha, 14.9 million are employed in
agricultural production. Of the agricultural total, arable land accounts
for 65.8%, pastures 20.1%, meadow land 9.4%, and vineyards and orchards
4.7%. Romania can be divided into three agroclimatic zones based on cli-
matic factors, topography, soils, and other natural conditions influencing
land use and agricultural performance. The Plains Zone, located in the
western, southern, and eastern parts of the country, is especially well
endowed with fertile soils and irrigation infrastructure; it contains
approximately 53% of total arable land but only 18% land under pastures and
meadows.  Crop yields tend to be highest in this region and irrigation
facilities are concentrated in this major grain belt. By 1979 about 2.2
million ha of land in Romania was under irrigation of which 81.5% was
located in 12 districts of the Plains Zone. The Foothills Zone situated
mainly to the north of the Plains Zone, is characterized by shallow less
productive soils. About 28% of the total arable land and 32% of total
pasture and meadow lands are situated in the Foothills. The Mountain and
Table-land Zone, including districts in the northern and central parts of
the country, accounts for 19% of total arable area but 50% of all pasture
and meadow lands.
B. Role and Performance of Agriculture in the Economy
1.2      Despite its declining share in the national income (15% in 1979,
down from 33% in 1960), agriculture continues to play an important role in
the Romanian economy. In 1979 the share of agriculture in foreign exchange
earnings, accounted for about 20% of export receipts compared to 36% in
1960. This decline is primarily due to Government's emphasis on industrial
output and export. Nonetheless the volume of agricultural exports has
increased five-fold from 1960 to 1979. Over the last two decades, satis-
factory growth of the agriculture sector, particularly of cereal produc-
tion, met, both domestic requirements for consumption and livestock feed
and generated exportable surplus. Imports of agricultural products have
remained constant as a share of total imports. The most significant agri-
cultural imports are high protein-content animal feeds and raw cotton.
Government places high priority on foreign exchange earnings and savings
through agricultural exports. There is a vast potential for increased
agricultural output to satisfy Romania's objectives of foreign exchange



-2-
earnings as well as to meet the growing demand for increased quantity of
better quality agricultural products. The proposed project would enhance
these objectives.
1.3      The agriculture sector also provides the raw material for the
domestic agro-industry. With the exception of feed mills, over 90% of the
agro-industrial capacities rely on domestically produced raw materials. In
1979, because of the shortage of protein meals, about 13% of the require-
ments were imported annually. Planned targets for 1985 indicate that
Romania would be self-sufficient in plant and animal protein meals. In the
proposed project, the area under soybeans and sunflower would be enlarged
to augment the feed supply. However, projected domestic production of key
protein-source crops appears to fall short of demand, particularly if
recommended levels of protein content in feed composition are adopted.
1.4      Agriculture has served as a reserve pool of labor force for the
industrial and services sectors. In 1960 about 65% of the active labor
force was employed in agriculture compared to 33% in 1979. Labor produc-
tivity in agriculture has risen by about 100% over the same period,
enabling transfer of labor to other sectors. This reduction of the agri-
cultural labor force is also attributed to the pull effect from other
sectors where returns to labor are perceived to be higher than in agricul-
ture and to the general attraction of urban settings. In spite of the
apparent shortage of labor during peak harvesting periods, the existing
size of the labor force in agriculture is still considered relatively
high. Planned increased mechanization in the agricultural sector will
further release labor for other sectors.
1.5      Agricultural production in Romania is organized into State farms
(IAS) Agricultural Production Cooperatives (CAP) and individual units.
CAPs hold 60% of agricultural land, while IASs own 30% and individuals,
10%. The present land tenure has evolved since the 1950s and 1960s when
Government took major steps to collectivize small individual holdings.
Currently about 3,400 CAPs and about 400 IASs carry out farming operations
with the assistance of about 700 Stations for Agricultural Mechanization
(SMA). In February 1979, the Government announced plans for reorganization
of the agricultural units. About 700 umbrella organizations known as
Unified Agro-industrial Councils (UACs) have been established comprising
IASs, CAPs and SMAs. This step was taken as part of an effort to stream-
line agricultural operations and to promote efficient utilization of land,
delivery of inputs, and allocation of services. Productivity in the
Cooperative farm sector is lagging significantly behind that in State farms
as a result of deliberate Government emphasis on conicentrating technologi-
cal innovations on the State farms. However, it has gradually become
evident that Romania would have to channel more sources into the Coopera-
tive sector and improve its technical as well as managerial capabilities to
maintain high rate of growth in the 1980s. Government's new initiative is
indicative of its recognition that to achieve higher and faster agricul-
tural growth, it must promote partnership among the State, Cooperative, and
individual production sectors and allocate larger resources to the Coopera-
tive sector which is lagging behind.



-3 -
C. Development Constraints and Issues
1.6      Over the past two or three decades crop yields in Romania have
shown considerable improvement. For example, the average yield of wheat
and barley increased from 0.17 tons per ha in 1950 to 3.0 tons per ha in
1978. Likewise maize yields increased from 0.7 to 3.2 tons per ha over the
same period. However, crop yields in Romania are still relatively low.
Wheat and maize yields are a little lower than those obtained in other
Eastern countries and only about 60-70% of those obtained in Western
Europe. Yields in Romania have been adversely affected by low and erratic
rainfall in the main crop producing zone of the country, as well as by lack
of drainage facilities and considerable flood damage and soil erosion in
some areas. For these reasons, Romania continues to assign high priority
to the development of irrigation and drainage. Livestock yields have also
increased but these again remain low when compared with levels reached in
Western Europe. For example, the average milk yield per cow has increased
from 867 liters in 1950 to 1, 327 in 1960 and to 1,968 liters in 1978. The
latter is less than half of present average yields in Western European
countries. Livestock productivity has also been adversely affected by the
impact of low and fluctuating rainfall on fodder and grain production.
Thus, development of irrigation will also help to improve livestock
productivity.
1.7      Another constraint to higher agricultural productivity in Romania
is the inadequacy of chemical fertilizers, biocides, and mechanical ser-
vices. Indeed, the fertilizer application rate has increased substantially
from less than 10 kg per ha in 1960 to 120 kg per ha in 1978 of active sub-
stance; nevertheless, the introduction of irrigation and drainage facili-
ties ensuring adequate water application, improvements in husbandry
practices, and adoption of hybrid seeds necessitate a much higher rate of
fertilizer application than achieved. Similarly, mechanical services, par-
ticularly for harvesting (where as much as 50% of maize is harvested
manually), are in short supply.
D. Development Policy and Planning Strategy
1.8      Romania is now on the threshold of the Sixth Five Year Plan for
1981-1985. The first draft was issued in 1978, however, subsequent devel-
opments in the Romanian economy in particular and the world economy at
large dictated a more prudent set of output targets. The party Congress
reviewed the draft Plan and made significant changes in view of: (a) the
growing energy crisis and increasing costs of energy in the foreseeable
future; (b) non-fulfillment of planned targets during 1976-1980, especially
in agriculture, due to inadequate equipment, construction materials; and
(c) lack of fertilizers resulting in shortfalls in recommended applications
rates. Nevertheless the planning strategy adheres to the previous Plan's
(1975-80) objectives of: (a) raising land and labor productivity; (b)
improving the diet of the-population by intensifying production of high



- 4 -
value crops, meat, and dairy products; (c) expanding surplus production for
export; (d) introduction of capital intensive technologies to release labor
for non-farm employment; and (e) expanding irrigation and drainage facili-
ties to minimize the effects of weather failures. Specifically, planned
investments for the agricultural sector for the 1981-1985 Plan include:
(a) investment of Lei 150 billion (US$10.0 billion) which represents
12.5% of the total planned investment in the economy;
(b) land reclamation in the Danube delta and in the Foothills Zone for
an area of about 154,000 ha, bringing the total arable land to
about 10 million ha;
(c) expansion of irrigation facilities from 2.2 million ha in 1979 to
about 3.7 million ha by 1985;
(d) provision of drainage facilities for an additional 0.8 million ha
and soil erosion control works to protect an additional 1.0
million ha;
(e) increasing the total horse power of tractors with about 140,000
new tractor units and 40,000 self-propelled harvester units, plus
other farm machinery and equipment;
(f) raising the application rate of fertilizer (active substance) from
120 kg per ha in 1980 to about 300 kg per ha in 1985 with full
capacity operation of the fertilizer factories;
(g) adoption of high quality seeds and adequate pesticide distribu-
tion; and
(h) improvement of existing breeds of livestock and development of new
ones, for which 25% of planned investments in the agricultural
sector would be allocated.
1.9      The proposed five year investment plan (1981-85) for the agricul-
tural sector has not departed substantially from the current plan (1975-80)
strategy but is less ambitious. The investment share of agriculture in
total investment for the economy has increased slightly from 11.6% to 12.5%
in current prices. The annual growth rate for agriculture which is set at
4% per annum, compared to 5-7.5% per annum for the 1976-1980 plan, is
attainable. Furthermore, the targeted fertilizer application rate has been
adjusted downwards considerably to about 300 kg per ha by 1985 compared to
280 kg per ha previously planned by 1980. The planned rate of application,
though lower than recommended, is feasible given the desired distribution
between exports and domestic use.



- 5-
E. Development in the Irrigation Sub-Sector
1.10     One of the principal bottlenecks of Romanian agriculture is the
erratic rainfall and lack of drainage facilities . Of the total arable
land of 9.8 million hectares an estimated 5 million hectares are classified
as suitable for irrigation. In 1960 Romania had only 200,000 ha of irri-
gated land. Government's commitment to exploit the land and water
resources of the Danube plain and Foothill zones is demonstrated by the
rapid expansion of irrigated agriculture. In 1979 about 2.2 million ha
were irrigated. Large irrigation schemes have so far been confined to the
Danube plains where average annual rainfall is about 400 mm and varies
widely from year to year. Government's priority to develop the Danube
plains stems from the endownment of the zone with fertile soils and rela-
tively low investment cost per ha. The proposed Bucsani-Buzau-Siret-Prut
Irrigation Project will be the first Bank-assisted project irrigated from
the northern tributaries, instead of the Danube River. These tributaries
of the Danube require storage, and, because of increasing demand for power
generation a series of multipurpose dams are being constructed. These
storage dams which are planned primarily for power generation would also
serve to meet irrigation requirements.
1.11     Despite rapid development of irrigation in Romania, land produc-
tivity (yields) remains low primarily due to lack of drainage facilities
and other agricultural services and inputs. The development approach taken
in the irrigation subsector has hitherto given secondary priority to prob-
lems of drainage. Consequently, annual crop losses due to excess surface
water and a high water table are substantial. The problem becomes vividly
evident in spring when high snow accumulation on the land, and snow melts
augmented by rainfall, create excess surface water causing considerable
loss to autumn crops. Moreover, as a result of water logging, spring crops
cannot be sown on time. The Government has, therefore, decided that future
development projects would give first priority to removal of excess water
through drainage facilities, and irrigation would be extended only when
these anti water logging measures have been adopted. Drainage is also
being extended to those existing locally financed, irrigation schemes where
found deficient. All previous Bank financed projects have already
incorporated adequate drainage facilities.
1.12     In the next five year plan (1981-85), the Government of Romania
has proposed to extend irrigation to about 3.7 million ha. Most of the
areas which could economically be irrigated from the Danube River, have
already been exhausted and future expansion would be on the basis of
developing the multipurpose water resources of the northern tributaries of
the Danube. The Government is engaged in preparing separate plans for
utilizing the multipurpose potential of these rivers. The major rivers
included in the 1981-85 irrigation program are the Olt and the Arges in
south-central Romania, and the Mostistea, the Ialomita, the Buzau, and the
Siret in the south-eastern region, The water resources of the Olt and the
Arges Rivers are being developed individually, through construction of



- 6 -
multipurpose dams; whereas, the remaining rivers are proposed to be inter-
connected through a carrier canal emanating from the Siret, flowing across
the Baragan plain and terminating at the Mostistea. A series of multi-
purpose dams are also proposed in the head waters of all these rivers,
which would generate power and meet the irrigation and other uses of the
Baragan plain and its adjoining areas. During periods of short supply the
generating stations, which are reversible, would pump water from the River
Danube back to the reservoirs, to meet irrigation, domestic, and industrial
requirements. For FY82 an irrigation project (Irrigation IX) on the Olt
River is included in the Bank proposed lending program. However, the Gov-
ernment of Romania has proposed that projects for irrigating the Baragan
plain should be considered for possible Bank financing during FY83 and FY84
(Irrigation X and XI). The identification and preparation of these proj-
ects which are a part of a long term multipurpose development program,
spread over a number of river basins would require special analytical
skills. The Bank has proposed an Irrigation Subsector Review in the spring
of 1980 to assess the suitability of the program, its priorities, cost
allocations between various purposes, and, if possible, to devise a new
approach to our program through sector lending.
F. Bank Strategy and Role in Agriculture
1.13     The Bank's strategy is based on promoting efficient agricultural
development while at the same time transferring needed convertible foreign
exchange to Romania and assisting with the introduction of improved produc-
tion technology. In view of lower productivity in agriculture as compared
to other sectors of the economy, the Bank's lending program gives a consid-
erable emphasis to the agricultural sector, while remaining in harmony with
Government's plans for agricultural development. The Bank's lending
strategy is based on the findings of various reports, including the Agri-
cultural Sector Survey of October 1976 (Report Number 953a-RO), the Basic
Economic Report dated March 1978 (Report Number 1601-RO), a number of
recent appraisal reports of 1979 and 1980, and a livestock subsector review
(1980).
1.14     The proposed loan, together with Livestock IV which is being
processed simultaneously, would bring the Bank's total lending to Romania
to US$1,782.6 million for 29 projects. Of the 27 loans already approved,
twelve, totalling US$741.5 million, have been in agriculture. Of these
five are irrigation projects, one irrigation and agricultural development
project, one agricultural credit project, one agricultural component of a
flood recovery project, two pig production and processing projects, one
poultry project, and one orchards projects. The agricultural projects are
supervised about twice a year and are progressing satisfactorily with no
major problems. The first irrigation project (Giurgiu-Razmiresti, Loan
1082-RO) has been satisfactorily completed and a Project Completion Report
has been issued and a report by the Operations Evaluation Department is
under preparation.



1.15     The Bank has made a substantial contribution to improve the tech-
nical quality of agricultural projects in Romania. In irrigation, the Bank
has set in motion the concept of preparation of alternative designs and
selection of the least cost alternatives. The Bank has also convinced the
Romanian designers and planners to postpone projects based on provisional
sources of water supply which were not technically the optimum solution,
until such time as the waters from the northern tributaries, other than the
Danube, have been developed for providing permanent water resources for
irrigating these areas. Suggestions given by Bank staff have also improved
the design of canals in loess soils, design of drainage works, maintenance,
and soil reclamation. The Bank's dialogue with the Romanian authorities
has led to an important conceptual change in the projects, i.e. inclusion
of private plots allotted to members of Cooperatives, in the irrigated
areas. This mutual understanding is also reflected in the design of
projects in the livestock and horticulture subsectors, where technical
innovations and institutional development have become the principal focus
of Bank lending.
II. THE PROJECT AREA AND NATIONAL INSTITUTIONS
A. The Project Area
2.1      Location.  The project area, about 158,485 ha (154,350 ha net)
consists of four distinct and geographically separate subprojects, located
in the south central and south eastern part of Romania.
(a)  Bucsani.  Located in Olt and Vilcea Districts (Map 15177), this
subproject has an area of 47,205 ha (45,907 ha net).  The project
area falls on the right bank of the Olt River; in the north
limited by the towns of Bucsani and lonesti, in the south by the
Oltet River and Cioroiu town, in the west by the slopes of the
mountain ranges and in east by the Olt River with its series of
storages for hydroelectric generation. The present subproject
represents a small tranche of a major development program on the
Olt River, which on completion would include irrigation of about
670,000 ha.
(b)  Buzau.  Located in Prahova and Buzau Districts (Map 15176) this
subproject has an area of 59,760 ha (58,481 ha net), the project
falls astride both banks of the Buzau River. In the north the
area is bounded by the district road from Pietroasele to Urlati,
on the south by the Calmatui Irrigation System, on the west by the
river Cricovul Sara and on the east by the future Siret-Baragan
Irrigation System.
(c)  Siret.  The project comprising of 15,687 ha (15,168 ha net) is
located entirely in Galati District (Map 15178). It is limited in
the north by the town of Tecuci, in the south by the lower reaches
of the Siret River before it outfalls into the Danube River, on



the west by the main stem of the Siret River and on the east by
the Covurlui Irrigation Project, already financed by the Bank
(Loan 1795 RO).
(d) Prut. The project consisting of 35,833 ha (34,794 ha net) is located
in Galati District (Map 15178), on the right Bank of the Prut
River, which forms the boundary between Romania and the USSR. In
the north the project is bounded by the foothills rising up from
Oanca town, on the south by the Lake Brates and the Danube River,
on the west by the Chineja River and on the east by the Prut
River.
2.2      Topography and Drainage
(a) Bucsani. This subproject is a part of the Olt River flood plain
which has been reclaimed through construction of continuous dykes
along both banks of the Olt River. The area ranges from EL 125 m
to EL 175 m ABSL. 1/ Drainage is provided by natural streams and
by a main drain which has been excavated parallel to the Olt River
Dyke. These streams have problems of meander and siltation.
Natural drainage of the project area is deficient and would have
to be provided in the entire project area. Subsurface drainage
would also be necessary in about 16% of the area. The banks of
natural streams in the foothills show varying degrees of soil
erosion.
(b) Buzau. This subproject, area 59,760 ha (58,481 ha net) lies in
the plains zone, immediately below the Istrita mountains and has
an elevation ranging from 90 m to 180 m ABSL. The area is inter-
spersed by 16 streams, emanating from the northern mountains.
These streams act as the main collectors, however, additional
drainage facilities would be necessary in the intervening lands.
These 16 natural streams have a tendency to erode the banks and
overflow for which training works would be necessary. The
southern areas, about 12,000 ha adjoining the Calmatui Irrigation
Project, have a drainage problem, coupled with salinity, and would
require tile drainage and soil reclamation.
(c) Siret. The subproject, 15,687 ha (15,168 ha net) is a part of the
Siret River flood plain, a part of which has been reclaimed
through construction of dykes on the Siret River. The alluvial
plain is fairly uniform with a preponderance of clays. Gradients
are flat and surface drainage would be required over the entire
area, with tile drainage for aobut 40% of area.
(d) Prut. The subproject has an area of 29,930 ha (28,973 ha net).
The southern half is a part of the lower flood plain of the Prut
1/ Above Baltic Sea Level.



River, before it joins the Danube River, and has some existing
irrigation and drainage development. A major lake, namely Brates,
also exists for development of fish. Surface drainage and subsoil
drainage problems are to be expected in this flood plain. The
subproject also contains a substantial part of the plateau area,
(15,155 ha) which is well drained but would require some soil
erosion control.
2.3      Population.  Total population in the project area is estimated at
about 320,000, with about 239,100 living in the rural area. Details by
sub- projects are given below:
Subproject
Bucsani     Buzau       Siret      Prut      Total
Total population            96,477    158,722      21,015  43, 505   319,719
Rural population            96,477     78,104      21,015   43,505   239,101
Active labor force
IAS                      500       4,356         628    2,259      7,743
CAP                   38,271      40,575       5,040   10,033    93,919
Total            38,771      44,931       5,668   12,292   101,662
2.4      Electricity and Water Supply.  All towns and villages in the
project area, as well as isolated State farms and livestock units, are
served with electricity which is supplied from the national grid. The
water for village households is drawn manually from shallow open wells,
built along the main village roads or within each private plot. The towns
of Tecuci and Buzau, however, are provided with piped water supply.
2.5      Communications.  The four subproject areas are well linked with
the national Romanian railway and road networks. The railway and the road
connecting Slatina to Craiova and Rimnicu Vilcea serve the Bucsani subproj-
ect. The Ploiesti-Buzau railroad link traverses the entire length of the
Buzau subproject. The western and the eastern loops of the Galati-Birlad
railway line pass through the Siret and the Prut flood plains, closely
paralleled by roads. Almost all villages in the project area are accessi-
ble by asphalt roads. Average hauling distance between any one village in
the project area and the nearest railway station seldom exceeds 30 km. The
existing farm road network, which is mostly gravelled, adequately serves
the needs of the project area.
B. Natural Resources
2.6      Climate.  The principal climatological data from Galati, Tecuci
Pretroasele, Dragasani and Slatina weather stations which are located in
the project area, is given in Annex 1, Table 1.  The climate is basically
continental with hot summers and cold winters. In the growing season
(April 1 - October 31), the average monthly temperature varies from a high
of 22.60C in July to a low of 10.6°C in October. Sunshine hours during



- 10 -
the cropping season average 1,720 hours. First frost occurs in late
September, while late frost may occur up to late April. The average snow
cover from December to March is about 5 cm. Rainfall varies widely from
year to year and is particularly torrential in the summer. During the
cropping season April-October the average rainfall in Galati and Tecuci
amounts to 312 mm and 354 mm respectively; however, minimum rainfall can be
as low as 160 mm in the cropping season with droughts sometimes extending
to over 60 days. Irrigation can greatly improve the yields for summer
crops. Wind velocity would not be a constraint to sprinkler irrigation, as
strong winds prevail mainly from January to May, when the need for irriga-
tion is minimal.
2.7      Soils.  The irrigated area of the Bucsani subproject is located in
the plains of Walachia, while Buzau, Siret, and Prut subprojects form a
part of the plains of Moldavia. The fertile Moldavian and Walachian plains
are amongst Europe's leading granaries. The soils consist of chernozems
formed on loes deposits under steppe conditions, with continental climate
characterized by cold winters, dry summers and average rainfall less than
500 mm. These soils are high in mineral nutrients such as calcium, potas-
sium, nitrogen and lime; all essential as plant nutrients. There are slick
spots of saline (solonchak) and sodic (solonetz) soil in Siret and Buzau,
but such area is very small. The soils are inherently fertile and produc-
tive and contain compounds of such trace elements as mangenese, boron,
copper, iron and zinc. Adequate provision has been made for their reclama-
tion by the application of chemical amendments which would be combined with
biological treatment. The normal soils are rich in plant nutrients and
have a large range of soil moisture available to plants. PH in Buzau and
Bucsani soil is less than 7 showing acidic reaction, while in Siret and
Prut it is above 7, but much less than 8.5. Most of the chermozem soils
are deep and in different stages of transformation. Alluvial soils
influenced by groundwater exist near and within the valleys.
2.8      Land Classification.  About 61% of the land of Siret and Prut and
75 to 77% of Bucsani and Buzau projects belongs to Classes I & II 1/ and is
able to produce sustained high yield for a wide variety of crops. These
lands are very fertile, well structured, of medium texture and with good
water retention capacities, which would however need control measures. The
humus content is 1.29-3.7% and the highest humus content is met within the
first 20-25 cm. The soils have a good nitrogen and potassium content but
are poor in phosphorous content. In 20% of the Buzau area the groundwater
is within 2 m depth from the ground surface. All areas having groundwater
table within 1.5-2 m would need drainage. In Bucsani and Prut projects,
soil erosion control measures are also envisaged.
1/ USDA classification.



- 11 -
C. Agricultural Production and Livestock
2.9      Present Land Use.  The total gross area of the proposed project is
158,485 (15X,350 ha, net). An area of 20,024 ha is presently irrigated
from several local schemes which are of rudimentary and improvised nature
and are inefficient to operate and maintain. The present cropping inten-
sity on rainfed land is 100%, and it is also no more than 100% on irrigated
land due to inadequate water supplies. Of the cultivated land, 34% is
presently grown with maize grain; 26% with wheat; 7% with sunflower; 13%
with alfalfa; 3% with vineyards and orchards; 2% with vetch as green mass,
6% with barley, 4% with sugar beet, and 5% with potatoes and vegetables.
No double cropping is possible due to lack of irrigation.
2.10     Production.  The crop yields are low for the areas presently irri-
gated from small schemes due to the inadequate supplies, but are reasonable
for the rainfed areas as production is supervised by well qualified per-
sonnel. Due to the wide variation of rainfall, yields of rainfed crops are
subject to yearly fluctuations and in some years there may be a complete
failure of some crops due to the extended drought periods. Based on five
representative years the average yield of major crops obtained under irri-
gation on the irrigation systems financed and completed by Romanians are:
maize 7.1 ton/ha, wheat 4.2 ton/ha, sunflower 1.9 ton/ha, soybean 1.9
ton/ha, sugar beet 40.1 ton/ha, alfalfa 9.1 ton/ha. Details of land use
and yields are given in Annex 2, Tables 1 to 4.
2.11     Livestock.  Livestock plays an important role in the project area
and livestock activities can be found in practically every commune. About
101,000 head of cattle, 125,000 pigs and 331,000 sheep are presently raised
in the specialized livestock units in the social sector, in Olt, Vilcea,
Prahova, Buzau and Galati districts. About 50% of this livestock is
located in the project area; however, benefits of incremental agricultural
production due to the project would extend to all the livestock in these
districts. Significant increases are also planned in the livestock
population in the future.
D. Agricultural Production Organizations
Agricultural Production Cooperatives (CAPs)
2.12     Background.  Collectivization of private farms started in 1945 was
completed by 1962. During its final stage private farms and agricultural
associations were merged into what are presently known as CAPs. Coopera-
tives, whose membership includes about 3.4 million families, own 9.1
million ha, (60.6%) of agricutural land, of which 7.3 million ha is arable
representing 74.1% of the total arable land in Romania. Almost one million
ha of the total agricultural land or less than 0.15 ha per member are set



- 12 -
aside as private plots for the personal use of cooperative members. Coop-
eratives produce about 67% of all cereals, 48% of green peas, beans and
soybeans, 41% of potatoes and vegetables, 48% of forage crops, 99% of
sugarbeet and 80% of oilseeds.
2.13     Organization and Management.  The land and assets of CAPs are
owned jointly by their members, with the exception of farm machinery. CAPs
do not own farm machinery or equipment but rely on the services of state
owned and operated stations for agricultural machinery (SMAs). These
enterprises are responsible for providing all machinery services to CAPs
whenever required. The management of a CAP is the responsibility of its
President, the Vice President, a Management Council and a General
Assembly.   The governing body of a CAP is its General Assembly, which con-
sists of all working adults (ages 16-62) in the CAP. The General Assembly
is responsible for drafting productive investment and financial plans, for
ratifying major contracts and for deciding the income allocation.
2.14     CAPs in the Project Area.  In the project area 114 CAPs currently
own about 119,000 ha or 76% of the total project area. CAP holdings range
from 1,000 ha to 2,480 ha. CAPs members provide all necessary permanent
and seasonal labor. CAPs normally utilize about 50,000 workers perma-
nently. Another 34,000 workers are engaged full time on seasonal work with
different production organizations including CAPs. About 80% of CAP
workers are engaged in crop production with the remainder engaged in
livestock produc- tion.
State Agricultural Enterprises (IASs)
2.15     Background.  In the early postwar period State Agricultural Enter-
prises were intially established on land expropriated from landlords, on
church land and existing government owned land. By 1950, 9.2% of total
arable land had been allocated to State units including research stations
and seed farms; and by 1965 the corresponding figure was 20%. The struc-
ture of the State sector has, however, been changed through a policy of
consolidation by which the number of IASs was reduced from 721 in 1965 to
215 in 1973. As of 1977 the number had increased again to 392. These
changes have been associated with efforts to reorganize some IASs into
agro-industrial type complexes where State enterprises and their individual
farm units have been separated and reassigned to form specialized enter-
prises. The trend towards specialization has occurred mainly in pig,
poultry and grain production. IASs currently own about 2.0 million ha of
agricultural land of which about 1.7 million ha are arable and employ about
267,000 persons. They produce about 19% of all cereals, 40% of green peas,
beans and soybeans, 19% of oilseeds, 5% of potatoes and vegetables and 29%
of forage crops.
2.16     Organization and Management.  IASs are operated and managed by
employees of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food Industry (MAFI). One
single IAS may consist of several farms or specialized production units.



- 13 -
Transport and farm equipment are supplied by and maintained by a Central
Service Unit owned by the SMA organization. Until 1978, IASs used exclu-
sively their own equipment but under the new system of Unified Agro-
industrial Councils (UAC) (see para. 2.18) it is jointly used with nearby
Cooperatives under the auspices of SMAs. The chief executive officer of an
IAS is a director, who is assisted by the chief engineers of the farms in
the IAS and a chief economist or accountant.
2.17     IASs in the Project Area.  Out of a total of about 156,000 ha of
currently cropped area, 16 IASs own about 37,440 ha or 24%. IAS holdings
range from 3,500 ha to 7,700 ha. To meet their labor requirements IASs in
the project area employ permanently 7,700 persons.
2.18     Unified Agro-industrial Councils (UACs) and Stations for Agricul-
tural Mechanization (SMAs). The use of agricultural machinery in Romania
has recently undergone an important organizational change. In the past,
State farms were fully mechanized with their own machinery, whereas the
Cooperatives did not own equipment and were served by SMAs. As a result
discrepancies in production levels between State farms and Cooperatives
developed. A large number of machines in the State farms remained under-
utilized while Cooperatives suffered shortages of equipment. In February
1979 important steps were taken to remove the performance disparities
between IAS and CAPs. The main feature of the new policy is an attempt to
promote uniform development of agriculture on IASs and CAPs through the
creation of "State and Cooperative Unified Agro-industrial Councils".
These councils are responsible for coordinating the planning of all agri-
cultural activities in the area and for dispensing equal levels of services
and inputs (mechanization, irrigation, fertilizer, seeds, plant protection,
etc.), for the CAPs and IASs in their jurisdiction. With introduction of
the new system of Agro-industrial Councils, farm machinery owned by IASs
was handed over to existing SMAs which in turn would serve the common needs
of both State farms and Cooperatives. The formation of the Agro-industrial
Council is expected to improve the use of agricultural machinery and remedy
some of the previous shortcomings in the services rendered by the SMAs to
the Cooperatives. In the past, SMAs were simple service suppliers and were
paid by the CAPs in cash or kind based on fixed norms. Compensation to
SMAs will now be based directly on achieved production levels. Respective
targets and tariffs are presently being set. The competence and responsi-
bilities of SMAs has been upgraded. The President of the SMA would in
addition be the Vice President of the respective Agro-industrial Council.
In the project area there now exist 24 SMAs which coincide with the number
of the newly established Agro-industrial Councils. Agricultural machinery
pooled under the Agro-industrial Councils is either stationed on State
farms or SMAs which are fully equipped with repair shops, spare parts and
trained maintenance staff and will serve the common needs of both State
farms and Cooperatives.



- 14 -
E. Farm Inputs
2.19     Mechanization.  Agricultural machinery is locally manufactured and
some, including tractors, is also being exported to a limited extent. The
production program is standardized to the extent possible facilitating
operation and maintenance on the farm level. New farm equipment is devel-
oped and tested by the Institute for Agricultural Mechanization under
auspicies of MAFI in close collaboration with the manufacturers. Research
efforts are directed to economize labor and energy. The production program
is tailored to the specific needs of large farm operations. It includes
tractors of 45-180 HP, self-propelled combines, and complex soil prepara-
tion and seeding equipment for row crops. Land preparation and sowing,
fertilizer, and biocides 1/ application, transport, cereal harvesting and
straw bailing are fully mechanized. Weeding between rows, consisting of
80% of weeding requirement is mechanized, while the remaining 20% along the
rows of crops is inaccessible to machines, and is done by hand. On an
average, there is one tractor to about 70 ha. Large scale farm operation
in the southeastern plains of Romania, where part of the project is
located, make the use of agricultural machinery essential for timely and
full achievement of production targets. The existing farm equipment is
adequate for rainfed farming, however, additional equipment would be
required for incremental production. This additional equipment is being
provided under the project.
2.20     Labor.  In addition to mechanization, hand labor is required for
various field crops and operations. There are two peak periods of labor,
one in May for weeding, thinning sugarbeet, and transplanting vegetables,
and, the other in September-October at harvesting time. The available
labor force in rural areas is shared between State farms and Cooperatives.
Requirements of labor for the project have been estimated at about 879,000
man-days per month during the peak period. Sufficient labor is available
in the project area to meet the above demand.
2.21     Seed.  Improved seeds for all project crops are available in
Romania in the required quantities and would be used in the project area.
Seed requirement per cultivated ha and price per kilo are fixed by MAFI.
Seed development and multiplication of elite seed is entrusted to the
research stations and selected State and Cooperative farms and is super-
vised by a specialized State organization SEMRON. Processing, testing and
certification of seed meet international standards. Romanian seeds of
maize and sunflower are considered of high quality and are exported to
several countries. Of the seeds provided by the seed enterprises, wheat
and barley seeds are renewed every two years, while for other crops seeds
are renewed on an annual basis.
1/ Herbicides, fungicides, insecticides and other chemicals for plant
protection.



- 15 -
2.22     Fertilizer.  National fertilizer production of ammonium nitrate is
estimated at 4.3 million tons and of superphosphate at 2.2 million tons per
year. About 128,000 tons of potash are imported. Use of compound fertil-
izers is less common in Romania. Based on quality of soils, climatic con-
ditions, and crop requirements the allocation of fertilizers to IASs and
CAPs is reviewed each year by MAFI and the Chemical Industries Ministry.
Following introduction of irrigation, the project area would receive prior-
ity in the allocation of fertilizer which would be increased to the levels
recommended by research and the results from soil fertility laboratories.
The fertilizer formulae proposed for the project are appropriate. Under
rainfed conditions there is no significant application of potash, however,
with irrigation, the high projected yields would necessitate some use of
potash, which has been included.
2.23     Plant Protection.  Regional research and forecasting stations
under MAFI, advise CAPs and IASs on timely and appropriate plant protection
treatments which are carried out by the SMAs. In addition, a plant protec-
tion department exists in the Directorate for Agriculture which deploys
special equipment including planes for spraying insecticides. At present
about 1.9 million ha are sprayed in Romania by air. Basic research, long-
term forecasting, testing of new products is undertaken by the Central
Institute for Plant Protection in Bucharest which also conducts large scale
experiments in agricultural fields of IASs and CAPs. A wide range of
pesticides and herbicides is used, with a satisfactory rate of applica-
tion. There is some shortage of spraying equipment in the project area.
Assurance were obtained during negotiations that adequate provision of
aerial or other spraying equipment would be made by the Government.
F. Agricultural Research and Extension
2.24     Research.  Agricultural Research in Romania is coordinated by the
Academy of Agricultural and Forestry Sciences, and is carried out in 13
institutes, 6 central stations and 41 research stations. These research
facilities are distributed throughout the country's ecological zones over
an area of about 80,000 ha and are well staffed with over 1,600 scientist.
The Fundulea Research Institute, about 20 km from Bucharest, is the main
research station in the country and is responsible for applied research in
cereals and industrial crops. Some of Fundulea's research findings under
experimental conditions, and actual yields obtained up to 1978 in IASs and
CAPs in the production sector are summarized below:



-16 -
Yield under       Actual Yield
Experimental      in the Produc-
Irrigated Crops                Conditions        tion Sector
------------(tons/ha)----------
Wheat                          7to 8                 4to 5
Barley                         8 to 11            6.5 to 7.5
Maize                         10 to 14               7 to 9
Sunflower                      3 to 4.5             3 to 3.5
Soybeans                     3.5 to 4.5                3.5
Sugar beet                    70 to 90             60 to 70
Alfalfa (hay)                 16 to 18                 12
Specific research needs and experiments for the Bucsani and Buzau project
areas would be attended to by the Caracal and Rusetu Research Stations. No
research facilities exist at present in the Covurlui area, in which the
Siret and Prut sub-projects are located. The Government has agreed to
establish a research station, using the facilities of IAS Tirgu Bujor. the
project provides for strengthening of the research facilities at Caracal
and establishment of the station at Tirgu Bujor.
2.25     Extension.  Extension services in Romania, which are provided
through the General Directorates of Agriculture in each district, are
efficient and effective. In the five districts where the project areas are
located there are about 100 specialists for general agriculture and live-
stock. These specialists provide the necessary support services to the CAP
and IAS in their respective districts. The General Directorates coordinate
the programs for IASs and CAPs in accordance with technical guidelines
received from the Ministry of Agriculture. The extension staff has a
direct say in improvement of cultural practices and application of tech-
nology instead of an advisory role. In addition, each CAP or IAS has its
own technicians who are provided by the General Directorate in case of CAPs
and by the Department of State Agriculture in case of IASs. Research find-
ings pass rapidly into practice and the supervisory staff of each CAP and
IAS adequately monitor their application. Training of both IAS and CAP
field staff is periodically provided by the General Directorates through
short and medium term courses. For more specialized personnel, graduate
courses are organized during the winter. Irrigated schemes and land
reclamation works near the project areas provide opportunities for gaining
practical experience with works similar to those under the project.
G. The Bank for Agriculture and Food Industry
2.26     The Bank for Agriculture and Food Industry (BAFI) is a State-owned
credit institution established in 1968 as the channel for and administrator
of investments and operations in agriculture, irrigation and agroindus-
tries, for State, Cooperative, and, to a limited extent, individual produc-
tion units. BAFI's main source of funds is the State budget. BAFI has



- 17 -
also been the Borrower for all Bank loans in support of agriculture and
would be the Borrower for the proposed loan. The general organization of
BAFI and its departments is illustrated in Chart II. The principal respon-
sibilities of BAFI are, to:
(a) act as fiscal agent for collection and distribution of State
budgetary funds;
(b) provide short-term production credit;
(c) review both technical and financial aspects of investment pro-
posals of State enterprises and Cooperatives;
(d) provide long-term investment credit;
(e) exercise financial control over execution of investment and finan-
cial plans;
(f) maintain deposit accounts for State enterprises and Cooperatives;
and
(g) cooperate with foreign and international organizations to finance
investment in agriculture and agro-industries.
2.27     The Administrative Council is BAFI's policy-making body.  It is
composed of BAFI's President, Vice Presidents, Department Directors from
the Bucharest head office and major branches, economic and agricultural
experts, representatives of ministries and other central State agencies,
and a delegate designated by the General Trade Union of Romania. Between
the sessions of the Administrative Council, the Executive Bureau acts as
the decision-making body. Its members are the President, Vice Presidents,
three Department Directors and the trade union representative.
2.28     In addition to its headquarters in Bucharest, BAFI operates
through 39 district (judet) branches, 92 sub-branches and about 850 credit
Coopertives which serve as its agents for small-scale lending. Three
operational departments in the head office (agro-industries, Cooperative
sector, and State sector) serve enterprises of national importance. BAFI
has five existing branches in the project area with the following
sub-branches and support staff;



- 18 -
Name
Sub-project      BAFI Branch    Branches No.    Sub-branches No.    Staff No.
Bucsani          (Olt                  1                   3                97
(Vilcea               1                   2                64
(Buzau                1                   1                65
(Prahova              1                   1                67
Prut )           Galati                 1                  1                79
Total                 5                   8               372
The above BAFI branches and sub-branches, and the support staff are
sufficient to administer, disburse and supervise the proposed loan.
H. Investment Financing
2.29     Investment projects are initiated at the farm level (IAS and CAP)
in cooperation between UAC's and Directorates of Agriculture within the
framework of the National Plan. Technical and financial proposals are
prepared by the UAC's with assistance from the local BAFI staff and
Directorate of Agriculture.
2.30     Investments in the IAS's are mainly financed by the State budget,
channelled through IELIF, and through credit financing by BAFI. Retained
profits of IAS's together with BAFI credits are allocated for construction
of small irrigation schemes or drainage networks. Interest rates on any
investment loans to IAS's range from 2% during construction to 4% there-
after with a penalty rate on delayed payment of up to 6%. The maximum
repayment period is ten years. The principal source of investment fund for
CAPs is BAFI which may finance upto 95% of the project cost depending on
the project and financial status of the CAP. CAPs Development Fund may
generate upto 30% of the costs. Loan repayment terms vary, generally
matching the expected economic lives of the assets being financed. Current
interest rates on investment loans to CAPs, which are somewhat lower than
those for IAS's, are 3% during construction and thereafter with penalty
rates of 6%. The repayment periods range from 11 to 30 years including
grace periods.
I. Marketing
2.31     Organization and Management.  Marketing of agricultural products
in Romania is entrusted to State owned and operated marketing Centrals,
established in the late 1960's to assist MAFI in the procurement, grading,
processing, storage and distribution of agricultural products. Currently,
there are 13 Centrals which specialize in marketing specific commodities



- 19 -
such as cereals, vegetables and fruits, sugar, meat, milk, etc. With the
exception of the Central for sugar, each Central has its headquarters in
Bucharest and an enterprise in each of the country's 39 judets. The enter-
prises are the executing agencies of the Centrals which organize the
collection, transport, and delivery of farm products. The Central for
Sugar is organized differently from the others in that, instead of having
district enterprises and collection centers, it owns and operates 17 sugar
factories. The CAP and the IASs farms are responsible for the delivery of
products to the collecting centers but all costs of transportation are paid
by the Centrals. Each farm is expected to provide its own packaging
materials; the collecting centers reimburse the IAS farms for such mate-
rials (about lei 17 or US$1.1 per ton for grain) but not the CAP farms, who
are allowed to take back their materials after delivery of products.
Products from individually-owned plots and some surplus CAP production,
i.e. production exceeding quotas contracted to the Centrals, are marketed
through peasant free markets and Agro-cooperatives. Agro-cooperatives are
marketing Cooperatives formed and operated by the CAPs. Both channels are
under the jurisdiction of the local People's Councils and handle mainly
vegetables and fruits (less than 5% of total output marketed) and, to some
extent, live chickens and dairy products.
2.32     Each Central is headed by a director general who reports directly
to the concerned Deputy Minister. He is assisted by directors of commerce/
marketing, economics/accounting, and technical matters. The composition of
each district enterprise' administrative personnel is similar to that of
the Central: its staff usually includes a chief engineer, a marketing
specialist, and an economist or accountant.
2.33     Marketing Organizations in the Project Area.  The number of mar-
keting enterprises and collection centers in the five Districts covering
the project are tabulated below:
Marketing Organizations in the Project Districts
(Number)
Vegetable
Cereal          and Fruits        Sugarbeet            Winery
Enter- Collect. Enter- Collect. Enter- Collect. Enter- Collect.
District   prise  Centers   prise  Centers   prise_/lCenters   prise  Centers
Olt           1      27         2        5        1       10         1      18
Vilcea        1       9         2       5         -       --         1      10
Buzau         1      17         2        3        1        4         1      13
Prahova       1      10         2       4         -        7         1      11
Galati        1      23         2        7        -        6         1       3
Source:  BAFI, May, 1980
/1 Sugar factories



- 20 -
The above marketing organizations are located throughout major production
centers of the districts and are adequate to handle the incremental produc-
tion from the project area.
2.34     Processing Capacities.  The existing and 1985 projections of pro-
cessing capacities in the project area are given below:
Canneries           Oil Factories        Sugar Factories
(Fruit & Vegetables)   (Sunflower Seed)         (Sugarbeet)
tons/year              tons/24 hours       tons/24 hours
1979       1985         1979    1985         1979    1985
Bucsani           40,200      40,200          300      300          -    4,000
Buzau             10,900      10,900          400      470      7,000   7,000
Siret & Prut      51,200      51,200          140      812      8,000   8,Q00
Total        102,300    102,300           840   1,582      15,000  19,000
The existing oil factory "Prutal" Galati is being modernized and expanded
to handle 812 tons of sunflower and other seeds every 24 hours. A new
sugar factory, with a crushing capacity of 4,000 tons per 24 hours, is
under installation at Calafat. These additional facilities, when added to
the spare capacities available within the existing factories, are
sufficient to process the incremental production from the project area.
Grain Storages (Silos)
2.35     The 1979 production of cereals in Romania was 19 million tons.  A
part of this production was retained by the CAPs for their own consumption
and as livestock feed. The feed mills also received their requirements
directly from the marketing central. About 37% of the production (7.0
million tons) were allocated to the Cereal Central for domestic consumption
and for exports. The existing storage capacity (silos) in the entire
country, available to the Cereal Central is 1.2 million tons. This capa-
city can be used 2 1/2 times every year for successive crops, raising the
effective capacity to 3.0 million tons. The existing (1979) shortage of
storage facilities amounts to 4.0 million tons, and, as a result the Cereal
Central has to resort to hiring makeshift storages (wooden sheds, barns,
etc.) in CAPs, sometimes at long distance incurring considerable transport
charges, even then suffering quality deterioration.
2.36     In 1985 the production of cereals in Romania is estimated to
increase to 22 million tons. The next five year plan (1981-85) provides
for construction of 0.65-million tons for storage facilities (silos). With
about 9.0 million tons of cereal allocations to the Cereal Central, the
shortages of storage space would then be 4.4 million tons. This general
shortage of adequate storage affects the quality of cereals and is a
depressant on exports. The actual loss resulting from lack of adequate
silo storages ranges from 3% in good years to 15% in bad years.



- 21 -
2.37     Provision has, therefore, been made under the proposed project to
finance 4 silos in or near the project area with a total installed capacity
of about 0.18 million tons. This provision is in accordance with Romania's
five year plan (1981-85) and will meet the storage requirements of the
project area.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Objectives
3.1      The main objectives of the project are to increase and stabilize
crop production in a gross area of 158,485 ha (154,350 ha net) and raise
crop production and labor productivity through construction of irrigation
and drainage facilities, soil erosion control works and valley training.
B. Detailed Features
3.2      General.  The project consists of four distinct and geographically
separate sub-projects, covering a total area of 158,485 ha (154,350 ha,
net). Project works would consist of:
Bucsani sub-project
(a)  a system of open canals (17.7 km) and pipe conduits (16 km),
in the flood plain and on the higher level plateau;
(b) four repumping stations to lift the water from the main
canals flowing by gravity from the Olt River, to the plateau
areas;
(c) twenty-one pressure pumping stations to feed underground
irrigation pipe network; to serve six irrigation systems
covering a gross area of 36,800 ha (35,740 ha, net);
(d) surface drainage works to serve a gross area of 40,110 ha
(39,002 ha, net);
(e) tile drainage works for a gross area of 7,040 ha (6,837 ha,
net);
(f) soil erosion control works to protect a gross area of 10,405
ha (10,167 ha, net);
(g)  valley training in a length of 80.5 km;



- 22 -
Buzau sub-project
(a)  a system of open canals (76.0 km) and pipe conduits (9.8 km);
(b) two repumping stations, to lift the water in the main canals
to lands at higher contours;
(c) fifty seven pressure pumping stations to feed underground
irrigation pipe network; to serve an area of 59,760 ha
(58,481 ha, net);
(d) surface drainage works to serve a gross area of 46,200 ha
(45,329 ha, net);
(e) tile drainage works for a gross area of 12,607 ha (12,337 ha,
net);
(f) reclamation of saline soil covering a gross area of 12,607 ha
(12,337 ha, net);
(g)  valley training in a length of 225 km;
Siret sub-project
(a) two fixed pumping stations on the Siret River to lift water
into the main irrigation canals in the flood plain;
(b) three pressure pumping stations and a system of open canals
(30 km) and pipe conduits (65 km);
(c) eight pressure pumping stations to feed underground irriga-
tion pipe network, to serve a gross area of 15,687 ha (15,168
ha, net);
(d) surface drainage works to serve a gross area of 15,687 ha
(15,168 ha, net);
(e) tile drainage works for a gross area of 6,775 ha (6,555 ha,
net);
(f) reclamation of saline soil covering a gross area of 3,775 ha
(3,652 ha, net);
(g)  valley training in a length of 15 km;
Prut sub-project
(a) three pressure pumping stations and a system of open canals
(30 km) and pipe conduits (96 km);
(b) twelve pressure pumping stations to feed underground irriga-
tion pipe network, to serve a gross area of 29,930 ha (28,973
ha, net);



- 23 -
(c) surface drainage works to serve a gross area of 23,284 ha
(22,935 ha, net);
(d) tile drainage works for a gross area of 7,090 ha (6,863 ha,
net);
(e) reclamation of saline soil covering an area of 196 ha (190
ha, net);
(f) soil erosion control works to protect a gross area of 890 ha
(871 ha, net);
In addition, the project would provide equipment for operation and mainte-
nance of irrigation and drainage works, and, farm machinery to intensify
agriculture on the area irrigated by the project. The project would also
provide for improvement of agricultural research station facilities and
construction of additional grain storage capacity to handle the incremental
production from the project area (see paras. 3.3 to 3.6). Data on type of
gross area development is summarized below; Brief description of these
works is given in Annex 11. Major irrigation drainage systems are
illustrated on Maps IBRD 15176, 15177 and 15178.
Item                           Bucsani      Buzau     Siret      Prut
------------(gross ha)------
Irrigation facilities                      36,800    59,760    15,687   29,930
Surface drainage with irrigation          (36,800)  (46,200)  (15,687) (17,381)
Surface drainage only                       3,310        -         -       5,903
Tile drainage                              (7,040)  (12,607)   (6,775)  (7,090)
Reclamation of saline soil                    -      (12,607)   (3,775)    (196)
Soil erosion control with irrigation    (3,310)          -          -       (890)
Soil erosion control only                   7,093        -                    -
Total areas                     47,205    59,760    15,687   35,833
(Total Project - 158,485 ha, gross)
(Areas in parenthesis represent surfaces which are common with other
facilities.)
Additional Project Components
3.3      Farm Machinery.  About 1,590 tractors and 185 combines would be
pro- vided to SMA's for State Farms and Cooperatives under the project to
culti- vate and harvest the increased production (see Annex 3, Table 1).
This machinery which would partly replace the old equipment and partly meet
the additional requirements generated by the project, is necessary to
ensure development of full agricultural potential following irrigation.



- 24 -
3.4      Operation and Maintenance Equipment.  The equipment listed in
Annex 3, Table 2 is considered necessary for the operation and maintenance
of the project and would be provided under the projects
3.5      Grain Storages (Silos).  Four silos with a capacity of 45,000 tons
each would be constructed as a part of the project for storing cereals.
Each silo would consist of reinforced concrete bins 6.5 m in diameter and
34 m high; facilities to receive supplies by road and rail and to convey
these supplies to the bins; a grain drying station; and a conveyor system
which would deliver cereals directly from the bins to the Feedmill. Each
silo would have facilities to receive cereals at rate of 320 tons per
hour. The grain cleaning and drying capacity would be 240 tons and 50 tons
per hour respectively.
3.6      Research Stations.  The present activities of the Caracal Research
Station are limited to reseach on cereal and industrial crops. The
research station would be strengthened, under the project, to undertake
additional research in irrigation methods, fertilizer application and green
house production. Storage, transport and research equipment would be pro-
vided, for the station. Provision would also be made for, training of
research personnel, scholarships and fellowships to researchers, and pur-
chase of technical books and magazines. A new research station in the
Covurlui area would be established which would cater to the specific needs
of this plateau area. The Government has decided to use the residential
and non-residential buildings at Tirgu Bujor, which are in excess of the
requirements of the IAS. A program of research activities for these
stations would be framed by the Government and submitted to the Bank.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations for its timely submission
(para. 6.1(j)).
C. Water Requirements, Water Availability and Quality
3.7      Water Requirements.  Net water requirements for project crops were
estimated separately for each subproject. The highest monthly net demand
would occur in July. Net and gross water requirements annually and for
July are summarized below:



- 25 -
Water Requirements
July      Annual       July       Annual
Name of Project                        ------m3/ha -----       -------Mm3----
Bucsani                 Net              898       2,598       34.2        105.9
Gross         1,265        3,659      48.1        149.1
Buzau                   Net             899        2,700       52.2        161.4
Gross         1,249       3,750       72.5        224.2
Siret                   Net             975        3,180       15.6         53.0
Gross         1,336       4,356       21.4         72.6
Prut                    Net             869        2,545       27.9        105.1
Gross         1,190        3,486      38.2        144.0
The irrigation efficiency of the sprinkler area has been estimated at 73%
and for the furrow area at 65% giving an overall system efficiency ranging
from 70% to 73%, depending on the proportion of furrow area in each sub-
project. The July demand would correspond to a maximum demand as indicated
below:
Bucsani     Buzau      Siret      Prut
-------------m3/sec----------------
Maximum flow requirements
(during July)                            18.0        27.1        8.0      14.3
Water Availability
3.8      Bucsani.  During appraisal reservoir water operation studies for
all the developments on the Olt River were carried out jointly by the
National Water Council (N.W.C.) and the Institute for Land Reclamation
Studies and Design (ISPIF). These studies were confined to the seven dams
which have already been constructed, or are nearing completion in the reach
between Turnu and Slatina. The results show, that, after meeting all
existing and future requirements for domestic and industrial uses, includ-
ing existing requirements for irrigation; and after routing the remaining
supplies through the turbines for hydropower generation, an area of about
170,000 ha can be irrigated with acceptable shortages. 1/ In other words,
after meeting the requirements of about 37,000 ha in the Bucsani sub-
project, sufficient water would still be available for irrigating another
133,000 ha. Eventually the area to be irrigated from the Olt River would
increase to about 670,000 ha, after all 25 dams have been completed, some-
time in the nineteen nineties, when during periods of shortages water would
have to be pumped into these dams from the River Danube.
1/ No shortages are anticipated for the Bucsani sub-project, which is only
37,000 ha. When the area is extended to 170,000 ha, shortage would be
experienced in one year out of 25 years considered for the study (1945
to 1969).



- 26 -
3.9      Buzau.  A similar reservoir water operation study for the Buzau
River basin was also carried out under similar parameters for existing and
future uses for domestic and industrial requirements and power produc-
tions. The study assumes completion 1/ of both Siriu and Surduc dams. The
results indicated that only about 60,000 ha can be irrigated with the net
supplies, with acceptable shortages 2/ and not 64,000 ha, as had been
proposed in the project submitted to the Bank. The size of the subproject
was, therefore, reduced to about 60,000 ha. The Government has already
adopted this reduced scope and accordingly amended all project documents,
including cost estimates.
3.10     Siret.  The minimum flow in the Siret River during the month of
July with 80% probability is 53 m3/sec as compared to a maximum July
withdrawal of only 8 m3/sec (15%). An extensive network of storages has
also been planned for the Siret River, and irrigation requirements for the
project are assured.
3.11     Prut.  Irrigation supplies, amounting to a maximum of 14.3
m3/sec in July, would be pumped for this subproject from (i) existing
eight pumping stations on the Prut River which has a minimum flow of 87
M3/sec in July; (ii) main pumping station on the Danube now under
construction for Covurlui Irrigation Project (Loan 1795-RO); and (iii)
Chineja flood stream, where the flow ranges from 5 m3/sec to 50
m3/sec. No more than 50% of the requirements are be drawn from the Prut
River which would be only 8% of its minimum flow in July. The Prut
subproject would operate in conjunction with the Covurlui Irrigation
Project and its water requirements are assured.
3.12     Water Quality.  Analysis of samples of water collected from the
Olt, Buzau, Siret and Prut Rivers, at the sites of the subprojects show the
following results:
Olt     Buzau      Siret      Prut
TDS (PPM)                    543       504       483       454
SAR                         1.75      Nil       2.43      4.96
PH                          7.20     5.80       8.20      7.36
These waters are classified as of C2S1 category and can be used for
irrigation without any restriction.
1/ Siriu dam is scheduled for completion by 1983, while Surduc would be
ready only by 1987. Judicious operation of available supplies would be
necessary between 1983 and 1987. Please see para. 6.1.g.
2/ Shortage of 5% in one year only out of 37 years used for the study
(1940 to 1976).



- 27 -
D. Water Rights
3.13     About 14,500 ha in the Prut Subproject would receive irrigation
supplies from' the Prut River, which is an international river forming the
boundary between Romania and USSR. All irrigation supplies would be pumped
through pumping stations which are already in existence on the Prut River.
No new pumping station or any extension of the capacities of the existing
pumping stations is envisaged under the project. At present the pumps are
being used to (a) fill the Lake Brates (fishery), (b) drain agricultural
land, and (c) irrigate an existing area of 3,400 ha. The pumping stations
being reversible can operate either for discharging drainage affluent into
the Prut River or lifting irrigation supplies therefrom. The mission was
informed that an agreement for the use of Prut River waters already exists
between Romania and USSR and the extension of irrigation under the project
would not cause any riparian problems. During negotiations, BAFI furnished
a letter of representation to the Bank, similar to those provided for other
Bank-financed projects, assuring that the withdrawal from the Prut River,
which is not expected to exceed 45 Mm3, would not cause any problems with
other riparian states. This letter also included assurances that with-
drawal from the Olt and the Siret Rivers which are tributaries of the
Danube River is in accordance with Romania's treaty obligations on the use
of Danube waters and would not affect the international use of the Danube
River for navigation.
E. Status of Engineering
3.14     The four subprojects have been studied in detail by the Institute
for Land Reclamation Studies and Design (ISPIF). Plans for pumping facili-
ties, canal alignments, drainage, soil erosion control, sprinkler and
furrow irrigation works have already been finalized by ISPIF. A number of
variants were considered, and the selected alternatives are the most appro-
priate and economical and are acceptable to the Bank. Detailed design and
major drawings have already been completed by ISPIF, while the detailed
drawings for construction woud be ready much ahead of commencement of con-
struction. Studies and plans for development of the water resources of the
Olt and Buzau Rivers have been completed by National Water Council, which
is the principal executing agency for National Projects. The development
of water resources of the Olt River as related to the Bucsani sub-project
is almost complete, while Siriu dam on the Buzau River is expected to be
completed prior to the emergence of water requirements for irrigation.
F. Cost Estimates
3.15     The total project cost, including physical and price contin-
gencies, but excluding interest during construction, is estimated at lei
5,627.7 million (US$375.3 million). The estimate includes duties and taxes



- 28 -
and is based on expected December 1980 prices. The foreign exchange com-
ponent is estimated at lei 1,261.1 million (US$84.1 million) or 22.4% of
the total cost. The cost estimates are based on unit rates of works that
are prevailing in Romania under the system of regulated prices of materials
and wages. Cost of equipment and spare parts which could be procured from
foreign suppliers has been calculated at the international prices likely to
prevail at the end of 1980 and is estimated at lei 1125.4 million (US$75
million). Customs duty on imported materials and equipment which now aver-
ages about 10% amounts to lei 11.3 million (US$0.8 million) and is included
in the cost estimate. Because detailed engineering has already been
carried out, physical contingencies have been provided at 7.5% of irriga-
tion, drainage, soil reclamation, soil erosion control works, and other
minor works, which is consistent with previous Bank experience. Price
contingencies on foreign costs are compounded annually at 9% (1981), 8%
(1982), 7% (1983-5) and 6% (1986-7). Due to near zero inflation in
Romania, price contingencies on local costs are compounded at 1% per
annum. Cost estimates are summarized in the Table below; details are in
Annex 4 Tables 1 to 4.



- 29 -
Bucsani-Buzau-Siret-Prut Irrigation Project - Cost Estimate
Foreign
Local  Foreign   Total  Local  Foreign  Total  Exchange
Item                          -----lei million------  ------US$ million----  ----%---
Bucsani Subproject
Irrigation works               393.9  119.8    513.7  26.2    8.0         34.2      23
Drainage works                  108.1   22.9    131.0   7.2    1.6          8.8      17
Miscellaneous works              72.9   10.7      83.6   4.9    0.7         5.6      13
Land compensation               42.3      -       42.3   2.8       -        2.8      -
Equipment                        44.8   21.9      66.7   3.9    1.5        4.5      33
Engineering & admin.             78.8    7.3      86.1   5.3    0.5         5.8       8
Base cost                    740.8  182.6    923.4  49.4   12.3         61.7      20
Physical contingencies           55.5   13.6      69.1   3.7    0.9        4.6      20
Price contingencies              10.2   22.0      36.7   0.6    1.8         2.4     68
Total subproject             806.5  218.2  1,024.7  53.8   14.7         68.5      21
Buzau Subproject
Irrigation works               880.3  347.2  1,121.6  51.6   23.2         74.8      31
Drainage works                  227.3   48.5    275.8  15.2    3.2         18.4      18
Miscellaneous works             431.9   64.9    496.8  28.8    4.3         33.1      13
Land compensation                57.3     -       57.3   3.8       -        3.8      -
Equipment                       116.5   57.1    173.1   7.7    3.8         11.5     33
Engineering & admin.            218.2   18.9    241.9  14.5    1.3         15.8      8
Base cost                  1,931.0  450.0  2,381.0 128.7   30.0    158.7          19
Physical contg.                 144.8   33.7    178.5   9.7    2.2        11.9      19
Price contg.                    42.7   83.9    126.6   2.8    5.6           8.4     66
Total subproject           2,118.5  567.6  2,686.1 141.2   37.8    179.0          21
Siret Subproject
Irrigation works               184.5   57.2    241.7  12.3    3.8         16.1      24
Drainage works                   97.3   23.3    120.6   6.5    1.5          8.0     18
Miscellaneous works             125.9   18.8    144.7   8.4    1.3          9.7     13
Land compensation                 2.3      -       2.3   0.2       -        0.2      -
Equipment                        30.2   15.1      42.3   2.0    1.0         3.0     33
Engineering & admin.             35.3    3.2      38.5   2.4    0.2         2.6       8
Base cost                    475.5  117.6    593.1  31.8    7.8         39.6      20
Physical contg.                  35.7    8.7      44.4   2.4    0.6         3.0     20
Price contg.                     14.8   30.8      45.6   1.0    2.0         3.0     68
Total subproject             526.0  157.1    683.1  35.2   10.4         45.6      23
Prut Subproject
Irrigation works                286.0   89.9    375.9  19.1    6.0        25.1      24
Drainage works                  123.9   27.5    151.4   8.3    1.8         10.1     18
Miscellaneous works             122.0   21.8    143.8   8.1    1.5          9.6      15
Land compensation                 2.3     -        2.3   0.2       -        0.2      -
Equipment                        35.5   21.1      56.6   2.4    1.4         3.8      37
Engineering & admin.             50.2    4.4      54.6   3.3    0.3         3.6       8
Base cost                    619.9  164.7    784.6  41.3   11.0         52.3      21
Physical contg.                  46.5   12.2      58.7   3.1    0.8         3.9     21
Price contg.                     24.4   53.8      78.2   1.6    3.6         5.2     69
Total subproject             690.8  230.7    921.5  46.0   15.4         61.4      25
Agricultural
Components
Grain storages
(silos)                      179.8   50.0    229.8  12.0    3.3         15.3      22
Research stations                45.0   37.5      82.5   3.0    2.5         5.5     45
Subtotal                     224.8   87.5    312.3  15.0    5.8         20.8      29
TOTAL PROJECT              4,366.6 1,261.1 5,627.7 291.2   84.1    375.3          22.4



- 30 -
G. Financing
3.16     In accordance with Romanian law, the State will finance 100% of
the total costs of main canals and drains, all pumping stations, drainage,
and river training works. First-time levelling, ripping, and soil reclama-
tion will also be State-financed, but subsequent works of this type will be
financed by the respective CAP or lASo State funds for investment costs
will be channelled through BAFI or allocated through the budget to IELIF.
The costs of buried pipeline, on-farm sprinkler and furrow equipment, and
small secondary open drainage canals serving CAP-owned lands will be trans-
ferred to the CAPs partly through BAFI loans and partly through their own
contributions. Farm machinery and operation and maintenance equipment will
be financed from the State Budget through allocations to the SMAs. Con-
struction of grain silos is to be financed under BAFI loans to the Central
for Cereals Marketing. State budgetary funds will finance the establish-
ment and expansion of research stations through allocations to the Academy
of Agriculture and Forestry Sciences.
3.17     The proposed Bank loan of US$75 million, to be made to BAFI, will
finance about 20% of total project costs (US$375.3 million), equivalent to
about 89% of the estimated foreign exchange cost (US$84.1 million).  With
subborrowers' contribution of 4.4% and BAFI loans of 14.7% of total project
costs, the remaining 60.9% will be financed by the Government.  Government
has agreed in principle to pursue cofinancing for an as yet unspecified
amount.  Since cofinancing has been obtained for the last four agriculture
projects, the prospects for cofinancing on this loan are positive. The
proposed Bank loan would be made for a term of 15 years, including 3 years
grace. The Government of Romania would bear the foreign exchange risk. A
summary financing plan which includes physical and price contingencies is
shown at Annex 5, Table 1.
H. Cost Recovery
3.18     Recovery of CAP Loans and Cost of Farm Machinery.  Of the costs to
be transferred to CAPs, about 30% would come from their own funds with the
remaining 70% financed through BAFI loans. These loans would be recovered
in accordance with standard on-lending terms derived from established
amortization practices. For on-farm buried pipelines, the loans would be
for 25 years including 5 years of grace, and for on-farm irrigation equip-
ment, 12 years including 3 years of grace. The interest rate would be 3%
including interest during construction, with penalty rates for late payment
of up to 3%. The cost of farm machinery would be recovered by the State
through unit rates paid by IASs and CAPs to SMAs for mechanization services
and SMA's contributions to the Depreciation Fund as per law 62 of 1968.



- 31 -
3.19     Investment, Operation and Maintenance, and Replacement Costs.  In
accordance with new regulations (para. 2.30) investments in IAS are
financed from state budget through budgetary allocation to IELIF. Thus,
costs will be recovered mainly indirectly from IASs through the compulsory
portion of net income paid into their Depreciation Fund and from the CAPs
through their payments into the Development Fund: both Funds are
compulsory savings mechanisms, under which funds are set aside for future
investments.
3.20     The annual O&M costs for the whole project are estimated at about
Lei 138 million (US$9.2 million) or an average of Lei 959 per ha. The
present value of investments, O&M, and replacement costs discounted over 40
years at 9% is lei 5048 million (US$336.8 million). O&M maintenance costs
are recovered directly to IELIF through water charges of three types levied
on all CAPs and IASs using irrigation water. These are:
(a) a variable charge of Lei 18 (US$1.20) per 1,000 m3 levied on the
volume of water used. This would yield an income of Lei 10
million p.a.;
(b) a fixed annual charge per ha on the basis of crops grown. The
estimated recovery from this charge would be about Lei 20 million;
and
(c) a fixed charge per ha levied on the basis of type of irrigation
method used. The return from this levy would be Lei 21 million.
These water charges would yield an annual revenue of about Lei 51 million
(US$3.3 million) beginning with year 10 (1990), at full implementation, of
the project. The present value of this recovery over an assumed project
life of 40 years in constant prices and at a discount rate of 9% is
estimated at about Lei 393 million (US$26.8 million). The resulting cost
recovery would amount to about 8% of total project costs discounted at 9%
or 37% of operation and maintenance costs.
3.21     In addition, the substantial profits made by the State from the
purchase of tradeable commodities at administered low farmgate prices and
subsequent export at higher world prices, and general linkage benefits to
the economy resulting from incremental project output would contribute
further towards the project's cost recovery and with their inclusion, the
total recovery would exceed 100%.
I. Implementation Schedule
3.22     The project works would be completed in 7 years (1981 to 1987) and
in accordance with the implementation schedule (Chart I). Irrigation would
commence in 1982, and would cover the entire area by 1987. An estimated
Schedule of Expenditure is given in Annex 6, Tables 1-4 and is summarized
below:



- 32 -
1981    1982    1983    1984    1985    1986    1987
Calendar Year            ---------------------US  million-
Yearly estimated
expenditure              50.2   91.8    82.0    70.9    47.3    25.4         7.7
Cumulative
expenditure              50.2  142.0   224.0   294.9   342.2   367.6   375.3
------------------------ha '000--------------------
Yearly development
of irrigation and
drainage                   -    38.2    31.3    37.8    27.8    13.9         5.3
Cumulative
development                -    38.2    69.5   107.3   135.1   149.0   154.3
J. Procurement
3.23     Equipment and materials would be procured under the proposed
loan. It was agreed during negotiations that items costing US$75.0 million
including contingencies (para. 6.1(a)) would be procured following inter-
national advertising and competitive bidding in accordance with the "Guide-
lines for Procurement under World Bank loans and IDA Credits - March
1977." Romanian manufacturers would be allowed a preference of 15% or the
applicable customs duty, whichever is lower. The application of preference
has not affected so far the outcome of bidding on previous irrigation proj-
ects, and is not expected to significantly affect the result of bidding on
the proposed project. It is expected that foreign suppliers would win con-
tracts for about 10% of the construction and maintenance equipment (wheeled
dozers, draglines, motor scrapers, concrete pumps, and dumpers and their
spare parts) estimated to cost about US$7.5 million. Other items to be
procured through international competitive bidding (about US$67.5 million)
are available domestically and, based on experience with previous Bank-
financed irrigation projects, it is expected that the Romanian manu-
facturers would be successful in bidding for those items. The remaining
equipment and materials, all domestically produced, would be procured under
Romanian procedures and would not be eligible for disbursements under the
proposed Bank loan. The Bank would not finance construction works under
the project; these would be carried out by the Romanian Construction
Trusts, which are experienced and familiar with local conditions, methods
and regulations. This practice has been acceptable to the Bank for the
previous Bank-financed projects because due to the regulated wages and
prices of materials, the Romanian construction costs are likely to be less
than those which might be bid by international contractors.



- 33 -
K. Disbursements
3.24     The proposed Bank loan of US$75.0 million would be disbursed, net
of taxes over seven years as follows:
(a)  Equipment, materials and      -         100% of foreign expendi-
spare parts for irriga-                 tures or 100% of local
tion works (US$67.0 million)            expenditures ex-factory
(b)  Disbursements under BAFI      -         25% of amounts disbursed
loans for grain storage                 by the Borrower
(silos) (US$3.5 million)
(c)  Agricultural Research          -        25% of amounts disbursed
Stations (US$1.0 million)               by the Borrower.
(d) Unallocated
(US$3.5 million)
The documents necessary for the Bank to review the investments for which
BAFI would make loans would be submitted by BAFI to the Bank prior to
making such loans. These documents would include appraisal reports, which
would be prepared by BAFI, for grain silos and would include financial and
economic justification. Technical reports, justification and cost esti-
mates for the Research Stations would also be submitted by BAFI. Disburse-
ments for this component would be against statements of expenditures, and
BAFI will retain the supporting documents for inspection by supervision
missions. BAFI has wide experience in handling this disbursement proce-
dure. Disbursements for other items under the loan would be made against
standard documentation. An estimated schedule of disbursements by Bank
fiscal year and quarter is shown in Annex 7, Table 1.
L. Environment and Health
3.25     The project area is free of endemic diseases like malaria and
bilharzia. The project would neither adversely affect the environment nor
the public health. Construction of irrigation works which consist of pump
stations, lined canals with fluctuating supplies, and piped distribution
networks would not promote mosquito breeding or spread of malaria. Drain-
age of several areas and training 321 km of stream courses would promote
healthier conditions around such areas.
M. Role of Women
3.26     Women in Romania play a significant role in all sectors of the
economy. There is no legal or traditional barrier preventing women from
equal participation in all spheres of economic activity. In 1978 women



- 34 -
accounted for about 14% of total agricultural labor force. From 1960 to
1978 the rural labor force dropped from 74% to 32% of total labor force
respectively, because of continuous migration of the able-bodied male
workers to urban centers, particularly to industry. In the project area
female agricultural workers account for 57% of the total labor force.
Although the proposed project does not have a component specifically geared
to meet the needs of rural women in Romania, it is believed that the pro-
vision of additional farm machinery services particularly combine
harvesters would ease the physical burden on women workers. At present
about 50% of maize is harvested manually and with the project, use of
manual harvesting would be reduced to about 10%. Furthermore, the project
would indirectly contribute to increased consumption and income through
national income policy and generate direct benefits from individual plots.
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Organization and Management
The Borrower
4.1      The Bank for Agriculture and Food Industry (BAFI) would be the
borrower under the guarantee of the Socialist Republic of Romania. BAFI
has the prime responsibility for financing the development of the
agricultural sector. BAFI already has adequate legal, financial and
administrative power to discharge its responsibilities effectively (see
para. 2.26).
Implementing Agencies
4.2      The Ministry of Agriculture and Food Industry (MAFI).  The overall
responsibility for planning, construction, operation and maintenance of all
irrigation, drainage and soil erosion control works would rest with MAFI.
The organizational structure of MAFI is given in Chart III.
4.3      Economic General Directorate for Land Reclamation and Agricultural
Construction (DGEIFCA). The responsibility for planning, design and
construction of project works would rest with DGEIFCA, which is headed by a
Deputy Minister, and is organized into the following four directorates:
(a) Technical, Investment and Cooperation Directorate. The
Institute of Land Reclamation and Design (ISPIF), which is
under this directorate, would be responsible for the planning
and design of the project;
(b) Construction and Local Development Directorate. Construction
Trusts for Land Reclamation Works (TCIF), belong to this
directorate and their regional branches would undertake
project construction;



- 35 -
(c) Planning and Finance Directorate; and
(d) Supply Directorate.
All the above -tits of DGEIFCA are adequately staffed and have good past
experience in carrying out similar works.
4.4      Romagrimex Foreign Trade State Enterprise for Cooperation,
Engineering, Import and Export for Agriculture and Food Industry; would be
responsible for procurement to be arranged under the project.
4.5      The Ministry of Electrical Energy, through its subordinate enter-
prises and their units, is responsible for construction, operation and
maintenance of power transmission facilities, and for supplying energy to
the project area.
B. Operation and Maintenance and Supervision of Construction
4.6      The irrigation, drainage and soil erosion control works, to be
constructed under the project would be operated and maintained by the
Directorate for Exploitation of Land Reclamation Works (DELIF) which is
headed by a Deputy Minister of MAFI and has the responsibility for opera-
tion and maintenance of all completed irrigation projects. DELIF has 17
operational units, called enterprises or IELIFs, which are based in
districts. Each IELIF has several sub-units, known as Systems; each System
maintains about 20,000 ha to 25,000 ha of irrigated land. Eight new
systems as detailed below, would be established under the project to
operate and maintain the works under the project.
Bucsani    Buzau    Siret    Prut    Total
Number of new systems          2          3        1         2       8
The new system would be adequately staffed by trained technicians and
supervisors. Equipment for operation and maintenance (Annex 3, Table 2) to
be furnished by the Project would be handed over to the IELIF in the five
districts. The power supply works would be maintained by the Ministry of
Energy. The on-farm portable equipment would be maintained by the farm
entities, and the farm machinery would be maintained by the established
Agroindustrial Councils. The annual operation and maintenance cost of the
project works is estimated at lei 138.0 million (US$9.2 million). Details
are given in Annex 8, Table 1. Annual consumption of electric energy, all
required during off-peak months of the year, is estimated at an average of
87 million kwh, which at lei 0.23 per kwh, would cost about lei 20.0 mil-
lion (US$1.3 million).
4.7      A recent directive for reorganizing the Technical Investment Ser-
vices, has abolished the Group for Supervising of Investments (GSI). This



- 36 -
step has been taken to economize on organization and management costs. The
staff of this group which has an invaluable backlog of experience has been
merged with DELIF and in future project construction would be supervised by
this agency.
C. Accounts and Audit
Audit and Control System
4.8      To support its highly centralized decision-making process, Romania
has an elaborate control and audit system designed to keep the manager of
the economy advised on the progress of, and deviations from, planned
activities. This control system has three major objectives: (i) to audit
accounts to ensure accurate financing status; (ii) to determine that
resources are being used in accordance with national plans; and (iii) to
recommend desirable changes in resource use.
4.9      The system is organized like a pyramid.  At the top is the Court
of Superior Control, while at the bottom are accountants who check and
approve routine transactions at the enterprise level. The numerous organi-
zations perform either "Internal Control" or "External Control". These
controls can further be divided into two broad categories: the preliminary
control which covers day-to-day transactions; and the posterior control
which resembles annual audits. Thus an enterprise, during a period of one
year, is inspected by: (i) its own chief accounts officer; (ii) the
internal controller, who reports both to the general manager of the Central
and Minister concerned; (iii) controllers from the Ministry of Finance who
report to the Ministry of Finance; and (iv) inspectors from the Court of
Superior Control.
4.10     The existing accounting and auditing procedures in Romania are
quite strict and satisfactory. The continuous audit of different organiza-
tions involved in project implementation would ensure that project funds,
including those which would be financed out of the proceeds of the Bank
loans, would be used properly.
4.11     Project Accounts.  BAFI would keep separate accounts for all
project-related expenditures, including those goods and services to be
financed out of the proceeds of the proposed Bank loan. Project investment
funds to be financed from the State Budget would be transferred quarterly
to BAFI by the Ministry of Finance for disbursements. Assurances were
obtained during negotiations that a report on project accounts together
with BAFI financial statements, both subject to existing audit procedures
by the Ministry of Finance would be supplied to the Bank within six months
of the close of the Romanian fiscal year (para. 6.1(b)). A separate
opinion of the auditors would be required for amounts claimed by BAFI
against statements of expenditure.



- 37 -
D. Project Monitoring and Completion Report
4.12     Project Monitoring and Key Project Indicators.  BAFI would be
responsible for submitting through quarterly and annual reports to the
Bank, the information necessary to measure systematically project execution
against the proposed implementation schedule, and project performance after
completion of construction against project benefits foreseen during
appraisal. The reports would be similar to those currently submitted for
on-going projects and would include data on the progress of construction of
all physical facilities under various project components, development of
irrigation, drainage and soil erosion control areas, progress in the
procurement of equipment and materials, and data on project expenditures.
Agricultural data indicating the areas reclaimed, drained and brought under
irrigation, cropping patterns applied, crop yields and output, and
information on the operation and maintenance costs of irrigation and
drainage works would be submitted annually. The details of format in which
the above information would be supplied to the Bank   was    discussed
during negotiations and assurances were obtained   on their timely
submissior (para. 6.1(c)).
4.13     Project Completion Report.  Promptly after completion of the
project but not later than December 31, 1988, BAFI would prepare and
furnish to the Bank a report on the execution and initial operation of the
project, its costs and the benefits derived and to be derived from it, the
performance by the Bank and BAFI of their respective obligations under the
proposed loan. The detailed contents of the report were discussed during
negotiations and assurances were obtained during negotiations on its timely
preparation (para. 6.1(d)).
V. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
A. Project Production and Markets
5.1      Production.  In establishing the cropping pattern and intensity in
the project area, many factors have been taken into consideration such as
the supply of irrigation water, availability of land, technical
requirements of crop rotation, climate and soil fertility. The cropping
pattern is also related to planned domestic needs and potential foreign
market. The projected cropping pattern comprises a range of crops with
varying growing seasons which together cover the entire summer period
ensuring an almost contiruous use of labor and farm machinery. It can be
concluded that the proposed cropping pattern is expected to yield maximum
benefits within the scope of the available resources and market possibili-
ties. The projected size of civil works would permit sufficient
flexibility to meet the demand for irrigation water in accordance with the
future cropping patterns. Changes in cropped area and production with and
without the project are summarized below:



- 38 -
Cropped Area                        Production
Present +       Future       Future       Future
Future w/out   with          without    with
Crop              Project          Project      Project    Project   Incremental
 -----   (ha) ---------     ----------('000 tons)----
Wheat                  49,955         31,049         121.0       151.7         30.7
Barley                  3,917             889          8.0         4.2         (3.8)
Maize (grain)          45,782         58,431         172.6       460.0        287.4
Sunflower              10,002         11,069          15.2        29.9         14.7
Soybeans                  529          4,476           0.5        11.1         10.6
Sugarbeet               3,187          6,044          93.5       290.9        197.4
Linseed and flax        2,427             255          1.2         0.3         (0.9)
Potatoes                1,440          1,491          34.4        44.7         10.3
Vegetables /2           1,080          9,126          14.8       244.8        230.0
Alfalfa (hay)          20,255         15,506         118.1       165.2         47.1
Vetch (gren)            5,296            277          62.1         6.9        (55.2)
Vetch (hay)               -              285           -           1.7          1.7
Maize (silo) /1           -          (25,097)          -         878.4        878.8
Vineyards               8,580          9,820          49.2        72.2         23.0
Orchards /3             1,889          2,039           8.4        11.5          3.1
Natural pastures        8,320          3,546          45.0        56.7         11.7
Natural hayfields          44             47           0.1         0.2          0.1
Total           155,708         154,350
Gross Value of Crops (lei Million) /4               768.9    1,694.0          925.1
Gross Value of By-Products (lei Million)                          37.7         74.2
36.5
Total Gross Value (lei Million)                806.6    1,768.2          961.6
/1  Double crop.
/2  Consists mainly of green peppers, tomatoes, onions and eggplants.
/3  Consists mainly of apples and peaches, pears and apricots.
/4  At official 1980 domestic farmgate prices.
5.2      Future Production.  With introduction of irrigation, the actual
cultivated area would be reduced by 1,358 ha due to construction of irriga-
tion and drainage canals, but 25,097 ha would be double cropped with maize
silage. Due to irrigation, double cropping would increase the cropping
intensity from 100% to 116.3%. Winter crops which require only supple-
mentary irrigation would be reduced from 30% to 21%, allowing for a higher
percentage of profitable summer crops to take better advantage of irriga-
tion. Among the latter, the most profitable would be grown on a larger
scale, irrigated soybeans would be introduced, vegetables would be
increased substantially and less profitable crops, such as linseed for oil,
would be reduced considerably. Like the existing cropping pattern, the
proposed cropping pattern is oriented to livestock development and market-
able surplus for exports. Under the proposed pattern, land cultivated with
maize grain would increase from 29% to 38% of the project



- 39 -
area. At full development in 1990, the gross value of production at
domestic farmgate prices would be 119% greater than the present without
project production value.
5.3      Market.  Project output would be consumed first in domestic market
with some exports. The outlook for both markets is good but it is diffi-
cult to determine how much of the project output would be allocated between
foreign and domestic markets, as the allocation depends on the national
production and government policy and the future livestock subsector
development. It is expected that the country will remain a net exporter of
wheat, barley, maize, sunflower oil and a net importer of soybeans, feed
concentrates, and sugar. From the standpoint of marketing, the project
area is well situated because of excellent road and railway connections to
the main consumer centers and its vicinity to the important inland harbor
of Galati, which is capable of handling sea going ships up to 30,000 tons
dead weight.
5.4      Cereals.  With the project, production of wheat would increase
from 121,000 tons to 151,700 tons (+25%). Output of maize would increase
from 172,600 tons to 460,000 tons.  Romania is a net exporter of maize and
wheat. Major traditional grain importers include the Federal Republic of
Germany, the UK, France, Italy, Austria and USSR. Annual export of maize,
the major project commodity, averaged over 0.5 million tons between 1975
and 1979. Exports of all cereals reached 0.7 million tons in 1978. The
potential for expanding the export of cereals to eastern Europe partic-
ularly the Soviet Union is promising because the region is expected to be
faced with large grain deficits during the foreseeable future.
5.5      Oilseed.  An area of 11,069 ha of sunflowers and 4,476 of soybeans
would be cropped, representing 10% of the cultivated area. The production
would be processed in Buzau, Dolj and Galati factories with total process-
ing capacities of 1,300 tons/24 hour. Sunflower cake is used for feed.
Soybean production is relatively new to Romania and imports, so far, have
averaged 100,000 tons per year. The project output would contribute to
self-sufficiency in soybean production. The world market for oilseeds and
their products in general has been very attractive and it is expected to
continue to be favorable in the foreseeable future.
5.6      Sugarbeet.  About 4% of the cultivated area under the project as
compared to 2% at present, would be used for sugarbeet. The proposed
incremental sugarbeet production of 197,400 tons under the project would be
processed in four nearby factories at Sascut-Bascau, Lanca-Braila, Bazau
and Bucsani. Whilst the existing processing capacities are adequate in
Susant-Bacau, Braila and Buzau, a new plant will be set up in Bucsani with
a capacity of 4,000 t/24 hour. Per capita consumption of sugar in Romania
was about 17.6 kg in 1978 growing at an annual rate of 6.4% from 1970 to
1978. During five of the last seven years, Romania was a net import of
sugar. The proposed incremental sugar production would be used to meet
domestic consumption needs and would thus substitute imports.



- 40 -
5.7      Vegetables and Fruits.  Six percent of the area is set aside for
vegetables of which 64% is in the Buzau subproject. This is 8.5 times more
than the area currently cultivated with similar vegetables. The area under
potatoes would change only slightly. Average consumption of vegetables is
expected to increase from 110 kilograms per capita in 1975 to about 125-130
kilograms by 1985. Project output of vegetable products would supply grow-
ing towns of Rimnicu-Vilcea, Buzau, Slatina Tecuci and Galati. The project
would also provide raw materials for existing canning industry in Caracal,
Rimnicu-Vilcea and Buzau. The installed processing capacity at these three
centers is about 51,100 tons. In addition, an estimated 40% of incremental
output of vegetables would be destined for the export market. Vineyards
and orchards take up 6% of the total cropped area. In Bucsani and Buzau
project areas, there are a number of specialized farms for vineyards to
supply the wineries. Incremental output of grapes from the project area
would be allocated among local markets for fresh consumptions, on farm con-
sumption and wineries. For orchards (apple, pear, peaches, and apricots)
the incremental output is primarily targeted for domestic consumption and
about 15% of the output would be destined for export market.
5.8      Fodder Crops:  Alfalfa, pastures, vetch and hay would occupy about
13% compared to 22% at present. This reduction is attributable to inten-
sification of high value crops such as maize, soybeans, sugarbeet and sun-
flower. With adequate availability of water about 25,000 ha would be
double cropped with maize silage. Present and planned livestock would
utilize the incremental output of fodder crops.
B. Prices
5.9      General Description.  Because of the nature of economic management
in Romania, the pricing system plays a much less important role than it
does in market economies. Prices are fixed by government and rarely vary
in response to changes in demand and supply. They only vary according to
quality of products and in some instance according to the delivery date.
Prices may vary by zone but are common within each zone. Domestic prices
reflect low input prices including the low cost of labor. Present prices
have not changed significantly over a period of about fifteen years. Some
upward revisions occurred during 1977/78.
5.10     Domestic Prices.  The IASs are required to sell all their products
to the State marketing enterprises or their sub-units. CAPs, however, make
their deliveries based on contracts signed with the marketing agencies at
the beginning of each cropping season, the contracted quantities are estab-
lished after subtracting food and feed needs for human and livestock con-
sumption, ensuring seed requirements, and setting aside payments in kind
for members and the SMA. All prices received by the CAPs for their con-
tract deliveries are now higher than those paid to the IAS. Domestic
prices of vegetables, potatoes, fruits, sugarbeet and grapes are fixed by
grades and dates of delivery. They vary between a maximum for early



- 41 -
delivery and superior quality and a minimum for later delivery and poor
quality, but cannot exceed or undercut these limits.
C. Main Benefits and Beneficiaries
5.11     Benefits.  The quantifiable benefits will be a significant
increase in volume and value of production. The gross value of production,
at domestic prices, will increase by 116 percent. The project will permit
more productive cropping pattern and will result in higher and stable
yields on a net area of 154,350 ha. Gross labor productivity will be more
than double, increasing from about lei 7,645 (US$510) per agricultural
worker to about lei 16,760 (US$1,120). Most of the project outputlwould
directly or indirectly help to earn or save foreign exchange. There would
be some benefits from valley training which will eliminate sporadic
flooding and interruptions of communications estimated at about lei 5.9
million (US$0.4 million). The project would also have linkage benefits
through its effect on increased and stable supply of raw materials to
forwardly linked enterprises.
5.12     Beneficiaries.  The project will have a marginal effect on income
of the 96,500 active members of CAPs and the 9,000 employees of IAS. The
primary beneficiary will be the State, but the project will help indirectly
to raise real wages and standard of living of the population through its
impact on growth of the economy. Most of the private plots given to CAP
members will also be irrigated under the project, and will substantially
add to the income of these members from this source. The project would
also generate about 2,000 new jobs during construction of the project and
1,500 thereafter for operation and maintenance of project works.
D. Economic Analysis
5.13     The economic viability of the proposed Bucsani-Buzau-Siret-Prut
Irrigation Project has been analyzed individually for the foir distinct and
separate subprojects, taking into consideration their specific features.
The economic rate of return for the four subprojects and the grain storage
component which is also an independent and self-contained investment were
calculated separately and are presented below:
Economic Rate of Return
Irrigation and Drainage                      (%)
Bucsani                                       28
Buzau                                         17
Siret                                         22
Prut                                          31
Total Project (including grain storage)    22
Grain Storage                                 15



- 42 -
Another economic analysis was also carried out for the Buzau subproject, in
which the cost stream was increased to include the total cost of Siriu dam
and Bazau River. The ERR dropped to 13%. The calculations of ERR for base
runs have been based on following assumptions:
(a) investment Costs. Unit costs used to estimate total project costs
are based on the prevailing rates in mid 1980. Total Project cost
is estimated at lei 5,627.7 million (US$375.3 million) including
physical and price contingencies. For the purpose of economic
analysis however, several adjustments were made to reflect the
real resource costs of the project. The cost items excluded are:
(i) price contingencies, since all input and output values are
expressed in constant 1980 prices and it is assumed that relative
prices would remain unchanged, (ii) identified import duties,
(iii) the cost of farm machinery as machinery service charges are
included in annual production costs; (iv) cost of land compensa-
tion as output forgone is reflected by reduced cropped area; (v)
in Bucsani subproject the total cost of the five completed and
under construction storages on the Olt has been assumed as sunk
costs, as this investment has been incurred already primarily for
generation of hydroelectric power, domestic and industrial uses
and flood control (Annex 11, para 1); and (vi) the cost incurred
from 1974 up to date, on Siriu dam, under construction for irri-
gated of Buzau subproject is lei 860 million. Completion is
scheduled for 1983 and is estimated to cost an additional lei 465
million. The cost incurred up to date has been considered a sunk
cost since the opportunity cost of that incurred expenditure is
zero and the remaining estimated expenditure which is for
irrigation benefits, has been added to the cost of Buzau
subproject (Annex 11, para 9).
(b) Operation, Maintenance and Replacement Costs. At full develop-
ment, annual operation and maintenance cost is estimated at lei
138 million (US$9.2 million) or lei 965 (US$64) per hectare.
Domestic cost of power is about 14% of the total O&M cost. Irri-
gation farm equipment would be replaced every 10 years at a cost
of about lei 200 million.
(c) Land Development. Project works would start in 1981, with the
exception of Buzau subproject, which would start in 1982. Land
development of the project area would increase from year to year
in the following pattern and full development would be achieved by
1987.



- 43 -
Schedule of Development of Areas
Years
Name of        Total         1981   1982    1983    1984    1985   1986   1987
Project   Gross      Net       -------Area in ha--------------------
Bucsani   47,205   45,907    -   36,220   9,687          -       -       -     -
Buzau     59,760   58,481    -         -   10,765  25,444  16,440  5,832    -
Siret     15,687   15,168    -    1,420   1,904   3,355   3,838  2,387 2,264
Prut      35,833   34,794             582   8,940   8,951   7,556  5,696 3,069
Total    158,485  154,350          38,222  31,296  37,750  27,834 13,915 5,333
(d)  Yield Development.  Present yields are assumed to remain
constant in the future without the project since lack of
water and adequate drainage coupled with other input provi-
sions are the primary constraints to higher yields. With the
provisions of irrigation and drainage facilities and farm
machinery services under the project, significant crop yield
responses are expected.  Maize which would occupy 38% of the
total project area would attain an average yield increase of
about 200%.  The maximum projected maize yield is set at 8
tons per hectare. The mission's analysis of historical crops
yield and other factors like adequacy of proposed fertilizer
application, plant population per hectare and adequacy of
farm machinery does not support future yield of more than 8
tons per hectare for maize. Similarly, the yield projections
for wheat, sunflower, soybean which account for 30% of the
total crop area were based on the results obtained from
existing large scale irrigation schemes. It should be noted
however, that the Romanians claim future maize yield of 10
tons per hectare with the project. Whilst it is acceptable
that some areas may attain 10 tons or more per hectare, the
average yield for the entire project areas whose soils vary
from Class I to Class IV, with limitations in support ser-
vices, an average of 10 tons appears optimistic. The maximum
yield would be attained over a period of 4 years based on a
yearly gain of 30%, 70%, 90% and 100% of the incremental
yield.
(e)  Area Currently Cultivated.  In the four subproject areas a
total of about 26,000 hectares (17% of the project area) is
currently irrigated with rudimentary schemes which will be
dismantled and integrated in the proposed project. The
present crop yields on these areas are generally 50-100%
higher than in the rainfed areas, which have been adopted for
the without project case. It is assumed however that the
yields attained on these irrigated areas have reached their
maximum and would remain constant under without project
situation.



- 44 -
(f) Input Prices. Farmgate economic prices of fertilizers are
derived from Bank projections of world market prices adjusted
for transport and handling costs. Romania is a net exporter
of nitrogen and potash based fertilizers and imports inter-
mediate inputs for potasium fertilizer production. Hence, N
and P are valued at export parity and K at import parity.
Other production inputs are valued at the current domestic
prices. Financial and economic prices of production inputs
are given in Annex 10, Table 1.
(g) Output Prices. The proposed cropping pattern is composed of
high value export and import substitute crops and
domestically used non-traded crops. The principal traded
commodities include maize, wheat, sunflower, soybean, and
sugarbeet. These crops cover about 75% of the crop land.
For the purpose of the economic analysis, the farmgate eco-
nomic prices are derived based on the latest projections pro-
vided by the Bank's Commodities and Export Projections
Division in constant 1980 terms. While maize and wheat are
valued at their export parity price equivalents, sunflower,
soybean and sugarbeet are considered as import substitutes
adjusted for freight, port handling, and processing charges.
For domestic transport costs, current rates of lei 1.35 per
ton/km has been used. Romania is a price-taker in the world
market for all the tradeable crops and assumed to have no
influence on international market prices. Export parity
prices for orchards (pears, peaches, apples and appricots)
and vegetables (green pepper, tomatoes, onions and eggplant)
have been derived based on SAR for Romania Orchards Project
(May 1980) and EMENA Fruit and Vegetables Study (March 1979)
respectively. The principal non-tradeables are the fodder
crops (alfalfa hay and maize silage) and the current domestic
prices have been used and assumed to remain constant in real
terms. A list of financial and economic output prices is
presented in Annex 10, Table 2.
5.13     The ERR rankings of the subprojects is a function of the specific
features surrounding each subproject. Bucsani has the second highest rate
of return of 28%. Total investment cost without price contingencies is
about US$1320 per ha which is the lowest compared to the three others.
Bucsani has also the lowest annual operation and maintenance cost of US$41
per ha. However, an estimated 17% of the present area of Bucsani is
irrigated with relatively higher yields than the unirrigated areas.  With
the project, 22% of the total crop land would remain unirrigated but would
receive soil erosion treatment.  In Buzau, which has the lowest rate of
return of 17%, the situation is rather unique which stems from the
additional cost included in the investment cost stream attributed to the
Siriu storage dam. Hence Buzau has the highest investment cost of US$3,267
per ha. Despite other favorable factors such as (i) a mere 12% of the
present area currently irrigated which would account for a relatively



- 45 -
larger spread of incremental yields compared to the other subprojects with
21% for Siret and 26% for Prut of currently irrigated lands; (ii) in the
future cropping pattern, about 10% would be allocated for high value vege-
tables compared to 5.4% in Bucsani, 3% in Siret and 2% in Prut, the ERR is
the lowest on account of high investment cost (US$3,267 per ha) and a high
operation and maintenance cost. Siret and Prut subprojects are similar in
their cropping pattern and their respective share of presently irrigated
areas. However, the investment cost per ha in Siret is 72% more than in
Prut (US$2,664 compared to 1,544 per ha) and the operation and maintenance
cost in Siret is also 68% more than in Prut (US$77 compared to US$46 per
ha) which is correlated with the investment cost differences. The ERR for
Siret therefore is 22% and for Prut is 31%. Summary of economic benefits
and costs for the project are given in Annex 9, Tables 1 to 5.
5.14     The economic rates of return for previous Bank financed irrigation
projects are also in the same range, when adjusted for variations in
investment and maintenance and operation costs. The ERR for Buzau sub-
project is about 17% which is the same as for the Covurlui Irrigation
Project (Loan 1795-RO). Both these projects include investment for dams,
and have a high per hectare cost. In the case of Bucsani subproject the
cost of development of water resources, i.e. construction of dams on the
Olt River has been considered as sunk cost, resulting in a comparatively
higher ERR. The cost of pumping has also declined as these subprojects do
not require pumping against very high heads as was the case for the Danube
projects.
5.15     Grain Storage:  The project would finance four silos with a total
installed capacity of about 180,000 tons. To test the viability of this
investment, benefit and cost estimates were made based on the following
assumptions:
(a)  Existing storage facilities in Romania are predominantly
make-shift storages (barns and wooden shacks). It is esti-
mated that the annual crop loss in using these facilities is
about 3% which is in tune with storage losses in similar
environments.
(b)  With the introduction of modern silos, the loss would be
reduced to 1%, thus the incremental annual savings (benefit)
is 2% of grains stored.
(c)  The existing storage facilities are scattered at different
locations in and outside the project Districts. Hence, there
is a substantial transport cost incurred to use these
facilities. For the purpose of the economic analysis, it is
assumed that these storages currently used are available at
an average distance of 100 km. Inland transport charges have
been established as lei 1.35 per ton/km.



- 46 -
(d) The investment cost of one silo with 45,000 tons capacity is
about lei 58 million including physical contingency.
(e) The annual operation and maintenance costs are estimated at
about lei 6.6 million.
(f) The life of a silo is assumed at 40 years.
Based on the above assumptions the economic rate of return is about 15%.
Additional benefit not included in the benefit stream is income from
seasonal export price variations of grains. A 15% variation between pre-
and post-harvest grain prices can be observed in the Bank's Commodity Price
Projections.
Sensitivity and Risk Analysis
5.16     To test the sensitivity of the ERRs to changes in selected vari-
ables, a series of tests have been conducted. The analysis is carried out
in terms of switching values i.e. the percentage changes in the benefit and
cost variables from their appraisal values to generate ERRs equivalent to
9% which is tentatively calculated to be the opportunity cost of capital in
Romania. The summary results are given below:
Switching Values
(% Change)
Total Project   Bucsani   Buzau   Siret   Prut
Inc. Benefit                           -36         -39       -28      -41     -50
Inc. Production Costs                  114         112        80      160     211
Investment Costs                       151         220        94      164     265
Operation & Maintenance                506         629       350      514     798
The above results indicate that the net benefits for the four subprojects
will have to fall by a range of 28% for Buzau to 50% for Prut for the ERRs
to go down to 9%. The probabilities for such circumstances are very small
in view of the results attained in ongoing irrigation projects.  Further-
more, the technical package recommended for crop cultivation are widely
known in Romania and have been adapted successfully.  Similarly, given the
Romania historical domestic inflation rates, it is inconceivable for the
production costs to increase by a range of 80 to 211%.  The only item is
the production cost exposed to international inflation is potassium
fertilizer which is directly imported. Nevertheless, Romania is gradually
becoming self-sufficient in chemical fertilizers and the risks are
minimal. It is equally inconceivable that the investment and operation and
maintenance costs would increase so significantly to affect the outcome of
the project. Romanians have long experience in irrigation drainage project
designs, construction and supervision that cost overruns are not antici-
pated. Furthermore, final design of project works would be completed



- 47 -
shortly and delays are not expected. The project implementation enter-
prises are staffed with experienced personnel and their long term associa-
tion with Bank-assisted irrigation projects has exposed them to alternative
design and construction methods that project works would meet international
standards.
VI. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.1      During negotiations, assurances were obtained on the following:
(a)  procurement of equipment, listed in Annex 3, Table 3 and estimated
to cost US$75.0 million would be arranged following international
competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines
(para. 3.23);
(b)  a report on project accounts and annual financial statements of
BAFI audited by the Ministry of Finance would be submitted to the
Bank annually within six months of the close of the Romanian
Fiscal Year para. 4.11);
(c)  necessary data and information would be furnished to the Bank,
through periodic reports, to measure project implementation and
performance against scheduled targets (para. 4.12);
(d)  promptly after project completion, but not later than December 31,
1988 BAFI would prepare and furnish to the Bank, a project comple-
tion report (para. 4.13);
(e)  Arcesti and Strejesti dams on the Olt River, under construction by
the Ministry of Power would be completed by December 31, 1981 to
permit timely irrigation of Bucsani subproject (Annex 11, para. 1);
(f)  remodelling of the lower reach of the Beica stream in Bucsani sub-
project would be completed by December 31, 1983, to enable proper
drainage of the project area (Annex 11, para. 5);
(g)  Siriu dam, now under construction by the National Water Council
(NWC) on the Buzau River would be completed by December 31, 1983
to enable irrigation in the Buzau subproject. As Surduc dam
designated for generating power is due for completion by 1987,
requirements of irrigation would receive precedence during the
period 1983 to 1987 (para. 3.9 and Annex 11, para. 9);
(h)  Birlad River training below Galati-Tecuci Railway would be com-
pleted by December 31, 1982 to enable proper drainage of the Siret
subproject (Annex U, para. 21);



- 48 -
(i) Romania will make suitable arrangements in providing adequate
equipment for application of Biocides and fertilizer in the proj-
ect area (para. 2.23);
(j) Romania will make suitable arrangements for a timely submission of
the program of research activities for the Caracal and Tirgu Bujor
agricultural research stations (para. 3.6); and
(k) Romania will make suitable arrangements for review of design,
construction and operation of the dams on the Olt and the Buzau
Rivers through independent qualified experts acceptable to the
Bank (Annex 11, paras. 1 and 9).
6.2      With the above agreements, the proposed project is suitable for a
Bank loan of US$75.0 million to the Bank of Agriculture and Food Industry,
with the guarantee of the Socialist Republic of Romania for a term of 15
years including 3 years of grace.



- 49O
49                                    Annex 1
Table 1
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
BUCSANI-BUZAU-SIRET-PRUT IRRIGATION PROJECT
ROMANIA
Climatological Dataai
Temperature            Average    Average Relative        Average           Average
Month              Maximum   Minimum   Average   Rainfall        Humidity/2       Wind Velocity   Sunshine Hours-
            --- *C -             ---- -                           mmZ /sec          hr
GALATI
January              0.1       -6.5       -3.1      23.8           86.1                6.1                 71
February             1.9       -5.4       -1.1      29.8           83.6                5.9                83
March                8.5       -0.5        4.1      21.2           76.7                5.9               138
April               16.2        5.6       10.6      37.8           69.1                6.1               180
May                 22.2       11.2       16.5      53.2           69.2                5.3               246
June                26.1       14.9       20.3      62.6           68.0                5.1               284
July                28.9       16.7       22.6      49.1           65.0                4.0               310
August              28.5       16.1       22.0      40.4           66.0                4.2               291
September           24.2       12.3       17.6      35.6           71.1                4.3               226
October             17.1        7.0       11.5      33.6           75.8                5.3               184
November             9.5        2.3        5.2      35.6           85.1                5.5                81
December             2.7       -3.3        0.0      32.1           88.2                5.5                63
Total Annual                                    454.8                                                2157
Cropping SeasonL4                               312.3                                                1721
TECUCI
January              0.0       -6.9       -3.7      28.2           84.0                5.2               n.a.
February             2.4       -5.0       -1.5      26.4           83.0                5.0               n.a.
March                8.5       -0.8        3.5      21.3           76.0                4.8               n.a.
April               17.0        4.8       10.6      35.8           69.0                5.1               n.a.
May                 22.4       10.1       16.1-     63.6           69.0                4.2               n.a.
June                26.2       13.7       19.9      70.4           68.0                3.7               n.a
July                28.3       15.6       21.9      62.1           67.0                 3.5              n.a.
August              27.9       14.8       21.0      44.6           67.0                 3.4              n.a.
September           23.7       10.6       16.6      40.6           71.0                3.7               n.a.
October             16.8         5.4      10.5       36.8          76.0                3.8               n.a.
November             9.2        1.4        4.7       34.7          83.0                4.2               n.a.
Decenber             2.8       -3.6       -0.6      32.4           86.0                4.7               n.a.
Total Annual                                    496.9
Cropping Seaso ,L4                              353.9
/1 Based on 39 years from 1938-1977.
72 1948-1977.
7i 1955-1978.
7R Cropping season from April 1 to October 30.



- 50 -
ANNEX 1
APPRAISAL OF                                 Page2
BUCSANI-BUZAU-SIRET-PRUT IRRIGATION PROJECT
ROMANIA
Climatological Data-
Temperature                      Average    Average Relative          Wind             Average       /
Month                  Maxirum      Miniruir         Average         Rainfall        Humidityl2           Velocity       Sunshine Hours
---  - - - - -°DC  -m---mm                                                  a/sec               hr
SLATINA
January                       1.2          -5.8            -5.2             38.5                90                 2.9                65.0
February                      4.8          -4.0            -0.1             37.5                86                 2.9                86.0
March                        10.3          -0.5             4.7             30.0                78                 3.4               148.0
April                        18.5           6.0            11.8             37.6                70                 3.4               191.7
May                          23.9          11.1            17.1             66.1                70                 3.0               255.2
June                         27.5          14.2            20.6             68.5                67                 2.5               274.0
July                         29.8          16.2            22.8             57.3                63                 2.3               313.0
August                       29.8          15.5            22.2             42.1                63                 2.2               299.0
September                   25.4           11.7            17.9             36.2                69                 2.2               231.3
October                      17.9           6.0            11.2             35.4                78                 2.4               182.0
November                     10.1           1.8             5.6             47.0                88                 2.7                92.0
December                      3.9          -3.2             0.2             50.0                91                 2.5                59.2
Total Annual                                                        519.2                                                   2,196.4
Cropping Season-4
PIETROASELE
January                     n.a.            n.a.           11.7             31.9                n.a.               3.2                n.a.
February                    n.a.            n.a.            5.9             28.3                n.a.               3.2                n.a.
March                       n.a.            n.a.            1.2             22.7                n.a.               4.6                n.a.
April                        30.2          -2.8            -1.8             37.6                64                 2.3                n.a.
May                          36.0          -1.2             0.5             71.9                68                 2.2                n.a.
June                         35.9           5.2             4.5             73.1                68                 2.2                n.a.
July                         37.5           5.5            11.5             70.8                65                 2.1                n.a.
Auigust                      39.0           7,0            15.8             53.3                64                 3.3                n.a.
Septenmber                   33.0           3.5            20.2             33.2                65                 3.3                n.a.
October                     n.a.            n.a.           22.4             32.2                n.a.               2.6                n.a.
November                    n.a.            n.a.           22.3             39.5                n.a.               2.6                n.a.
December                    n.a.            n.a.           18.0             38.8                n.a.               2.9                n.a.
Total Annual                                                        501.1
Cropping Season/4
/1  Based on 39 years from 1938-1977.
/2  1948-1977.
/3  1955-1978.
|4  Cropping season from April 1 to October 30.



ROMANIA
_AppRAISAL OF
NUCSNAII-BUOAU-STRET-PRT'0 S6RIGAT10N PRO0JECT
Present and Future Cropping Patterns and Yields
Bacasai Projc
Proast iltuttos                                                                                           P,tare situatias
Tatal        Price per      Value of    Pro-dott-s       Net Retorn    Net Return                                    Natal       V.. of        Prdution   Net         Net Regun
Area             Yield    P-oduotitn         Las        Pr-du-tio      Cgot           per Crop      sac Crop       Area              Yield    Production   Produation        cost       Retasn    per Crap
2Lrons                   h.                                         Lei          f,ijh.       LLJ             L~i/t-          e                                _t.   h~Ti/h.Area prosently irrigated  thrcugh seel  eistie/ o hen.es
thest                       1,)44    13        9.0'        , 5,Cl        1,280          ,h80o         ,127          1,353          1,956         6,610    18. So    5.0        33,080       6,400        3,832        2,568      16,989
Males (grain)               3,11.    07 S.               t8,680          1,060          5,325         9,37'l        1,946          7,036        t6,540    46.40    8.0       132,320        8,s20        4,353        4,167      68,922
Soya (groin)                                               -             3,121            -            -              -               -          1,A23      3.70    2.5         3,307       8,562        3,969        4,593       6,077
Sunfl-oer                     3f;2     5       2.2          790          2,000'         t,4f6        R,8R           1,633            091         1,654      4.60    2.7        t,466        5,4i         3,078        2,403       3,975
Suger bOet                    0o2      5      35.0       12,670            350        12,210         7,811          4,460o         1,596         1,323      3.70   50.0       66,150       17,500        F,984        8,516      11,266
Flax foroil -i                                  -           -            4,80o                          -                             -            -         -       -          -             -            -            -
Alf.lfa (hay)               1,c8b    11        7.0        7,5R8            4q,          3,405         2,782            683           740         3,308      9.30   11.0       36,388        5,415        3,770        1,67S       5,54i
potatoes                      -   -         -         -                    90R-                                                       -             31      0.91   30.0        9,930       ?7,000       10,760       16,240       5,375
Vegestbl-s                    032      0      10.O        -.130          3,500        22,0500       17,007          6,593          1,771         1,985      .40   27.0        53,595       40,500       28,705       11,750      23,323
Natural pastl-es               2h      -      10.0          26O            1lC1         1,1,0           550           550             14           986      2.80   45.0       44,370        4,950        1,2149       3,701       3,649
Vineyards                      ss      1       6.o          330          3,300        23,100        17,168          A,232            405         1,174      3.00    8.0        A,590       31,200       19,588       11,712      12,579
Orcherds                      099    1,        6.0        1,71           2,400         14,100       11,621          2,77?            8R1           600      1.70    6.0         3,600      14,400       ll,S63        2,837       2,702
Silo nale  (SP)                        -         - -       -81                                   -                    -               -         35,621)  (16.o0)  30.0       196,646        2,600        2,tli          280       1,62e
bh-et (trn)                (1,41;)    -        2.5        3,615            127            318           -              '13           46C        (6, 16 )  (18.50)   3.5       23,156        2,40           -            245       2,944
Males (stalk)              (,1.ro      -       6.5       25,004            100            050           -0so                       2,350       (10,540)  (46.90)  1o.4       172,016        l,o4o          -          1,040      17,202
Soyb-sns                                         -                         120            -             -             -               _         (1,303)   (3.70)   2.5         3,307          300          -            300         397
Sonflower (a.es)             (360)             f .6       2,389             40            2f4           _             764             9'        (1,654)   (9.60)   6.3        13,398           324         -            301         536
Suga- beet (tops)                     _ _     10.5    3,80i                 50              c                         525             - o        525 .ljO 31,)  15.0          19,84q          706   _                   750         992
Total                 7,622   100                                                                                           18,036        35,740   100                                                                    68780T
Ostrrlgasod                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PAutor  - Osir-igatad (Sail  -ir-to)
-hsat                        ,906    3         2.95      26,54G          1,28C6           31,F'1      2,707         1,017          910<0          ,940    19.0       3.2        6,208       4,096        2,713        1,383       2,683
Mpoee (groin)              1o,l6o    at         3.89     304,600        l1,or0          4,4-          ,911          1,232        1i,o.l          1,733    17.0       3.8        6,585       4,047        2,616        1,431       26480
toqys (groin)                 255      1       1.50                      3,125          5,137         3,16q         1,9fR            502            20      0.2     2.0            So       6,856        3,514        3,336          67
s-Oflo-ar                     764              1.73       1 < 0.2        2,030          ',512         2,44S         1,007            81            60      o.6     2.0           120       4,o6o        2,686        1,374          82
SLoga  boct                   509      0      23.1'      1',3              350         tO,200         6,001         3,24s          1,602            81      o.8    35.0        2,835       12,250        7,399       46851          3
Flea for oil                1,018              1.00       1,018 o,8060                  4,80          2,82L1        1,97h          2,012           255      2.6      1.3          332       6,240        2,938        3,302         842
Alfalfa (hay)               o,6t6    o          5.44     20,170            1,95         2,6093        2 1o,             o8           969         1,014    10.0       5.7        5,780       2,822        2,346          4576        483
Potatoes                      -                       -                    901
Vegetabl-s                    -        -      15.00                      1,501         22,500        17,1.07        4 ,893                   -               _                    _            _           _ -           -          -
Natural p.sto,re-           1,35       0        4.11      5,               110             s             84            300          4-9          2,291    22.0    10.0        22,910        1,100          550          550       1,260
Vi-eysoda                   1,115               0. 459   )0,059          3,"00         17,301        16,716         1,165          1,201         2,187    22.0       5.2       11,372      20,280       16,900        3,380       7,392
Or-h-rda                      101      1        0.33        60'          2,4100        12,792         7,9f3         1),820           7204          539      5.0      4.7        2,533      11,280         1,740       3,54o       1,908
Sllo aalas(SP)                -        -        -          -                80-----                                                                                                              
wh-eat (strap)             (1,900)    -        2.00      18,525            127            255           -              26 5        2, 361        (1,'-40)    -       2.2        4,266          279                       279         541
Mai-e (tstlk)             (10,180)    _         5.06     01 ,511           100            Soh                          5o0          5,151        (1,733)     -       5.0        8,665          500          -            500         866
Soya (atle)                  (055)    -        1.50         RR3            1?0            160           -             180             46           (20)      -       2.0           40         24           -            24o            5
Sunflowerc (lse-)            (764)    _        0.16       3,91s             40            807           -             207            15f           (60)      -       6.o          360         240                       243          14
Sugar beet (taps)              oot5)    -      P,75       4,454             50            017           -              417           202            (81)     -      1.0.5         851          525          -           525           42
Nntural Heafielde             --                            -                             -                                                         4 -  67  0.5  3.5             164    1,575    1,540                   35           2
'ltotfal             27,957   100                                                                                           45,113   l  15,08
OairrligaAtd (Salt irsieoa)
Xneeat                      1,10,1    ito.5)    2.5        , .5        1,202            3,326         2,540            788          1,530
MRise (gr-ian               2,041    20.0       3.1       6,327         1,065           3,302         2,303            933         2,039
lan (greta )                 20      0.2     1.35          3          3,425           5,138         3,165          1,973             39
Loafiaseer             So~~~~~~~~6c  0.5  1.5        96         2,230           3,0645        2,381            664s            4o
towga  beet                    4       O..k    25.0       1,000           350           8,750         6,582         2,t68              62
Visa for oil           dl~~~~~~~8  0.6  1.0          81         6,800           t,800         2,624          1,976            160
Alfalfa (Ahnv                  921     9.0      4.8       4,421           495           2,376         2,171            205            139
Psat-asa                    2,294    23.0       3.7       8,488           110             4wS            64            323            741
ONtornl Hnyfilede              Y,l    0'.,      1.3          66           1,30            675           '107           -32         -t,4o8
Nstuoei arda elds           2,18     22.0     4.5        9,662         3900           17,550        16,688            862         1,885
Or-hnrds                      539    531)       4.0       2,156         2,4.00          9,600         7,522          2,078          1,120
Wh-st (tra-)                (1.,941)    -       1.8       3,494           127             229           _              229            444
-ale- (stalk)              (2, 161)             4 1.0     8,164           100             Soc           -              400            816
Oaya lasses)          ~~~~~ ~          ~~(20)    - 1.5  30         120            SIc                          166              1
Sasflas,sr (ale(s)            (60)    -          .5         279            40             t80           -              180             11
Rilgas bee t (taps )          (4°)    -         r.5         30             50             375                          375             1
'otnl                10,1J7                                                                                                  7,712



ROMARIA
APPRAISAL OF
BUCSAnI-B SCAU-SIRE - PVT IRRIGATION PROJECT
Present & Future Cropping PatternS And Yields
Uzeu ProJect
Pre--t Sitootio                                                                                                "at-,e Situation
Total        Prien   per         Valeoo             ProAuction   Netet          t tttV e                                                           Prd-tio       Net         Net Return
CROP                    Area                Field      Production       ton             Prodoction            Cost      Per Crop      Per Crop    Area          Yield      Tot.l           Production    Coat Lei/ha   Return       per Crop
ho     g ;         ton/An    ton                Lei            LS/h.              Lei/ha        elia         Leia  000     hn    %     ton/ha      Production      Lei/ha                       Lei/ha      tiOOO          Renarks
Area prenently irrigated through omall existing schemes
Wheat                  2160        28        3.7       7992            1280             1736               3282              1451     3110         7886  13.5    5.0        39430           6400          3832           2568        20251
Barley                 -                    -                         -                 _         -                         -                       889   1.5    4.7         4178          4818           3527           1291         1148
Matze (Groin)          2820        37       5.0       14100            1065             3525               3379              1945     5485        19871  36.0    8.0       158968           8520          4353           4167        32802
Soya (Groin)           -           -        -          -              3425              _         -                 -                 -            2364   1.0    2.5        5910           8562           3969           4593       10858
Sunflower               768       10        2.0       .536            2030             4060               2776              1284      986          4597   7 9    2.7       12412           5181           3078          2403        11046
Suger Bee               438         6      35.0      13330             3S0             12250               78411            4409      1930         2977   5.1   50.0      048850          17500           8984           8516       25352
Potatoes                323         4      15.0        4845            900             13500               93RO             4120      1331          -    -        -         -              -              -              -           -
V.getabl-o             -                    -          -              0500              -                                    -        -             5792   9.9   27.0      056381         10500          28750          11750        68056
Alfalm (oaY)           1176        15       10.0      11760            495              1950               3685             1265      1488         7005  12.0   11.0        77055           5445          3770           0675        11733
Vetcth   -oM.          -           -        -          -              -                 -                  -                -                      -
Silo 508-r S.P.        _           _        _          _              _                                                                           (7717) (13.2) 15.0      270095           2800           2511            289        2230
t-rlP u                                                                                                                                             -     -       -         -               -Pasu
Vineyards              _           _                                                                                                                6200  10.6    8.0       49600          31200          19488         11712        72604
Orchards                 _            _        _        _        _                                                                                  900   1.5    6.o         5400         1400          11563           2837         2553
wheat (Steno)         (2160)                2.6        5616            127               330               -                  330      713         (7886) (13.5)  3.5       27601            445          -               445         3509
Rarley (Straw)         -                                               0 127            _                  _                _         -             (889) (1.5)   3.76       3363            477                          1 177        424
Ma.ie (StaiX)         (2820)                6.5       18330             100              650               _                 650      1833       (1987i) (34.0) 10.4       206658           0640          -              1040        20666
S6ya(Stem)             -                    -                          120              -                  -                -         -           (2364)  (4.0)  2.5         5910            300          -               300          709
Sunflower (Sto=)       (768)               6.0        4608              40              240               _                  240      184         (4597)  (7.9)  8.1       37235            324           -               326        1489
Suger Be-t tops        (438)               10.S       4599              50               525               _                 525       230        (2977)  (5.1) 15,0        44655           750           -               750         2233
TOTAL              7689      100                                                                                               17,321         5R181   100                                                                       337666
Wheat                  13856       27       2.85      39489           1280              3648               2755              893    12373
Berley                  1640        3       1.50      2462            1025              1538               1900             -363      -596
Maine (Grain)          10617       21       3.03      32170           1065              3227               2431              796      8451
S0Y0 (Groin)              87       -        1.20        104           31,25             4110               3000             1110        97
Sunflower                ?953       6       1.61       4751            2030              3268              2413               855     2525
Suger Bent               932        2      25.35     23626             350              8872               6601             2271      2117
Potatoas                1094        2      12.14     13281             900             10926               9137             1789      1957
Vegetahbl- s                                                          100               -                  -                 -        -
Alftlfo (Hay)           7743       15       6.07     47301             1.95             3001               2551              454      3538
Vetch Green MRas        2972        5      10.00     28720             110              1100               1645              -545    -1565
Silo Maize S.P.                    -        -                           80                                 -                -         -
Rotural Pastures        3600        7       3.72     13390             110               109                242               167      601
Viney-rd3              1497        10       6.50     32338            3900             25350              17328             8022    39909
Orch-rds                 300        2       4.00      3600            2400              9600               7522             2078      1870
whMIt (Stimo)        (1393)                 2.00     27712             127               251                                 254      0519
Barley (straw)         (11ni)               1.20      1969             127               152                                  152      249
maoOe (0t11k)         (10017)               3,9S     41937             100               395                                  395     4169
Soyo StGe              (97)                 1.20       104             120               144                                 1404       1
Sunflo-er (StOm)       (293  )               . 84    11292              40               194                                 194       573
Suge- Beet Looa        ( 3 )       -_       7.60      7083              50               380                                 380       354
7012AL          -            4                                                                                              80,179



APPRAISAL OF
BUCSANT-BUZAU-SIRET-PROT JRTIGATION PROJECT
Present aRd Future Cropping Patterns and Yields
Siret Proj'ect
Present Situatiss                                                                           Future Situation
Total       Price per       Va-lue or      Pradu-tias   Not Return   lat Return                                Total       Value of)  -vnut-n    Nat           seU.   tr
Area               Yield      Production       ton         Production         Coat      per Crp    per Crop        Aeoa             Yield    Production  Prsduction       Cost     Return      per Crop
Crops               ha                               t ton/ha  inn   ei        Lei/ha           Lei/ha       Lei/toa     LeiOO         jn         (   ton/ha        ton        Li/ha       Let/ha      Lei/ha      Lei/O00         Remarkns
-  ares presaili  irrigated thnugh snall siSting scheasle
Wheat                       645        19.8      3.50        2,258          1,280         4,480            3,127      1,353         873        5,194     34.70    500   25,970          6,40o        3,832       2,568       13,338
arley                         -         -         -             -          1,025                                 -             -          -          -         -           -              -            -            -
Mai-e (graini             1,275        39.2      5.00        6,375          1,065         5,325            3,379      1,936       2,480        5,639     37.70    8.o00    5,112       85,201        4,353        4,167      23,498
Sunfiouse                    50         1.6      2.20          110         2,030          4,466            2,833      1,633          82        1,484      9.90    2.70    4,007         5,481        3,078       2,403        3,566
Sug-r bist                  158         4.9     35.00        5,530            350        12,250            7,841      4,409         697          593      2.60   50.00   19,65o        17,500        8,984       8,516        5,050
Potatoes                    384        11,8     15.00        5,760           500         13,500            9,380      4,120       1,582          445      3.00   30.00   13,350        27,000       10,760      16,240        7,227
Vegetahbl=                   130        4.0     15.00        1,950          1,500        22,500           17,607      4,893          636         445       3.00   27.00   12,015       40,500       28,750       11,750       5,229
Alfalfa (hay)                458       14.1      7.00        o,20o6           495         3,460            2,782        678          311         89o       5.90   11.00    9,790        5,445        3,770        1,675       1,491
Yatnh (green)                 -         -          -            -             110
Veitn  (hay)                  -         -          -            -             495            -               -          -             -          i48       1.0°    6.o5       895       2,995        2,408          587           87
Maine (silo)                  _         _                                      80            _-                         -                      (4,748)  (32.00)  35.00  166,18o         2,800        2,511          289       1,372
Vineyard                     150        4.6       6.00         900          3,900        23,400           17,168      6,232          935         330       2.20    8.00    2,604       31,200       19,488       11,712        3,865
Zheat stras                (645)        -        2.50        1,613            127           318              -          318          205      (5,194)   (34.70)   3.50   18,179           445          -            445       2,311
Br1ey straw                   -         -          -            -             127            -                     -           -            -          -        -        -          -            -            -           -                                      I
Maine (stalkl             (1,275)       -        6.50        8,288            100           650                         650o         829      (5,639)   (37.70)  10.40   58,646         1,040          _          1,0o0        5,865
Sunflow.r (stalk)            (50)       _        6.6o          330             4o           264              -          26'4          13      (1,484)    (9.90)   8.10   12,020           324          -            324          481
Sugar btot (leaves)         (158)       -       10.50        1,659             50           526              -          525           83         93      (2.60)  15.s0    8,895           750          _            750          445
Total               3,250                                                                                                   9,7            168    100                                                                  7375
Unirrigated
.Zheant                   3,972        32        1.70        6,752          1,280         2,176            2,198         -22         -87
Barley                      845         7        1.70        l,437          1,025         1,743            1,970       -227          192
Iaioe (grainl             3,639        29        1.87        6,550          1,065         1,917            1,983        -66         -240
-unfloer                  1,563        13        0.90        1,407         2,030          1,827            1,977       -15.'        -234
Sugar beht                  104         1       15.00        2,235            35°         5,250            6,032       -782        -116
Potatoes                      -         -          -            -              -             -               -           -            -
Vegetables                  100         1         90,o         900          1,500        13,500           12,536        933           93
Alfalfa (hay)             1,231        10         3,00       3,693            495         1,485            1,963       -478         -588
Veth 7green)                 758        6       10. 00       7,580            110         1,100            1,645        -545        -413
Vetnh 'hay)                   -         -          -            -             495                            -           -
MZaine (silo)                 -         -          -            -              80                    -                  -             -
Vine-yrd                     180        1         5.77       1,039          9,30        22,503           17,094      5,1409         974
Wheat sir.o               (3,972)       -         1.19       4,727            127           151              -           151         60c
Barley ztraw                (845)       -         1.36       ,49              127           173              -          173          146                                                                                                                       Ih
Maire (tolkh             (3,639)        -        2.34        c, 15           100            234              -          234          852
Sunflooer (stalk          (1,563)       -        2.70        4,220            405            o8                         108         1069
7ugar beat (leaves)         (109)                4.50          671             50           225              _          225          34
12,437                                                                                                    7 822



ROMANIA
APPRAISAL OF
BUCSAkI-BUZAU-SIRET_PRUT IRRIGATIO PROJECT
Present and Future Cropping Patterns and Yields
Prut Project
Present Situation                                                                                             Future Situation
Total       Prior per  Value of       Production   Net         Net OrIdu=.                                Total         V          Production  Net         Net Return
Ades             Yield        Production         too     production      Coat      Production  per Crop       Area             Yield     Production    Production    Cast        Return      per Crop
Cropa                 he       %      ton/Pa          ton            Le         Lei         Let/hahLha i/ha   e i/OOO              1ha       L      Con/Pa       ton          Lei/hP     Lei/ha                  Le/ha Renarka
Area preseotly irrigated tho-g4  amall existiog schemea
Whest                      2,473      26       3.7           9,150        1,280        4,736         3,282        1,454     3,596        9,413     27        5 00      47,o65          6,4oo      3,822      2,578      24,266
Barley                       453       5       3.7          l,676         1,025        3,793        3,072           721     3,266          -       -
Mai-e (grain)              2,637       8       7.1         18,723         1,065        7,562        4 014         3,548     9,356       14,648     42        8.cP    117,184           8.520      4,353      4,167      61,o38
Pastures                   l,061      CO      16.4          17,400          110        i,8o4        1,016          788        236          269      1       45.00      12,105          4,950     1,249       3,701         995
Sunflowers                   865       9       1.9          1,643         2,030        3,857        2,748        1,109        959        3,303     10        2.70       8,918          5,481     3,078       2,403       7,937
Soybean                          -              -                -        3,425          -            -             -         -            769      2        2.50      1,923           8,562     3,858       4,593       3,532
Sugar beet                   165       2      45.0           7,425          350       15,750        8,725         7,025     1,159        1,070      3       50,00      53,500         17,500     8,984       8,516       9,112
Linseed                                                                                                          -              -            -
Potatoes                     206       3      21.0           4,326          900       18,900        9,800        9,098     1,874           715      2       30.00     2i,450          27,000    10,760      L6,240      11,612
Vegetable                    124       1      18.0            2,232       1,500       27,000       20,457         6,543       811          9o4      2       27.00      24,408         4o,500    28,750      11,750      10,622
Alfalfa (bay)                907      11       7.0           6,349          495        3,465        2,782           683       619        3,289     10       11.00      36,179          5,445     3,770       1,675       5,509
Vetch (green)                412       4      20.0           8,240          110        2,200        2,o56           144        59          277      1       25.00       6,925          2,750     2,294         456         126
Vetch (Pay)                  -        -         -                -          495          -             -            -         -            137     -         6.o5        (629)         2,995     2,408         587          80
Maice (silo)                 -        -         _                _           80          _      -                   -         -         (7,008)   (20)      35.00    245,280           2,800    2c5n           289       2,025
bheat (atraw)             (2,473)     _       (0.6)          6,43o          127          330          -             330       816       (9,413)   (27)       3.50     32,946             445         -         1445      4,189
Rarley (straw)              (453)     -       (3.0)          1,359          127          381          -             381       -73
Maier (.talk)             (2,637)     _       (9.0)         24,260          100          900          -             920    2,426       (14,648)   (42)      10.40    152,339           1,040         _       1,040      15,054
Sunflower (stalk)           (865)     -       (5.7)          4,931           40          228          -            223         197      (3,303)   (10)       8.10     26,754             324         -         324       1,070
Soya (steo)                           --                         -          120          -            _-                      -           (769)    (2)       2.50       1,923            300         _         300         231
Sugarbeet (leafea)         .6,15      -      (13.5)          2,228           50          675          -             675        111      (1. o7Q    (3)      15.00     16,050             750         -         750         803
Total                9,303     100                                                                                   27,5  f       4,794                                    -5
Unirrigated
Wheat                      7,554      09       2.47        18,658         1,280        3,162        2,632           530    4,009
Barley                       978       4       2.47         2,416         1,025        2,532        2,407           125      122
Maies (grain)              8,957      34       3.43        30,722         1,o65        3,653        3,530         1,123    10,059
Beans                        167       1       0.67            112.0      3,300        2,211        3,019          -BoB     -135
Sunflower                  2,622      10       1.34         3,513         0,030        2,720        2,337           383    1,004
Soybean                      -        -         -                -        3,425          -            -             -        -
Sugar beet                  434        2      25.09        10,889           350        8,782        6,587        2,195       953
Linseed                      234       1       0.57           133.0       4,800        2,736        2,491           245        57
Potatoes                     527       2      11.67         6,150           900       10,503        9,113         1,389      732 '
Vegetables                   564       1      11.93         4,342         1,500       17,895       14,631         3,264     1,188
Alfalfa (Pay)              2,867      11       4.55         13,045          495        2,252         2,320          -68      -195
Vetch (green)              1,254       5      14.00        17,556           110       1,540         1,797          -257      -322
Vetch O(hay)                 _        -         -                _          495          -            -             -        -
Maie (silo)                  _        -         -                -           80
Pastures                                                                      -
Wheat (strew)             (7,554)     -        1.73        13,068           127          220           _            220    1,662
Barley (straw)              (978)     -        1.98         1,936           027          251           -            251      245
M-ioe (ntalk)             (8,957)     -        4.46        39,948           100          446          -            446    3,995
Bean (stem)                 (167)     -        0.40             67.0        120           48          _              48         8
Sunflower (atolk)         (0,822)     -        4.02        10,540            40          161          _             160      422
soya (ste)                                      -                -          120                       -                 -
Sugarbeet (leaves)          (434)     _        7.53         3,268            50          377           -            377      164
Total               25,958     100                                                                                  23,963



- 55 -                           ANNEX 3
Table 1
Page 1
BUCSANI-BUZAU-SIRET-PRUT IRRIGATION PROJECT
ROMANIA
List of Equipment and Materials to be Procured
following International Competitive Bidding
Estimated Cost
A.  Construction Equipment                       Unit    Quantity       Unit           Total
- - - Lei '000 - - -
Bulldozer on tires 180 HP                    Nos         15         1,600          24,000
Wheeled dozer 360 HP                         Nos         15         3,400          51,000
Dragline I m3 bucket                         Nos         15         1,600          24,000
Dragline 2,5-3 m3 bucket                     Nos          4         4,000          16,000
Motor scraper 11 m3                          Nos         15         3,200          48,000
Motor scraper 24 m3                          Nos          6         6,050          36,300
Excavators 1 m3                              Nos         20         1,100          22,000
Motorgraders                                 Nos         10         1,360          13,600
Wheel loaders 2,5-3 m3                       Nos         17         1,600          27,200
Levelling machines with 180 HP tractor       Nos          8           850           6,800
Batching plant 35 m3/h                       Nos         10         1,400          14,000
Mobile concrete pumps 60 O,h                 Nos          4         1,300           5,200
Truck mixers 5,5 m3                          Nos         30           600          18,000
Truck crane 16 to 45                         Nos         30         1,500          45,000
Dumpers 17 to                                Nos         40           800          32,000
Tank truck 10 to                             Nos         12           400           4,800
Truck 4 wheel drive 8 to                     Nos         80           400          32,000
Rough terrain crate 25 ton                   Nos.        10         1,800          18,000
Subtotal                                                               437,900
B.  Pumping equipment                             L.S.                                 80,000
C.  Electrical equipment                          L.S.                                 15,000
(Cont'd)



- 56 -                            ANNEX 3
Table 1
Page 2
BUCSANI-BUZAU-SIRET-PRUT IRRIGATION PROJECT
ROMANIA
List of Equipment and Materials to be Procured
following International Competitive Bidding
Estimated Cost
D.  Equipment for Operation and Maintenance         Unit Quantity Unit             Total
- - - - -Lei '000 ---
Hydraulic draglines 1 m3 bucket                 Nos    3       1,600           4,800
Motorgrader 180 HP                              Nos    3       1,360           4,080
Truck crane 12,5 to with telescopique arm    Nos    4          1, 00          6,000
Crawler dozer 80 HP                             Nos   10         220           2,200
Crawler dozer 180 HP                            Nos   10         820           8,200
Wheel tractors 65 HP                            Nos   25         120           3,000
Wheel tractors 65 HP all wheel drive            Nos   20         140           2,800
Wheel tractors 180 HP                           Nos    2         600           1,200
Trailers                                        Nos   20         140           2,800
Tipping trailers 5 t.                           Nos   30          60           1,800
Tank trailers                                   Nos   10          60             600
Mobile workshop on diesel truck                 Nos    3         750           2,250
Van                                             Nos   10         268           2,680
Parallel lathe 400 x 2,000 mm                   Nos    2         700           1,400
Turning and boring lathe 1,250 mm               Nos    1         700             700
Universal milling machine 325 x 1,525 mm        Nos    1         200             200
Universal grinding machine                      Nos    1         700             700
Column drilling machine 40 mm                   Nos    1         130             130
Pneumatic forging hammer                        Nos    1         270             270
Thermal welding set                             Nos   10          60             600
Electrical welding set                          Nos   10          15             150
Fixed radio telephone set 30-41 MHz             Nos  200           0           5,000
Subtotal                                                               51,460
E.  Farm Machinery
Agricultural tractors 180 HP                    Nos  100         570          57,000
Agricultural tractors  80 HP                    Nos 1,040        230         239,200
Agricultural tractors  45 HP                    Nos  450         120          54,000
Cereal combines                                 Nos   35         350          12,250
Maize combines                                  Nos  150         400          60,000
Subtotal                                                              422,450
F. Materials
Asbestos cement pipe                            L.S.                         120,000
1,126,810
(US$75.0 millicni



- 57 -
ANNEX 4
Table 1
APPRAISAL OF
BUCSANI-BUZAU-SIRET-PRUT IRRIGATION PROJECT
ROMANIA
Bucsani - Cost Estimate
Foreign
Item                         Local   Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total   Exchange
- - - Lei Million - -           _US$ Million - -        %
Irrigation Works
Main pumping stations                 23.9       6.3      30.2    1.6      0.4    2.0         21
Pressure pumping stations              38.2    10.0      48.2    2.5       0.7    3.2         21
Power supply and transformers         16.4    13.6       30.0    1.1       0.9    2.0         45
Canal excavation                      65.2    18.1       83.3    4.3       1.2    5.5         22
Canal lining                          43.2       7.4     50.6    2.9       0.5    3.4         15
Canal structures                      13.6       3.9     17.5    0.9       0.3    1.2         22
Syphons                               16.3      4.6      20.9    1.1       0.3    1.4         22
Underground pipe network             120.0    33.4    153.4    8.0         2.2   10.2         22
Land levelling                        13.3      2.0      15.3    0.9       0.1    1.0         13
On-farm equipment                     43.8    20.5       64.3    2.9       1.4    4.3         32
Subtotal                       393.9   119.8    513.7   26.2        8.0   34.2         23
Drainage Works
Surface drains excavation             54.0      9.9      63.9    3.6       0.7    4.3         15
Surface drains structures             13.8      2.9      16.7    0.9       0.2    1.1         17
Tile drains                           40.3    10.1       50.4    2.7       0.7    3.4         20
Subtotal                       108.1    22.9    131.0    7.2        1.6    8.8         17
Miscellaneous Works
Soil erosion control                  29.1      4.3      33.4    1.9       0.3    2.2         13
Valley training                       40.4      5.9      46.3    2.7       0.4    3.1         13
Facilities for O&M                      2.7     0.4        3.1    0.2       -      0.2        13
Hydrogeological wells                   0.7     0.1       0.8    0.1        -      0.1        13
Subtotal                        72.9    10.7       83.6    4.9      0.7    5.6         13
Land Compensation                        42.3       -       42.3    2.8        -     2.8          -
Equipment
Operation and maintenance               9.0     4.3      13.3    0.6       0.3    0.9         33
Farm machinery                         35.8    17.6      53.4    2.4       1.2    3.6         33
Subtotal                        44.8    21.9       66.7    3.0      1.5    4.5          33
Engineering and Administration           78.8      7.3      86.1    5.3      0f5    5-            8
Base Cost                              )40.8    182.6   923.4   49.4    12.3   61.7             20
Contingencies
Physical contingencies                 55.5     13.6    69.1    3.7        0.9    4.6         20
Price contingencies                   10.2      22.0    32.2    0.7        1.5    2.2         68
Subtotal/A                      65.7      35.6   101.3    4.4       2.4    6.8          35
Total                                   806.5    218.2 1,024.7   53.8    14.7   68.5             21
_/  See para.T3.5for details of physical and price contingencies.



- 58 -                              ANNEX 4
APPRAISAL OF                         Table 2
BUCSANI-BUZAU-SIRET-PRUT IRRIGATION PROJECT
ROMANIA
Buzau - Cost Estimate
Estimated Cost         Estimated Cost        Foreign
Item                         Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total   Exchange
- - - -Lei Million - - - - US$ Million - - -          %
Irrigation Works
Main pumping stations                   -       -        -       -        -       -         -
Pressure pumping stations              62.6    16.6    79.2   4.2         1.1      5.3      21
Power supply & transformers            26.8    22.1    48.9   1.7         1.5      3.2      21
Canal excavation                      119.9    33.8   153.7   8.0         2.3    10.3       45
Canal lining                           58.3    10.2    68.5   3.9         0.7     4.6       22
Canal structures                      141.4    39.8   181.2   9.4         2.7    12.1       15
Syphons                                63.8    18.0    81.8   4.2         1.2     5.4       22
Underground irrigation network        347.1    97.9   445.0  23.1         6.5    29.6       22
Land levelling                         19.4      3.0    22.4   1.3        0.2     1.5       22
On-farm equipment                      41.0    19.2    60.2   2.7         1.3     4.0       13
Subtotal                         880.3   260.6 1,140.9  58.7       17.4    76.1        32
Drainage Works
Surface drains excavation              84.2    15.2    99.2   5.6         1.0     6.6       15
Surface drains structures              46.4      9.4    55.8   3.1        0.6     3.6       17
Tile drains                            96.7    24.1   120.8   6.5         1.6     8.2       20
Subtotal                         227.3    48.5   275.8  15.2         3.2    18.4
Miscellaneouse Works
Relocation of communications            2.9      0.4      3.3   0.2        -      0.2       13
Soil erosion control                    -       -       -        -         -      -         _
Valley training                       286.3    42.9   329.2  19.1         2.9    22.0       13
Reclamation of saline land            135.9    20.4   156.3   9.0         1.3    10.3       13
Facilities for O&M                      5.4      0.9      6.3   0.4       0.1     0.5       13
Hydrogeological wells                   1.4      0.3      1.7   0.1        -      0.1       13
Subtotal                         431.9    64.9   496.8  28.8         D 
Land Compensation                        57.3    -         57.3   3.8        -       3.8      -
Equipment
Operation and maintenance              23.1    11.5    34.6   1.5         0.8     2.3       33
Farm machinery                         92.9    45.6   138.5   6.2         3.0     9.2       33
Subtotal                         116.0    57.1   173.1   7.7        3.8    11.5       33
Engineering and Administration          218.2    18.9   237.1  14.5         1.3    15.8        8
Base Cost                             1,931.0   450.0 2,381.0 128.7        30.0   158.9       1-
Contingencies
Physical contingencies                144.8    33.7   178.5   9.7         2.2    11.9       19
Price contingencies                    42.7    83.9   126.6   2.8         5.6     8.4       66
-otal Contingencies/l                   187.5   117.6   305.1  12.5         7.8    21.3       37
Total                               .2,118.5   567.6 2,688.1 141.2         37.8   17,9 .      31.5
/1  See para. 3.15  for details of physical and price contingencies.



- 59 -
ANNEX 4
Table 3
APPRAISAL OF
BUCSANI-BUZAU-SIRET-PRUT IRRIGATION PROJECT
ROMANIA
Siret - Cost Estimate
Estimated Cost          Estimated Cost         Foreign
Item                           Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total   Exchange
--Lei Million - -US$ Million - - -                      %
Irrigation Works
Main pumping stations                 11.8      3.1    14.9   0.8       0.2      1.0       21
Pressure pumping stations             17.6      4.7    22.3   1.2       0.3      1.5       21
Power supply and transformers          5.9      4.9    10.8   0.4       0.3      0.9       45
Canal excavation                       6.3      1.8      8.1   0.4      0.1      0.5       22
Canal lining                           3.8      0.7      4.5   0.3      0.1      0.4       15
Canal structures                       4.4      1.3      5.7   0.3      0.1      0.4       22
Syphons                                1.1      0.2      1.3   0.1       -       0.1       22
Underground pipeline                 118.9    33.5   152.4   7.9        2.2    10.1        22
On-farm equipment                     14.7      7.0    21.7   1.0       0.5      1.5       32
Subtotal                       184.5    57.2   241.7  12.3         3.8    16.1        24
Drainage Works
Surface drains excavation             51.7      9.2    60.9   3.5       0.6      4.1       15
Surface drains structures              4.5      0.8      5.3   0.3       -       0.3       17
Drainage pumping stations             10.3      5.7    16.0   0.7       0.4      1.1       35
Tile drains                           30.8      7.6    38.4   2.0       0.5      2.5       20
Subtotal                        97.3    23.3   120.6   6.5         1.5     8.0        19
Miscellaneous Works
Relocation of communications           2.1      0.3      2.4   0.1       -       0.1       13
Valley training                       74.8    11.1    85.9   5.0        0 8      5.8       13
Reclamation of saline soil            44.6      6.7    51.3   3.0       0.5      3.5       13
Facilities for O&M                     2.2      0.3      2.5   0.1       -       0.1       13
Hydrogeological wells                  2.2      0.4      2.6   0.1       -       0.1       13
Subtotal                      125.9    18.8   144.7   8.4         1.3     9.7        13
Land Compensation                        2.3       -       2.3   0.2        -      0.2        -
Equipment
Operation and maintenance              5.9      3.2      9.1   0.4      0.2      0.6        33
Farm machinery                        24.3    11.9    36.2   1.6        0.8      2.4       33
Subtotal                       30.2    15.1    45.3   2.0         1.0     3.0        33
Engineering and Administration          35.3      3.2    38.5   2.4       0.2      2.6        8
Base Cost                              475.5   117.6   593.1  31.8         7.8    39.6       2C
Contingencies
Physical contingencies                35.7      8.7    44.4   2.4       0.6      3.0       20
Price contingencies                   14.8    30.8    45.6   1.0        2.0      3.0       68
Total contingenciesil                   50.5    39.5    90.0   3.4         2.6     6.0       44
Total                                  526.0   157.1   683.1  35.2    10.4    45.6           23
/1  See para.  3.15    for details of physical and price contingencies.



- 60 -
ANNEX 4
Table 4
APPRAISAL OF
BUCSANI-BUZAU-SIRET-PRUT IRRIGATION PROJECT
ROMANIA
Prut - Cost Estimate
Estimated Cost          Estimated Cost         Foreign
Item                          Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total  Exchange
- - -Lei Million - -    - - -US$ Million - -           %
Irrigation Works
Main pumping stations                     28.4    7.6    36.0       1.9      0.5    2.4        21
Pressure pumping stations                 25.2    6.7    31.9       1.7      0.4    2.1        21
Power supply and transformers             10.9    8.9    19.8       0.7      0.6    1.3        45
Canal excavation                         11.6    3.0    14.6        0.8      0.2    1.0        22
Canal lining                               5.6    1.0      6.6      0.4      0.1    0.5        15
Canal structures                           3.0    0.9      3.9      0.2      0.1    0.3        22
Underground irrigation pipe network  173.2   48.6   221.8    11.5            6.6   18.1        22
On-farm equipment                        28.1   13.2    41.3        1.9      0.9    2.8        32
Subtotal                         286.0   89.9   3.9 9    19.1        6.0   25.1        24
Drainage Works
Excavation of drains                      82.5   14.7    97.2       5.5      1.0    6.5        15
Structures on drains                       7.0    1.5      8.5      0.5      0.1    0.6        17
Pumping stations on drains                 9.8    5.2    15.0       0.7      0.3    1.0        35
Tile drainage                            24.6    6.1    30.7        1.6      0.4    2.0        20
Subtotal                         123.9   27.5   151.4       8.3      1.8   10.1        i8
Miscellaneous Works
Relocation of communications               2.7    0.6      3.3      0.2       -      0.2       15
Reclamation of saline soil                6.6    1.2       7.8      0.4      0.1    0.5        15
Soil erosion control                      2.9    0.5       .3.4     0.2       -     0.2        15
Valley training                         107.0   19.0   126.0        7.1      1.3    8.4        15
Facilities for O&M                         1.3    0.2      1.5      0.1       -      0.1       15
Hydrogeological wells                      1.5    0.3      1.8      0.1       -      0.1       15
Subtotal                         122.0   21.8   143.8       8.1      1.4    9.5        15
Land Compensation                            2.3     -       2.3      0.2       -      0.2       -
Equipment
Operation and maintenance                  7.2    4.2    11.4       0.5      0.3    0.8        37
Farm machinery                           28.3   16.9    45.2        1.9      1.1    3.0       37
Subtotal                          35.5   21.1    56.6       2.4      1.4    3.8        37
Engineering and Administration              50.2    4.4    54.6       3.3      0.3    3.6         8
Base Cost                                  619.9  164.7   784.6    41.3    11.0   52.3          21
Contingencies
Physical contingencies                    46.5   12.2    58.7       3.1      0.8    3.9       21
Price contingencies                       24.4   53.8    78.2       1.6       3.b     5.2      69
Total Contingencies/l                       70.9   66.0   136.9       4.7      4.4    9.1        48
Total                                      690.8  230.7   921.5    46.0    15.4   61.4           25
/1  See para.  3.15 for details of physical and price contingencies.



APPRAISAL OF
BUCSANI-BUZAU-SIRET-PRUT IRRIGATION PROJECT
ROMANIA
Financing Plan
Budgetary Allocations/l_      Marketing         CAP
Total                                       Research       Central    BAFIL1    Own
Subproject      (Disbursed thru BAFI)            IELIF       SMA      Academy      BAFI Loan   Loan       Funds
-                                      Lei IGI lion    -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   --   --   -   -   -
Bucsani                      1,024.7                 797.3       53.4        -            -          126.9      47.1
Buzau                        2,686.1               2,071.3      138.5        -                       318.2     158.1
Siret and Prut               1,604.6               1,321.3       81.4        -            _          158.8      43.1
Subtotal                5,315.4                4,189.9      273.3         -          -           603.9     248.3
Grain Silos                    229.8                                          -          229.8
Research Station                82.5                                        82.5          -
Total                    5,627.7               4,189.9      273.3      82.5          229.8       603.9     248.3
/1  Including IBRD Loan and Cofinancing.                                                                               t
E z
Htjn



- 62 -
ANNEX 6
APPRAISAL OF                            Table 1
BUCSANI-BUZAU-SIRET-PRUT IRRIGATION PROJECT
ROMANIA
Bucsani - Estimated Schedule of Expenditure
Estimated Cost         1981          1982           1983
Item                       Total  Foreign  Total Foreign Total Foreign Total Foreign
- - - - - - - - - - -Lei Million  - - - - - - - - - - - -
Irrigation Works
Main pumping station               30.2    6.3    15.4    3.2   14.8   3.1           -      -
Pressure pumping stations          48.2   10.0    22.1    4.6   26.1   5.4           -      --
Power supply and transformers    30.0   13.6    18.3    8.3   11.7   5.3             -      -
Canal excavation                   83.3   18.1    34.5    7.5   38.3   8.3         10.5    2.3
Canal lining                       50.6    7.4    14.6    2.2   26.2   3.8          9.8    1.4
Canal structures                   17.5    3.9       5.8    1.3    9.6   2.1        2.1    0.5
Syphons                            20.9    4.6    17.3    3.8    3.6   0.8          -       -
Underground pipe network          153.4   33.4    67.1   14.6   81.5  17.8          4.8    1.0
Land levelling                     15.3    2.0       2.9    0.4    7.8   1.0         4.6    0.6
On-farm equipment                  64.3   20.5        -      -    45.1  14.4       19.2    6.1
Subtotal                    513.7  119.8   198.0   45.9  264.7  62.0         51.0   11.9
Drainage Works
Surface drains excavation          63.9    9.9    33.9    5.2    6.4   1.0         23.6    3.7
Surface drains structures          l6.7,   2.9       6.5    1.1    9.0   1.6        1.2    0.2
Tile drains                        50.4   10.1       '.6    1.9    5.8   1.2       35.0    7.0
Subtotal                    131.0   22.9    50.0    8.2   21.2   3.8         59.8   10.9
Miscellaneous Works
Soil erosion control               33.4    4.3    17.5    2.2   15.8   2.0          -       -
Valley training                    46.3    5.9    29.2    3.7    9.8   1.3           7.3    0.9
Facilities for O&M                  3.1    0.4       2.0    0.3    1.2   0.2        -       -
Hydrogeological wells               0.8    0.1       -       -      -       -       0.8    0.1
Subtotal                     83.6   10.7    48.7    6.2   26.8   3.5          8.1    1.0
Land Compensation                    42.3      -      10.0      -    20.0    -        12.3    -
Equipment
Operation and maintenance          13.3    4.3       2.1    0.7    5.6   1.8         5.6    1.8
Farm machinery                     53.4   17.6       8.4    2.8   22.5   7.4       22.5    7.4
Subtotal                     66.7   21.9    10.5    3.5   28.1   9.2         28.1    9.2
Engineering and Administration       86.1    7.3    54.3    4.6   21.1   1.8          10.7    0.9
Base Cost                           923.4  182.6   371.5   68.4  381.9  80.3    170.0   33.9
Contingencies
Physical contingencies             69.1   13.6    27.8    5.1   28.6   6.0         12.7    2.5
Base cost & phy. contingencies  992.5  196.2   399.3   73.5  410.5  86.3    182.7   36.4
Price contingencies                32.2   22.0       4.9    3.3   16.0  11.1        11.3    7.6
Subtotal/l                  101.3   35.6    32.7    8.4   44.6  17.1         24.0   10.1
Total                             1.024.7  218.2   404.2   76.8  426.5  97.4    194.0   44.0
f_ See para.3.15 for details of physical and price contingencies.



- 63 -
AhNNEX 6
Table 2
APPRAISAL OF
BUCSANI-BUZAU-SIRET-PRUT IRRIGATION PROJECT
ROMANIA
Buzau - Estimated Schedule of Expenditure
Estimated Cost       1982            1983           1984           1985           1986
Item                      Total  Foreign  Total Foreign Total Foreign Total Foreign Total Foreign Total Foreign
                         -- -- -- --- -Lei  Million--- -- - -                - -- -       
Irrigation Works
Main puming stations                       -         -      -       -      -       -      -      -       -       -      -       -
Pressure pumping stations                 79.2      16.6   9.6      2.0   25.9    5.4   33.6   7.1    5.3        1.1    4.8      1.0
Power supply & transformers               48.9      22.1    -       -     18.4    8.3   23.0  10.4    4.6        2.1    2.9      1.3
Canal excavation                         153.7      33.8  76.8    16.9   76.9   16.9    -       -        -      -       -       -
Canal lining                              68.5      10.2  24.3      3.6   38.8    5.8    5.4   0.8       -      -       -       -
Canal structures                         181.2      29.8  76.8    16.9   96.0   21.1    8.4   1.8        -      -       -       -
Syphons                                   81.8      18.0  28.8      6.3   48.0   10.6    5.0   1.1       -      -       -       -
Underground irrigation network           445.0      97.9  48.0    10.6   88.0   19.4  215.2  47.3   67.0    14.7   26.8          5.9
Landlevelling                             22.4       3.0    -       -      9.7    1.3   12.7   1.7       -       -      -       -
On-farm equipment                         60.2      19.2    -      -      18.8    6.0   32.0  10.2    9.4       -       -      -
Subtotal                         1,140.9    260.6 264.3   563.0  420.5   94.8  335.3  80.4   86.3    20.9   34.5           8.2
Drainage Works
Surface drains excavation                 99.2      15.0  19.8      3.0   29.9    4.5   29.7   4.5   19.8        3.0    -
Surface drains structures                 55.8       9.4   9.7     1.6   19.4    3.3   17.0   2.9    9.7        1.6    I        -
Tile-drains                              120.8      24.1    -       -     24.0    4.8   43.2   8.6   53.6    10.7    -
Subtotal                            275.8     48.5  29.5      4.6   73.3   12.6   89.9  16.0   83.1    15.3    -          -
Miscellaneous Works
Relocation of communications               3.3       0.4   1.9      0.2    1.4    0.2    -      -        -       -      --      -
Soil erosion control                        -         -     -       -       -      -      -     -         -     -       -      _
Valley training                          329.2      42.9  53.9      7.0  114.3   14.9  112.7  14.7   48.3        6.3    -       -
Reclamation of saline land               156.3      20.4    -        -      -       -    49.8   6.5   49.8       6.5   56.7      7.4
Facilities for O&M                         6.3      0.9    -         -     2.0    0.3    2.0   0.3    2.3       0.3    -       -
Hydrogeological wells                      1.7       0.3    -        -      -       -     0.5   0.1    0.7       0.1    0.5      0.1
Subtotal                            496.8     64.9  55.8      7.2  117.7   15.4  165.0  21.6  101.1    13.2   57.2         7.5
Land Compensation                           57.3        -   10.0       -    12.5      -    12.5   -      12.0      -     10.3    -
Equipment
Operation and maintenance                 34.6      11.5   6.6      2.2    7.5    2.5    7.5   2.5    7.5       2.5    5.5       1.8
Farm machinery                           138.5      45.6  26.3      8.7   30.1    9.9   30.1   9.9   30.1       9.9   21.9       7.2
Subottal                            173.1     57.1  32.9    10.9   37.6   12.4   37.6  12.4   37.6    12.4   27.4          9.0
Engineering & Administration               237.1      18.9 115.0      9.2   41.6    3.3   40.6   3.2   29.7        2.4   10.2      0.8
Base Cost                                2,381.0    450.0 507.5    88.2  703.2  138.5  680.9 133.6  349.8    64.2  139.6    25.5
Contingencies
Physical contingencies                   178.5      33.7  38.0      6.6   52.8   10.4   51.0  10.0   26.2        4.8   10.5      1.9
Base cost & phy. contingencies         2,559.6    483.7 545.6    94.8  755.9  148.9  732.0 143.6  376.0    69.0  150.1    27.4
Price contingencies                     126.6      83.9   6.6      4.3   28.2   19.1   44.6  29.8   31.1    20.2   16.1    10.5
Total Contingencies                        305.1    117.6  44.6    10.9   81.0   29.5   95.6  39.8   57.3    25.0   26.6    12.4
Total                                    2,686.1    567.6 552.1    99.1  784.2  168.0  776.5 173.4  407.1    89.2  166.2    37.9
/1 Seepara. 3.15 for details of physical and price contingencies.



- 64 -
ANNEX 6
APPRAISAL OF                                             Table 3
BUCSANI-BUZAU-SIRET-PRUT IRRIGATION PROJECT
ROMANIA
Siret - Estimated Schedule of Expenditure
Estimated Cost     1981          1982             1983             1984        1985          1986          1987
Item.                   Total Foreign Total Foreign Total Foreign p        Pe      Total Foreign Total Foreigr. Total Foreign Total Foreign
Irrigation Works
Main pumping stations                      3.1     3.    0.7      3    C.8      5.8    1.2    1.9   o.4    -
Pressure oumping stations         22.3    4.7      4.1  0o.      6,2   1.3      2.4    0.5    L.8   1.0       2.9    o.6    1.9   o.L
Power supply & transformers       1C.8    4.9      2.0   0.9     2.3   1.        . 3.0    1.1    1.7   0.8    1.8    o.8    -      -
Canal excavation                   8.1    1.8      1.   0.3      1 7   C       1.7    0.8    1.4   0.3       1.8    0.2   0.5   0.
Canal lining                       4.5    0.7      1.7   C.3     1.2   0.2      1.0    0.1    0.6   0.1       -      -      -      -      -      -
Canal strictures                   F7    1.3       1.2   o.      1.7   C.,      1.0    0.2    1.C   0.2      0.8    0.2    -       -
Synhons                            1.3    0.2       -     -      1.1   C.2      0.2
Urnderground pipeline            152.4   33.5    17.8   3. 9    24.5   5.4    25.9    5.7   35.5   7.8    38.'       8,5    5.6   1.2    1,.7    1.0
On-farm equipment                 21.7    7.0      4.2   1.3      3 3  1.1      3.3    1.1    2.8   0.9      2.8    0.9    2.8   0,9    2.7    c.
Subtotal                      777   57.2    3.68   8 n    V         C 8    IT7   10.6  14 `-'  1         S71            1             72 l1
Drainage Works
Surface drains excavation         60.9    9.2    12.0   1.9    15;0   2.3       q.7    1.5    7,1   ___      7       1        1   0.7    3.8    0.2
Surface drains strictures          5.3    C.8      0.5   0.1     0.7   G.e      0.8    0.1    0.8   0.1      0,7    C 1    0.8   0.1    1.0    0.2
Drainage Dumping stations         16.0    5.7      2.7   1.0     2.9   1.0      2.9    1.0    2.9   1.0      -.9    1 C    1.o   0.4    0.7    0.3
Tile drains                       38.8    7.6      7.2   1.8l    7.2   1.4      7.2   1i.     7.2   1.8                     3.2     .8  1.2  C.  -8
Subtotal                     120.6,  23.3    23.3   7T31   77.i   7            7    7    1.3   3.6          310.    2.0    5.5    1.5
Miscellaneous Works
Relocation of conssunications      2.'   0.3       0.7   0.1     o      0.1     0.6    0.1    o,    -
Valley training                   85.9   11.1    42.3   5.5    21.2   3.1    10.3    1.3    5.9    0.8    '.?             C'.
Reclamation of saline soil        51.3    6.7                     -                     -    10.        3   2        5.2 C2. 11.
Facilities for O&M                 24    0.3       0.5   0.1     O.-            0.5    0.1    0.5    -       0. o.s1    - o                -      -
Fydrogelogical wells               24    0.4        -     -       -      -      -       -      -      -      o.6    0.1    o.8   0.1    1.2    0.2
Subtotal                     14 7   158        .8   5.7        . 3.2    1          1.5   17.0    2.1   779    727    377   2.1   11.8    1.
Land Com.Pensation                   2.3    -         .3    -      0.4    -       o.       -     o.     -                      O.    -      0.2
Equipment
Operation and maintenance          9.1    3.2      lI.L   05     1.   o0.       1.L    0.5    1.-   0.3    1.-    0.5    1.4   0.5    0.7    (-2
Farm machinery                    36.2   11.9      5.6   1.8     5.6   1.9      5.6    1.8    5.6    1.8    5.6    1.9    5.6   1.8    2.        0.9
Subtotal                      15.3   15.1     7.0   2.3      7.0   V7       7.0    2.3    7.0    2.3    7.0    2.1    7.0   2.3    3.1    1.1
Engineering and tdministration      38.5    3.2      f.9   o.0     7.}   o.6      7.4    o.6    7.14    o.    1.2    0.1    2.=   0.2.2.00.2
Base Cost                          593.1  117.6   116.8  21.6   112.1  21.8    91.1   19.0   9s.F    20.1  96.8   20.1   4i            9°          5.8
Contingencies
Physical contingencies            44.4    8.7      8.7   1.6     8.4   1.6      6.8    i.4    7.5      1.5   7        5    2 5      7    5
Base cost & rhy. contingencies  637.5  126.3   125.5  23.2   120.5  23.4    97.9   20.4  107.3    21.' 1-           21.'2   50.0   9.9   32.5    8.o
Price contingencies               4S.6   30.8      1.5   1.0     1.5   3.0      6.2    4.2    9.3      6.   12.1    8.      6.9   8.6    :1    ,I
Total Contingencies/I               90.0   39.5    10.2    -      12.9    -      13.0     -    16.8       -   19.4      -    1O.4    -      7.3
Total                              287.1  157.1   127.0    -    125.0    -    104.1       -   116.8       -  110.2      -    sf.9    -    37.       -
/1  See sara. 3.15 for details of physical and price contingencies.



- 65-                                                 ANNEX 6
Table 4
AFPRATSAT. ',F
BUJCSANI-BUZAU-SIRET-PRTPT IRRIGATION PROJECT
IROMLANTIA
Prut - Estimated Schedule of Expenditure
Estimated Cost       1981          1982             1983          1904         1985          193.            1907
Item                 Total  Foreign Total Foreign Total Foreign Total For i n Total Foreign Total Yoreign TooI Foren o,. Tcq at l ri r
7--     -     -     -     -     -     -     - ~ -     - --    - - - - - -                        -   -   -     -   -   - e -   -
rrigation Works
Mai rpuir.ping stations             36.0    7.6      6.o   1.3     n.0   1.3      4.8    .o      4. 8   1.      4.8   1.0     4.8   1.o      4.e   1.o
Pressure pumping stati6nn           31.9    6.7      2.4   0.5     3.8   0.8      6.5   1.4      4.8   l.o      4.8   1.c     4.8   1.0      4.o   1.0
Power supply & transformers         19.8    8.9       -     -      0.9   0.4      4.6   2.1      4.6   2.1     7.4   3.3      1.4   o.6      0.9   0.4
Canal excavation                    14.0    3.0      2.9   o.6     2.9   0.6      2.9   0.6      2.9   0.6      1.4   0.3     1.4   0.3      C.2 
Canal lining                         6.6    1.0       -     -       1.5   0.2     1.4   0.2      1.4   0.2      1.0   0.2     1.0   0.2      0.3 3
Canal structures                     3.9    0.9       -     -       0.5   0.1     0.s   0.4      0.7   0.2      0.7   C.2     1.0   0.2      o.5   0.1
trnderground irri. pipe network    221.8   48.6       -     -      22.6   5.i   32.0   7.0    37.0   8.0    37.0   8.0    55.7  12.3    37.5   8.3
On-farm equipment                   41.3   13.2       -     -       4.7   1.,     7.5   2.4    11.3   3.6    11.3   3.6       4.7   1.5      1.8   0.6
Subtotal                        70.9    9        11.3  2-7     98T9   T.9    00.o2   =      87-5  18.77   8W-  17.6   =7   17.1 i              3T
Drainage Works
Surface drains excavation           97.2   14.7      6.7   1.0    16.3   2.5    20.6   3.1    26.6   4.0    27.0   4.1        -      -
Surface drai-is structures           t.5    1.5      2.9   0.5      1.9   0.3     1.7   0.3      1.5   0.3     0.5   0.1      -      -
Drainage pumping stations           15.0    5.2      5.6   2.0     4.4   1.5      3.5   1.2      1.5   0.5       -     -      -      -
Tile drains                         30.7    6.1      1.4   0.3      3.4   0.7     4.8   l.o      7.7   1.5      7.7   1.5     5.'   1.1
Subtotal                        15-1.   27.5    1        T,  26.0   5.o         T   -57      37.3   7      35.2   5.7      5.7   1.1
Miscellaneous Works
Relocation or coEmmunications        3.3      .o6     *             0.1    -      o.4    .1      0.6   0.1      1.0   0.2     1.0   0.2      0.2
Reclamation ot saline soil           7.9    1.2                        1-          -                1   0.2     1.8 0'. 3     2.6   0 . 4    2.1   0.3
Soil erosion control                 3.4    o.5      0.3    -      0.5   0.1      0.5   0.1      0.8   0.1     0.8   0.1      0.5   0.1       -
Valley training                    12S.0   19.0    11.8   1.8    14.7   2.2    14.7   2.2    19.o   3.0    29.4   4.4    29.4   4.4          6.L   1.0
Facilities for 04W,                  1.5    0.2      0.1    -      0.2    -       c.3   0.1      0.3   0.1     0.3    -       0.2    -       0.1    -
Nydrogeological wells                -. 6    0.3      -     -        -     -      -       -             _      o. 6   0.1    o06   o.1       o.6   o.1
SuFbtotal                       1,V3 5,   T 7    U772   TT    TV57                   21315.9   22.4   313   39   V        . 34.5    5.2    V    1h
Land Compensation                      2.3    -        0.3    -       0.3    -      O.3    -       0,3    -       0.4    -      o.4    -       0.3    -
Equipme nt
Operation and maintenance           11.4    4.2      1.9   0.7      1.9   3.7     1.9   0.7      1.9   0.7      1.9   0.7     1.9   0.7       -     -
Farm machinery                      45.2   16.9      7.5   2.8      7.5   2.0     7.5   2.8      7.5   2.8     7.5   2.8      7.7   2.9       -     -
Subtotal                          7o   21.1       V       5      7    35       9     3.5      9 7     5            3.5     T     3         -     -
Engineering and Administration        54.5    4.4    lo8   0. 9    11.3   0.9    11.3   0.9        8.3   0.7      7.8   0.6     3.7   0.3      1.4   0.1
Base Cost                            784.6  164.7    o0.6  12.4   105.4  21.6   127.7  27.3   145.2  30.7   155.1  32.5   128.7  27.3    51.9  12.9
Contingencies
ioysical contingencies              58.7   12.2      4.5   o.9      7.9   1.o     9.6   2.1    10.9   2.3    11.6    2.4    9.6   2.0        4.6   o.9
Base cost I plhv. contingencies    843.3  176.9    65.1  13.3   113.3  23.2   137.3  29.4   156.1  33.0   166.7   34.9  138.3  29.3    66.5  13.8
Orice contingencies                 78.2   53.8      0.9   0.6     4.4   3.o      8.8   6.1    14 c   9.6    19.3   13.3   19.7  13.6    11.1   7.6
Total Conti-gencies/l                136.9   66.o      5.4   1.5    12.3   4.6    18.4   8:2    24.9  11.9    30.9   15.7   29.3  15.6    15.7   3.5
Total                                921.5  230.7    66.o  13.9   117.7  26.2   146.1  35.5   179.1  42.6   18 .0   48.2  158.0  42.9    77.6  21.4
Li See para. 3.15 for details of physical and price contingencies.



-66 -                         Annex 7
Table 1
APPRAISAL OF
Bucsani - Buzau - Siret - Prut - Irrigation Prgject
ROMANIA
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
IBRD Fiscal Year                           Cumulative Disbursement
and Quarter                                at end of Quarter
1981/1982                                     (US$ million)
September 30, 1981                                       1.0
December 31, 1981                                        7.0
March 31, 1982                                          13.0
June 30, 1982                                           18.0
1982/1983
September 30, 1982                                      23.0
December 31, 1982                                       28.0
March 31, 1983                                          33.0
June 30, 1983                                           38.0
1983/1984
September 30, 1983                                      47.0
December 31, 1983                                       47.0
March 31, 1984                                          50.0
June 30, 1984                                           53.0
1984/1985
September 30, 1984                                      56.0
December 31, 1984                                       59.0
March 31, 1985                                          61.0
June 30, 1985                                           63.0
1985/1986
September 30, 1985                                      65.0
December 31, 1985                                       67.0
March 31, 1986                                          68.0
June 30, 1986                                           69.0
1986/1987
September 30, 1986                                      70.0
December 31, 1986                                       72.0
March 31, 1987                                          73.0
June 30, 1987                                           75.0



- 67 -
ANNEX 8
Table 2
APPRAISAL OF
BUCSANI-BUZAU-SIRET-PRUT IRRIGATION PROJECT
ROMANIA
Annual Maintenance and Operation Costs and Replacement Costs
Annual Maintenance and Operation        Replacement
Irrigation
& Drainage   Pumping   Power   Total  Every
Project            Systems     Stations  Costs  Annual  10 Years
- - - - - - - -          Lei Million        - 
Bucsani           10.2           12.3      5.7    28.2       68.4
Buzau              41.6          20.3      6.6    68.5       71.9
Siret               7.5           4.8      5.0    17.3       23.2
Prut               13.4           7.9      2.7    24.0       43.9
Total Irr. VII    72.7           45.3    20.0   138.0       199.4



APPRAISAL OF
BUCSANI-BUZAU-SIRET-PRUT IRRIOATION PROJECT
ROMANIA
BUCSANI
SUMMARY OF ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
(000 LEI:
YEAR             1981         1982         1963         1984         1985         1986         1987         1988         1989         1990   1991-1999          2000   2001-2009           2010   2011-2019          2020
INVESTMENT COST              370120.0    353780.0    136895.0               -            -            -            -            -            -            -             -
OPER. & MAINT.COST                   -      12100.0      23700.0      28200.0      28200.0      28200.0      28200.0      28200.0      28200.0      28200.0      28200,0      28200.0      28200.0       28200.0      28200.0      28200.0
REPLACEMENT COST                                  -            -                         -            -            -            -            -      68400.0             -     68400.0             -      68400.0            -      68400.0
SUBTOTAL                     370120.0    365880.0    160595,0         282G000      28200.0     28200.0       28200.0      28200.0      28200.0      96600.0      28200.0      96600.0      28200.0       96600.0      28200.0      76600.0
BENEFITS WITH PROJECT                -    489787i7    771754.8    891417.0    950374.2    961207.5    963887.1    966833.5    969779.8    972726.2    972726.2    972726.2    972726.2    972726.2    972726.2    972726.2
FLOOB BENEFITS                       -        176.3        273.6        304.0        304.0        304.0        304.0        304.0        304.0        304.0-       304.0         304.0        304.0        304.0        304.0        304.0
BENEFITS WITHOUT PROJECT             -    366374.1    472159.1    484375.6    492924.1    495976.0    497175.4    498374.7    499574.0    500773.4    500773.4    500773.4    500773.4    500773.4    500773.4    500773.4
INCREMENTAL BENEFITS                 -    123589.9    299869.3    407345.4    457754.1    465535.5    467015.8    468762.8    470509.8    47225t.8    472256.8    472256.8    472256.8    472256.8    472256.8    472256.8
COST Of PROD WITH PROJ               -    185177.3    275543.4    312687.4    334196.1    337917.5    338579.0    339244.5    339910.0    340577.3    340577.3    340577.3    340577.3    340577.3    340577.3    340577.3  00
COST OF PROD WITHOUT                 -    128888.4    166306.7    170399.2    173832.2    174625.5    174938,7    175251.6    175565.0    175878.4    175878.4    175878.4    175878.4    175878.4    175878.4    175878.4   I
INCREMENTAL PROD.COST                -     56288.8    109236.7    142288.2    160363.9    163292.0    163640.3    163992.7    164345.1    164699.0    164699.0    164699.0    164699.0    164699.0    164699.0    164699.0
NET BENEFITS                -370120.0   -298578.9        30037.6    236857.2    269190.2    274043.5    275175.4    276570.1    277964.7    210957.9    279357.9    210957.9    279357.9    210957.9    279357.9    210957.9
NET PRESENT VALUE AT 9.07 = 1637698462.
INTERNAL RATE OF RETURN =   27.6%
19
H tm
I-' S



APPRAISAL OF
BUCSANI-BUZAU-SIRET-PRUT IRRIGATION PROJECT
ROHANIA
BUZAU
SUHMARY OF ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
(000 LEI)
YEAR             1981         1982         1983         1984         1985         1986         1987         178S         1989          1990   1993-199           2G00   2001-2009          2010   2011-2019           2020
INVESTMENT COST                      -    717250.0    908105.0    673455.0    317300.0    106495.0                 -            -            -             -            -            -            -             -            -            -
OPER. I MAINT.COST                   -            -      17800.0      40400.0     57500.0       65800.0      68500.0      68500.0      68500.0      68500.0      68500.0      68500.0       68500.0      68500.0      68500.0      68500.0
REPLACEMENT COST                     -            -                         -            -            -            -            -            -      71900.0             -     71900.0             -      71900.0             -      71900.0
SUBTOTAL                             -    717250.0    925905.0    713855.0    374800.0    172295.0           68500.0      68500.0      68500.0    140400.0       68500.0    140400.0        68500.0    140400.0       68500.0    140400.0
BENEFITS WITH PROJECT                -            -    183908.4    678509.2   1128247.4   1398192.9   1505291.9   1543579.9   1554458.2   1558591.2   1558591.2   1558591.2   1558591.2   1558591.2   1558591.2   1558591.2
FLOOD BENEFITS                       -            -         72.2        252.8        433.0        516.0        516.0        516.0        516.0         516.0        516.0        516.0        516.0         516.0        516.0        516.0
BENEFITS WITHOUT PROJECT             -            -    111441.7    377476.7    551973.8    613965.2    614814.6    615663.9    616513.2  - 617360.3    617360.3    617360.3    617360.3    617360.3    617360.3    617360.3
INCREMENTAL BENEFITS                 -            -     72538.9    301285.4    576706.6    784743.7    890993.3    928432.0    938460.9    941747.0    941747.0    941747.0    941747.0    941747.0    941747.0    941747.0
COST OF PROD WITH PROJ               -            -     69915.4    256476.5    423954.2    522821.2    562324.8    576817.1    580642v.8    581721.6    581721.6    581721.6    581721.6    581721.6    581721.6    581721.6  '°
COST OF PROD WITHOUT                 -            -      45757.7    155438.1    278230.5    253883.4    254254.9    254626.5    254998.0    255369.7    255369.7    255369.7    255369.7    255369.7    255369.7    255369.7   1
INCREMENTAL PROD.COST                -            -     24157.6    101038.4    195723.7    268937.8    308069.9    322190.7    325644.8    326351.9    326351.9    326351.9    326351.9    326351.9    326351.9    326351.9
NET BENEFITS                         -   -717250.0   -877523.8   -513608.0          6182.9    343510.9    514423.4    537741.3    544316.1    474995.0    546895.0    474995.0    546895.0    474995.0    546895.0    474995.0
NET PRESENT VALUE AT 9.0%   1919052505.
INTERNAL RATE OF RETURN -   17.1%
rFj >



APPRAISAL OF
BUCSANI-BU2AU-SIRET-PRUT IRRIGATION PROJECT
ROMANIA
SIRET
SUMMARY OF ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
(000 LEI)
YEAR             1981         1982         1983         1984         1985         1986         1987         1988         1989         1990   1991-1999          2000  2_OG-20G9            2013   2011-2019          2020
--- - - - - - - - - - -- -- - - - - -- - - - - - - - -   _ _   __ -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -_  - - - - - - - - - - - - - -    - - - -- -- - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -     _    - - - - - - - - - - - - - -__ -__ - __ -__ - __ - __ -_ - -_ - -_ - -_ - -_ -, -. - _   -_ - -_ - -.-
INVESTMENT COST               115045.0    110295.0       88350.0      97565.0      94240.0      41610.0      28120.0            -            -            -             -            -            -            -            -            -
OPER. I MAINT.COST                   -       3500.0       6700.0       9300.0      12200.0      15000.0      16300.0      17300.0      17300.0      17300.0      17300.0      17300.0      17300.0       17300.0      17300.0      17300.0
REPLACEMENT COST                     -            -            -            -            -            -            -            -            -      23200.0             -     23200.0             -      23200.0            -      23200.0
SUBTOTAL                      115045.0    113795.0       95050-0    106865.0    106440-0        56610.0      44420.0      17300.0      17300.0      40500.0      17300.0      40500.0      17300.0      40500.0       17300.0      40500.0
BENEFITS WITH PROJECT                -      20527.1      55174.5    117504.0    197439.2    262351.3    321517.3    343574.5    352772.4    350140.3    356140.3    356140.3    356140.3    356140.3    356140.3    356140.3
FLOOD BENEFITS                       -        222.0        445.0        538.0        544.0        556.0        567.0        585.0        585.0        585.0        585.0        585.0        585.0         585.0        585.0        585.0
BENEFITS WITHOUT PROJECT             -       9556.5      23755.2      49701.8      78287.4      95617.0    113119.2    113372.3    113625.3    113877-0    113877.0    113877.0    113877.0    113877.0    113877,0    113877.0
INCREMENTAL BENEFITS                 -      11192.5      31864.3      68340.2    119695.8    167290.3    208965.1    230787.2    239732.1    242848.3    242848.3    242848.3    242848.3    242848.3    242848.3    242848.3
COST OF PROD WITH PROJ               -       6351.8      17094.3      36797.2      62506.1      83161.6    102192.5    109382.9    112588.6    113788.7    113788.7    113788.7    113788.7    113788.7    113788.7    113788.7
COST OF PROD WITHOUT                 -       4227.4      10490.6      21997.8      34904.1      42635.1      50294.3      50389.8      50485.4      50581.1      50581.1      50581.1      50581.1       50581.1      50581.1      50581.1
  ___       _ __      __ _      __ _- - - -- _- -- - _- ------- -- -   - - --- --- - --   ----- --- - --   --- - ---- ---   -- --- ------   - ---- - ---- -   -- ---- -- -_ -  -_ _ -_ _ -___ -  -___ - --___ -  -_ __ - --__ _ - __ _ - --__ _ - - __ _ -- -__ _ --  __ _ -_ _ - -_ - -
INCREMENTAL PROD.COST                -       2124.5       6603.7      14799.4      27602.0     40526-6       51898.2      58993.1      62103.2      63207.6      63207.6      63207.6      63207.6      63207.6       63207.6      63207.6
NET BENEFITS                -115045.0   -104726.9    -69789.4    -53324.2    -14346.2           70153.7    112646.9    154494.2    160328.9    139140.8    162340.8    139140,8    162340.8    139140,8    162340.8    139140.8
NET PRESENT VALUE AT 9.0%   716782766.
INTERNAL RATE OF RETURN      21.7%
Ii0



APPRAISAL OF
8UCAH1DU2U-lRE-FBJTIRRIGATION PROJECT
SUMMARY OF ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
(000 LEI)
YEAR             1981          1982         1983         1984         1985          1980         1987         1388          1989         1990   1991-1970           2000   2301-2009           2010   2011-2019           2020
INVJESTMENT COST               53770.0    100605.0    124640.0    142690.0    152950.0    125400.0             65265.0                                 -            -                    -            -                    -
OPER. I KAINT.COST                    -       1700.0       4800.0       8600.0      13200.0       18000.0      21800.0      24000.0       24000.0      24000.0       24000.0      24000.0       24000.0      24000.0       24000.0      24000.0
REPLACEMENT COST                                   -             -            -            -            -             -            -            -      43900.0             -      43900.0             -      43900.0             -      43900.0
UTOTA                            3700       102305.0    129440.0    151290.0    166150.0    143400.0           87065.0      24000.0    2-4000.0        67900,0       24000.0      67900.0       2400         6700          2000         690.
BENEFITS WITH PROJECT                 -       7620.4    128294.0    290374.6    456002.2    598913.5    695518.5    733269.4    748876.8    754559.7    754559.7    754559.7    754559,7    754559.7    754559,7    754559,7
FLOOD BENEFITS                        -         .53,0      1236.0        1442.0       2884.0       4296.0       5650.0        5885.0       5885. 0      5885.0        5885.0       5885.0        5885.0       5885.0        5885,0       5885.0
BENEFITS WITHOUT PROJECT              -       5679.1      95221.0    188256.9    267356.7,   324679.7    356402.8    357283,6    358164.4    359041,0    359041.0    359041.0    359041.0    359041.0    359041.0    359041.0
INCREMENTAL IENEFITS                  -       1994.3      34309.0    103559.7    191529.6    270529.9    344765.7    381870.8    396597,4    401403,7    401403,7    401403.,7    401403.7    401403,7    401403.7    401403,7
COST OF FROD WITH PROJ                -       2132.3      36209.6      82135.8    130618.3    171838,9    199739.3    210739.5    215402.8    216969.3    216969,3    216969,3    216969.3    216969.3    216969.3    216969.3 
COST OF PROD WITHOUT                  -       1887,       319.3        6492.5       89271.4    108447.6    119079.7    119306.9    119534.0    119761,5    119761,5              1197761.5    119761.5    119761.5        119761.5    119761.5
INCREMENTAL PROI'.COST                         244,9       4612.5      19643.3      41346,9       63391,3      80659.6      91432,6       95868.0      97207,8       97207.8      97207.8       97207,8      97207.8       97207.8      97207.8
NET BENEFITS                  -53770.0   -100555.6    -99743.5    -67373.6    -15967,3            '71738.5    177041.1    266438.2    276728.6    236295.9    280195.9    236295.9    280195.9    236295.9    280195.0    236295.9
NET PRESENT VALUE AT 9.0%   1434901056.
INTERNAL RATE OF RETURN = 31.1%



7 2  -                                                                                            A e
APPRAISAL OR                                                                                           Table  5
08C0640-BUZAU-OORET-PRUT 2IRIGA8TION PROJECT
RORANIA
09U890Y OF ECO4IRC ANALYSIS0
(000 LEO)
TEAR            19so         0982         098          1984         1985        15866        0987         1986         9789         :990   1991-I???          20CC  21001-COOT         2010  2.0212'0:0           2
INV. COSTS B00S8N0           07,0020.0    053780.0    036898.0             -            -           -            -            -            -            -            ----
09ER.IR4INT.  B805CS90I                    02100.?      237,00.0     28200.0     280       00.0      28200. 0    28 200.0      2        0000 0  28200.0 208200.0 20 200,   0      282 00.0     28200  22100 .0    28200.01     '2C020,
REPL. COOT B6C0A0I                         -     -6                                                                                                8400,0            -     68400,0             -     ,400.0-                   68401.C
SUBTOTAL BOCSARI             370020.0    268280.9    106595.0        26200.0     28200.0      2B200,028200.0            28200.0      28200.0      98800.0     26200.0      96900.0      20209.0      9601000      2900.0       0821
INV6. 00808BZA 80107172150.0    908105.0    670455.0    307300.0    108495.0                                     -            -                                                                              
OPER.186AIN.  60086                              -      0800,0       40400.0     57000.0      60800.0      695000       800.0  6      8500 ,0 885000,0%.       88000.0    68000.0       80500.0      60500.0      60500.0      68500.1
AOPL. COST B08UZAU-                                                                                                           -            -     290.                      71900,0            -      211000,0           -      '100100
0680004AL B6100                      -    707250.0    929080.0    103850,0    378800,0    17,2295.0        8050.0       688000.0     68503.      140400.0     88000.0    104906.0    68500.0    040400.0          68566.0    181400.1
186. C0500 00800             115040.0    1102R5.0       88030.0     97565.0      84240.0      40600.0      28020.9                         -                                                                               
CPER.IRAONT,  80000                  -      0500.0       6708,0       9300,0      12200.0     13000.0      06200.9      07300.0      173000.0     07300.0     10500.0      17200,0      10000.0      1723000       MOM.0       000.
REOL. COST 01000                     -                                                                                                             3-20-   - .0 -  230.62200.6                 -     20200.0            -      22200.0
SUBTOTAL 80800               115045.0    103795.0       95950.0   1008885.0    108440.0       56610.0      44420.0      17300.0      00000.0     40500,0       MOM1,       40505.0      10300.0      40300,0      17000.6      40520.2
048. C0309T 6  3RT             3700.0    000605.0    024649.0    142690.0    1S2950,0    125400.0          65265.0                                      -            -            -                        -            -            -
0900.1880N0.  P8UT0                         1700.0       4800.0       8800.0     13200.0      18000,0      20800.6      240000,      28000.0     24000.0      24201.0      24900.0      24000.1      24000.0      24000.0,    24000.0
8091.. COOT P80-                                                           -            -UT                                                       43900,2                  42900.0            -       04300,2           -      40900,0
SUBTOTAL POjT                 507,70,0    002305.0    129440,0    151290,0    18o150,0    040400.0         87065.9      24000,0      24000.9     67900.0      24000.0      87900.0.     24000.0      679?00.0     24020.0      67907.7
07800781,                    5589235.0   1299220,0   302095.    10000210.0    82,5592,       450505.0    220185.0    03000.5    000900.0    395800.2    15SO55.           095900.0    038000.0    044000,        130000.C,   090900.1
BENEPITS WITH 9000841               -    489067,77   771754,8    891417.0    950304,2    961207.5    963887.1    068800.5    9697,79.9   9772728,2    902726.2    97,2726,2    9002746.2    072726,2    9727-,2    072719.2
B0009079 600H B01Z7U                             -    18908004    878509.2   1128247,4   0398092.9   1505291.9   0543579.    0559450.2   0258591.2   :558591.2   1558591,2   1538391.7   0558591.2  :1258191.0   1558591.2
8099F000 W209 80I00T                       20520.1      55074.3     107504.0    190438.2    262350.3    221517.0    343574.0    252077.4    358140.73    008042.3    056140,0    056141.0    058140.3    226(40,0    0~1604.0
B0907000 W00H PRU0                   -      76202.4    128294,0    290374.8    428002.2    398910.0    690018.5    733209.4    740876.0    759559,7    754059.7    704559.,7           7458529.2    7585529,7    714174-7    054556.'
BENEPITS himH PRGOJCT                -    507935.1   0009031,6   19077804,8   2732083.1   0270660.3   3488204.8   3587297.0   3620892.2   0692017,5   38430101-   36420i0'.5   3842012.0   0642012-,03642017.,   3692(1V,2
FLOOD BENEPITS 860490                -       16,          2713.8       334.0       304.0        304.2        004.9        004.0        3099.        0400.       304.0        004.0        004.0        004.0        124.2         19.0
FLOOD BENEFITS 80190                                       7  2.2      252.8       433.0        506.2        719.9         I. 51,10  516.0 014.               0        518. 0       516.0   0          516.0  5      ,16.0 0:.    16.1
FL000 BENEPITS 01000                 -        22.2        445.6        528.9       544.         558.0        367,0        585    55.0 501       .0 280.       0        585.0  50 5.0            585.0 0       85.0 09.           582.2
FLOOD BEE4FITS 9800                           53.0       1036.9       1442.9      2884.9       4296.0       56500.       5885.0       5880.0       0885.6      5885.0       5885.0       5085.0       0061.0       5089.0       58SoOC
FLOOD BENEPITS.                              504.3       3080.6       3726.0      6816.0       9452,0      12101.2      12650.       12659.0      12659.9      02859.0     12659,2      10859,7,12659,1           02659.0      12604.2~
80NEFI00 8004800 BICSARO                  3 00374.1    472139.0    464375,6    492924,1    495976,0    491715.4    498279,7    499574.0    5097,70.4    500773.4    500770,4    5000776,4    5001773,4   500772,4    700703.4
0098903  6OITPON oUlAt                            -    111441.7    300476.0    550973.8    100985.2.   614814.8    805663.9    ,16013.2    600360.3    817360.0    800360.0    .17360.0    612,360.0    617360.3    017120430
BENEF000 WITHOUT 80800T                     9558.1      230755.2     49001.0     79287.4      95817.0    110119.2    110327.0    100820.3    113877.0    113977.0    110877.1    113877.0    113377.0    113097>7             It 8
8ENEF101 6009000 PRUT                       5679.1      90220.0    188236.9    267356,7    324609,7    358402.0    357280.6    058184.4    359141,0    059941.6    059041,2    339041.0    359041.2    359041,.0    000941,0
8ENEFI000W00HOU0 PROJECT             -    3810698.7    732570.0   1099801.0   1380541.0   1500207.9   1581510.9   1584894.5   0587,807.0   2591051,,   1591051.8 190,6 159 0051.86101051,6                 159ll-  51051.6   1391052.6
16C8, B04900FITS   88               -    023589M.9    299869.3    40,7040.4    400754.1    465525.5    487015.0    46B7,2.8    4270500.9    47225,,9    402256.8    402256.9    472228,7    477756.8    47,222,0             4217.025.
04CR. 00409008 860Z6U                            -      72536.9    3002B5.4    576706.6    784740.7    990990.3    939430.0    093460.0    941747.0    041747.0    ;41747,0    049747,             041747,0    9 40707.0    094120>0
04CR. 00689070 01800                       1 1192.5     31884.0      68340.2    119695.0    167290.3    208963.1    233707.2    239707.1    242848 .3    040048.3    2409646.0    042848,3    240948.2    7294984.7    242940.0
0419. 89N09100 9907                        10914,3      14359.0    103559.7    S19529.6    20,8509.9    0447,60,2    08127.9    796597.4    401400,7    401043.7    4201423,7    401460S,2    401400,7    491400,7    471403,7
08000804090 88909009                      136706,7    408580.4    080500.2,  1345886.1   1686099.9   1900707.    2039852.1   2940000.2   2058255.9   2008250.9   2059255.9   7058255,0   2059255.9   2008253,0   2010255.9
9900 C0908 W009 BLOSARI              -    185107.2    209543.4    312887.4    334198.1    007910.5    228579.0    000244.0    220911.0    340572.3    040577.3    040077,00340077,0                 340117.2    340522,3    304522.0
9803 00908 6104 00100                             -     60915,4    258478.0    4238954.0    522801.2    562224.8    52,8917.1    509640.8    581720.,    581701.6    581721.6    081221.8    501721.9    081221.,6             972.
9003 00100 W109 00IR0T                      6351.9      17004.3      26797.2     62506,1      80160.6    102192.5    109380.4    1125869,        113288.7    113788.7    110700.7    110798.7    113780,7    1107607-    11078.7
PR00 10000 6074 9000                        21032.3     08209.8      82135.8    130618.3    1783.4    199708,3  210739.025    402.9208069,T                  218989.3    216989,3    786979,0    216969.0    706060,          216990.0
C007 09 PR30 61T9 P80J                    1 93661.4    298762.9   688096,9    950274.2   11157039.2   12020805.6   1226184.0   1249544,2   1753052,0   0253057.0   1053327.1   1250057.0   1253052.l   1253057.0   0250052,2,
P800 C0800 WIO B00086I                    12B0268.4    16683067    070399.2    0058032.2    104825.0    174929.7    17,5251,8    2205560,0    17597,4    100808.4    1 72 928 .4    1709879.4    005008.4    17059779,0    020970,4
PROS 00009 6/0 86000                             -      45757.7    153438.0    228200.5    353880.4   0,54254.9    254628.5.   154998.0    205270.7    255089.7    2553,9.7    255360.,7   255069.7    255770.2    200060.7
9003 C0000 W/3 80I00T                       4220.4      10490.8      20997.8     34934.1      42830.1      53294.0      59389.8      00405.4     00581.1      09580.0      50581.0      0059I1.      20501.:      5008o.i     50790.1
PROD COS00 W/0 P080T                        1880.4      21097.2      82492.5     89270.4    108447,6    100079.7    1093069.9    119534.1    119761,5    119780.5   019781,0    109761.5    109761.5    1192,1,5    019T61.,5
COST OFPRO 9805 T008UT               -    105003.2    254152.4    9109277.6    528258.2    579590,9    598580.0    599575.0   63058-.4    801590.7    600590.7,   600590.7    400080.7    601598.7    811590.0    601500.2
NE0 00989006 8001NI         -3730120.3   -298578.9      80037.6    236857.2    260190.2    27,4040.9    279195.4    208579.0    227084.7    200907,4    279357.9    280952.0    729357.9    080957.9    270357.9    205.
NET BENEFITS 88088                  -   -217250.0   -07725023.8   -500600.0       68082.     040500.9    014420.4    537041.0    244006.1    424995,1    546095.0    974995,0    048895.0    404995.0    146995.0    474045,7
NE0 BENE9005 80800          -115045.0   -104728.9    -89789.4    -02024.2    -84348.2    7,0103,7    112,46.9    154494.2    160026.            009141.0    162349.9    039104.0    167340,0    139104.8    162340.9    139140.6
NE0 6098F100 P060            -53770.0   -1000550.6    -99740.5    -67,373.6    -80967.0       07078.0    107040.1    266430.2    2774229.6    200295.9    200195.9    238295.9    292195.0    206295,0    080195.9    236295.4
NET 809F700                 -538935.0  -1220110.5  -10173019.0   -097449.7    245259.6    759446.6   0079288.9   1235240.0   1259338.4   1062089.,   1260709.6   1960089.8   1260789.6   1061389,6   1000789.6  1I7,060,,
RESULTS F08 66168N0
NET P690049 79L00 40 9.00   1607,698462,
1400946  R900 OF 000084 =   22.60
0010600 909. 67046
NE9 RESEN49 V4L00  Of .00   1919952505.
1099RNA. 4477 G1  00294     12.21.
RE8ULTS 900 0000
YE0 P88E0E.0 VAL2  41.Al     '1,7412268.
14000489 0800 00 901098      :07-
RESULTS 9OR 9907
NET098000N0 VALLE Al,7~    44010
0N7004i7 9470 07F   74  * T  02.?.
9081.20 900 '90J80'
987980940S 44.0  AlU  .41    210,434-'87
24000R00 RAT0 67 97 .0, .   21.4



- 73 -
Annex 10
APPRAISAL OF                                 Table
BUCSANI-BUZAU-SIRET-PRUT IRRIGATION PROJECT
ROMANIA
Financial and Economic Input Prices
Input                       Unit          Financial           Economic
-------- (lei/ton) ---
Seed
Wheat                                    ton             2,136               2,136
Barley                                    "              1,520               1,520
Maize (grain)                             "              3,133               3,133
Maize (silage)                            "              2,840               2,840
Sunflower                                              12,400              12,400
Soya                                      "             8,530                8,530
Linseed                                   "              8,000               8,000
Sugarbeet                                              32,670              32,670
Potatoes                                  "              1,050               1,050
Beans                                                    5,680               5,680
Alfalfa (hay)                             "             10,850              10,850
Pastures (sown)
Vineyards                             piece           4,083               4,083
Orchards                                "             8,200               8,200
Fertilizer (ton active substance)
Urea                                     ton             2,405          5,552-7,844/1
Super phosphate                                         2,940           6,137-7,215/1
Potash                                                   2,200          3,785-4,135/1
Plant Protection
Herbicides
Diclordonsodic                           ton           21,300              21,300
Pesticides
Ditritox concentrate                     ton           14,600               14,600
Dinotan                                                 37,100              37,100
Nitrox                                    "              6,710               6,710
Heclotox                                                 1,220               1,220
Lindan Gama Hexaclor                      "             95,400              95,400
Lindatox   3%                             "              4,320               4,320
Lindatox  20%                             "             25,050              25,050
Detoxanselmic exp. 100%                  It             20,700              20,700
Detox     25%                             "              7,000               7,000
Pinetox   10                             t"              6,300               6,300
Sulf. pulhere fungicide                   "             1,830                1,830
Sulf. musabil                                            4,950               4,950
Labor                                      day                75                  75
/1   For 1981 and 1990



- 74 -                           Annex 10
Table 2
APPRAISAL OF
BUCSANI-BUZAU-SIRET-PRUT IRRIGATION PROJECT
ROMANIA
Financial and Economic Output Prices
(lei/ton)
OUTPUT                     Domestic                                       Economic
Crops                   CAP         IAS       Weighted Average         1981        1990
Wheat               1,370       1,000           1,280               3,420       3,747/1
Barley              1,100         800           1,025               2,293      2,780/1
Maize               1,150         800           1,065               2,483       3,018/1
Sunflower           1,150         800           2,030              6,840       7,260/1
Soybean             3,600       2,900           3,425              5,686       6,796/1
Linseed             3,600       2,900           4,800               4,800      4,800/1
Sugarbeet             350         350             350                 483         695/1
Potatoes              900         900             900                 900         900
Vegetables          1,500       1,500           1,500               3,960       3,960/2
Beans               3,300       3,300           3,300               3,300      3,300
Alfalfa (hay)         500         470             495                 495         495
Pastures (natural
*and sown)          110         110             110                 110         110
Vineyards           3,900       3,900           3,900               3,900       3,900
Orchards            2,400       2,400           2,400               4,926      4,926/3
Vetch (green)         110         110             110                 110         110
Vetch (hay)           500         480             495                 495         495
Maize Silage           80          80              80                  80          80
Natural Hayfields    110          110             110                 110         110
By- roducts
Wheat Straw           140          90             127                 127         127
Barley Straw          140          90             127                 127         127
Maize Stalk           120          40             100                 100         100
Bean Stalk            120          40             120                 120         120
Soya Stem             120          40             120                 120         120
Sunflower Stalk       120          40              40                  40          40
Sugarbeet Tops        120          40              50                  50          50
/1  Based on IBRD's Price Prospect For Major Primary Commodities, January 1980
/2  Export parity price based on projections in "Fruit and Vegetable Exports from
the Mediterranean Area to the EEC," World Bank Staff Working Paper No. 321,
March 1979.
/3  Based on estimates made in SAR for Orchards Project, Romania, May 1980.



- 75 -
APPRAISAL OF                       ANNEX 11
Page 1
BUCSANI-BUSAU-SIRET-PRUT IRRIGATION PROJECT
ROMANIA
Description of Project Works
Bucsani Subproject
1.       Dams on the River Olt.  Development of the water resources of the
Olt River, which is the source of irrigation supplies for the Bucsani sub-
project, is in the nature of a series of twenty five multipurpose dams,
primarily for generation of hydroelectric power, domestic and industrial
uses, and flood control. Ten of these dams have already been completed,
three are under construction and the remaining twelve are in various stages
of investigations and design. Five of these dams (Ionesti, Zavideni,
Dragasani, Strejesti and Arcesti), would provide the suplies required for
irrigation.   No additional investments would be necessary for irrigation,
and, therefore, the economic analysis does not include any separable cost
of these dams. The first three dams serving the project area have already
been completed; the remaining two being in the final stages of construc-
tion, with completion due by end of 1981. (IBRD Map 15177 see insert).
Assurances were obtained during negotiations for the timely completion of
the Strejesti and Arcesti dams (SAR, para. 6.1(e)). The concept of these
dams on the Olt River and their associated structures and adequacy of their
design would be reviewed by independent qualified experts acceptable to the
Bank. Also, periodic reviews during construction, and following comple-
tion, would be arranged to ensure the quality of construction and adequacy
of maintenance and method of operating of the structure (SAR, para 6.1(k)).
2.       The Canal System and Pumping Stations.  Six offtakes from the Olt
River would serve six separate distribution networks in the project area,
located on the right bank of the river as summarized below:
(a) Pressure pumping station SPP1, with a capacity of 0.35 m3/sec,
would lift water directly from Ionesti lake, and, irrigate an area
of 620 ha.
(b) Pressure pumping station SPP2, with a capacity of 0.85 m3/sec,
would lift water directly from Zavideni lake, and, irrigate an
area of 1,652 ha.
(c) Pressure pumping station SPP3, with a capacity of 0.51 m3/sec,
would lift water directly from Dragasani lake, and, irrigate an
area of 858 ha.
(d) Pressure pumping station SPP4, with a capacity of 1.96 m3/sec,
would lift water through the existing intake on the dyke between
Dragasani and Strejesti dams, and, irrigate an area of 3,558 ha.



- 76 -
ANNEX 11
Page 2
(e) Canal CA1, with a acapacity of 4.5 m3/sec. at head, would off-
take by gravity above Strejesti dam and after 4.4 km bifurcate
into Canals CA1-1 and A1-2. Repumping station SRP1 (2.0
m3/sec), for lifting the water over a head of about 65 m to the
plateau, and, three pressure pumping stations (SPP7, SPP8, and
SPP9) would be located on Canal CAI-1 and the pipe conduits
leading therefrom. SPP6 would be located at the tail of Canal
CA1.2.  Total area irrigated by this system would be 7,502 ha.
(f)  Canal CA2, with a capacity of 12.2 m3/sec, would offtake by
gravity above Arcesti dam and after 2.1 km outfall into North
Oltisor drain. The drain would be used for irrigation as well as
drainage, and repumping Station SRP2 and pressure pumping
stations SPP10 to SPP13 would be located in this reach.
Canal CA3.a (5.1 km) would connect North Oltisor drqin to its
southern branch, which latter would again perform the same dual
function of irrigation and drainage. SRP3 and SRP4 would lift
the water from the tail end of Canal CA3.a into Canal CA4 (6.1
km) on the plateau. Pressure Pumping Stations SPP14 to SPP21
would be located on Oltisor south and on pipe conduits offtaking
from Canal CA4. The area irrigated by this system would be
22,610 ha.
All canals would be lined with concretef most of the work would be done
with canal lining machinesfi while about 25% in difficult terrain would be
carried out manually.   Principal hydraulic data of the main canals is
summarized below:
Name of Canal
Hydraulic Parameters    Unit         CAl          CA2         CA3        CA4
Length                   Km          4.4          2.1       5.1         6.1
Discharge at head        m3/sec      4.5          12.2       3.3        5.0
Slope                    0/00        0.18-0.1    0.7        0.2-0.8    0.1-1.0
Velocity                 m/sec       0.78-0.48   1.68       0.74-1 2   0.78-0.54
Bottom width             m           2.5-1.0      3.0        1.5-0.5    2.5-1.0
Water depth              m           1.23-0.95   1.21        1.1-0.55   1.3-1.02
Operation of the canal system would be automated by the use of hydraulically
operated constant downstream water level gates at the regulating struc-
tures.   Some canal reaches would have adequate capacity to store flow vari-
ations, resulting from differences between supply and demand.   At suitable
locations, escape weirs would be provided to spill surplus water into the
canal downstream or nearby natural drainages.   A total of about 61 struc-
tures would be constructed on the canal system.



-77 -
ANNEX 11
Page 3
3.       Sprinkler Irrigation.  A total area of about 22,000 ha would be
served by sprinkler irrigation.   About 50% of this area would be served
with self-propelled and longitudinally towed equipment, and the remaining
50% with manually handled sprinkler equipment.   Distribution pipes
(antennae) would be spaced 800 m apart and their length would depend on the
terrain.   Hydrants would be located on the antennae at a spacing of 72 m
and each hydrant would supply water to six laterals (three on either side)
by rotation, but only two would be served simultaneously.   Sprinklers
would be placed at the 18 m intervals, each to serve an area of 18 m x 24 m
in the flood plain spacing on the plateau would be reduced to 18 m x 18 m.
The laterals would be of aluminum with a diameter of 10 cm. The sprinkler
nozzle would have a diameter of 7 mm, and operating at a pressure of three
atmosphers would be able to supply water at an hourly intensity of about
6.6 mm. In the flood plain the nozzle diameters would be 5 mm and would
operate at an intensity of 4.9 mm per hour.   The laterals would be in one
position for 10 hours with a return period of 15 days for the flood plain
and 10 days for the plateau.
4.       Furrow Irrigation.  About 14,800 ha would be served by furrows
with a network similar to that for sprinkler irrigation but the hydrants
would be spaced 216 m apart. Each hydrant would feed 16 to 20 furrows
through portable aluminum and mobile flexible butyl rubber pipes with out-
lets at furrow spacings.   Length of each furrow would be about 200 m and
its maximum discharge would not exceed 0.7 1/sec.
5.       Surface Drainage Network.  Surface drainage would be required for
an area of 43,100 ha (39,002 ha net), which is enclosed between the con-
tinuous dyke along the Olt River and the foothills on the west. The main
drain parallel to the dyke along the Olt River would act as the main col-
lector for most of the drainage effluent. This collector has already been
completed in the project area, as a part of the Olt River development.
The main valleys, streams and drains existing in the project area would
also function as collectors.   Secondary drains, totalling to a length of
372 km, would be spaced at 400-500 m distance and would outfall into the
main collectors.   The drains have been designed to remove, in two days,
the runoff resulting from a storm precipitation of about 100 mm in 24 hours
in the month of August with a 5% probability.   The specific design dis-
charge has been estimated at 0.6 1/sec/ha. The lower reach of the Beica
stream would be deepened and widened by the National Water Council from
their own finances.   As this stream also acts as a collector, assurances
were obtained during negotiations for its timely completion (SAR, para.
6.1(f)).
6.       Sub-Surface Drainage.  The present depth to water table, in some
areas of the flood plain of the Olt River and some isolated depressions on
the plateau is less than 2.0 m and after introduction of irrigation water
table will tend to rise further in this low area, with adverse effect on
crop production.   The project, accordingly, provides for the construction
of sub-surface tile drains on an area of about 7,040 ha.   Tile drains



- 78 -
ANNEX 11
Page 4
would be designed with a specific flow of 0.6 1/sec/ha; made of PVC pipe
80 mm in diameter and would be laid at a median depth of about 1.5 m to
ensure that ground water level does not rise above 1.2 m.   The individual
drains would be 200 m long with a longitudinal slope of 1.5 to 2 per thou-
sand and would be spaced 30 m to 40 m. apart; depending on soil permeabil-
ity.   The tiles would have a filter envelope of 100 mm, consisting of
graded ballast.
7.       Soil Erosion Control Works.  Soil erosion works would be carried
out to protect an area of 10,405 ha (10,162 ha net), with existing slopes
between 3% and 15%.   The works consist of slope terracing, crop and grass
protection strips; seeding and reseeding; water drops with stone protec-
tion, check dams and controlled intakes for storm waters. In addition the
project would provide for an improved all weather feeder road network in 52
km length with road crossings and bridges.
8.       Valley Training.  As a result of meandering and silting of natural
streams, the flood plain of the Olt is temporarily flooded by surface
waters produced by precipitation in the valley and in the catchment basin
on the terraces.   Zones of stagnant water appear, especially in the areas
which are not level and which have a low permeability.   To alleviate this
condition, excavation of 21 existing and new storm water channels would be
undertaken, including interceptor drains at the base of the plateau. These
storm water channels would have a trapezoidal section and a length of 80.5
km. Protection against flooding would be provided to a probability of 5%.
Buzau Subproject.
9.       Dams on the Buzai River.  Development plans for the Buzau River
Basin inter alia, consist of the construction of two major dams, one on the
main Buzau River and the other on one of its tributaries, namely Surduc.
Siriu dam on the Buzau River would have a gross storage capacity 1/ of 155
Mm3, and is meant primarily for irrigation.   Construction was started in
1974, and is due for completion in 1983. In the economic analysis the cost
incurred up to date has been considered as sunk cost and the balance yet to
be invested has been added to the cost stream. The dam at Surduc has not
yet been started but would be solely for power. The two dams would be
operated in conjunction and would serve a series of hydropower stations,
and also meet the requirements of domestic and industrial uses and flood
control.   All the basin development works are being financed by Romania,
outside the project. During negotiations assurances were obtained for the
timely completion of Buzau dam which is the main source of water for the
irrigation project (SAR para 6.1.(g)). Review of design, construction and
operation of the dams on the Buzau River in a manner similar to Olt River
(para 1) would be arranged (SAR, para 6.1(k)).
1/  Dead storage        =   5 Mm3
Flood Storage       =  30 Mm3
Net for Irrigation = 120 Mm3.



- 79 -
ANNEX 11
Page 5
10.      The Canal System.  The main intake, with a discharge of 34.5
m3/sec would offtake from the Buzau River, on the right bank between the
towns of Cinclesti and Satuc. The main carrier canal CA1 would have a
length of 64 km. Canal CA2, 6 km long, with a discharge of 6.0 m3/sec,
would take off near Vernesti Village for the areas on the left Bank of the
Buzau River. In general, the relief along the route of CA1 is flat with
a gentle cross slope. The canal alignment is crossed by 16 small hill
torrents which would require cross-drainage works. Canal CA1 would irri-
gate an area of 48,090 ha. Canal CA2 would cross the Buzau River through
a buried pipeline and would irrigate an area of 11,670 ha. CA2 canal
would bifurcate at tail into CD1 and CD2 secondary canals having a
total length of 6 km. All canals would be lined with concrete. Canal
lining machines would be used for about 90% of the work. Principal hydrau-
lic data of the two main canals is summarized below:
Name of Canal
Hydraulic Parameters         Unit       CAl        CA2
Length                       Km        64          6
Discharge                   m3/sec    26           6
Slope                        o/oo       0.08       0.1
Bottom width                 m           4.5       2.8
Water depth                  m           2.0        1.6
As in the case of Bucsani subproject the canal system would be operated by
hydraulically operated constant downstream level gates, combined with
escape weirs.   A total of 73 structures would be constructed on the canal
system.
11.      Repumping Stations and Pressure Pumping Stations.  Two fixed
repumping stations would lift supplies within the network of irrigation
canals. The first would be located near Vernesti and would pump a dis-
charge of 6 m3/sec, over a head of 52 meters, for the areas on the left
Bank of the Buzau River.   The second repumping station would be located
near the tail of the main canal and lift the water into canal CD1, close
to village Mizil.   The pump would lift a discharge of 5.4 m3/sec over a
height of 30 m. There would be a total of 57 pressure pumping stations on
the system.   Their location is shown on Map IBRD 15176.  All the units
would be equipped with vertical shafts and would serve an area of 59,760 ha
of which 50,885 ha of sprinkler area would be served by high pressure
stations and 8,875 ha of furrow area by low pressure stations.
12.      Sprinkler and Furrow Irrigation.  An area of 50,885 ha would be
served by sprinklers while the remaining 8,875 ha would be on furrow
irrigation. The design parameters for the sprinkler units and their method
of operation are the same as for Bucsani subproject (see paras. 3 and 4).



- 80 -                         ANNEX 11
Page 6
13.      Surface Drainage Network.  Surface drainage works would be
required for an area of 46,200 ha (45,329 ha net). Sixteen natural streams
in the project area would act as main collectors for the grevitat,onal dis-
charge surface drainage.  Secondary drains would be constructed w&th a
spacing of 660 m. The sizes of the drains would be deternined to provide
against a 5% storm probability and would have a specific discharge of 0.6
1/sec/ha.
14.      Tile Drainage and Reclamation of Saline Soils.  The present depth
to water table, mostly in the lower Buzau plain is less th,an 2.0 m and
after introduction of irrigation water table will tend to rise further in
this low area, with adverse effect on crop production. The project,
accord- ingly, provides for the construction of subsurface tile drains on
an area of 12,607 ha. Tile drains would be designed with a specific flow
of 0.6 1/sec/ha; made of ceramic pipe 70 mm in diameter and would be laid
at a median depth of 1.5 m to ensure that groundwater level does not rise
above 1.2 m. The individual drains would be 200 m long with a longitudinal
slope of 1.5 to 2 per thousand and would be spaced 40 m apart. The tiles
would have a filter envelope of 100 mm, consisting of gravel or graded
cinder from the steel factory at Galati. The drainage effluent would
discharge into the natural streams by gravity. The area would also require
reclama- tion measures which would include levelling, deep ripping, mole
ploughing, deep ploughing without turning, application of chemical
amendments, and leaching.
15.      Valley Training.  Sixteen natural streams in a length of 225 km
would be trained against flooding. At present 34 km of the National High-
way, about 19,000 ha of land and parts of Mizil town are flooded. Embank-
ments would be provided on these streams and shallow reaches would be
deepened. Works would also include stone protection at points of erosion
and check structures.
Siret Subproject
16.      Main Pumping Stations.  Irrigation supplies would be pumped from
the Siret River through three stationary pumping stations, namely SPA
loanesti, SPA Liesti and SPA Vames (See Map IBRD 15178). The first of
these pumping stations is already in existence which would be remodelled
for an additional discharge of 0.83 m3/sec. The intakes for the two
proposed pumping stations would be formed with gabion matresses placed in
situ at low river level. River bank, upstream and downstream, would be
protected with rough stone. The main features of the three stations are:
Discharge          Head          Installed Power
Name of Station                  m3/sec              m                  MW
SPA Ioanesti                       0.83            45.0                 6.4
SPA Liesti                         3.20             8.2                 0.46
SPA Vames                          4.20             4.2                 0.35



- 81 -
ANNEX 11
Page 7
The two proposed pumping stations would discharge into carrier pipes which
after crossing the Siret River dyke would outfall into main canals.
17.      The Canal System and Pressure Pumping Stations
(a)  Ioanesti System.  The existing pumping station would be remodelled
and the existing main canal would be raised to carry an extra dis-
charge of 0.85 m3/sec. A single pressure pumping station
SPP62 would irrigate an area of 1,379 ha.
(b) Liesti System. The Liesti pumping station on the Siret River
would feed a main canal, 12 km long. Three pressure pumping
stations (SPP59, SPP60 and SPP61) would irrigate an area of 6,110
ha.
(c) Vames System. The Vames pumping station would outfall into a main
canal, 18 km, and serve an area of 8,198 ha, through four pressure
pumping stations (SPP55, SPP56, SPP57 and SPP58).
18.      Sprinkler Irrigation.  The entire area of 15,687 ha (15,168 ha
net) would be irrigated by sprinklers. The design parameters for the
sprinkler units and their method of operation is in line with that for the
Bucsani subproject (see para. 3).
19.      Surface Drainage.  The project area is crossed by a number of
streams and surface drainage would be provided for the total area of 15,687
ha (15,168 ha net) in five separate systems, formed by natural topographi-
cal features. Surface drains would be excavated or remodelled in a length
of 488 km. As the levels do not permit a gravity outfall, fourteen pumping
stations would pump the drainage affluent into the Siret River. The design
parameters of the drains, would be in line with those already explained in
detail for the Bucsani subproject (see para. 5).
20.      Tile Drainage and Saline Soil Reclamation.  An area of 6,775 ha,
where the water level is within 1 m to 2 m would be provided with sub-soil
drainage facilities. An area of 3,070 ha would also be reclamation from
salinity (see Map IBRD 15178). The design parameters would be the same as
stated in detail for the Buzau Subproject (see para. 14).
21.      Valley Training.  Six streams (Lozova, Suhurlui, Geru, Calmatui,
Corozel and Birlad) cross the project area. Dykes would be provided under
the project on Suhurlui stream in a length of 15 km. Most of the training
work on Birlad River have already been completed by Romania through its own
finances with the exception of the reach below the Railway Bridge. As this
river constitutes a major outfall for the drainage system and as its
training works are being done by the National Water Council outside the
project, assurances were obtained during negotiations for its timely
completion.



- 82 -                    ANNEX 11
Page 8
Prut Subproject
22.      Main Pumping Stations and Canals.  Eight irrigation and drainage
pumping stations have been constructed on the Prut River in the last two
decades. Some of these pumps have reversible flows, whereby they can be
used for use for drainage in winter and irrigation in summer. The main
features of these eight pumps are summarized below:
Installed
Discharge    Head    Capacity
S. No.    Name of Station        m3/sec         m         kw         Remarks
1    SPE Draculesti           3.67         8.0        564        Drainage
2    SPA Foltesti             2.00         4.0        175        Irrigation
3    SPE Stoicani             2.43         8.0        435        Drainage
4    SPA Stoicani              1.57        4.0        125        Irrigation
5    SP (Rev) Cotu Valeni    1.40          7.5        283        Reversible
6    SP (Ref) Sivita          3.32         4.0        460        Reversible
7    SPA Sivita               2.38         3.8        220        Irrigation
8    SPA (Rev) Ghimia         9.00         7.0      1,260        Reversible
The Prut subproject would utilize the discharge of the six pumping stations
which are for irrigation, or, are reversible.  The project would also use
the waters of the Chineja stream, which flows on its western boundary.
Shortages, if any would be met from the Covurlui Irrigation network (Loan
1795-RO) which would become an integral part of this subproject. Three
repumping stations would be installed on the system. The first would be on
Chineja stream (SRP Mastacani) for a flow of 9.8 m3/sec, and a head of 9.2
m, leading into canal CA1. The second repumping station (SRP Chiraftei)
for 6.35 m3/sec (H=97 m) would lift the water from CA1 and into CP2
canal. The third pumping station (SRP Vladesti-12) for a discharge of 5.3
m3/sec would be located at the end of this canal and would provide an
additional head of 101 m.
23.      Pressure Pumping Stations and Sprinkler Network.  There would be a
total of twelve fixed pressure pumping stations on the irrigation system;
their location is shown on Map IBRD 15178. These stations would serve an
area of 29,930 ha (28,973 ha, net) entirely through sprinkler irrigation.
About 50% of the sprinklers would be self-propelled and longitudinally
towed, and the remaining 50% with manually handled sprinkler equipment. The
design of the network and its method of operation is similar to that
described in para. 3 for the Bucsani subproject.
24.      Surface Drainage Works.  Surface drainage works would be provided
under the project for an area of 23,284 ha (22,935 ha net). The drainage
affluent would be lifted from the drains by 9 small pumping stations on
lateral drains.  The main drain would terminate at Ghimia reversible pumping
station on the Prut River, where the water would be pumped into the River
(see Map IBRD 15178). The design parameters would be similar to those
described in para. 5 for the Bucsani subproject.



- 83 -
ANNEX 11
Page 9
25.      Tile Drainage and Reclamation of Saline Land.  An area of 7,090 ha,
where the water table is within 1 m to 2 m, would be provided with sub-soil
drainage facilities. A small area, 196 ha would be also receive treatment
for salinity reclamation (see Map IBRD 15178). The design parameters would
be similar to those as described in detail in para. 14 for the Buzau
subproject.
26.      Soil Erosion Control Works.  Soil erosion control works would be
carried out to protect an area of about 890 ha of irrigated land with
existing slopes between 3 and 15%. The works consist of levelling of
rain-washes, realignment of land for contour ploughing, terracing and
protective plantation.



-84 -                              ANNEX 12
APPRAISAL OF
BUCSANI-BUZAU-SIRET-PRUT IRRIGATION PROJECT
ROMANIA
Selected Documents and Data Available in
the Project Implementation File
A.        Sector and Subsector Reports and Studies
A.l.      Romania:  The Industrialization of an Agrarian Economy under
Socialist Planning, 4 Vols., World Bank Report No. 1601-RO,
March 31, 1978.
A.2.      Romania:  Agricultural Sector Survey.  World Bank Report No. 953a-RO,
October 29, 1976.
B.        Project Related Reports and Studies
B.1.      Romania:  Appraisal of Mostistea and Calmatui Irrigation and Drainage
Projects. World Bank Report No. 2278a-RO, March 5, 1979.
B.2.      Romania:  Appraisal of Covurlui Irrigation Project
World Bank Report No. 2726-RO, December 17, 1979.
B.3.      Romania:  Project Preparation Reports on Bucsani and Buzau Subprojects
prepared by General Directorate for Land Reclamation and
Agricultural Construction, September 1979 (4 volumes)
C.        Project Related Reports
C.1.      Cropping Patterns and Yields
C.2.      Water Quality
C.3.      Details of Pumping Stations
C.4.      Reservoir Operation Studies for Olt and Buzau
C.5.      Climatological Tables
C.6.      Balance Sheets and Statements of Income and Expenses
C.7.      Designs of Silos and Cost Estimates
C.8.      Economic Analysis



APPRAISAL OF
BUCSANI-BUZAU-SIRET-PRUT IRRIGATION PROJECT
ROMANIA
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
IBRD FISCAL YEAR        1981         1982         1983           1984       186                     1987        1988
ROMANIAN FISCAL & CALENDAR           1981         1982          1983          1984       1985       1986        1987
YEAR
BUCSANI SUBPROJECT
IRRIGATION WORKS
DRAINAGE WORKS
MISCELLANEOUS WORKS                                    ___       _
EQUIPMENT                                                       _
ENGINEERING AND ADMN.
BUZAU SUBPROJECT
IRRIGATION WORKS
DRAINAGE WORKS                                           _
MISCELLANEOUS WORKS                                      __n
EQUIPMENT
ENGINEERING & ADMN.
ISIRET SUBPROJECT
IRRIGATION WORKS                                                                    . _
DRAINAGE WORKS
MISCELLANEOUS WORKS                                                           _
EQUIPMENT                         e         ______                                _
ENGINEERING & ADMN.                                       ___
PRUT SUBPROJECT
IRRIGATION WORKS
DRAINAGE WORKS
MISCELLANEOUS WORKS          _
EQUIPMENT                               _
ENGINEERING & ADMN.                                                                                _
AGRICULTURAL COMPONENTS
IGRAIN STORAGES (SILOS)
IRESEARCH STATIONS                                                                                                             m
I   _   .    .                     . 2  .   .                 ,    _                            n~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-



APPRAISAL OF
BUCSANI-BUZAU-SIRET-PRUT IRRIGATION PROJECT
ROMANIA
ORGANIZATION CHART
BANK FOR AGRICULTURE AND FOOD INDUSTRY
Administrative Council
President
Vice-President                                                                                           Vice-President
Credit and Finance       Coordination,                                  A
Credit and Finance     Credit and Finance       of the Agricul-         Special Studies        Accounting and         Administration,          Organizaiton,
of State Agricul-        of Food and          tural Cooperative             and                  Auditing              Legal Affairs,           Persorinel,
tural Entreprises      Agro-Industries        t     Sector           External RelationsAdt                          External Relations           Training
World Bank - 20959           t
"3



ROMANIA
V                                       BUCSANI-BUZAU-SIRET-PRUT
IRRIGATION PROJECT
BUCSANI
00llt   lf   \  y  00 g   it                                    Proecr   A-ec a undcry
0.c  Rep-opi,g S,xtix-
, ;   n - e> tgescrix tnt           -ar   Pressure P-mpmg Stot-ons
.  yUp Xa  1     w ;:                                        E-xig ig P-opng St.tioii
. .  t   (.l             ;                          ox       w Conols . ith Mited Oper0ti-os
- - -                ~~~- )o --onge Cools
.~xxxK I,,ubts:   t    t  =-                                   -~ -    WeAr Del ve-  Pipes
~~xso   ~~~~~t~~~ i                                         lo~~Tpioxl -nsg--o  Nen-sos
T -  Typioxi D)eoege N.t-ork
ool;0s '   x 0  K              5                                     Trc STiin- g (Ro ,-,Vc lly)
Dorn  Un,des C-ntruti-
OnxssC  3- 'CorD.-s -nd St-soge Under De-ig,
A  -~~~~~~~~~~-~-dS-
SerxOxneXt ~   ,k       P        ,                                      Spninkleo [rr goliono
V  I L  CEA                                                                                           Soi E          tlrosionCoro
~~nxeeo       9                                                          Aspholt Roods
= x. oo$ T ~3 StrE9e5tt D kes
C-. -        -     AIArotionol Bo -BI-o,is
O LT T
JxK             x             A  pe                              xOiOxxixnnoO0 ono n=
|                 s,,                                                                HYDROPOWER DEVELOPMENT
E   ' ~ ~ ~ ~  ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~NTH    L   IE
K-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
R 0, M  A  NIti Ai  N   Ina 
Pll.- 'IT~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Oxonx
'Tk                                                                                                                                                       A~~~~~~~
L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i    ogr






I B RD 15176
ROMANIA m
BUCSANI -BUZAU -SIRET-PRUT IRRIGATION PROJECT                                                                                   ,,,,o  tmu,
BUZAU
Prolort Area Bosdrary                        Spr-okler ri-goion
A so' Repumping Storihns                           Purro  Irrigan on                                         1                                                                                        1<                                                   K
r -j F Pressuro  Pumping MaCairs                   SaiIn1y RBnp.-naron                                       S                                                                          ndrer
f     Basting  Pumping Staons                      Tie  Drolnaga                                             Nur0
Mrs,nlrr gatonCancas                         Torns                                                     |Li                                                                                       /              
An tonoarn Fun got-sn Conols    dsI              ,
¢-Warer eI~vely Piper                    'Pa     Rcawyn                                                                   °<   5 ee                                                                                          ''rO' t;yDFLOWuuI1
-SroDe raneg DIe hrn LSMEEiIsw|||I btuOHO)it50[n.' H   FEQRP.t O
Typicagla r,got on Network          ---'r    Co-tor- (Meter- ao- Bluuk Ana)                       M [m
Typ-pl Draicge Nnraork                   -   Dint, o  ouns                                                                                5                               N      5 n'
Training (Stream Va Inn)            -   -   laFernuriona Boundaries                                                                                                            !  erdOt &i o5e                 u-s$gd-  2/  /00,
T7 -- Eusa  DasVr :.tKuj00,/                                                                                                                                                                                                         005      <seo
r. -   Dams tJder Cansnnuot an                                                                /                                                                                       /       err                   'r .   /       i=ou'            BsstuClnu,
Snnm                                                                                                                                                                         ,-_          Ne_W00 ,_  5 x-'    urn03                         %1
¢!~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~                                                      U    7kiD  AU                               mois /  u_oaa _""                                        </     300 -s   \Pu1l,,e ospmi '       SS     
U'. A2 '-i ;U\  , Z                                              r                                       On,
H               A                                s                                           an /  ' .                                                                   ''         i /I
,,>A \   -.,, _---at--                              Ou/on,..uI-                                                                                                                                          epin
Rral+tS S ~ d Sd4 g p R A H O V A Wo'G          ; e o.fl..........  io_f Vly 1*AV- -
t' \ \ ...... 1- D° eUt lJ~ onwm iral                                                                                                                    ' u- P I                         0
i11,5                                                                                      oaasmeou                                  m m. -  '  "  .ft
v~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o Beetao Uv Zrc AomXe U                                                      t Bt       5
K  sns,0    '    ,Pnu                      'u1u~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~R0MA                                                                                                   
~~~~~So, ~           psm,        u                                                                                                                                                    o<o
¾JsrP   R    A         'F  0 
/30<3  """'  C neesInno>~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4t
3>                                  ag'~~~~






m < :: ~~~-                                                                N 
0) g~~~~~ 
_~~~~ - -...'     
LC) F-~ ~~~
0  ?  \. i, i
z  t  a   -  - -   t;- 's,''<t' j',,>s',' ,.' ;''    x,~?    /   ,)-
-0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l 
of  vF|                                   
1@<ffi1215~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  
Ck~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C



