CUMENTS       LOAN NUMBER 1938 RO
Loan Agreement
Bucsani - Buzau - Siret - Prut Irrigation Project
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
BANCA PENTRU AGRICULTURA SI INDUSTRIE ALIMENTARA
Dated                        /     , 1981


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1938 RO
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                   9, 1981, between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FO   ECONSTRUC  N AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter
called the Bank) ad BANCA P TRU AGRICULTURA SI INDUSTRIE
ALIMENTARA (hereinafter called the Borrower).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist
in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement by making the loan as hereinafter provided; and
(B) the Borrower intends to contract loans from foreign
lending i-s-itutions up to an approximate aggregate amount
equivalent to one hundred million dollars ($100,000,000) to
assist further in the financing of the said Project;
NOW THEREFORE, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated October 27, 1980, with the
same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein (said
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of
the Bank being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Romania" and "Guarantor" both mean the Socialist
Republic of Romania;
(b) "MAFI" means the Ministry of Agriculture and Food
Industry of Romania;
(c) "DGEIFCA" means the Economic General Directorate for
Land Reclamation and Agricultural Construction in MAFI, estab-
lished by Decree No. 298/1979 of the State Council of Romania;


﻿2-
(d) "MEE" means the Ministry of Electrical Energy of
Romania;
(e) "ROMAGRIMEX" means the Romanian Foreign Trade Enterprise
of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food Industry of Romania,
established under Law No. 11 of 1971 of Romania, and operating
under Decision No. 938 of August 14, 1972 of the Council of
Ministers of Romania, as amended from time to time;
(f) "Foreign Trade Bank" means the Romanian Bank for Foreign
Trade, established by Law No. 16/1968 of Romania;
(g) "Charter" means the Charter of the Borrower approved by
Decree No. 55 of 1970 of the State Council of Romania, approved by
Law No. 15 of 1970 of Romania, as amended from time to time;
(h) "CCM" means Centrala Pentru Valorificacea Cerealela
(Central for Cereals Marketing) established by Decree 298 of 1979
of the State Council of Romania;
(i) "BAFI-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made by
the Borrower to a Loan Beneficiary for an Investment Project;
(j) "Loan Beneficiary" means Intreprinderea de Valorificare
a Cerealelor si Plantelor Tchnia under CCM to which a BAFI-loan is
proposed to be made or has been made;
(k) "Investment Project" means a project for the construc-
tion and installation of grain silos, which is to be carried out
by a Loan Beneficiary under Part F of the Project utilizing the
proceeds of a BAFI-loan; and
(1) "Lei" means the national currency of Romania.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth
or referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
seventy-five million dollars ($75,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of


﻿-3-
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Bank and the Borrower, on
account of: (i) expenditures made (or if the Bank shall so agree,
to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and ser-
vices required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan; and (ii) disbursements made by the Borrower
under BAFI-loans for technically feasible and financially viable
Investment Projects.
(b) The Foreign Trade Bank is designated as representative
of the Borrower for the purpose of taking any action required or
permitted to be taken under the provisions of paragraph (a) of
this Section and Article V of the General Conditions.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall
otherwise agree, contracts for the purchase of goods and services
required for the Project, selected by agreement between the Bank
and the Borrower and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan, shall be awarded in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1988
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later
date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of nine and one fourth per cent (9-1/4%) per annum on the prin-
cipal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on January 1 and July 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.


﻿ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall cause the Project to be
carried out with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate agricultural, engineering, financial and adminis-
trative practices as follows:
(a) The Borrower, with the participation of MAFI, DGEIFCA
and MEE, shall supervise the execution of the Project, including
the procurement of the goods and services required therefor;
(b) DGEIFCA shall make or cause to be made a timely supply
of the general engineering services required for the Project, and
make timely arrangements with the appropriate construction organi-
zations of Romania as required for the civil works and the in-
stallations included in the Project;
(c) DGEIFCA shall have the responsibility for the overall
coordination of the carrying out of the Project and Project-
related activities; and
(d) ROMAGRIMEX s)hall make suitable arrangements for the
procurement of the goods and services referred to in Section 2.03
of this Agreement.
Section 3.02. (a) For each Investment Project the Borrower
shall make a BAFI-loan to the Loan Beneficiary that is to carry
out such Investment Project for all or part of the cost of such
Investment Project.
(b) Each BAFI-loan shall bear interest at a rate which shall
be equal to the interest rate then charged by the Borrower in
respect of loans for the same type of investments and shall be
repaid over such period, after such grace period, as shall be
consistent with the expected implementation period and yields of
such Investment Project and the repayment capacity of the Loan
Beneficiary.
(c) The first Investment Project shall be submitted by the
Borrower to the Bank for its approval.
(d) The Borrower undertakes that, unless the Bank shall
otherwise agree, each BAFI-loan will be made on termq whereby


﻿the Borrower shall have rights adequate to protect the interests
of the Bank and the Borrower, including the right of the Borrower
to: (i) require the Loan Beneficiary to carry out and operate the
Investment Project with due diligence and efficiency and in
accordance with sound technical, agricultural, financial and
managerial standards and to maintain adequate records; (ii)
require that (A) notwithstanding the provisions of Section 2.03 of
the Loan Agreement, the goods and services to be financed out of
the proceeds of the BAFI-loan shall be purchased at a reasonable
price, accoint being taken also of other relevant factors such as
time of delivery and efficiency and reliability of the goods and
availability of maintenance facilities and spare parts therefor
and, in the case of services, of their quality and competence of
the parties rendering them, and (B) such goods and services shall
be used exclusively in the carrying out of the Investment Project;
(iii) inspect and enable representatives of the Bank if the Bank
shall so request, to examine, such goods and the sites, works,
plants and construction included in the Investment Project,
the operation thereof, and any relevant records and documents;
(iv) obtain all such information as the Bank or the Borrower shall
reasonably request relating to the foregoing and to the adminis-
tration, operations and financial condition of the Loan Bene-
ficiary; and (v) suspend or terminate the right of the Loan
Beneficiary to the use of the proceeds of the BAFI-loan upon
failure by such Loan Beneficiary to perform its obligations under
its contract with the Borrower.
(e) The Borrower shall exercise its rights in relation
to the Loan Beneficiary in such manner as to: (i) protect the
interests of the Bank and the Borrower; (ii) comply with its
obligations under this Agreement; and (iii) achieve the purposes
of the Project.
Section 3.03. Part G of the Project shall be carried out in
accordance with such program as shall have been agreed upon
between the Bank and the Borrower.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall cause adequate provision to
be made for the insurance of the imported goods referred to in
Section 2.03 of this Agreement against hazards incident to the
acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place of
importation into the territory of Romania, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.


﻿-6-
Section 3.05. Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall cause all goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan or any BAFI-loan to be
used exclusively for the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Achievement of the Purposes of the Project
Section 4.01. The Bank and the Borrower agree that, in order
to realize the purposes of the Project, it shall be necessary
that:
(a) the irrigation and drainage facilities constructed or
installed under the Project will be operated and maintained by
MAFI in close cooperation with the farms cultivating the Project
Area, and the electric power facilities serving the irrigation and
drainage facilities constructed or installed under the Project
will be operated and maintained by the competent electric power
enterprises of Romania, and all necessary repairs and renewals of
such facilities will be made from time to time, all in accordance
with appropriate agricultural, engineering and administrative
practices;
(b) the cultivators of the area covered by the Project will
be supplied with agricultural, technical and advisory services,
seeds, fertilizers, pesticides, agricultural financing and market-
ing facilities, and other agricultural inputs, all as required to
make optimal productive use of such area;
(c) adequate equipment for the application of pesticides,
herbicides and fertilizers will be supplied for use in the area
covered by the Project;
(d) the construction of the Arcesti and Strejesti dams on
the Olt river will be completed by December 31, 1981, to permit
timely irrigation of the area covered by Part A of the Project;
(e) the deepening and widening of the lower reach of the
Beica stream will be completed by December 31, 1983, to enable
proper drainage of the area covered by Part A of the Project;
(f) the construction of the Siriu dam on the Buzau river
will be completed by December 31, 1983, to permit timely irriga-
tion of the area covered by Part B of the Project;


﻿-7-
(g) the training of the Birlad river below the Galati-Tecuci
railway will be completed by December 31, 1982, to enable proper
drainage of the area covered by Part C of the Project; and
(h) (i) prior to completing the construction of the
Arcesti, Strejesti and Siriu Dams, the concept of
the dams and its associated structures and the
adequacy of their design will be reviewed by a
panel of three independent experts, whose qualifi-
cations and experience will be acceptable to the
Bank;
(ii) periodic reviews will be conducted by the said
panel of experts during the construction of the
dams; and
(iii) following completion of construction of the dams
and its associated structures, periodic inspection,
under a program satisfactory to the Bank, will be
made of these and the other completed dams on the
Olt and the Buzau Rivers in accordance with sound
engineering practices, in order to determine
whether there are any deficiencies or potential
deficiencies in the condition of such dams and
associated structures, or in the quality and
adequacy of maintenance or methods of operation
of such dams and associated structures, which may
endanger their safety.
The Borrower shall, to the extent that it is authorized under
the laws of Romania, ensure that the requirements set forth in
this Section will be met.
ARTICLE V
'Management and Operations of the Borrower;
Financial Covenants
Section 5.01. The Borrower shall manage and conduct its
operations and affairs in accordance with appropriate adminis-
trative and financial standards and practices and in accordance
with the Charter.
Section 5.02. The Borrower shall maintain records adequate
to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices its operations and financial condition.


﻿-8-
Section 5.03. (a) It is not the practice of the Borrower to
create liens as security for debt. Accordingly, the Borrower
represents that at the date of this Agreement no lien exists on
any of its assets as security for any debt.
(b) In the event that, notwithstanding the foregoing, a
lien shall be created on any of the Borrower's assets as security
for any debt, the Borrower undertakes that, except as the Bank
shall otherwise agree: (i) if the Borrower shall create the
lien, such lien will equally and ratably secure the payment of the
principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and in
the creation of any such lien express provision will be made to
that effect, at no cost to the Bank; 'and (ii) if the lien shall
be created by law, the Borrower shall grant, at no cost to the
Bank, an equivalent lien satisfactory to the Bank to secure the
payment of the principal of, and interest and nther charges on,
the Loan.
Section 5.04. The Bank and the Borrower agree that in
carrying out the provisions of this Agreement the Borrower shall
take such measures as shall be necessary according to the State
Plan of Romania and the applicable laws in order to achieve the
purposes of the Project.
ARTICLE VI
Cooperation and Information;
Financial Data
Section 6.01. The Bank and the Borrower shall cooperate
fully to assure that the purposes of the Loan will be accom-
plished. To that end:
(a) the Bank and the Borrower shall from time to time at
the request of either party exchange views through their repre-
sentatives with regard to the progress of the Project, the bene-
fits derived from the Project, the performance of their respective
obligations under the Loan Agreement, the fulfillment of the
requirements set forth in Section 4.01 of this Agreement and other
matters relating to the purposes of the Loan, and the Borrower
shall enable the Bank's representatives to exchange views with
representatives of the MAFI, MEE and the farms served by the
Project, and the other agencies concerned of Romania with regard
to the Project, the benefits derived from the Project and the


﻿-9-
fulfillment of the requirements set forth in Section 4.01 of
this Agreement;
(b) the Borrower shall obtain from MAFI, NEE and the other
agencies of Romania concerned with the Project, and furnish to the
Bank, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement
schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank and the Borrower
shall agree;
(c) the Borrower: (i) shall maintain, or cause to be main-
tained, (A) accounts adequate to independently record all Project
expenditures and Project-related financial transactions, and
(B) procedures adequate to monitor a- id record the progress of the
Project (including its cost and the benefits to be derived from
it), to identify the goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan and to disclose their use in the Project; and
(ii) shall furnish to the Bank within forty-five calendar days
after each calendar quarter, a report, of such scope and in such
detail as the Bank and the Borrower shall agree, on the progress
of the Project during such quarter;
(d) the Borrower shall enable the Bank's representatives to
visit and examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan, the facilities and construction sites included in the
Project and the records and documents relating to the Project of
MAFI, MEE and of other departments and agencies of Romania respon-
sible for the Project or any part thereof;
(e) the Borrower shall: (i) furnish to the Bank not later
than six months after the end of each of its fiscal years,
certified copies of its financial statements (balance sheets,
statements of income and expenses and related statements, as
agreed between the Bank and the Borrower), and until the com-
pletion of the Project certified copies of its accounts referred
to in paragraph (c) of this Section, for such fiscal year, both
the statements and the accounts to be in the form in which they
shall be audited; (ii) submit such statements and accounts includ-
ing all records supporting certificates referred to in paragraph 5
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement to an independent audit conducted,
in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by the Ministry of Finance of Romania, and the report of
such audit by said auditor, of such scope and in such detail as
the Guarantor and the Bank shall agree, including a separate


﻿- 10 -
opinion by said auditor in respect of the said certificates
showing whether the proceeds of the Loan withdrawn on the basis of
such certificates have been used for the purpose for which they
were provided; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other inform-
ation concerning the before-mentioned financial statements of the
Borrower and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time
reasonably request;
(f) the Bank and the Borrower shall from time to time
furnish to each other such additional information as the other
party shall reasonably request with regard to the progress of the
Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan, the goods
and services financed out of such proceeds, the operations,
the benefits derived from the Project and the general status of
the Loan; and
(g) promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than December 31, 1988, or such later date as may
be agreed for this purpose between the Bank and the Borrower, the
Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, of such
scope and in such detail as the Bank and the Borrower shall
reasonably agree, on the execution and initial operation of the
Project, its cost and the benefits derived anii to be derived
from it, the performance by the Bank and the Borrower of their
respective obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accom-
plishment of the purposes of the Loan.
Section 6.02. The Bank and the Borrower shall promptly
inform each other of any condition which interferes with, or
threatens to interfere with, the progress of the Project, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, the maintenance of the
service thereof or the performance by either party of its obliga-
tions under the Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE VII
Termination
Section 7.01. The date           /       is hereby specified
for the purpose of Section 2.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VIII
Addresses
Section 8.01. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:


﻿- 11 -
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                    Telex:
INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For the -Borrower:
Banca pentru Agricultura si
Industrie Alimentara
Strada Smirdan No. 3
Bucharest, Romania
Cable address:                    Telex:
AGROBANK                          11622
Bucharest
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Regional    e President
Europe, Middle East     North Africa
BANCA PENTRU AGRICULTURA SI
INDUSTRIE ALIMENTARA
By              4
Authorized Representative


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Category of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category                Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
(1) Equipment, materials        67,000,000        100% of for-
and spare parts                              eign expendi-
tures and 100%
of local ex-
penditures ex-
factory
(2) Disbursements under          3,500,000        25%
BAFI-loans
(3) Goods, buildings and         1,000,000        25%
services for Part G
of the Project
(4) Unallocated                  3,500,000
TOTAL             75,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures for
goods or services supplied from the territory and in the currency
of any country other than Romania; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of Romania and for goods or services supplied from the
territory of Romania.


﻿- 13 -
3.    The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan
shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied by, or
in the territory of, Romania on goods or services, or on the
importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to that
end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect of
any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan decreases
or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, increase or
decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable to such item
as required to be consistent with the aforementioned policy of the
Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of
this Agreement;
(b) any BAFI-loan unless the first Investment Project
has been approved by the Bank pursuant to Section 3.02 (c) of this
Agreement;
(c) disbursements under any BAFI-loan, the loan contract of
which was signed before the date of this Agreement;
(d) any BAFI-loan until the Bank shall have been satisfied
that the approval required under the laws of Romania for the
implementation of the Investment Project to be financed out of the
proceeds of such BAFI-loan has been granted; and
(e) payments made for expenditures under _rt G of the
Project until the Bank shall have approved the program referred to
in Section 3.03 of this Agreement, including an implementation
timetable, design and location of laboratories, equipment, staff-
ing and training.
5.   Each request for withdrawal from the Loan Account in respect
of a BAFI-loan shall be accompanied by a certificate issued by the
Borrower by which the Borrower certifies that the disbursement
on account of which the withdrawal is requested has been made for
an Investment Project; the certificate shall be in such form as
shall have been agreed upon between the Bank and the Borrower.
6.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the


﻿- 14 -
amount of the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insuf-
ficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in
that Category, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i)
reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet the
estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated
to another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are not
needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if such reallocation
cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement
percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that
further withdrawals under such Category may continue until all
expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
7.    If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the pro-
curement of any item referred to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement
is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to
in this Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any
way restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of
the Bank under the Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower,
cancel such amount of the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable
opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which would
otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of
the Loan.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is to provide irrigation and drainage facilities,
erosion control, soil reclamation and other miscellaneous works
and farm machinery and equipment to serve adequately a total area
of about 158,485 hectares in four distinct and geographically
separate sub-projects. The Project consists of:
Part A:   Bucsani Sub-project
Construction and installation of permanent irrigation and
drainage facilities, and of erosion control, soil reclamation and
other miscellaneous works in the Olt and Vilcea Districts, as
follows:
(a) a system of open canals about 17.7 kilometers long and
pipe conduits about 16 kilometers long in the flood plain and on
the higher level plateau;
(b) four repumping stations to lift the water from the main
canals flowing by gravity from the Olt River to the plateau
areas;
(c) twenty-one pressure pumping stations for feeding an
underground irrigation pipe network, to serve six irrigation
systems covering an area of about 36,800 hectares;
(d) surface drainage works to serve an area of about 40,100
hectares;
(e) tile drainage works for an area of about 7,000 hectares;
(f) soil erosion control works to protect an area of about
10,400 hectares; and
(g) valley training in a length of about 80.5 kilometers.
Part B:   Buzau Sub-project
Construction and installation of permanent irrigation and
drainage facilities, and of erosion control, soil reclamation and
other miscellaneous works in the Buzau and Prahova Districts, as
follows:


﻿- 16 -
(a) a system of open canals about 76 kilometers long and
pipe conduits about 9.8 kilometers long;
(b) two repumping stations, to lift the water in the main
canals to lands at higher contours;
(c) fifty-seven pressure pumping stations for feeding an
underground irrigation pipe network, to serve an area of about
59,800 hectares;
(d) surface drainage works to serve an area of about 46,200
hectares;
(e) tile drainage works for an area of about 12,600
hectares;
(f) reclamation of saline soil covering an area of about
12,600 hectares; and
(g) valley training in a length of about 225 kilometers.
Part C:   Siret Sub-project
Construction and installation of permanent irrigation and
drainage facilities, and of erosion control, soil reclamation and
other miscellaneous works in the Galati District, as follows:
(a) two fixed pumping stations on the Siret River to lift
water into the main irrigation canals in the flood plain;
(b) a system of open canals about 30 kilometers long and
pipe conduits about 65 kilometers long;
(c) eight pressure pumping stations for feeding an under-
ground irrigation pipe network, to serve an area of about 15,700
hectares;
(d) surface drainage works to serve an area of about 15,700
hectares;
(e) tile drainage works for an area of about 6,800 hectares;
(f) reclamation of saline soil covering an area of about
3,800 hectares; and


﻿- 17 -
(g) valley training-in a length of about 15 kilometers.
Part D:   Prut Sub-project
Construction and installation of permanent irrigation and
drainage facilities, and of erosion control, soil reclamation and
other miscellaneous works in the Galati District, as follows:
(a) three repumping stations and a system of open canals
about 30 kilometers long and pipe conduits about 96 kilometers
long;
(b) twelve pressure pumping stations for feeding an under-
ground irrigation pipe network, to serve an area of about 29,900
hectares;
(c) surface drainage works to serve an area of about 23,300
hectares;
(d) tile drainage works for an area of about 7,100 hectares;
(e) reclamation of saline soil covering an area of about
200 hectares; and
(f) soil erosion control works to protect an area of about
900 hectares.
Part E:   Equipment and Farm Machinery
Acquisition and utilization of equipment for the operation
and maintenance of the irrigation and drainage works included in
the Project, and of farm machinery to intensify agriculture on the
area irrigated under the Project.
Part F:   Grain Storage
Construction of concrete silos each with a capacity of
between 22,000 and 46,000 tons and with a total capacity not
exceeding 180,000 tons for handling the incremental production
from the area covered by the Project.
Part G:   Research
(a) Strengthening of the cereal and industrial crops'
research station at Caracal to enable it to undertake additional
research in irrigation methods, fertilizer application and green


﻿- 18 -
house production, including the acquisition and utilization of
storage, transport and research equipment, and of technical books
and magazines, and the provision of training, scholarships and
fellowships to the research staff; and
(b) establishment of new research facilities at Tirgu Bujor
on the Covurlui plateau for meeting the specific needs of this
plateau area.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1987.


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)*
On each January 1 and July 1
beginning July 1, 1984
through   January 1, 1996                  3,125,000
To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in
a currency other than dollars (see General Conditions,
Section 4.04), the figures in this column represent dollar
equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 20 -
Premiums on Prepayment
.The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.04 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                               Premium
Not more than three years                               1.85%
bef ore maturity
More than three years but not                           3.70%
more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but not                             6.80%
more than eleven years
before maturity
More than eleven years but not                          8.00%
more than thirteen years
before maturity
More than thirteen years                                925%
before maturity


﻿- 21 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive,Bidding
1.   Goods shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance
with procedures consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines
for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published
by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on
the basis of international competitive bidding as described in
Part A of the Guidelines.
2.    For goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding under the Project and in addition to the
requirements of paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower
shall prepare and forward to the Bank as soon as possible, and in
any event not later than sixty days prior to the date of avail-
ability to the public of the first tender, a general procurement
notice, in such form and detail and containing such information
as the Bank shall reasonably request; the Bank will arrange for
the publication of such notice in order to provide timely notifi-
cation to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the
goods in question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary
information to update such notice annually so long as any goods
remain to be procured on the basis of international competitive
bidding.
B.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference
for Domestic Manufacturers
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods, or the
ex-factory price of other goods, offered in such bid; and (ii)
custom duties and other import taxes levied in connection with the
importation, or the sales and similar taxes levied in connection
with the sale or delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods
shall not be taken into account in the evaluation of the bids.
2.    Goods manufactured in Romania may be granted a margin of
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the following
provisions:


﻿(a) All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid
for such preference and the following methods and stages that
will be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b) After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Romania if the bidder shall have established to the
satisfaction of the Borrower and the Bank that the
manufacturing cost of such goods includes a value
added in Romania equal to at least 20% of the
ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c) In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest evalu-
ated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a
result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
(d) If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph
(c) above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C
bids shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid
from group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the
imported goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of
this further comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount
of customs duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt
importer would have to pay for the importation of the goods
offered in such group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price
of such goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such
price. If the group A bid in such further comparison is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from
group C which as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) is
the lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.


﻿- 23 -
C.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equiva-
lent of $200,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, ROMAGRIMEX shall furnish to the
Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the
specifications and other bidding documents, together with a
description of the advertising procedures to be followed for the
bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said documents
or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Bank's
concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) Promptly after the bids have been received, ROMAGRIMEX
shall inform the Bank of the names of the bidders and the respec-
tive amounts of the bids, and shall indicate those items for which
only one bid was received.
(c) After bids have been evaluated, ROMAGRIMEX shall, before
a final decision on the award is made, inform the Bank of the name
of the bidder to which the contract is intended to be awarded and
the reason for the intended award and shall furnish to the Bank,
in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the
evaluation and comparison of the bids received, together with the
recommendations for award and such other information as the Bank
shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that
the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or
this Schedule, promptly inform ROMAGRIMEX and state the reasons
for such determination.
(d) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those
on which bids were asked.
(e) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the sub-
mission to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan and not governed by the preceding paragraph,


﻿- 24 -
ROMAGRIMEX shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after its execution
and prior to the submission to the Bank of the first application
for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect of such
contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together with the
analysis of the respective bids, recommendations for award and
such other information as the Bank shall reasonably request.   The
Bank shall, if it determines that the award of the contract was
not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly
inform ROMAGRIMEX and state the reasons for such determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this  I  L    day of        198 L.
FOR SECRETARY


