Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 19432
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 7.5 MILLION (US$10 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA
FOR A
SOCIAL SUPPORT PROJECT
June 16, 1999
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective June 11, 1999)
Currency Unit = Denar
MKD 1 million= US$ 17,562
US$ 1 = MKD 56.94
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AP            Agency for Transformation of Enterprises with Social Capital
CAS           Country Assistance Strategy
EAG           Enterprise Assistance Group
ESAF          Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
ETF           European Training Foundation
EU            European Union
FESAC         Financial and Enterprise Sector Adjustment Credit
FESAL II      Second Financial and Enterprise Sector Adjustment Loan
GDP           Gross Domestic Product
IBRD          International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDA           International Development Agency
IMF           International Monetary Fund
MOSLP         Ministry of Labor and Social Policy
MSOEs         Majority State Owned Enterprises
LACI          Loan Administration Change Initiative
LRF           Labor Redeployment Fund
NEB           National Employment Bureau
NGO           Non-Governmental Organization
OECD          Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
PCU           Project Coordination Unit
PERTAP        Pension Reform Technical Assistance Project
POM           Project Operational Manual
SA            Special Account
SDR           Special Drawing Rights
SOE           Statement of Expenditure
SRTAP         Social Reform and Technical Assistance Project
SSAC          Social Sector Adjustment Credit
UNDP          United Nations Development Program
USAID         United States Agency for International Development
USDOL         United States Department of Labor
ZPP           Payment Operations Bureau
Vice President: Johannes F. Linn
Country Director: Ajay Chhibber
Sector Director: James Christopher Lovelace
Task Team Leader:  David Herbert Fretwell



FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA
Social Support Project
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                      Page
1. Project development objective                                                        3
2. Key performance indicators                                                           3
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project       3
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                           4
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                   5
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                   8
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                       10
3. Benefits and target population                                                      10
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                       10
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                           11
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies          11
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design                            11
4. Indications of borrower conmmitment and ownership                                   12
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                         13
E. Summary Project Analyses
1. Economic                                                                            13
2. Financial                                                                           13
3. Technical                                                                           14
4. Institutional                                                                       14
5. Social                                                                              15
6. Environmental assessment                                                            15
7. Participatory approach                                                              15
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                      16
2. Critical risks                                                                      16
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                      17
_j-



G. Main Loan condition
1. Effectiveness conditions                                                            17
2. Other                                                                               17
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                           17
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                          18
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summnary                                                          19
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                     24
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                          34
Annex 4: Basic Economnic Rationale                                                        35
Annex 5: Financial Sunmnary                                                               36
Annex 6: Procuremnent and Disbursement Arrangements                                       37
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                      44
Annex 8: Documents in Project File                                                        45
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                   51
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                             52
MAP(S)
IBRD 25501R
-_jj



MACEDONIA, FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF
Social Support Project
Project Appraisal Document
Europe and Central Asia Region
Human Development Sector Unit (ECSHD)
Date: June 16, 1999                                Team Leader: David Herbert Fretwell
Country Manager/Director: Ajay Chhibber            Sector Manager/Director: James Christopher Lovelace
Project ID: 66221                                  Sector(s): SE - Labor Markets & Employment
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Theme(s): Social Protection
Poverty Targeted Intervention: Yes
Project Financing Data
E Loan          M Credit        a Grant         O Guarantee      El Other (Specify)
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m) SDR 7.5 million ( US$10 million equivalent)
Proposed Terms: El To be defined  N Multicurrency  El Single currency
Z Standard Variable El Fixed         El LIBOR-based
Grace period (years):            10
Years to maturity:               35
Commitment fee:                  0.50%
Service charge                   0.75%
lFinancing Plan:    EL To be defined
Source                               Local         Foreign         Total
Government                                                       1.60           0.00           1.60
IBRD                                                             0.00           0.00           0.00
IDA                                                              8.55            1.45         10.00
Total:                                                          10.15            1.45         11.60
Borrower: former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia
Guarantor: Not applicable
Responsible agency:
Agency for Transformation of Enterprises with Social Capital
Implementing agency(ies):
Agency for Transformation of Enterprises with Social Capital
Address: 4 Dame Gruev, 91000 Skopje, P.O. box 410
Contact Person: Slobodanka Ristovska
Tel: 389-91-117-564                 Fax: 389-91-233-633                Email:
Ministry of Labor and Social Policy
Address: 14 Dame Gruev, 91000 Skopje
Contact Person: Minister Bedredin Ibraimi
Tel: 389-91-117752                 Fax: 389-91-106-258                 Email:
Estimated disbursements ( Bank FY/US$M):
t  FY        2?000       2001         2002        2003    j
Annual    6.78          2.75         2.04        0.03                                       1



Cumulative    6.78         9.53       11.57 |    11.60 A            I           I
Project implementation period: 36 months
Expected effectiveness date:   Expected closing date:  07/31/2002
OCS f  O¢b-   , P1.i8
-2-



A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The objective of the proposed Social Support Project (SSP) would be to help mitigate the negative social
and economic impact of bankruptcy and labor restructuring of Majority State Owned Enterprises (MSOEs)
and the emergency economic disruption caused by the conflict in Kosovo.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
(a)    Temporary Income Support: workers who are displaced by: (i) bankruptcy and labor restructuring
of MSOEs; or (ii) as a result of economic disruption caused by the Kosovo conflict, are offered and
provided temporary income support (e.g. severance, unemployment benefits, social assistance and social
welfare).
(b)    Labor Redeployment Services: workers who are displaced by: (i) bankruptcy and labor
restructuring of MSOEs; (ii) as a result of economic disruption caused by the Kosovo conflict; or (iii) are
long term unemployed or first time job entrants, are offered and provided access to labor redeployment
services.
(c)    Impact of social programs: the ability of the Government to monitor the impact of social programs
is increased by implementation of systems to monitor the impact of: (i) layoff and severance payments on
families; (ii) labor redeployment programs on displaced workers; and (iii) effectiveness of social programs.
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 18162                           Date of latest CAS discussion: 08/04/98
The CAS explicitly anticipated the possibility of continuing violence in Kosovo and the potential for large
refugee outflows and an outbreak of a wider conflict in the region. The CAS also specified triggers for
moving into an emergency scenario. This proposed project represents a component of a larger effort
currently underway to assist the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia to mitigate the social costs
arising from the conflict and to help with costs associated with the structural reform program to be
supported by the proposed second Financial and Enterprise Sector Adjustment Loan (FESAL II).
The proposed operation is directly related to Government objectives identified in the CAS as it supports: (a)
enhancing the efficiency of the state by completing privatization of enterprises, and selling residual
state-owned shares; and (b) alleviation of poverty and developing human capital by targeting benefits of
social assistance programs, continuing to upgrade front-line social services, initiating and adapting training
systems, and using non-governmental partnerships for social/economic integration of marginalized groups.
The proposed operation also supports the overall Government reform strategy and the World Bank
program of assistance which focuses on: (a) enabling the environment for private sector growth, by
supporting bankruptcy and labor restructuring of state owned enterprises identified for support under the
proposed FESAL II, and (b) restructuring of social sectors including continuing the development and
provision of "front line" services comprising social assistance and labor services. Collaboration with
international partners, including USAID and the EU/ETF has been established. USAID/USDOL
representatives joined the mission and an invitation has been extended to the EU/ETF.
-3-



2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
The former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia has been pursuing an aggressive enterprise restructuring
program for several years. The first phase of this program commenced in 1994 with the restructuring of
the 25 largest loss making enterprises through bankruptcy, sale, closure and liquidation of state firms. The
restructuring was accompanied by the development and refinement of programs to provide social support to
workers. The World Bank has supported this program through both sector and investment loans including,
but not limnited, to the Financial and Enterprise Sector Adjustment Credit (FESAC), the Social Reform and
Technical Assistance project (SRTAP) and the Structural Adjustment Loan/Credit (SAL/C). One of the
conditions of the latter operation was the adoption of a modem bankruptcy law.
At the time of the special restructuring program for the 25 large politically sensitive loss-makers with their
60,000 workers, formal bankruptcy through the court system was not considered to be an option. Under
the then existing law, opening of a bankruptcy procedure triggered the automatic termination of all
employment contracts and freed the bankrupt enterprise from the statutory obligation to make severance
payments to its workers. These features guaranteed that no judge would ever declare a large enterprise
bankrupt. Therefore, as all of the enterprises and most of their creditors were either State or socially
owned, an out of court process, incorporating the main features of bankruptcy, was deerned to be the
appropriate way of restructuring and privatizing the large loss-makers.
The new Bankruptcy Law, based on the 1994 German Insolvency Statute, was adopted in November 1997
and became effective in April 1998. The new law does not provide for automatic termination of the
workers of bankrupt enterprises and does not exempt bankrupt enterprises from making severance
payments. Under the law, creditors can decide to restructure and rehabilitate a debtor enterprise, or they
can decide to liquidate it by selling the debtor's assets, either as packages (entire business units) or
piecemeal.
SRTAP, PHRD and USAID funding has supported efforts to build the institutional capacity necessary to
implement the new law, including extensive training for judges and bankruptcy trustees. Since mnid 1998,
at least one creditor, the electric utility has petitioned the courts for the bankruptcy of several large
enterprises. However, to date, not one large enterprise has been declared bankrupt by the courts as judges
continue to fear the social consequences of bankruptcy. Therefore, to strengthen the still weak financial
discipline in the enterprise sector, the proposed FESAL II will support the application of the new
Bankruptcy Law to the largest loss-making and insolvent enterprises, including private enterprises as well
as socially owned enterprises.
During the February 1999, preparation mnission for the FESAL II, twelve large insolvent enterprises were
identified as candidates for bankruptcy. At least approximately 6,500 employees in these enterprises are
expected to be affected by bankruptcy and labor restructuring. In addition, further increases in
unemployment and layoffs are expected from the disruption of economic activity caused by the Kosovo
crisis, in particular because of loss of rnarkets in the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. These layoffs are
estimated at 35,000 by the Ministry of Labor and Social Policy. The Government must address the social
impact of both of these actions.
-4-



3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The bankruptcy and labor restructuring of large enterprises and related labor shedding, will require
financing of severance payments, and provision of labor redeployment services to facilitate re-entry of
displaced workers in the labor force as well as temporary income support to alleviate poverty. The
Government has made considerable progress in reforming social benefits and labor market services to
provide social support to laid off workers. This progress is evidenced by the adoption of key social benefit
reforms under the SSAC, and the successful implementation of the SRTAP which is financing the provision
of a range of labor redeployment services, technical assistance to enterprises undergoing restructuring, and
the development of effective social benefit prograns to help the unemployed. The proposed project would
build on this capacity, and would provide labor services and social benefits (e.g. severance) to those
workers who will be displaced by further bankruptcy and labor restructuring of state owned enterprises as
well as those workers who have been affected by the disruption of economic activity caused by the Kosovo
crisis. The project would facilitate layoffs resulting from bankruptcy and labor restructuring, provide
protection against poverty to affected workers, and facilitate their return to the labor market through the
use of carefully targeted labor services. The project would facilitate the bankruptcy of large enterprise
since bankruptcy judges would be confident that a safety net exists for the workers which might be
displaced.
(i) Severance. Workers that are laid off due to economic, technological, structural and other reasons, are
eligible for one-off severance payments, in cases where the employers make changes in the production
program, organization, structure and technology according to the Law on Labor Relations. The amount of
severance pay is calculated on the basis of one month average wage of the employee for every two years of
service, but not more than 12 monthly wages. This means that a maximum of 24 years of service are
recognized for the purpose of the severance payment. According to the legislation, the severance payments
are to be paid by the employers. However, the precedent has been established for the severance payments
to be covered alternatively by the Government. This happened in the past during the Special Restructuring
Program for the 25 loss-making enterprises in 1995 FESAC. In addition, according to the Law on
Employment and Insurance in Case of Unemployment, excess workers laid off for a certain period of time
are eligible to receive unemployment cash compensation and social insurance (health and pension
insurance).
(ii) Labor Redeployment. Experience under the SRTAP labor redeployment scheme indicates that: (i)
about 50 percent of displaced workers will eventually request some form of assistance, and (ii) unit costs
per person for the provision of these services are in the range of US$400-500 apiece average. The state's
interest in providing post-layoff services is to facilitate the transition to alternative productive employment
and reduce pressure on the public budget. After layoffs occur, workers will adjust to their new situation in
a variety of ways. Some workers will find other jobs rapidly, while others may decide to exit the labor
market, retiring or staying at home with their families. Many laid-off workers are likely to apply for
income support payments, including unemployment insurance and social assistance. However, based on
experience under the SRTAP and in other countries, some laid-off workers will also request and benefit
from in-depth counseling and employment services to help them locate alternative employment, or from
temporary community employment. Displaced workers whose skills are not in demand will benefit from
retraining. Relocation assistance may be useful if jobs are more plentiful in other localities. Development
of small businesses will also be a viable alternative for some displaced workers. Experience gained in
operating these programs under SRTAP, as well as with Government financial programs operated by the
National Labor office, has been generally positive. However, while information on gross impact is
available, studies of net impact of similar progress in other countries point out a need for the Government
to improve monitoring of the programs so policies and programs can be adjusted to enhance their
-5-



cost-effectiveness and targeting.
(iii) Social benefits. The recent economic crisis is likely to have a major impact on the social benefit
programs, including social assistance and unemployment benefits, especially because refugees who stay in
the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia will put an additional stress on social benefits. In particular,
the crisis is likely to exacerbate the administrative, financing and program delivery problems that these
programs already face. The recent poverty assessment has identified some of these issues. Despite being
strongly pro-poor, the main poverty alleviation program, the means targeted social assistance program has
a large inclusion error--that is, many individuals not eligible for benefits receive them. To address these
issues, the Government has reformulated its social assistance program and included work incentives.
However, as noted in the poverty assessment, the work incentives chosen by the Government may well be
difficult to implement and will require some improvement in existing capacity to administer the program as
well as alternate methods to target cash assistance to the poor, such as the proxy-means test. In addition,
the Ministry of Labor and Social Policy has no capacity to forecast changes in social benefit expenditures
due to economic developments, such as resulting from the Kosovo crisis. As a consequence, the
Government's ability to budget for increased demand during the crisis is limited. Moreover, the poverty
monitoring capacity, which was initiated during the SRTAP, needs to be strengthened so that the impact of
program changes, and the effectiveness in programs to reach the poor can be evaluated. Finally, the focus
of the Government on establishing a safety net has relied mainly on cash assistance. Cash transfers need to
be supplemented by social welfare services to affected families. The former Yugoslav Republic of
Macedonia has a considerable network of social welfare centers. However, the social assistance program
administration has crowded out the time and efforts of social welfare officers to serve community needs.
Thus, efforts to strengthen social welfare centers and to develop complementary social funds to provide
social services (in addition to their other objectives of providing employment and community infrastructure)
to the community should be considered. These objectives, that is, providing simple means of targeting
benefits to the poor, focusing more on non-cash social welfare services, and improving poverty monitoring
and budgeting capacity are consistent with the strategic options for social protection in transition countries
at level of income and economic development.
(iv) Cost of Enterprise Bankruptcy. The direct social costs (severance, unemployment benefits, social
insurance, labor redeployment services) for the enterprise bankruptcy have been calculated based on the
assumption that the selected enterprises would be either rehabilitated by the existing or new private owners,
or, in the case of socially owned enterprises, sold to private investors. In cases where rehabilitation is not
possible, the assets of the enterprise would be sold to new private investors. Calculating the total costs for
state enterprises to be privatized and restructured is difficult for several reasons. First, it is still not clear at
this time what the outcomes of the bankruptcy procedures rnight be. Second, it is also difficult to estimate
the social costs since it is impossible to determine up front what kind of restructuring of the enterprises will
be undertaken by the new private investors and how much of the existing labor will be deemed redundant.
In the analysis of the social costs two scenarios for the enterprise bankruptcy and labor restructuring were
considered (see Summary of Costs of Severance and Labor Redeployment below):
(a)    The first scenario was developed on the assumption that the process of enterprise bankruptcy and
privatization will result in laying off 1,975 employees (30% of total), from seven of the twelve enterprises
discussed under the proposed FESAL II, including: Jugohrorn, Hemteks, Fenimak, Zletovo Rudnici,
Frotirka, Frinko Refrigerators, and Karpos Tkajacnica. These enterprises will receive support under the
SSP because bankruptcy and labor restructuring is scheduled to be completed by December 31, 1999.
Support for the additional enterprises would be provided in coming months through the proposed FESAL
II. The total severance payments for the 1,975 employees are estimated following the existing regulations,
amounting to 135.3 million denars, or about US$2.4 million. The severance payments are one-off payments
-6-



that should be paid upon dismissal of the workers. The employment compensation and the social benefits
(health and pension insurance) are payments over time. Taking into account a rough estimation about the
length of the unemployment compensation for the employees with over 25 years of service, the-
demographic data on the employees structure in the enterprises by the years of service, the average wage
paid during 1998, and the total amount of unemployment benefits and social contributions to be paid over
time to the dismissed workers from the above enterprises, it is roughly estimated at 345.2 million denars, or
US$6.0 million. Finally if one-half of the displaced workers (1000) use labor redeployment services, at an
average cost of US$300, the cost would be approximately 17.4 million denars, or about US$300,000.
(b)    Under the second scenario for bankruptcy and labor restructuring and privatization of the seven
enterprises mentioned in (a) above, the assumption is that 3,292 employees (50% of total employees) will
be identified as redundant and laid-off from the above mentioned enterprises. Under these assumption the
total severance payment to be paid to the dismissed workers would amount to 225,5 million denars, or
around US$4.0 million. Additionally 575,3 mrillion denars, or US$10.0 million will be needed to cover the
unemployment benefits and the social contributions for the above laid-off workers. Finally if one-half of
the displaced workers (1,700) use labor redeployment services, at an average cost of US$300, the cost
would be approximately 29.5 million denars, or about US$510,000.
In addition to the costs of supporting bankruptcy and labor restructuring of the seven enterprises, there are
other costs associated with the temporary layoff of 35,000 workers who have been affected by the conflict
in Kosovo. National Employment Bureau estimates indicate that a growing number of workers have been
sent on forced vacations or unpaid leave, and some have been formally laid off. The total number of
workers on forced vacations, by sector, as of mid May are: textiles, 17,300 (47% of the total); metal and
electrical 6,400; chemical 4,100; leather industry 3,400: ferrous and non-ferrous metals 3,375; paper
processing and graphics 400. If one estimates that these layoffs will be a temporary phenomena, that only
half of the workers will become unemployed, and the average duration of unemployment is six months, the
cost of unemployment and related social benefits would be in the range of US$2.0 million. If one-third of
the 35,000 workers affected by the Kosovo conflict (11,550) request labor redeployment services at an
average cost of US$300 the cost would be US$3.5 rnillion.
The proposed operation can not fill all these needs as it is lirnited to US$10 million. The proposed
operation provides resources for two funds: (a) the first, in component one of the project, to support
severance payments totaling an anticipated US$4.2 million for scenario number two; and (b) the second, in
component two of the project, to support labor redeployment totaling about US$4.3 million (which is 80%
of the total cost of the US$5.4 million fund) under scenario two, plus support for workers displaced from
the Kosovo crisis, the existing long-term unemployed and new job entrants. If the demand for severance
payments exceeds the anticipated 50 percent of workers from the agreed enterprises, funds could be moved
from the labor redeployment fund to the labor restructuring fund, with the agreement of the Bank. In any
case, use of the funds would be reserved for severance payments to workers in enterprises declared
bankrupt by the courts and declared redundant by bankruptcy trustees. The two funds will be designed in
cooperation with several other donors, which may provide some additional resources. The project also
includes support for social monitoring and evaluation of both activities to improve targeting of support.
-7-



Summary of Costs of Labor Restructuring and Labor Redeployment (in US$ million)
Source of        Types of costs                     Scenario I      Scenario II
Unemployment                                        (30% laid-off)  (50% laid-0f)
FESAL II         Severance payments *                   2.4 *            4.0 *
enterprises      Unemployment benefits                  3.0             4.9
Social contributions                   3.0             5.1
LRF  *                                 0.3*            0.5*
Sub Total                       8.7             14.5
Kosovo Conflict   Unemployment and social benefits      2.0              2.0
35,000           LRF *                                  3.5*             3.5*
Sub-Total                       5.5             5.5
Existing         LRF *                                  1.4*             1.4*
Long-Term
Unemiployed and
new Job Entrants
* Items to be financed under the proposed Social Support Project
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a d.etailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The following project components have been identified by the Bank project team and agreed in principle
with the Government. These components are based on current experience in the former Yugoslav Republic
of Macedonia and experience in neighboring countries. These concepts were discussed in detail with the
Government during a Bank mission between May 26-31, 1999.
(a)    Labor Restructuring: The goal of this component is to mnitigate the negative social and economic
impact of bankruptcy and labor restructuring of Majority State Owned Enterprises (MSOEs) and
facilitate divestiture of excess labor. This component finances: (i) severance payments, as
regulated by law, to workers displaced by bankruptcy and labor restructuring of MSOEs; (ii)
social monitoring to determine the social impact on workers who have been displaced by
bankruptcy and labor restructuring, and who have received severance payments, to identify them
and ensure that the most vulnerable receive needed social services; and (iii) limited assistance to
further develop employment services.
(b)    Labor Redeployment: The goal of this component is to facilitate the redeployment of workers
displaced by bankruptcy and labor restructuring and privatization of Majority State Owned
Enterprises (MSOEs), the conflict in Kosovo, and the long-term unemployed and first time job
seekers, into the labor force. The component will finance: (i) the development of an administrative
framework to enable the Agency for Transformation of Enterprises with Social Capital [Agency
for Privatization (AP)] to provide resources to MSOEs, or selected local organizations, so they can
organize labor redeployment services for workers displaced by privatization; (ii) provision of labor
-8-



redeployment services to the workers displaced by bankruptcy and labor restructuring and the
conflict, by contracting with local services providers to deliver services; and (iii) an evaluation to
determine the net impact of labor redeployment services.
(c)    Social Benefits: The goal of this component is to improve the targeting of social benefits and the
effectiveness of social protection programs. The component will finance assistance to: (i) improve
the targeting efficiency of the social assistance program; and (ii) develop the capacity of the
Minister of Labor and Social Protection to evaluate social protection and labor market programs in
order to improve program effectiveness.
(d)    Project Management: The goal of this component is to ensure effective administration of the
overall project program, financial accounts, and procurement. The component will finance
assistance: (i) to coordinate project execution from a global perspective; (ii) to procure all Credit
financed goods and services for the implementing agencies; (iii) to operate the financial
management system according to the LACI requirements, and (iv) to act as a liaison between the
technical ministries and World Bank staff charged with monitoring project execution.
Indicative             Bank-      % of
Component                   Sector         Costs      % of    financing   Bank-
(US$M)    Total    (US$M)  financing
A. Labor Restructuring                                   4.56       39.3      4.56       45.6
B. Labor Redeployment                                    6.18       53.3      4.84       48.4
C. Social Benefits                                       0.40        3.4      0.39        3.9
D. Project Management                                    0.46        4.0       0.21       2.1
Total Project Costs                    11.60      100.0      10.00      100.0
Total Financing Required                     11.60      100.0      10.00     100.0
The total cost of the project is estimated at US$11.6 million and the local contribution would amount to
US$1.6 million Of this amount, US$1.35 million would be made available by the Government as a
contribution to the labor redeployment fund, and another US$4,500 would finance staff irnplementing the
Social Benefits component. The remaining US$250,000 would be mnade available by the Government and
would finance project recurrent costs, including the cost of PCU office space, office maintenance, supplies,
materials, staff salaries and other operating costs.
-9-



2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
Although this is not primarily a policy or institutional reform project, it complements policy reforms sought
by the proposed FESAL II which is currently under preparation. However, social monitoring program
carried out under the labor restructuring component, and the net impact evaluation carried out under the
labor redeployment component, will evaluate impact in order to improve targeting and cost-effectiveness,
strengthen institutional capabilities and provide input to refine future labor restructuring and labor
redeployment programs. In addition, the proposed operation, through the social benefits component, will
seek to develop and improve institutional capacity to continue to improve the targeting efficiency of the
social assistance program, and develop capacity at the Ministry of Labor and Social Policy to evaluate
social protection and labor market programs in order to improve program effectiveness.
3. Benefits and target population:
The primary benefits will be: (a) alleviation of poverty, by provision of temporary income support; (b)
expediting workers return to productive employment, and removal of income support by provision of labor
services; and (c) refinement of social benefit and employment programs. The primary target group are
workers displaced due to bankruptcy and labor restructuring of MSOEs, workers displaced by the conflict
in Kosovo which has resulted in loss of markets in the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, and long term
unemnployed and first time job seekers.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
The Agency for Privatization (AP) would be the major coordinating and implementing agency, and will
provide overall project coordination services to all executing agencies, as it has done for the existing
SRTAP, because of its direct linkages with enterprise restructuring. The Project Coordinating Unit (PCU)
will be established in the AP to manage the Credit (Component 4). It is understood that social benefits and
employment policy activities would be implemented by the Ministry of Labor and Social Policy. The three
technical components will be implemented as follows:
(a)    Labor Restructuring: This component will be implemented by the National Employment Bureau
(NEB), in close cooperation with Enterprises, Payment Operations Bureau (ZPP), the Ministry of Labor
and Social Policy, and the PCU.
(b)    Labor Redeployment: The AP, under the general guidance of the Managing Board of the AP, will
be responsible for implementation of the labor redeployment program. An Enterprise Assistance Group
(EAG), consisting of four staff financed (two from the AP and two from the National Employment Bureau)
will be established to administer this sub-components.
(c)    Social Benefits: The overall component will be implemented by the Ministry of Labor and Social
Policy. The social assistance objective will be implemented by the Assistant to the Minister, responsible for
the implementation of this sub-component (while the poverty monitoring activities will be implemented in
cooperation with the Statistical Office). The policy evaluation activity will be implemented by the
Undersecretary of Labor at the Ministry of Labor and Social Policy. The Project would be processed and
managed by the Human Development Sector Unit (ECSHD), of the Europe and Central Asia (ECA)
Region of the International Development Agency (IDA).
-10-



D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
There is an urgent need to provide resources to the Macedonian Government to allow it to continue with
bankruptcy/labor restructuring of state owned enterprises and address the short term needs of workers
displaced due to the economic disruption caused by the conflict in Kosovo due to the loss of markets in the
Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. Current Government resources are inadequate and are strained by the
immense humanitarian and refugee problem. Several options have been considered to address the
overwhelming needs including: (a) targeting all resources in one area, e.g. income support or labor
redeployment, but experience shows that a combined approach has benefits; (b) increasing the size of the
operation, but there are limited resources; (c) looking for alternative resources from other bilateral and
multilateral donors and several are interested; and (d) targeting the use of available resources to carefully
identified groups to maximize the impact on vulnerable groups. Faced with these restraints and choices the
proposed operation selected alternative (d) and it will include two funds, one for severance payments and
one for labor redeployment services. These resources will be targeted at workers displaced from selected
enterprises, with the priority on those to be divested in 1999, with the understanding that additional general
budget support through the FESAL II may become available in FY2000. In addition the two funds will be
designed in cooperation with other donors, to the extent possible, in anticipation that they may add
resources (the mission held on-site discussions with USAID, EU, and UNDP officials all of whom
expressed interest parallel support). The proposed operation will also include limited resources to continue
refinement of ongoing social benefit and employment policies and programs.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                      Project                  (PSR) Ratings
______ _____ _____ _____ _____ _  {_____ _J(Bank-financed  projects  only)
Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                                    Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Social Reform and Technical      HS            HS
Assistance Project (SRTAP)
Social Sector Adjustment          S             S
Credit (S SAC)
Pension Reform Technical          S             S
Assistance Project (PERTAP)
Other development agencies
P/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Lessons of experience need to be considered from several perspectives: (a) lessons learned from working in
the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia; (b) lessons of regional experience and simnilar operations in
countries such as Romania, Hungary, Poland, and Bosnia, in particular; and (c) lessons gained in the
former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, under the previous FESAC and SRTAP operations, and the
on-going SSAC.
Concerning the first perspective, some of the main general lessons from working in the former Yugoslav
Republic of Macedonia include the (i) need for high-level support and political commitment for key policy
-11-



reforms; and (ii) the need to improve institutional capacity to deliver programs. This support was evident
during the mission at the highest levels of Government (e.g. Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Labor and
Social Policy, and at the Agency for Privatization). The institution responsible for the proposed project will
be the Agency for Privatization which successfully implemented the ongoing SRTAP, requested, and was
given the responsibility to coordinate implementation of the proposed SSP.
Secondly, the Bank has initiated considerable work on labor restructuring in the region (e.g. Romania and
Poland) and the lessons learned are incorporated in the design of the proposed project. Similar projects in
Bosnia, Romania, Albania and Turkey (and the existing SRTAP) have labor redeployment programs which
have provided excellent experiences in designing the proposed project. Key lessons learned include the
need to have a highly qualified central unit, with extension officers, to assist with the publicity for the
program, monitoring, and evaluation. The use of standard contracts with service providers has also proven
beneficial and allows rapid turn around of contracts. The Bank has just completed a quasi-experimental
design study of the effectiveness of labor redeployment programs in the Czech Republic, Turkey, Romania,
and Poland. The results of this study have been incorporated into the design of the labor redeployment
programs, and are being used as a model for the evaluation being proposed under this operation.
Thirdly, experience has been gained in the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia under the previous
FESAC and SRTAP operations regarding the bankruptcy/labor restructuring of state owned enterprises
and the work on the proposed project builds in this experience, including lessons learned in implementing
bankruptcy legislation which is ongoing. Further, experience has been gained on refinement of income
support and severance payment systems and considerable refinements have already been made to policies
and programs. An important lesson gained from work on FESAC, SRTAP, and SSAC operations is the
need for careful targeting and monitoring of these programs to ensure that payments are made, and
individuals and families negatively affected are rapidly identified so appropriate social and labor services
can be provided.
4. Indications of borrower comnnitment and ownership:
The Minister of Finance formally notified the Bank on April 20, 1999 of its intention to proceed with the
bankruptcy and labor restructuring of eight state owned enterprises by December 1999. The social impact
of this further privatization effort, coupled to the effects of the Kosovo crisis have prompted the
Government to request the Bank's assistance for the development of this project at the Donor's meeting held
in Paris on May 5, 1999. The Government supported the Bank May 26-31 preparation and pre-appraissal
mission at the highest levels. Detailed design implementation, and financing arrangements were agreed with
at the conclusion of the Mission, and documented in an Aide Memoire left with the Government. In addition
the mission completed, with the assistance of the Government, a LACI assessment.
Implementation experience to date, under two previous projects in the past four years, has demonstrated
that the Government is eager to use its partnership with the Bank to achieve its development objectives of
enabling the growth of the private sector while providing targeted assistance to those most affected by the
effects of privatization. Their highly satisfactory implementation of the SRTAP, even disbursing ahead of
schedule is a clear demonstration of their commitment.
-12-



5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The key value added of Bank support will be the financial resources to allow the Government to continue
with bankruptcy and labor restructuring of enterprises (including MSOEs and socially owned), to address
the issue of layoffs associated with the economic disruption caused by the Kosovo conflict as a result of
lost markets in the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, and assist the growing number of long-term
unemployed and first time job entrants. The Bank is also in a strong position, due to its related work on the
former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia and neighboring countries, including Bosnia, to ensure that the
criteria and procedures used to apply these resources are efficient and effective and result in resources
getting to those who qualify.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (supported by Annex 4):
O Cost-Benefit Analysis:
O Cost Effectiveness Analysis
* Other
Successful enterprise restructuring in the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia requires effective
programs to ease the social costs of large-scale layoffs. Public support for this and other aspects of the
country's economic reform program will also require better public understanding of the reasons for specific
reform measures. The project actions to mitigate the social impacts of enterprise restructuring, reform, and
the economic disruption of the conflict in Kosovo are in this sense, a cost of building political support for
the country's economic reform program. The current retention of surplus labor lowers labor productivity,
increases enterprise losses, impedes enterprise restructuring, delays the potential reallocation of labor to
productive alternative employment, and consumes state budget resources in the form of direct or indirect
subsidies. Workers in loss-making majority state owned enterprises receive direct and indirect public
subsidies in the form of subsidized wages, other subsidized inputs, subsidies to the banking systern, and
inter-enterprise arrears. The total cost of these subsidies typically exceeds by a significant margin the
combined cost of unemployment benefits, social assistance, and targeted labor redeployment measures. The
basic economic rationale is that moving workers, via severance payments and from jobs where they are not
productive and receive public subsidies to jobs where they are productive and do not receive public
subsidies reduces public budget outlays and increases GDP. Public budget outlays will decline to the
extent that redundant workers who are to be redeployed to new jobs now receive direct or indirect
government subsidies, as many do. Even if displaced workers are not successful in finding productive jobs,
public budget outlays will decline if, as is expected, the costs of labor redeployment measures, including
income support, are less than the cost of subsidies to keep workers in unproductive jobs. At the same time,
GDP will increase to the extent that the jobs filled by redeployed workers are new jobs or higher
productivity jobs than they would otherwise have been. Specialized counseling, requalification training, and
improved job placement services have been found to raise productivity by bringing about more efficient
matching of job seekers and the skill requirements of existing jobs (OECD Employment Outlook, 1993,
page ix). A recent World Bank study has found that the type of training provided must be well designed
and specific to the country, and that any training program must be accompanied by a careful evaluation to
ensure replication of the most successful programs.
2. Financial (see Annex 5):
The proposed Credit of US$10 million will cover approxirately 85 percent of total project costs. The
majority of Government contribution is contained in the 20 percent match required for labor redeployment
-13-



services. Financing of severance payments represents 42 percent of total project financing, with 43 percent
for labor redeployment services, and the remainder for technical assistance to refine social assistance
monitoring and targeting. Co-financing is not anticipated, however, the Bank mission has met with several
donors (e.g. USAID, UNDP, EU/ETF) which have expressed interest in providing parallel financing for
labor redeployment services and/or development of service providers. The project is expected to disburse
over three years, with the labor restructuring component disbursing during the first year.
Fiscal Inmpact:
The SSP's fiscal impact, both during and after implementation will remain at a manageable level. As noted,
the Government's contribution is approximately 15 percent (US$1.6 million). The project does not require
long-term down-stream financing for sustainability but rather finances one-time severance payments and
labor redeployment services to assist with worker redeployment during enterprise bankruptcy and labor
restructuring and as a result of the Kosovo conflict. However, if the conflict continues, there will be need
for longer term labor redeployment. The Government has expressed some concem about it's ability to
finance the costs of unemployment benefits and social charges associated with bankruptcy and labor
restructuring. The Bank is processing FESAL II that can provide general budget support to address this
issue. If funds are not available for unemployment benefits this could slow the use of the labor
restructuring component of the proposed SSF', and enterprise bankruptcy and labor restructuring.
3. Technical:
The project builds on the successful experience of the ongoing SRTAP which has been implemented ahead
of schedule and is rated highly satisfactory. I'he experience of this project has provided input for fine
tuning of implementation arrangements for the proposed project. Cost estimates are deemed to be quite
reliable because the first component, labor restructuring, is built on objective costing criteria; and the
second major component, labor redeployment, is based on average unit costs developed under SRTAP. If
the demand for severance payments from the Labor Restructuring component is lower than expected (i.e.
the number of layoffs are less) it is expected that the funds will be reallocated to Labor Redeployment
where demand will probably exceed supply. Contingencies are based on current SRTAP experience and no
problems are anticipated.
4. Institutional:
a. Executing agencies: The coordinating implementation agency (Agency for Privatization) has
demonstrated its ability to manage IDA projects by its successful implementation of the SRTAP. The only
other technical implementing agency is the Ministry of Labor and Social Policy and the attached
Employment Bureau. Both are familiar with EDA financed projects and have fulfilled requirement under the
ongoing SRTAP and PERTAP. Small amounts of technical assistance and training are provided for in the
proposed project to provide assistance as needed to refine procedures (e.g. assistance to the Project
Coordinating Unit, to the Enterprise Assistance Group which will operate the labor redeployment
component, to the Ministry of Labor and Social Policy which will manage the social benefits and labor
restructuring components).
b. Project management: As noted above, the project will be managed by the Agency for Privatization
which has successfully managed the ongoing SRTAP, agreement has been reached on the number and
assignment of local staff to manage the unit, and some technical assistance has been provided for in the
proposed Credit to refine procedures (includinpg implementing agreed LACI development objectives).
-14-



5. Social:
The key social issues include ensuring that workers laid-off during enterprise bankruptcy and labor
restructuring receive severance payments as agreed, and further benefits, such as unemployment benefits
and social assistance, if they have difficulties. Detailed procedures has been defined with the Government to
ensure that Credit financed severance payments get to workers. The proposed Credit also finances social
monitoring surveys to identify vulnerable workers and families to ensure targeted social assistance is made
available. The second social issue is to ensure that workers displaced by enterprise bankruptcy and labor
restructuring, the Kosovo conflict, and the long term unemployed and first time job seekers, get assistance
to help them develop the human capital necessary to re-enter the labor market. This is facilitated by the
labor redeployment component of the project which finances services to help individuals react to frictional
and structural unemployment, as well as lack of demand for labor. The proposed Credit also includes
financing for a study to determine the net impact of these services to improve targeting and cost
effectiveness of services. Finally, the social benefit component provides resources to help the Ministry of
Labor and Social Policy use administrative data, developed under SRTAP, to evaluate and improve
targeting of social benefit programs to ensure the most needy get benefits. All monitoring, evaluation, and
data analysis systems specifically provide for analysis by various demographic features (e.g. age, sex,
education level).
6. Environmental assessment:              Environment Category D A Z C
[] B D FI
There are no environmental issues in this project. This is a social support project, not a restructuring
project.
7. Participatory Approach (key stakeholders, how involved, and what they have influenced or may
influence; if participatory approach not used, describe why not applicable):
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
Workers, and their families, displaced: (i) by bankruptcy and labor restructuring of MSOEs, (ii) by the
Kosovo conflict, and (iii) the long-term unemployed and first time job seekers. Project financed assistance
includes severance payments for (i) and labor redeployment services for (ii) and (iii).
Beneficiaries will be informed of availability of benefits by local and national publicity, much of which has
already been developed under the Public Information Component of the SRTAP. In addition, the SRTAP
financed a series of public opinion surveys, the most recent of was completed in April 1999. These provide
excellent input for fine tuning of the assistance program. These surveys included a range of consultative
activities such as focus groups and formal surveys.
b. Other key stakeholders:
Other key stakeholders include MSOEs, the govermnent, and NGOs including unions. The MSOEs are
entering bankruptcy procedures. The labor restructuring and labor redeployment programs facilitate this
process and reduce social tensions. The Govermment, which is supporting bankruptcy and labor
restructuring, also needs financial and technical support to implement the labor restructuring and labor
redeployment programs. Unions are aware of the program, are supportive, and were contacted during
design of the SRTAP program. NGOs have played a key role in service delivery for some elements of the
labor redeployment fund under the SRTAP, and the proposed Credit supports ongoing work with NGOs.
-15-



F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The labor restructuring and labor redeployment components of the project are not intended to be sustained
over time as they are one-time payments and programs intended to help bankruptcy and labor restructuring
of selected enterprises. However, experience gained during operation of these programs can assist the
government to design and implement additional downstream bankruptcy and labor restructuring programs.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                   RiIsk Rating      -Risk Minimization Measure
From Outputs to Objective
The major risk to the objective of         S        There is little the project can do to
mitigating the negative social impact of            mitigate this type of political risk.
bankruptcy and labor restructuring of                However, it should be noted that the two
enterprises and the conflict in Kosovo,             major activities supported by the Credit,
is that (a) if the conflict continues, the          severance payments and labor
financial burden of providing temporary             redeployment services, are disbursed
income support will outstrip the                    over time as enterprises are qualified
available Government and international              and services contracted. As such, there
resources and there will be political and           is time available to adjust to changing
social upheaval, and (b) labor                      conditions over the life of the project.
redeployment programs will have no
impact because the economy will
collapse.
From Components to Outputs
A. Labor Restructuring Component:         M          This risk can be partially addressed by
The Government may lack resources to                 good management of labor restructuring
continue bankruptcy and labor                       resources. The Bank team has had
restructuring, funds may be diverted to              detailed discussions with the
other activities, and displaced workers              Goverrnent on this issue and has
may reenter employment in the same                   agreed on specific procedures to
enterprises.                                        mitigate the risk of misuse of funds.
B. Labor Redeployment Component:           S         This risk is very difficult to address.
Services may have no impact if Kosovo
conflict continues, and the economy
deteriorates further.
C. Social Benefits and Employment         N
Component: no real risk
D. Project Management Component: no       N
real risk
Overall Risk Rating                    .
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
-16-



3. Possible Controversial Aspects
The only controversial aspect is the targeting of labor redeployment services to workers affected by
bankruptcy and labor restructuring and the Kosovo conflict as a first priority, with a lower priority being
given to the long-term unemployed and first time job entrants. This targeting is being done for pragmatic
reasons, and in recognition that there are not sufficient funds to cover all groups of the unemployed.
However, the Employment Bureau does operate a limited Government Finance labor fund, which will
provide supplemental assistance to the general unemployed.
G: Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
There are no conditions of effectiveness.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
* Condition of Disbursement (Credit Agreement: Schedule 1, Section 3b)
1.    The former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia shall enact appropriate legislation to enable the
payment of severance from the State Budget for the labor restructuring component of the project. Such
legislation should be enacted on or prior to July 31, 1999. During Negotiations, the Association clarified
that if this date cannot be met, a later date would be acceptable, but in the interim no Credit funds could be
disbursed for labor restructuring payments.
a Other agreements for the Execution of the Project: (Credit Agreement)
Article III, Section 3.01(b)(ii): It was clarified and agreed that Credit funds could only be used for labor
restructuring payments (e.g. severance) at majority state owned enterprises that have formally entered
bankruptcy and restructuring proceedings under the Bankruptcy Law and have adopted a restructuring plan
satisfactory to the Association.
* Remedies of the Association (Credit Agreement, Article V)
Section 5.01(a)
Project Operational Manual changes must be agreed with IDA.
Section 5.01(b)
Changes to legislation approving Government financing of severance payments must be agreed with IDA.
H. Readiness for Implementation
C 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
0 1. b) Not applicable.
Z 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
Z 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
-17-



1 4. The following itemns are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
The enactment of appropriate legislation on or prior to July 31, 1999 by the former Yugoslav Republic of
Macedonia to enable the payment of severance from the State Budget. This is a condition of disbursement.
The PCU will be responsible for the, verification of eligibility of enterprises applying for severance
payments in accordance with the new Bankruptcy Law which became effective on May 6, 1998 prior to
submitting payment requests for severance payments from the Credit Account.
NOTE: The Project Implementation Plan is included in the Project Operational Manual (POM).
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
1 . This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
fi 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
DId Herbert Fretwell              ames Christopher Lovelace         Ajay Cer
Team Leader                      Sector ManagerlDirector          r90t¶fry  Manager/Director
-18-



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
MACEDONIA, FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF: Social Support Project
Key Performance
Hierarchy of Objectives          Indicators         Monitoring & Evaluation    Crttical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:        Sector/ country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Promote private sector growth Proportion of employment and Report #18162, July 14, 1998  Goals remain valid, even in
and alleviate poverty and  GDP in/from private                                 view of the Kosovo Conflict
develop human capital     companies up, proportion of
population in poverty down.
Project Development       Outcome I Impact           Project reports:          (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                Indicators:
The objective of the proposed  Individuals displaced by  18162, July 14, 1998  bankruptcy and labor
Social Support Project (SSP)  enterprise bankruptcy and                        restructuring of MSOEs will
would be to help mitigate the  labor restructuring or conflict                 continue
negative social and economic  receive social support
impact of bankruptcy and  (temporary income support)
labor restructuring of MSOEs and labor redeployment and
and the economic disruption  thus do not enter poverty and
caused by the conflict in  return to the labor force.
Kosovo.
Output from each          Output Indicators:         Project reports:           (from Outputs to Objective)
component:
A. Labor Restructuring:
Temporary Income Support: Support is provided to workers Documentation of individuals Severance payments will go to
workers displaced by      approximately 3,300 displaced receiving severance and social workers displaced by
enterprises defined in the  by enterprise bankruptcy and  monitoring of same.   enterprise bankruptcy and
proposed FESAL are offered  labor restructuring, and                            labor restructuring.
and provided severance    vulnerable workers are     Monitoring of individuals
payments that they are legally identified and poverty is  getting unemployment
entitled to receive, as long as  alleviated among these  benefits and social assistance
the MSOEs comply with the  workers and their families.   via existing administrative
new Bankruptcy Law.                                  data systems.
-19-



B. Labor Redeployment       Support is offered and      Documentation of individuals Labor redeployment services
Services: workers displaced   provided to about 20,000  receiving labor services.   will go to workers displaced
by enterprise bankruptcy and  displaced unemployed workers                          by enterprise bankruptcy and
labor restructuring, the                                                            labor restructuring, as a result
Kosovo conflict, the long-term The net impact evaluation                            of economic disruption caused
unemployed and first time job study indicates that these  Net impact evaluation of  by the Kosovo conflict, the
seekers are offered and    programs can have a positive  services provided to displaced long term unemployed and
provided access to support   impact on post program     workers.                    first time job seekers.
services.                   employment of participants.
Ongoing monitoring of gross
impact of programs indicates a
positive impact of prograrns   Ongoing monitoTing of
on the employment and wages participants receiving services.
of participants.
C. Social Benefits and      Social assistance is delivered  Reviews of administrative data Funds are available to finance
Employment: policies and    to the poorest groups as tested on social welfare,      social benefits and labor
programs are adjusted to    by the Lorenz Curve.        unemployment benefits and   services for eligible recipients
irnprove targeting of benefits                         labor services.
There is increased use of   Evaluation of the impact and
administrative reports to   cost-effectiveness of social
inform policy, target services, programs by poverty
and forecast budget        monitoring and budget
requirements.               forecasting.
D. Project Management:      Disbursements are on        Project quarterly reports   Project Management Unit
project is implemented as   schedule and project objectives                         established as agreed at the
agreed and on schedule      are achieved.               Monthly reports on severance  Agency for Privatization.
payments
Supervision mission reports
Positive and tirnely annual
audit reports
-20-



Key Performance
Hierarchy of Objecives           Indicators          Monitoring & Evaluation I  Critical Assumptions
Project Components /       Inputs: (budget for each    Project reports:         (from Coriponents to
Sub-components:           component)                                            Outputs)
A. Labor Restructuring:    $4.6 million               Quarterly project reports  The Government will honor
The goal of this component is                                                    and move forward with
to mitigate the negative social                       Reviews by supervision    bankruptcy and labor
and econornic impact of                              missions                   restructuring of agreed
bankruptcy and labor                                                             MSOEs.
restructuring of MSOEs and                            Project mid-term review
facilitate divestiture of excess
labor. This component                                Information on results of
fimances: (i) severance                               social monitoring of those
payments, as regulated by law,                        receiving severance payments
to workers displaced by
bankruptcy and labor
restructuring of MSOEs; (ii)
social monitoring to determine
the social impact on workers
who have been displaced by
bankruptcy and labor
restructuring, and who have
received severance payments,
to identify them and ensure
that the most vulnerable
receive needed social services;
and (iii) limited assistance to
further develop employment
services.
-21-



B. Labor Redeployment:    $6.2 million                  Quarterly project reports   Service providers are available
The goal of this component is                                                       to deliver services
to facilitate the redeployment                          Reviews by supervision
of workers displaced by                                 missions
bankruptcy and labor
restructuring and privatization                         Project mid-term review
of Majority State Owned
Enterprises (MSOEs), the                                Information on gross impact
conflict in Kosovo, and the                             of programs from the existing
long-term unemployed and                                Management Information
first time job seekers, into the                        System
labor force. The component
will finance: (i) the                                  Information on net impact of
development of an                                      services from net impact
administrative framework to                             evaluation study
enable AP to provide
resources to MSOEs, or
selected local organizations,
so they can organize labor
redeployment services for
workers displaced by
privatization; (ii) provision of
labor redeployment services to
the workers displaced from
bankruptcy and labor
restructuring and the conflict,
by contracting with local
services providers to deliver
services; and (iii) an
evaluation to determine the
net impact of labor
redeployment services
'C. Social Benefits: The goal $0.4 million              Quarterly project reports   The Government develops a
of this component is to                                                             Policy Monitoring Group in
improve the targeting of social                         Reviews by supervision      the Ministry of Labor and
benefits and the effectiveness                          missions.                   Social Policy as agreed, and
of social protection programs.                                                      takes action as needed to
The component will finance                              Administrative management  adjust legislation and
assistance to: (i) improve the                          reports from social assistance  regulations to improve
targeting efficiency of the                             and labor offices.          targeting and quality of
social assistance program; and                                                      services
(ii) develop the capacity of the                        Project mid-term review
Minister of Labor and Social
Protection to evaluate social
protection and labor market
programs in order to improve
program effectiveness
-22-



D. Project Management:    $0.4 million               Quarterly project reports   The Government maintains
The goal of this component is                                                   the PCU as agreed. at the
to ensure effective                                  Reviews by supervision     Agency for Privatization.
administration of the overall                        missions
project program, financial
accounts, and procurement.                           Project mid-term review
The component will finance
assistance: (i) to coordinate                        Annual Audit Reports
project execution from a
global perspective; (ii) to
procure all Credit financed
goods and services for the
implementing agencies; (iii) to
operate the financial
management system according
to the LACI requirements, and
(iv) to act as a liaison between
the technical ministries and
World Bank staff charged
with monitoring project
execution.
-23-



Annex 2: Project Description
MACEDONIA, FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF: Social Support Project
By Component:
Project Component 1 - US$4.5 million
Labor Restructuring Component:
Goal: To mitigate the negative social and economic impact of bankruptcy and labor restructuring of state
owned enterprises.
Objective:                                   Activities:
1. Severance Payments: to provide severance  (i) Legislation: to create new legislation, similar to the
payments, as regulated by law, to workers   legislation that was used to allow the Government to pay
displaced by bankruptcy and labor restructuring    severance payments for the previous 25 large loss makers.
of MSOEs.                                    The Borrower will provide a framework for making
payments by July 30, 1999.
(ii) Compliance with legislation: The PCU, within the AP,
will ascertain the eligibility of enterprises applying for
severance payments, i.e. their compliance with the
application of the new Bankruptcy Law. The Bank will
authorize severance payments on a case by case basis upon
receipt of this information.
(iii) Finalize Procedures: the MOLSP, in cooperation with
the Ministry of Finance, Agency for Privatization, Project
Coordinating Unit, affected enterprises, ZPP, and the
National Employment Bureau, will finalize procedures for
disbursement of severance payments to workers in selected
enterprises as agreed with the Bank by July 31, 1999 (see
implementation for general description of procedures and list
of eligible enterprises).
(iv) Make payments: to make payments to eligible workers
at selected enterprises as agreed with the Bank.
-24-



2. Social Monitoring: to monitor the social   (i) Design: the sample frame and survey based on surveys
impact on workers, and their families, who have    for similar objectives undertaken in the region.
been displaced by bankruptcy and labor
restructuring and who have received severance  (ii) Pilot test: the survey in one region.
payments, to identify and ensure that the most
vulnerable receive needed social services.    (iii) Implement: the full survey fine tuned based on the
results of the pilot.
(iv) Evaluate: the results of the survey in a report that
identify vulnerable groups, and disseminate information to
relevant stakeholders.
(v) Replicate: continue survey and prepare report every six
months, or a total of four times over the life of the project.
3. Employment Policy and Services: to         (i) Train: train additional National and Local Labor office
disseminate and replicate pilot programs       staff in implementation of Pilot programs and new policies.
developed under the SRTAP.
-25-



Project Component 2 - US$6.2 million
Labor Redeployment component:
Goal: To facilitate the redeployment of workers displaced by bankruptcy and labor restructuring and
privatization of Majority State Owned Enterprises (MSOEs), the conflict in Kosovo, the long-term
unemployed, and first time job seekers back into the labor force.
Objective:                                   Activities:
1. Administrative Framework: to develop a    (i) Agreements and Procedures: Refine procedures, By
framework to enable AP to provide resources to   July 30 1999, developed under SRTAP, for National Labor
MSOEs, or selected local organizations, so they    Redeployment Fund (LRF), and sample contracts for use
can organize labor redeployment services for  with service providers which will be responsible for
workers displaced by privatization.          organizing active labor services (e.g. employment/relocation
assistance, retraining, temporary community employment,
small business assistance and incubators, community
development planning, loan guarantees) for displaced
workers as defined in criteria agreed with the Bank.
(ii) Publicity: Refine materials and disseminate information
to communities, MSOEs, and potential service providers
regarding: (a) the availability of Funds for labor services,
and (b) contracting procedures, and (c) criteria to use these
Funds.
(iii) Monitoring: Refine the system, developed under
SRTAP, to monitor the use of funds, and evaluate the
impact of local labor adjustment services with special
attention to monitoring placement of participants, wages,
and/or entry to self-employment (July 30, 1999).
-26-



2. Services: provide labor redeployment services  (i) AP/service Provider Agreements: Sign agreements
to the workers displaced by bankruptcy and labor  between the AP and service providers for receipt and use of
restructuring and the conflict by contracting with   LRF resources following criteria and procedures agreed with
local services providers to deliver services.  the Bank.
(ii) Active Labor Services for Displaced Workers:
Deliver services to displaced workers through sub-contracts
between the AP and local service providers.
(iii) Technical Assistance: Provide lirnited technical
assistance from AP to local service providers to help them
develop services including small business incubators, model
small business assistance centers, community economic
development plans, and loan guarantee programs.
(iv) Monitor and Evaluate: Monitor and evaluate
organization and implementation of programs by service
providers and provide monthly summaries.
3. Evaluation: To determine the net impact of  (i) Design: review similar studies, orient counterparts,
labor redeployment services by irnplementing a  design survey procedures and forms.
quasi-experimental design study.
(ii) Collect Data: pilot test procedures, make necessary
revisions, conduct surveys, entry data, verify data, construct
data set.
(iii) Analyze data: describe economic context, sample,
evaluate impact, analyze local labor market conditions,
present policy implications, then discuss interim findings
with advisory panel.
(iv) Disseminate results: prepare final report and
disseminate.
CRITERIA FOR USE OF THE LABOR REDEPLOYMENT FUND (LRF)
General Principles:
(a) Demand: services provided by the LRF would be demand driven and based on requests from displaced
workers and advisory input from the social partners.
(b) Eligible individuals: LRF financed services would only be available to formally unemployed workers, as
certified by the Labor Offices, who: (i) have been dismissed from MSOEs undergoing bankruptcy and
labor restructuring processes, (ii) have been dismissed from enterprises as a result of the Kosovo conflict,
or (iii) who are long term unemployed (e.g. over one year) or first time job seekers. Service providers must
have at least two-thirds of participants in categories (i) and (ii) and participants may include workers who
are receiving unemployment benefits as well as those who may have exhausted their benefits. Workers who
-27-



are receiving benefits would receive the services described in addition to their unemployment benefits (with
the exception of those receiving stipends under Community Temporary Employment programs because this
would constitute a double income support payment).
(c) Costs of services: LRF reimbursement to local agencies providing services to workers would be based
on the average unit cost of providing services to a worker times the number of workers actually
participating in the programs. Exceptions would be made in the case of: (i) incubator development; where a
service provider could be reimbursed for more significant mobilization costs as agreed between the service
provider and AP, and (ii) reimbursement for commnunity development plans which would be on a lump sum
basis. There would be a cap of 20 percent of LRF expenditures on incubator services, 20 percent for
temporary community employment, and 20 percent on loan guarantee programs unless otherwise agreed
with the Bank.
(d) Evaluation of services: Service providers would be required to provide job placement and wage/income
information for all participants who receive services (see special note on follow-up requirements for
retraining services on the following page) before receiving their final 20 percent payment for services
provided.
(e) Mobility: Labor mobility among displaced workers would be encouraged, workers in communities
qualifying for assistance under the LRF would be eligible for services in their communities or in other
cormunities receiving assistance under the LRF. To support this initiative: the AP EAG would collect and
disseminate information on services being made available by the LRF throughout the Country; employment
and counseling services would include provision of national job vacancy information (to the extent it is
available) and can support relocation costs for displaced workers; and training and public works services
would include provision of transportation for participants to alternate service sites.
-28-



Criteria for Specific Services:
Criteria for Employment/Counseling and Relocation Services:
1.     Eligible Services; Job/social counseling, provision of labor market information, job
search/job club programs, labor exchange and placement services.
2.     Eligible Local Agencies: Employment Bureau Local offices, non-government non-profit
agencies (NGOs), private firms, and other labor organizations that demonstrate minimum
capabilities to provide services (e.g. trained staff, facilities, financial viability, placement
capability).
3.     Eligible Costs: staff and administrative personnel costs, rent and utilities, non-durable
equipment and materials, client transportation for job interviews, depreciation of capital equipment
limited to 30% per year, and relocation expenses including travel of family and transport of
personal belongings to a maximum of US$ 500 per family unless otherwise agreed with the Bank.
Criteria for Retraining Services:
1.     Eligible Services: vocational skills, literacy and mathematics skills, small business skills
training and management training for existing enterprise managers involved in restructuring
programs.
2.     Eligible Costs: (a) Private and public training institutions would be reimbursed for: staff
and administrative personnel costs, rent and utilities, non-durable equipment and materials, trainee
transportation, depreciation of capital equipment purchased limited to 20% per year, maximum
length of training per client - 6 months. (b) Enterprises (providing training for their own workers)
would be eligible for reimbursement for; (a) half of the total unit costs; or (b) instructor costs,
participant transportation, and non-durable costs not to exceed 20 percent of staff costs, whichever
is less.
Note: In order to facilitate labor mobility, MSOEs would have the option of developing training
contracts with public or private training institutions and/or enterprises in their community or any
other communities. These contracts could be for individual and/or groups of displaced workers,
and these workers could participate in training in their community or other communities. All
training contracts are to include a pre-negotiated rate of job placement in the range of a minimum
of 50 percent for institutional training, and 80 percent for on-job-training and would include
incentives for exceeding agreed placement rates (e.g. 10 percent bonus payments) and disincentives
for not achieving agreed placement rates (e.g. the withholding of 20 percent of final payment for
training services and no further contracts). Information confirming labor market demand (e.g.
review and advisory comment by employer, union, and government representatives, evidence of
trainee demand) are required before training contracts are finalized between private/public training
agencies and the AP. Training service providers would be required to provide follow-up job
placement information to the AP both when participants exit training and on a sample of at least 25
percent of trainees three months after program exit.
-29-



Criteria for Temporary Community Employment Projects (maximum 20% of LRF):
1.     Eligible Services: environmental cleanup, refurbishment of public infrastructure including
SOE sites, etc. Local organizations proposing projects must provide evidence that the program will
not displace normal employment (e.g. program is endorsed by local union representatives and
private employer representatives).
2.     Eligible Local Agencies: the private sector must, in general, be the service provider.
However all projects must support provision of public services as identified, proposed, and
approved by local government authorities. Authorities proposing projects must provide evidence of
ability to supervise the project.
3.     Eligible Costs: supervisory personnel costs, maximum funding for worker stipends is net
minimum wage, worker transportation, utilities, consumable material and non-durable goods
(limited to 20% of total project cost). Maximnum length of individual participation in projects - 6
months, maximum project cost - US$50,000 without no-objection of the Bank. Proposing
organizations are encouraged to supplement project budgets with in-kind assistance.
Criteria for Small Business Assistance Programs:
1.     Eligible Services: provision of advice and assistance (e.g. legal, marketing,
sales, financial services, inventory control, etc.) to the unemployed SOE workers who wish to start,
or who are in the first year of operating, small businesses.
2.     Eligible Local Agencies: excluding government agencies but including private agencies,
autonomous public organizations, statutory occupational/labor/employer organizations,
foundations, associations, and other NGOs.
3.     Eligible Costs: personnel, client transportation, utilities and rent, consumable and
non-durable goods, maximum 20% depreciation per year on durable goods.
Criteria for Small Business Incubator Programs (20% maximum of the LRF):
1.     Eligible Services: facilities for micro entrepreneurs, technical assistance to entrepreneurs,
services and equipment to be shared by participants, short term working capital fund to be made
available to incubator clients at positive interest rates.
2.     Eligible Local Agencies: excluding government agencies, but including private agencies
and enterprises, autonomous public organizations, statutory occupational/labor organizations,
foundations, associations, and other NGOs. Applicants will be judged on availability of facilities
that can be donated and renovated, qualifications of management staff, linkages with existing small
business organizations and financing imstitutions, financial/administrative capabilities, experience
with small business start-ups.
3.     Eligible Costs: facility refurbishment and/or rent, start -up capital for revolving fund for
entrepreneurs located in the incubator (max. US$50,000 to be lent only to incubator participants at
positive real interest rates), general equipment, limited staff/administrative costs (e.g. a manager),
consumable supplies and non-durable goods, operating expenses with an agreed rate of
cost-reimbursement phase-out from 100 to 0 % over 2 years.
-30-



Criteria for Regional Economic Development Planning Grants (maximum of 8 grants to be provided):
1.    Eligible Services: Development of proposals, plans, studies, investment projects, and
promotional materials on local economic potential.
2.     Eligible Agencies: excluding state government agencies; but including local goverrnment
agencies, local chambers of commerce, and non-government non-profit agencies.
3.     Eligible Costs: local consultant salaries and fees, local travel and per-diem, consumable
materials and supplies (maximum grant US$50,000 per region).
Criteria for Loan Guarantee Funds (maximum of 20% of LRF):
I .    Eligible Services: lump sum payments, matching capital contributions, to organizations
that will provide credit and other financial guarantees to qualifyfing individuals and entities for
financial obligations entered into with commercial entities. Individuals and entities served must be
small business, with under 25 employees, which need financing for start-up.
2.     Eligible Service Providers: Banks, NGOs, foundations and other entities established for
the sole purpose of providing financial guarantees to members who lack collateral to back intended
obligations solely on their own strength. To be considered eligible for matching capital
contributions, organizations would have to show satisfactory capability to appraise guarantee
requests. To be eligible to request assistance organizations would have to have a satisfactory legal
structure and founding membership. Preference would be given to mutual guarantee organizations
where 20% or more of the starting capital is from individual SMEs and to those organizations that
have links with business support centers, including incubators.
3.     Eligible Costs: personnel, transportation costs, rent and utilities, consumable materials and
non-durable goods the first year of existence, depreciation of capital equipment - 20 percent per year.
Matching capital contributions in the ratios: 1:1 for contributions from commercial banks and other
commercial entities other than SMEs, 3:1 for contributions from local agency budgets. Maximum
guarantee service provider is US$400,000, and per client is US$20,000 (average expected to be $12,000).
No more than 20% of LRF funds are to be allocated to this program.
Project Component 3 - US$ 0.4 million
Social Benefits component:
Goal: To improve the targeting of social benefits and the effectiveness of social protection programs.
-31-



Objective:                              Activities:
1. Social Assistance: Improve the       (i) Work Incentive: Pilot, develop software and implement
targeting efficiency of the social      procedures to monitor the work incentive system in the existing
assistance program.                     Social Assistance Decree, and train staff.
(i) Targeting Social Protection: Evaluate alternate means for
targeting social protection to the most vulnerable groups, including
(a) proxy means test; (b) tighter eligibility and benefit criteria in the
social assistance decree; (c) work-fare; and (d) social funds; and if
needed (e) social welfare services (non-cash programs). The
evaluation should present experience of other OECD and transition
economies in each area; and, for each option, should address the (a)
economic costs and benefits; (b) potential financing sources and
costs; (c) administration; (d) implementation arrangements; (e)
feasibility for implementation in the country; (f) consistency with
overall social protection system.
(iii) Evaluate: Develop pilot project proposals to test and evaluate
each feasible option with built-in monitoring and evaluation
procedures in readiness for implementation. (and propose program
evaluation of pilots in this area if being undertaken in the country).
(iv) Poverty Monitoring: Strengthen the poverty monitoring
capacity of the Poverty Monitoring Group, comprising members of
the Statistical Office and the Ministry of Labor and Social Policy
by improving the capacity to update poverty lines, and conduct
distribution analysis.
2. Policy Evaluation Unit: Develop      (i) Establish, staff, equip and train a Policy Evaluation Unit to
capacity to monitor and evaluate social  regularly inform the Minister and MOLSP departments with
protection and labor market programs in    program information, including a) budgeting and forecasting social
order to improve program effectiveness.    protection expenditures; b) monitoring program data collected by
Automation Unit and other relevant agencies with regular
reports/other types of information to each line Department and
other users on a monthly, quarterly and annual basis, as needed and
defined by the Ministry.
(ii) Forecast Resource Requirements: Develop, test, and
implement social protection model (consistent with the pension
forecasting model of the AU), in order to budget and forecast total
social protection and labor market expenditures. Train staff to
independently fully implement and fine tune the model.
-32-



Project Component 4 - US$0.5 million
Project Management component:
Goal: To ensure effective administration of the overall project program, financial accounts, and
procurement.
Objective:                                   Activities:
1. Proiect Coordinatine Unit: (PCU): (a) to  (i) Coordination: coordinate project implementation by: (a)
coordinate project execution from a global   convening regular meetings of the Technical Coordinators to
perspective; (b) to procure all Credit financed  discuss common issues; (b) ensuring that the project is being
goods and services for the implementing     implemented in accordance with technical agreements with
agencies; (c) to operate the financial management  the World Bank; and (c) assisting with project
system according to the LACI requirements, and   implementation as requested by the technical ministries,
(d) to act as a liaison between the technical  MOF and MOL.
ministries and World Bank staff charged with
monitoring project execution.                (ii) Procurement: manage all procurement under the
project in cooperation with the technical ministries; specific
responsibilities during the procurement process for
equipment, and technical assistance and training.
(iii) Financial Management: (a) set up and operate a
financial management system based on technical agreements
reached with the World Bank, (b) organize annual audits to
be made by independent private auditor, according to the
Bank's requirements.
(iv) World Bank liaison: (a) manage the disbursement of all
World Bank loan funds; (b) monitor the availability of the
government's budgetary contribution to the project; (c)
maintain project accounts to be audited; (d) monitor
implementation progress of project components and (e) work
with implementing agencies to prepare quarterly progress
reports in accordance with a project progress reporting
format, to be agreed with the Bank.
-33-



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
MACEDONIA, FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF: Social Support Project
Local       foreign~       Total
S t00: 0 ;f::; j EPojecrt Cost By Component  S: ; :$illi0o    US $million    uS $rmilfion
1. Labor Restructuring                                     4.21         0.30          4.51
2. Labor Redeployment                                      5.68          0.46         6.14
3. Social Benefits                                         0.01          0.37         0.38
4. Project Management                                      0.25          0.19         0.44
Total Baseline Cost                                       10.15          1.32        11.47
Physical Contingencies                                    0.00          0.08         0.08
Price Contingencies                                       0.00          0.05         0.05
Total Project Costs              10.15         1.45         11.60
Total Financing Required              10.15          1.45        11.60
Local       Foreign        Total
Project QostaBy C    y                  US :milliort   US miS$million
Goods                                                        0.00          0.26          0.26
Services                                                     0.28          1.19          1.47
Severance Fund                                               4.21          0.00          4.21
Labor Deployment Fund                                        5.41          0.00          5.41
Incremental Operating costs (Govt)                           0.25          0.00          0.25
Total Project Costs     10.15          1.45         11.60
Total Financing Required     10.15           1.45        11.60
-34-



Annex 4
MACEDONIA, FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF: Social Support Project
See Section El: Summary Project Analysis
-35-



Annex 5: Financial Summary
MACEDONIA, FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF: Social Support Project
Years Ending
Year I    Year 2  | Year 3     Year 4     Year 5     Year 6    Year 7
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs           6.8        2.8        1.9       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0
Recurrent Costs            0.1        0.1        0.1        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0
Total Project Costs          6.9        2.9        2.0       0.0        0.0        0.0      0.0
Front-end fee    0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0
Total Financing              6.9        2.9        2.0       0.0        0.0        0.0      0.0
IBRDIIDA                   6.3       2.1        1.6        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Government                 0.6       0.6        0.4        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Central                0.6        0.6        0.4       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Provincial             0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Co-financiers              0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
User Fees/Beneficiaries    0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Others                     0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Total Project Financing     6.9        2.7        2.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0
Main assumptions:
See Section E2: Summary Project Analysis
-36-



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
MACEDONIA, FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF: Social Support Project
Procurement
Summary of Procurement Procedure
The total value of the Project US$1 1.6 million, of which the IDA will finance US$10 million. The Project
will be implemented by the Agency for Privatization (AP), who has successfully implemented the SRTAP,
a project which preceded this one. The PCU is established in the PA, and the present PCU director will be
the PCU director of the new project as well. It means that the experience and knowledge he received during
the implementation of the previous credit will be used in the procurement procedures of the new one. The
PCU will hire a new staff member who will work closely with the director on the procurement and financial
issues. The procurement activity in this project is limited since 85% of IDA contribution will be spent as
funds, with special arrangements (see below). The total value of procurement of goods in the project is
about US$ 260,000, the total value of foreign and local consulting services is about US$ 1,190,000.
Sample bidding documents will be included in the Project Operational Manual and would be utilized for the
procurement of IDA-financed goods and consultants services. The Borrower contribution will finance 20%
of the Labor Redeployment Fund, the recurrent costs, duties, taxes, and PCU and Employment Assistance
Group (EAG) staff salaries.
The proposed procurements arrangements are summarized in Table A. The procurement of goods and
services of the IDA financed components would be procured in accordance with the Bank's relevant
procurement guidelines.
Procurement methods (Table A)
Procurement of Goods
Goods procured under the Project would consist of office equipment (including computers and related
equipment, software, photocopy machines, facsimile machines), vehicle and training material for the
different institutions having role in the project implementation. Due to the small value procuremnent the
goods would be grouped into 5 minor packages and procured following International Shopping (IS)
procedure, by obtaining competitive price quotations from at least three suppliers in two different countries,
in accordance with the Guidelines- "Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" (January 1995, last
revision January 1999), Clause 3.5 and 3.6. The expected aggregate value of the goods procuremnent is
US$260,000.
Procurement of Services
Consultants for specialized and professional services financed under the project would be selected in
accordance with the Guidelines - "Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers"
(January 1997, last revision January 1999).
Selection of Firms: One consulting services contract foT the evaluation study (Component 2) is valued at
US$260,000. In this case the QCBS procedure will be applied, Section II of the Consultant Selection
Guidelines. There will be one contract for social monitoring of labor restructuring (Component 1) valued at
US$105,000 for which QBS procedure will be used, Clause 3.2-3.4 of the Guidelines. The project auditor
(contract value of US$73,000) will be selected by Least-Cost Selection procedure, using the Clause 3.6 of
the Guidelines.
-37-



Selection of Individuals: International and local consulting services contracts in Components # 1-4 will be
hired according to Section V of the Guidelines. The value of these individual contracts will range between
US$1,000-100,000 and the aggregate value of these contracts is US$656,000. In Component # 4, an
international procurement/financial management consultant, will be hired in accordance with the Bank's
prior agreement, as reflected in the Credit Agreement and in the Minutes of Negotiations. This individual
provided procurement and financial management support in the SRTAP and would be hired for 4-5 month
by the AP to help with the procurement activity of the PCU and provide on the job training to PCU staff.
The expected value of the contract is US$84,000.
Arrangements for international and local training shall be provided by the PCU and will follow standard
Bank procurement procedures.
Procurement under the Labor Restructuring Fund
Severance pay expenditures (aggregate US$4.2 million) are not subject to commercial procurement
practices and therefore no specific procurement arrangements are applicable. Severance payments are
deternined in a manner satisfactory to the Bank. (See Implementation summary for the Labor
Restructuring Component, Annex 8). The severance pay procedure is described in the Operational
Memorandum, dated March, 1996, "Financing Severance Pay in Public Enterprise Reform Operations".
Procurement under the Labor Redeployment Fund
Procurement under the Labor Redeployment Fund (aggregate US$4.3 million) would be exclusively for
services based on criteria and procedures acceptable to the Bank, including, inter alia (i) the type of
services to be provided, (ii) the agencies eligible to provide said services; and (iii) the eligible costs that will
be reimbursed in the service delivery contracts as described in Annex 2 of the PAD, and further defined and
discussed in the Project Operational Manual. Individual contracts for services such as employment
counseling, retraining and small business assistance are estimated not to exceed US$25,000. The Bank's
no-objection is required for contracts exceeding US$25,000. Service contracts for small business
incubators are not expected to exceed US$250,000, and would be subject to a competitive selection
process. Procurement under the Labor Redeployment Fund would be carried out by the AP (where the
PCU is located) and generally be carried out on a service delivery contract basis (except for the incubators
as noted above). The relevant paragraphs of the "Law on Public Procurement" give guidance on national
procedures. Detailed procedures for disbursement and control of funds are provided below.
Incremental Operating Costs
The PCU office space, office and equipment maintenance services, office supplies and materials, staff
salaries and other operating costs would be financed entirely by the Borrower and would be procured in
accordance with the approved budget and as per the current Macedonian Public Procurernent Law.
Prior review thresholds (Table B)
The PCU would have the overall responsibility for procurement under the project and would use the current
Bank Standard Bidding Documents (SBD) for procurement goods and services financed by the Bank. For
the selection of consultants, the PCU would use the standard Request for Proposal - Selection of
Consultants for the Procurement of Consultant Services.
The Bank's prior review of procurement actions would cover the following. The Tenns of Reference and
consultants' qualifications for all assignments would be subject to Bank's prior review. The Bank's prior
review is expected to cover about 12 percent of goods and services contracts financed by the Bank Credit,
-38-



as follows: (i) the first IS goods contract; (ii) all consulting contracts of US$ 100,000 and above in the case
of firns; (iii) all consulting contracts of US$ 50,000 and above for individual consultants; (iv) all contracts
awarded under the Direct Contracting procedures; and (v) after award of contract, any material
modifications or waiver of terms and conditions of a contract, including extensions or amendments,
resulting in an increase above 15% of the original contract amount (including the modifications in contracts
for consulting services).
PCU would keep a complete and up-to-date record of all procurement documentation and relevant
correspondence in its files. All other procurement documents and procedures would be subject to the
Bank's ex-post review during supervision missions. In such cases, the PCU and the PA would provide for
review all the relevant documentation (invitation to bid/request for proposals, conditions of contract, etc.).
Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
The project has been designed to be carried out over a three-year period, and credit funds are expected to be
fully disbursed within thirteen (13) quarters after Board Approval on June 29, 1999. Project closing date is
July 31, 2002. Disbursements would be made as follows:
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
SOE procedures would be used for (i) for goods costing less than US$50,000; (ii) for services of consulting
firms costing less than US$100,000; and (iii) for individual consultants costing less than US$50,000. The
required supporting documentation would be retained by the PCU for at least one year after receipt by IDA
of the audit report for the year in which the last disbursement was made. This documentation would be
made available for review by the auditors and by visiting IDA staff upon request. The processing,
disbursement and monitoring of the allocations of the proceeds of the IDA Credit and Borrower counterpart
financing would be mnanaged by the PCU in coordination and consultation with the MOF.
Special account:
To facilitate timely project implementation, the Borrower would establish, maintain and operate, under
terms and conditions acceptable to IDA, a Special Account for the PCU, denominated in US Dollars, in a
bank acceptable to IDA. Payments of eligible expenditure (goods, furniture, specialist services, training)
may be made by the PCU out of the Special Account. The Special Account may be established with a total
authorized allocation of US$1 million. The initial deposit into the Special Account will be US$0.5 million,
until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding
special comrnitments entered into by IDA shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of US$1.5 million. The
Special Account would be replenished at least on a quarterly basis or when the undisbursed balance falls
below an amount equal to 50 percent or less of the initial deposit whichever occurs first. In addition,
monthly bank statements of the Special Account which have been reconciled by the Borrower would
accompany all replenishment requests. All other applications for direct payments or issuance of Special
Comrnitments must be for an amount not less than 20 percent of the Special Account allocation.
Direct Payment:
This method may be used to facilitate payments to international consultants. Direct deposits to foreign
bank accounts can be requested by submitting the appropriate withdrawal application supported by a
contract copy and original invoices.
-39-



Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category ;ICB                     NBFB Other.                              Total Cost
1. Works                           0.00           0.00           0.00          0.00           0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)
2. Goods                           0.00           0.00           0.26          0.00           0.26
(0.00)        (0.00)         (0.26)        (0.00)         (0.26)
3. Services                        0.(0           0.00           1.19          0.27           1.46
(0.00)        (0.00)         (1 .19)       (0.00)         (1.19)
4. Labor Restructuring Fund        0.00           0.00           4.21          0.00           4.21
(0.00)        (0.00)         (4.21)        (0.00)         (4.21)
5. Labor Redeployment Fund         0.00           0.00           4.34           1.08          5.42
(0.00)        (0.00)         (4.34)        (0.00)         (4.34)
6. Incremental Operating           0.00           0.00           0.00          0.25           0.25
Costs                              (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)
Total                           0.00           0.00           10.00          1.60          11.60
(0.00)         (0.00)       (10.00)         (0.00)        (10.00)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies
' Includes goods, services and funds to be procured through:
QBS= Quality Base Selection
LS  Least Cost Selection
IS  International shopping
IC  Competitive selection of individuals
Fund (1) = Not subject to commercial procurement practices (Operational Memorandumn, date March 5, 1996).
Fund (2) = Refer to paragraph on page 35, related to Procurement Under the Labor Redeployment Fund.
NBF= Not Bank-financed
-40-



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
Consultant                                Selection   Method
Services
Expenditure    QCBS      QBS       SF8       LCS       CQ       Other    N.s.F.  Total Cost
Category                       _T_ot
A. Firms           0.26     0.11      0.00      0.08      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.45
(0.26)    (0.1 1)    (0.00)    (0.08)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.45)
B. Individuals     0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.74      0.28      1.02
(0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.74)    (0.00)    (0.74)
Total   0.26     0.11      0.00      0.08      0.00      0.74     0.28      1.47
(0.26)    (0.1 1)    (0.00)    (0.08)    (0.00)    (0.74)    (0.00)    (I. 19)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS  Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines), Service
Delivery Contractors/Clause 3.19 of the Consultant Selection Guidelines.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan.
-41-



Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review'
Contract Value                               Contracts Subject to
Threshold             Procurement              Prior Review
;xpenditure Caory        (US$ thousands)             Method               (0S$ miions)
1. Works
2. Goods                       50,000                    IS                    50,000
3. Services                   >100,000                 QCBS                    260,000
>100,000                  QBS                    110,000
80,000                  LCS                     80,000
<50,000                Individual               504,000
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:    US$1,004,000
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
Average
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 6 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
-42-



Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure Category        Amount in US$rnillion        Financing Percentage
1. Goods                                   0.26          100% of foreign expenditures and 100%
of local expenditures (ex-factory cost)
and 85% of local expenditures for other
items procured locally.
2. Labor Restructuring Fund                4.21                         100%
3. Labor Redeployment Fund                 3.34                         80%
4. Services                                1.19                         100%
5. Unallocated 1\                          1.00
Total Project Costs                        10.00
Total                                      10.00         ___ _
1\ We expect that the rajority of unallocated funds would be used to finance labor redeployment services.
2\ Front-end fee is not applicable in IDA credit.
-43-



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
MACEDONIA, FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF: Social Support Project
Pr,oject Scheule  ::  07:0 .000  .   :: :  :Planned                            Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)  2months
First Bank mission (identification)      05/26/99                    05/26/99
Appraisal mission departure              05/26/99                    05/26/99
Negotiations                             06/15/99                    06/15/99
Planned Date of Effectiveness            07/31/99
Prepared by:
Agency for Privatization staff together with the World Bank core team.
Preparation assistance:
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                     Speciality
David Fretwell                    Task Team Leader
Mansoora Rashid                   Economist/PTL
Rajna Cemerska                    Social Sectors Project Officer
Ilona Szemzo                      Senior Operations Officer
Gyorgy Novotny                    Procurement Specialist
Maria Gracheva                    Operations Officer
Nicole LaBorde                    Team Assistant
Verica Hadzi Vasileva-Markovska   Senior Financial Management Specialist
Slobodanka Matakova               Macroeconomist
Barbara Santos                    Counsel
Rohit Mehta                       Senior Disbursement Officer
Agnes Nuval                       Disbursement Analyst
Marie-Helene Bricknell            Resident Representative, ECCMK
Gregory Kisunko                   Acting Anchor Head, ECCA4
Michal Rutkowski                  Sector Leader
-44-



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
MACEDONIA, FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF: Social Support Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
A detailed project implementation plan has been agreed; the following summarizes key elements for each
component.
1. Labor Restructuring component:
This component will be implemented by the National Employment Bureau (NEB), in close cooperation with
Enterprises, Payment Operation Bureau (ZPP), the Ministry of Labor and Social Policy, and the Project
Coordinating Unit (PCU).
The following summarizes the specific steps that will be taken to identify eligibility of workers to get
severance payments, and for the National Employment Bureau to authorize these payments using funds
from the Credit:
a)   The Agency for Privatization (AP) opens a Special Account at a Bank as agreed with the World
Bank, with a category of expenditure for the Labor Restructuring Fund, and manages the account.
b)   Selected enterprises for privatization and restructuring demonstrate their compliance with the new
Bankruptcy Law. These enterprises prepare lists of redundant employees, calculate the severance
payments and prepare decisions for termination of employment including the amount of severance
payment for each employee. Documents are signed by the enterprise managers.
c)   Enterprises send lists of the redundant employees and the calculations of the severance payments for
verification to the Payment Operations Bureau (ZPP) and the Employmnent Bureau.
d)   The Employment Bureau, after receiving ZPP verification of severance payment calculations,
prepares a payment order with attached lists of workers based on the verified list of laid-off
employees. The Employment Bureau forwards the payment order to the Ministry of Finance, and
Ministry of Labor and Social Policy.
e)   The Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Labor and Social Policy sign a payment order for the
amount of the severance payments to be paid, and forward it to the PCU in the AP.
f)   PCU transfers money for severance payments from the Special Account to the commercial banks
where individual laid-off workers have accounts, as prescribed in the payment order.
g)   Commercial banks pay severance to eligible employees upon presentation of a document issued by
the respective enterprise that certifies their eligibility for severance and list of workers with the
amount of severance payments verified by the Employment Bureau.
h)   Commercial banks send a monthly statement of expenditure, for severance payments made to the
eligible employees, to the PCU at Agency for Privatization.
i)   PCU prepares monthly or other periodical reports for the Ministry of Labor and Social Policy,
-45-



Ministry of Finance, and the World Bank on the severance payments made.
j)   PCU prepares a Statement of Expenditure and submnits it to the Bank for replenishmnent of the
Special Account as needed.
The Social Monitoring Survey will be implemented by a Consultant selected by the Project Coordination
Unit, in cooperation with the NEB, following Quality Based Selection (QBS) procurement procedures. The
Consultant selected will be supervised by the NEB.
IMPLEMENTATION PLAN: COMPONENT 1
(calendar years)
Objective    1999      1999  2000  2000  2000      2000  2001  2001  2001  2001  2002  2002  2002
Q3       Q4    Q1    Q2    Q3        Q4    Ql   Q2    Q3    Q4    Q1    QZ    Q3
(Bank                        (Bank                       (Bank                     (Bank
FYOO)                        FY01)                       FY02)                     FY03)
Define         ----
Procedures for
Severance
Payments
Make Severance
Payments                            ----.- _-----
Social
Monitoring
Employment
Services
2. Labor Redeployment component:
The AP, under the general guidance of the Managing Board of the AP, will be responsible for
implementation of the labor redeployment program An Enterprise Assistance Group (EAG), consisting of
four staff financed (two from the AP and two from the National Employment Bureau) will be established to
administer these sub-components. They will be supported by a half time staff assistant, and under the
general administrative guidance of the overall PCU Coordinator who will allocate about one-half time to
the administration of the EAG. In the event that two EAG staff are not available from the National
Employment Bureau, they will be provided by the AP.
Limited technical assistance is included in the Credit to provide services to the AP and service providers
involved in the labor redeployment program. These consultants would be contracted on an individual basis,
depending on requirements. The Credit also provides limited financing for fellowships and training for
staff and selected service providers.
The Labor Redeployment Fund (LRF) would be established as a budget line item in the State Budget to
cover the 20 percent of local counterpart financing required in the Credit Agreement. Funds would be
disbursed to qualifying local service providers, in keeping with the framework and criteria agreed with the
Bank. The flow and control of funds would be as follows:
-46-



(a)    AP establishes the Special Account, with a category for the Labor Redeployment Fund, at a bank
as agreed with the World Bank.
(b)    AP establishes sub-contracts with local service providers for labor redeployment services
consistent with the Operational Manual agreed with the Bank;
(c)    AP forwards an initial deposit to the service provider, approximately 25 percent of expenditures as
defined in the contract (80 % from the Special Account, 20% from the State Budget);
(d)    Service providers deliver services and invoice the AP each month based on the cost of services
provided, AP pays service providers as in (c) above;
(f)    As needed, the AP replenishes the Special Account via Statement of Expenditures (SOE).
The LRF finances a range of services including: employment counseling and relocation, retraining, public
works, small business assistance, small business incubator, local economic development planning and loan
guarantee programs. The nature of services financed would be determined by the characteristics of the
community and displaced workers involved (i.e. there would no pre-determined allocation of resources to
any one service). Sub-contractors organizing the delivery of services would be reimbursed for the costs of
the services according to specific principles and criteria as agreed with the Bank. A detailed field manual,
including publicity materials for the fund, as well as sample contracts for service providers, has been
developed by the borrower and is on file.
Key principles are as follows: (a) services would be demand driven and based on requests from displaced
workers and advisory input from the social partners; (b) eligible individuals would be those workers who
have been dismissed from MSOEs under banrruptcy and labor restructuring, as a result of the conflict in
Kosovo (2/3 of participants), or who are long term unemployed (over one year) or are first time job seekers
(1/3 of participants); (c) costs of services, would be based on the average unit cost per dismissed worker
times those actually participating in the programs; (d) evaluation of services, service providers would be
required to provide job placement information for all participants which receive services; and (e) mobility,
workers in comnmunities qualifying for assistance under the Fund would be eligible for services in their
communities as well as in other communities receiving assistance under the Fund.
The Enterprise Assistance Group at the AP would be responsible, with the assistance of international
consultants for developing revising and updating procedures developed under the previous Social Reform
and Technical Assistance Project. Within the framework agreed with the Bank, marketing the availability
of LRF funds to communities and service providers, and monitoring the use of funds disbursed to service
providers. The EAG would also supervise the technical assistance contractor selected to implement the
evaluation study of the Labor Redeployment Fund.
-47-



IMPLEMENTATION PLSjAN: COMPONENT 2
(calendar years)
Objective    1999   1999  2000  2000  2000    2000  2001  2001  2001    2001  2002  2002  2002
Q3       Q4    Ql   Q2   Q3         Q4    Q1    Q2    Q3        Q4    Q1    Q2   Q3
(Bank                       (Bank                      (Bank                      (Bank
FYOO)                       FY01)                      FY02)                       FY03)
Administrative-
Framework
Services                                         -_-- ------------- ---- - - -_ ---   --
Evaluation  -----
3. Social Benefits conmponent:
Social Assistance: The Assistant to the Minister, responsible for Social Assistance, will be responsible for
the implementation of this sub-component. The Poverty Monitoring Component will be implemented in
cooperation with the Statistical Office.
Policy Evaluation Unit: This component will be implemented by the Undersecretary of Labor at the
Ministry of Labor and Social Policy. This individual will be responsible for implementation of this
sub-component and will also Head the Policy Unit. The Unit will have a Collegium including the Deputy
Head (with knowledge of English) and two staff (one of whom will be financed by the project; and the other
by the Ministry of Labor and Social Policy) who are proficient in English and have excellent economic and
computer skills. The Automation Unit staff, as well as both economists, will report directly to the Head of
the Policy Unit.
The Policy Unit will use program data from an inforniation base (see below) to (i) undertake basic
monitoring of social protection programs on a regular and timely basis. (ii) forecast and budget total
social expenditures (by adding up components of expenditure from line Departments, such as social
assistance). based on a simple budgeting and forecasting computer model for the Ministry of Labor and
Social Policy. The model would be consistent with the pension model used by the Actuarial Unit. The
value added of the Unit will be to budget and 3forecast total social expenditures, broken down by sector
component; It should not duplicate the functions of other departments or funds. (iii) oversee program
evaluation.
The Policy Unit will prepare simple program monitoring reports (e.g. including data on number and type
of clients, and expenditure on benefit) and basic budget and forecasting reports on a regular basis for
publication and timely dissemination for its clients and users. The primary users of the output of the Policy
Unit will be the Ministry of Labor and Social Policy. The specific form and content and timing of these
reports (monthly, quarterly, and annually), or other types of information dissemination will be agreed upon
by the Ministry of Labor and Social Policy, with input from the Policy Unit. The expanded users of the
reports prepared by the Unit will include other branches of Government, Parliament and stakeholders,
including the Statistical Office.
-48-



The information base of the Policy Unit will include, but not be limited to, regular data flows from the
Automation Unit (which will be the primary data base of the Policy Unit, particularly on social assistance
and other programs which it will automate over time), but also from the Employment Bureau, Pension
Fund (Actuarial Unit), and the Statistical Office.
IMPLEMENTATION PLAN: COMPONENT 3
(calendar years)
Objective    1999   1999  2000  2000  2000      2000  2001  2001  2001       2001  2002  2002  2002
Q3     Q4    Q1    Q2    Q3         Q4    Ql   Q2    Q3          Q4    Q1    Q2    Q3
(Bank                     (Bank                        (Bank                        (Bank
FYOO)                     FYO1)                        FY02)                        FY03)
Social                      _---- - --- ---
Assistance
Policy
Evaluation Unit                                   ---- -  _  - - _- --
4. Project Management component:
The Agency for Privatization (AP) will provide project coordination services to all executing agencies. The
Project Coordination Unit (PCU) will be established in the AP to manage the Credit. The Project
Coordinating Unit (PCU) Coordinator will be responsible for the operation of the PCU. He will allocate
about one-half of his/her time to the administration of the PCU, and one-half time to administration of the
Employment Assistance Group - EAG (See "Implementation of Component 2"). Daily tasks will be
performed by a full-time accountant-procurement specialist, with assistance of a half-time staff
assistant/administrator, shared with the EAG. The PCU Coordinator will work within the International
Projects Department of the AP, which reports to the General Manager of the AP.
The PCU will be provided with about 4-5 months of technical assistance from the Credit to assist with
financial management, procurement and project rnanagement. The Credit also provides lirnited financing
for training and study-tours for the procurement-accountant expert.
-49-



IMPLEMENTATION PLAN: COMPONENT 4
(calendar years)
Objective   1999    1999   2000   2000   200     2000   2001   2001   2001       2001   2002   2002   2002
Q3      Q4    QI    Q2    0           Q4    QI    Q2    Q3            Q4    QI    Q2    Q3
(Bank                        Q3                            (Bank                           (Bank
FYOO)                        (Bank                         FY02)                           FY03)
FY01)
Project                    - ---                                                 ._   ._________..___.>.
Management
B. Bank Staff Assessments
LACI Financial Assessment and developmental plan
LACI Procurement Assessment and developmental plan
LACI Physical Output Assessment and developmental plan
C. Other
A detailed Project Operational Manual (POM), including the previous information, Terms of Reference for
Technical Assistance, and a Field Operational Manual for operation of the Labor Redeployment Fund.
*Including electronic files
-50-



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
MACEDONIA, FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF: Social Support Project
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Arnount in US$ Millions    disbursements
Projed ID    FY   Borrower                 Purpose                            IBRFD      DOA    Cancel.  Undisb.      Org  Frm Rev'd
Number of Closed Projects: 4
MK-PE-38392   1999 FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC  SOCIAL SECTORS ADJ.               0.00      29.00      0.00     14.63    14.43     0.00
MK-PE-50589   1999 FYR MACEOONIA           TRANSPORT                          32.00       0.00      0.00     28.78     0.00     0.00
MK-PE-58056   1999 FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC  PENSION REF. TA                   0.00       1.00      0.00      0.89     0.27     0.00
MK-PE-65834   1999 GOVERNMENT OF FYR       EMERGENCY RECOVERY                  0.00      50.00      0.00     50.00     0.00     0.00
MK-PE-34609   1998 MACEDON                 PSD II                             25.00       0.00      0.00     16.95    -3.99     0.00
MK-PE-38391    1998 GOVT. OF MACEDONIA     EDUCATION REHAB.                    0.00       5.00      0.00      1.01     0.78     0.00
MK-PE-38399   1998 FORMERYUGOSLAVREPUBLIC IRRIGATION REHAB.                    7.50       5.00      0.0o     12.12     1.02     0.63
MK-PEd42399 .  1998 GOVERNMENT OF FYRM     POWER                              35.00       0.00      0.00     32.97     1.11     0.00
MK-PE-10001    1996 ESM                    PRIV. FARMER SUPPORT                0.00       7.90      0.00      5.00     4.91     0.00
MK-PE-36089   1996 FYR MACEDONIA           HEALTH SECTOR TRANSI                0.00      16.90      0.00     1425    14.92      0.00
MK-PE-43447   1996 GOVT. OF FYRM           PRIVATE SECTOR DVPMT               12.00       0.00      0.00      0.64     2.28     0.00
MK-PE-38092   1995 FYR MACEDONIA            SOCIAL REFORM                      0.00      14.00      0.00      0.64     2.04     0.00
GOVERNMENT OF FYR
MACEDON
Total:    111.50    128.80      0.00    177.88    37.77     0.63
Active       Closed
Projects     Proects         Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):     75.79       219.67        295.46
of whlich has been repaid:    0.00          3.63          3.63
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:    264.30       225.00        489.30
Amount sold:       0.00          0.00          0.00
of which repaid:      0.00         0.00          0.00
Total Undisbursed:    177.88          0.00        177.88
Actual disbursements to date minus intended disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
MACEDONIA, FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
3 1-Mar- 1999
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                             Disbursed
IFC                                    IFC
FY Approval             Company                           Loan   Equity    Quasi   Partic        Loan   Equity    Quasi   Partic
1997                   Makedonija                         4.11      0.00      0.00     0.00      1.92      0.00     0.00      0.00
1997                   Nikol-Fert                         3.80      0.00      0.00     0.00      3.10      0.00     0.00      0.00
1997                   SEF Masinomont                     0.77      0.00      0.00     0.00      0.77      0.00     0.00      0.00
1997                   SEF Teteks                         1.45      0.00      0.00     0.00      1.45      0.00     0.00      0.00
1998                   Macedonia Telcom                  25.00      0.00      0.00    25.00    25.00       0.00     0.00    25.00
Total Portfolio:            35.13      0.00     0.00    25.00    32.24       0.00      0.00    25.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval           Company                              Loan   Equity    Quasi   Partic
Total Pending Commitment:            0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00
-51-



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
MACEDONIA, FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF: Social Support Project
Europe 6    Lower-                                        10/1/98
POVERTY and SOCIAL                              Macedonia,   Central  middle-         - _.--- ---..-..-......_.=
FYR       Asia  income        Developmentdiamonde
1997
Population, mid-vear emillions)                         2.0       476     2.285                  Life expectancy
GNP percapita (Atlas method, USS)                     1,090     2.320      1.230
GNP (Atlas Method. US$ billonsl                        2.2    11,106     2818                         T
Averaos annual arowth, 1991-97                                                                         T
Population (%)                                          0.7       0.2        1.2
Labor force (%                                          12        0;5        t3~Grs
per                   /         primary
Most rec*nt estimate (latest year aval)abte. 1901-97)                                capita         '   7         enrollment
PQvertv (% of gopulation below natonal ooverty lilne).
Urban Population rx of total oopulatior?)               61         67        42
Life expectancy at birth (years)                        72         69        69
Infant mortality tper 11000 live births)                16         25        36
Childt malnutrition t% of children under 5)               .         .         ..               Access to safe water
AccesS to safe waler (% of pooulation)                    ..       ..        84
Ilitleracyi% of oopulation ae 15+)                                           1M                    o   F 19
Gross orimarvenrollment (% of'school-age population)    87         92       111         -M acedonia FYR
Mate                                                   ..        ..       11$              Lower-middle-income group
Female                                                 ..        ..       113
K(EY ECONOMIC RATIOS antd LONG-TERM TRENDS
1976     19S6      1996      1997
Economtc rattot
GODP (USS billions) al                          ..       ..       3.9       3.3
Gross domestic investment/GOP                   ..        .      1 9.2      19.5
Exports of aoods and services/GDP               ..       .       330       40.0                      Trade
Gross domestic sayvnos/GDP                      ..       ..       T.3       3.5
Gross national savings/GOP                      ..        .      119        11.2
Current account balance/GOP                     ..        .       73        -8.3     Domestic
Interest Pavments/GDP                           ..       ..       1.6        19      SInvestment
Total debt/GDP                                  ..        .      33.6      400       Savings 
Total debt service/exports                      .                10.4       8.4
Present value o1 debtlGDP                       ..        .      3 S5
Present value of debt/exports                    .        ..    100.8
Indebtedness
1976-8S  1987-97     1996      1997   1998-02
taverage annual a,rowih)
GDP                                    ..       ..      0.8       1.5       4.6         -M     cedonla FYR
GNP per capita                        ..        ..      0.1       0.6       3.7         -     Lower-middle-income group
Exports of qoods andt services    ;    ..       ..     --4        6.0       5.&
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1976    11986      1996      1997      Growth rates of output and investment (%)
(% of GDP)                                                                          eo
Agriculture                                     ..       ..      13.1       13.7     40
IndustrV                                        ..       ..      30.8      30.4      20
Manufacturinq                                                                         ..,.,.20
Services                                        ..       ..      56.2      55.9
Private consumption                             ..       ..      80.5      84.6      40
General aovernment consumption                  ..       ..      12.3       12.0             -
Imports of goods and services                   ..       ..      45.0      56.0
1976-86  1987-97      1996      1997      Growth rates of exports and Imports (%)
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                     ..       ..       2.4       7.1    30
Industry                                        ..       ..       2.2       0.6    20
Manufacturino                                 .,       ,.         ,.        ..
Services                                        ..       ..      -1.0        1.5
Private Consumption                             ..       ..        ..       6.7    10       92         94    5    e    97
General govemment consumption                   ..       ..        ..      -1.1
Gross domestic investment                       ..       ..      -4.3        2.7    20
Imports of goods and services                   ..       ..       3.2       11.2            -Exports    -*-Imports
Gross national Product                          ..       ..       0.9        1.2
Note: 1997 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.
-52-



Macedonia, PYYR
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1976     1986       1996      1997       Inflation 1%)
Domestic prices
(% change)                                                                              2,000
Consumer prices                                                      2.5        1.5     15000
Implicit GDP deflator                                                1.9       4.0      I,ooo 
Government finance                                                                       sooj
(% of GOP, includes current grants)                                                       on
Current revenue                                                     40.6       38.9               D2    03   94   95   95   97
Current budget balance                                                19        1.0              -     DP teflator    a  CPI
Overall surplusideficit                                             -0.4       -0.4
TRADE
(US$ millions)                                 1976      1986       1996      1997       Export and Import levels (US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                                                1,147      1,201    2z000
Raw materials                                                      418        477
Food.                                                               81         67     1o,50
Manufactures                                     .        ..       545       542
Total imports (cif)                      5      41,615                       1,73 10000
Food                                                               17 ..1175  154
Fuel and energy                                  .         ..      131        178
Capital goods                                                      218        183       s
Export price index (1996=100)                                        100        97            91   92   93   94   95   95   97
Imoort Price index (1996=100)                                        100        95                eExports       Ulmports
Terms of trade (f996=100)                          ..       ..       100       102
8ALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ miDlions)                                 1976      1986      1996       1997      Current account balance to GOP ratio 4%/)
Exports of goods and services                                      1,301      1,329      s
Imports of goods and services                                      1,773     1,862
Resource balance                                                    -7         53        0      1     1
Net income                                         .        ..       -30       -33
Net current transfers                                                 2        291      o5
Current account balance                                             -289      -275      -i
Financing items (net)                                                270       283
Changes in net reserves                                               19         -8    -15
Memo:
Reserves includino gold (USS millions]                               267       280
Conversion rate (DEC, local/USS) lb                                 39.9      49.8
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1976     1966       1996      1997
(USS millions)                                                                          Composition of total debt, 1997 (US$ mIllIons
Total debt outstanding and disbursed                               1,325      1,335
IBRFD                                                               78        85                   G:134    A: 5
IDA                                             .         ..       125       146                                    :4
Total debt service                                                   144       120
IBRD                                                                21        12
tDA                                                                  1         1         F:251                         C:99
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                                                     52         a
Official creditors                                                  58        74
Private creditors                                                    0        20                                    0261
Foreign direct investment                                           12        16
Portfolio equity                                                     0         2                E: 349
World Bank program
Commitments                                                         37       102      A - IBRD                       E - silateral
Disbursements                                                       46        48      B - IDA   D - Other multilateral    F - Private
Principal repayments                                                15         6      C - IMF                        G - Short-term
Net flows                                                           31        42
Interest payments                                                    6         6
Net transfers                                                       25        36
Development Economics                                                                                                       10/1/98
a/ Calculated using market exchange rate. b/ Average exchange rate in the foreign exchange market.
-53-



IBRD 25501 R
F LX REP OF YUGOSLAVIA  /                                                                     /                                   ~~~~~~~~~~FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC
(ERBIA/MONTENEGRO)Peso                                                    r    N            g.t                                'U-O
00in                                                                         Ky.si-ddI ' 
4-,  > '~~~~ '~~'  ~~    Blocs  * Kumanovo  ~~~~~~~-~-  4R1 0~~~~~0  N.                                            * ~~      Major cities
V    r l o \y                                  -  +            5 5  < k      2 0 4                                                                                 S e le c te d   c itie s
SOJE                       Bjooc
SKOP ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~* National Capital
640  <0                                                                            0-c                              -      IPrimary roads
p . I    K-1~~~~~~~~~~~I                     I-                                                 d
gig'                                                                                                       M"                                            S~~~~~~~~~Vllyecandaryroaas
aoior't2/"K  .>                                                                                                                                                             s-------'-- Electrified railroads
7!                         ike            0            \'1~'y~K-i t                                                                                               I   Other railroads
bilk-ii~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4                                                                                                      Airports
I                   4'                    A   Voles      o
4  444.    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~                        '~W                                    Rodovis 
'44' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~    V  I               \~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~*4~                                                                    Spot elevations in meters
~~~   a1  1;  3  >~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  /                    'U»                                                                        '  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Rivers
7/  I                                                  u's                                          -  - - - -   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~International boundaries
J     ~                                       \. 0/                                                         Strumica
"0  I                             ~     ~ ~~ ~ ~~~~~~0 IS M KILOMETERS
'540-5                                             r'                                                            1                <MIES
~~~  '7) ~~~~~~~~~~~~~  "L.       - ~~~~~~~~~~~~P 'ri eplae'nc                                                                                  -
>4  /\           0R'~~C      \0 '1I t%                                                                                            b                            -o  o ,proi5  eMdDryI SRh  ooo
Doi~~~~~~~~go.  ~  ~       ~       ~     ~      A - h      p  solkp5s n- Sopo.o5Tbo Wnddko-kG-op,
0         .                                                                                                                                                     (LVK eRenP. H          KRAv'N
T                                   g                                                                                      AUSTRIA  <                         nC       \1
0   ORICo    Bitolo ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~HUNGARY
)0S                                                       ~~~~~~GREECE                                                                                          /4
>4  4\..~~~~~~~~s  '  ''     S~        ~    ~    EA                                             4
J~~~~~~~~~~ N
A  '                                                                                                                        F'    op       N'4'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ,-7~~~REC
I  \    Ic o  Ir,i,e                                                                                           '4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~    &Y.GGS~~~~~~~~AGUT  99



