Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3268 MK
Development Credit Agreement
(Social Support Project)
between
FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA (the Borrower)
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association)
Dated July 20, 1999
CREDIT NUMBER 3268 MK
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated July 20, 1999, between the Borrower and the Association. 
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the  Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; and 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through December 2  
1997) (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
Page  2
following additional terms have the following meanings: 
(a)
“AP” means the Agency for Transformation of Enterprises with Social 
Capital, the Borrower’s privatization agency; 
(b)
“Bankruptcy Law” means the law of the Borrower (Official Gazette No. 
55/97) dated October 6, 1997 pertaining to the bankruptcy and restructuring of 
state-owned enterprises (defined hereafter); 
(c)
“Kosovo” means the province of Kosovo in the Federal Republic of 
Yugoslavia; 
(d)
“Project Coordination Unit” or “PCU” means the Project Coordination Unit 
in the AP responsible for coordination of the Project and referred to in Section  3.01
 (b) (ii) to this Agreement;  
(e)
“Project Operational Manual” means the operational manual adopted by the 
AP on June 25, 1999, setting forth, inter alia, the principles, procedures and 
criteria agreed with the Association for the implementation of the Project; 
(f)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; and 
(g)
“state-owned enterprise” means an enterprise the majority share capital 
of which is owned or controlled by the Borrower. 
ARTICLE II 
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to seven million five hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 7,500,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods, and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit. 
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of  the Project open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure and attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be July 31, 2002 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty (60) days 
after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which 
amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and 
(ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at 
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Page  3
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on  February 15 and  August 15 in each year. 
Section 2.07. (a)  Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each February 15 and August 15 commencing August 15, 2009 and ending February 15, 
2034. Each installment to and including the installment payable on February 15, 2019 
shall be one and one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each 
installment thereafter shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal 
amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three (3) consecutive years  
the level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to 
access the Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six (6) months or more after the date 
on which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this 
paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of 
a minimum of five (5) years on such repayment of principal. 
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification. 
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project through the AP with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity 
with appropriate financial, administrative, environmental and technical practices, and 
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall:  
Page  4
(i)
carry out the Project in accordance with the Project Operational 
Manual as may 
be modified from time to time as agreed by the 
Borrower through the AP and the 
Association; 
(ii)
maintain the PCU until the completion of the Project, and ensure 
that the PCU 
functions at all times in accordance with procedures, under 
terms of 
reference, and with staff and budgetary resources 
necessary to meet the 
objectives of the Project and 
satisfactory to the Association, including, 
inter alia, the 
requirement that the PCU provides the Association with 
satisfactory evidence that each state-owned enterprise which applies for labor 
restructuring payments under Part A of the Project has formally entered 
bankruptcy and restructuring proceedings under the Bankruptcy Law and has 
adopted a restructuring plan satisfactory to the 
Association; and 
(iii)
employ for the PCU, by July 31, 1999 a financial 
management/ procurement 
specialist under terms of reference 
satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, a plan designed to ensure the continued achievement of the objectives of 
the Project; and 
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Association, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about March 31, 2001, a report integrating the 
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph 
(a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project 
during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Association, by June 30, 2001, or such later date as the 
Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, 
and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Association’s views on the matter.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall promptly submit to the Association on a 
quarterly basis commencing three (3) months from the date of effectiveness of this 
Agreement and until Project completion, progress reports integrating the results of 
the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to Section 3.04(a) of this 
Agreement.  
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Page  5
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower, acting through the AP,  shall establish and 
maintain a financial management system including records and accounts and prepare 
financial statements in a format and in accordance with standards acceptable to the 
Association adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures for and in 
connection with the carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall: 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section 
including those for the Special Account for each 
fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association who shall be appointed by 
September 30, 
1999; 
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six months after the end of each such year, the report 
of such audit by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and 
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Association shall from 
time to time 
reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures; 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Credit 
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; 
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records; 
and 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the 
Association for the strengthening of the financial management system referred to in 
paragraph (a) of said Section 4.01 in order to enable the Borrower, not later than 
September 30, 1999, or such later date as the Bank shall agree, to prepare quarterly 
Project management reports, acceptable to the Association, each of which:
(i) 
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project , both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, and projected sources 
and applications of funds for the 
Project for the six-month period following 
the period covered by said 
report, and (B) shows separately expenditures 
financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit during the period covered by said 
report and 
expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit during the six-month period following the period covered by said 
report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively 
and for the period covered by said report, and (B) explains 
Page  6
variances between 
the actual and previously forecast implementation 
targets; and
(iii)  sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under 
contracts financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, 
as at the end of the 
period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to 
the Association, and furnish to the Association not later than forty-five (45) days 
after the end of each calendar quarter a Project Management Report for such period.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a)
the Project Operational Manual shall have been amended, suspended, 
abrogated, repealed or waived without the prior consent of the Association; and 
(b)
the legislation referred to in paragraph 3(b) of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to 
materially and adversely affect the carrying out of Part A of the Project. 
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified, namely, that the events specified in 
paragraphs (a) or (b) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue 
for a period of sixty (60) days after notice thereof shall have been given by the 
Association to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VI 
Termination 
Section 6.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Dame Gruev 14
9100 Skopje
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Page  7
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Skopje, as of  the day and year first above written.
BORROWER
By /s/ Boris Stojmenov 
Authorized Representative
ASSOCIATION
By /s/ J. D. Wolfensohn 
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Goods
200,000
100% of foreign
expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures (ex-factory
cost) and 85% of local 
expenditures for 
other
items procured locally
(2)
Labor restructuring
     3,150,000
100%
payments under Part A.1
of the Project
(3)
Labor redeployment
     2,500,000
80%
services under Part B.2 
of the Project
(4)
Consultants’ services,
900,000
100%
auditing and training
(5)
Unallocated
750,000
    __________
 TOTAL
     7,500,000 
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;  
Page  8
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
(c) 
the term “training” means training activities (other than consultants’ 
services) to be carried out under the Project, including the cost of workshops and the 
travel cost and per diem of the trainees.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures: 
(a)
prior to the date of this Agreement; and
(b)
under Category (2) allocated to Part A of the Project unless the Borrower 
has enacted, by July 31, 1999 legislation satisfactory to the Association labor 
restructuring payments from the Borrower’s budget to workers displaced by the 
bankruptcy and restructuring of state-owned enterprises.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for: (i) goods under contracts costing less 
than $50,000 equivalent each; (ii) contracts for consulting firms costing less than 
$100,000 equivalent each; (iv) contracts for individual consultants costing less than 
$50,000 equivalent each; (v) operating costs, under such terms and conditions as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower; and (vi) payments under Category 
(2) of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of this Schedule.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to help mitigate the negative social and 
economic impact of the restructuring of state-owned enterprises by the Borrower and 
the economic disruption caused by the conflict in Kosovo.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Labor Restructuring
1.
Labor restructuring payments to workers displaced by the bankruptcy and 
restructuring of state-owned enterprises.
2.
Provision of technical assistance for the carrying out of monitoring activities 
to determine the social impact on the displaced workers.
3.
Provision of technical assistance and equipment to continue the development of 
employment services.
Part B:
Labor Redeployment
1.
Provision of technical assistance to develop an administrative framework to 
enable the AP to make available resources to state-owned enterprises and selected 
local organizations for the provision of redeployment services.
2.
Provision of labor redeployment services to workers displaced as a result of the 
conflict in Kosovo and the divestiture of state-owned enterprises and to long-term 
unemployed and first-time job seekers.
3.
Provision of technical assistance for the carrying out of an evaluation of the 
impact of labor redeployment services.
Part C:
Social Benefits
Provision of technical assistance and training to: 
(a)
improve the targeting efficiency of social assistance programs; and
Page  9
(b)
develop the capacity of the Borrower’s Ministry of Labor and Social 
Protection to evaluate and improve social protection and labor market programs.
Part D:
Project and Management Support 
Provision of support to the PCU in Project coordination and implementation, 
including the provision of equipment and training and the financing of consultants’ 
services, audit services and incremental operating costs.
* * * 
The Project is expected to be completed by January 31, 2002.
SCHEDULE 3 
Procurement and Consultants’ Services 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
Part A:
General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with (a) the provisions of Section I of 
the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
January 1999 subject to the modifications thereto set forth in paragraph 2 of this 
Part A (the Guidelines) and (b) the following provisions of this Section I.
Part B:
Other Procurement Procedures 
International Shopping 
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $300,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review 
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
With respect to the first contract for goods awarded in accordance with the 
procedures set forth in Part B of this Schedule, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with (a) the provisions of 
the Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 and January 1999, subject to the modifications thereto set forth in 
Page  10
paragraph 2 of this Part A (the Consultant Guidelines) and (b) the following 
provisions of this Section II. 
2.
In paragraph 1.10 of the Consultant Guidelines, the references to “Bank member 
countries” and “member country” shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
“Participating Countries” and “Participating Country”.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants  
1.
Quality-based Selection
Services for  social monitoring of payments under Part A of the Project shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
through 3.4 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2.
Least-cost Selection
Services for the carrying out of audits under Part D of the Project may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Service Delivery Contractors
The selection of service providers to deliver labor redeployment services under 
Part B of the Project, which are estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per 
contract, may be procured in accordance with criteria and procedures described in the 
Project Operational Manual.  Services estimated to cost more than $100,000 equivalent 
per contract, may, with the Association’s prior agreement be procured following a 
competitive selection process. 
4.
Individual Consultants
(a)
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 
of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
(b)
Services for a financial management/ procurement specialist, under Part D 
of the Project, which are estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent, may be 
awarded with the Association’s prior agreement.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2  (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
Page  11
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after said approval shall have been given. 
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of service delivery 
contractors estimated to cost the equivalent of $25,000 or more, the proposed contract 
shall be furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval.  The contract 
shall be awarded only after said approval shall have been given. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible categories” means Categories (1), (2), (3) and (4) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement ;
(b)
the term eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means, an amount equivalent to 
$1,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex provided, however, that unless the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an 
amount equivalent to $500,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered 
into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General conditions shall be 
equal to or exceed the equivalent of $1,500,000.
2.
Payments out of the  Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit  into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the  Special 
Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to  the 
Association requests for deposits into the  Special 
Account at such intervals 
as the Association shall specify. 
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Association the documents and other evidence required pursuant 
to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or payments in 
respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such 
request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Credit Account and deposit 
into the Special Account such 
amount as the Borrower shall have requested and 
as shall have been 
shown by said documents and other evidence to have been 
paid 
Page  12
out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits 
shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as 
shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence. 
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the  Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence  showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account; 
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal the 
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal 
from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to 
the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall specify 
by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to 
the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the  Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule;  or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the  Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be. 
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
Page  13
