                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 27574

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                               (IDA-32680)

                                                  ON A

                                                 CREDIT

            IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 7.5 MILLION (US$ 10 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                                 TO THE

                         FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA

                                                 FOR A

                                      SOCIAL SUPPORT PROJECT




                                            January 15, 2004




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                             CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                        (Exchange Rate Effective January 5, 2004)

                               Currency Unit = Denar
                                     1 Denar = US$ 0.02
                                       US$ 1 = 49.24 Denar

                                     FISCAL YEAR
                                January 1   December 31

                         ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


ALMP    - Active Labor Market Programs
AP      - Privatization Agency
CAS     - Country Assistance Strategy
EAG     - Enterprise Assistance Group
FESAC   - Financial and Enterprise Sector Adjustment Credit
FESAL   - Financial and Enterprise Sector Adjustment Loan
FYR     - Former Yugoslav Republic
HBS     - Household Budget Survey
ICR     - Implementation Completion Report
IT      - Information Technology
LACI    - Loan Administration Change Initiative
LRF     - Labor Redeployment Fund
MKD     - Macedonian Dinar
MOLSP   - Ministry of Labor and Social Policy
NEB     - National Employment Bureau
PCU     - Project Coordination Unit
PEU     - Policy Evaluation Unit
SA      - Social Assistance
SAL/C   - Structural Adjustment Loan/Credit
SDR     - Special Drawing Rights
SIDA    - Swedish International Development Agency
SOEs    - State-owned Enterprises
SAL/C   - Structural Adjustment Loan/Credit
SSAC    - Social Sector Adjustment Credit
SSP     - Social Support Project
SRTAP   - Social Reform Technical Assistance Project
WAN     - Wide Area Network
ZPP     - Enterprises Payment Operations Bureau



                             Vice President:     Shigeo Katsu
                           Country Director:     Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
                            Sector Manager:      Hermann A. von Gersdorff
                             Task Manager:       Zarko Bogoev

                  MACEDONIA, FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF
                                     SOCIAL SUPPORT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            11
6. Sustainability                                                                11
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 12
8. Lessons Learned                                                               13
9. Partner Comments                                                              15
10. Additional Information                                                       25
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             26
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             29
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             31
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             32
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             33
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                34
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            35

Project ID: P066221                                                  Project Name: SOCIAL SUPPORT
Team Leader: Zarko Bogoev                                            TL Unit: ECSIE
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: January 23, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: SOCIAL SUPPORT                                           L/C/TF Number: IDA-32680
   Country/Department: FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF                                        Region: Europe and Central Asia
                            MACEDONIA                                                                Region

        Sector/subsector: Other social services (96%); Central government administration
                            (4%)
                  Theme: Conflict prevention and post-conflict reconstruction (P); Social risk
                            reduction (P); Social analysis and monitoring (P); Social risk coping
                            (P)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 05/14/1999                                     Effective: 08/05/1999                08/05/1999
     Appraisal: 05/20/1999                                         MTR: 05/20/2000                  05/25/2001
      Approval: 06/29/1999                                      Closing: 07/31/2002                 07/31/2003



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA/AGENCY FOR
                                           TRANSFORMATION OF ENTERPRISES WITH SOCIAL CAPITAL
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Shigeo Katsu                                   Johannes Linn
Country Director:               Orsalia Kalantzopoulos                         Ajay Chhibber
Sector Manager:                 Hermann A. von Gersdorff                       James Christopher Lovelace
Team Leader at ICR:             Zarko Bogoev                                   David Herbert Fretwell
ICR Primary Author:             Arvo Kuddo


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      HL
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          HS


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:
                     Project at Risk at Any Time:

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
        The objective of the Social Support Project (SSP) was to help mitigate the negative social
and economic impact of bankruptcy and labor restructuring of Majority State Owned Enterprises
(MSOEs) and the emergency economic disruption caused by the conflict in Kosovo.

        The objective and the design of the Social Support Project needs to be assessed in the
context of economic reforms and especially an aggressive enterprise restructuring program, as
well as mitigating the social costs of the economic disruption caused by the Kosovo crisis, in
particular because of loss of markets in other countries of the former Federal Republic of
Yugoslavia.

        The project activities were implemented in an environment of high unemployment and
unfavorable economic situation. In the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, unemployment
rate is 30 percent of the labor force, by the survey data, and 37 percent, by the official (registered)
data. Many households have turned to subsistence agriculture and petty trade, staving off poverty,
while jobs in the formal sector have continued to disappear.

        Much of the enterprise sector in the country continues to generate losses, while the newly
emerging private sector is still too small and fragmented to generate significant growth or job
creation. Privatization has generally favored insiders, which has significantly restricted
post-privatization restructuring.

        While more successful transition economies saw massive inflows of investment and capital
from developed neighbor countries, both FDI and domestic investment in the former Yugoslav
Republic of Macedonia have been constrained by the riskiness of the region, lingering domestic
problems with the investment climate, and heightened perceptions of domestic political risk.

        The project was highly relevant to the prevailing conditions and could help resolve some
major problems in the Macedonian labor market. The Social Support Program was directly linked
to and was supporting the implementation of the restructuring and privatization program of the
Government of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia.

3.2 Revised Objective:
Project objective was not revised.

3.3 Original Components:
SSP comprises 4 distinct components:

1. Labor Restructuring. The goal of this component is to mitigate the negative social and
economic impact of bankruptcy and labor restructuring of Majority State Owned Enterprises
(MSOEs) and facilitate divestiture of excess labor. This component financed: (i) severance
payments, as regulated by law, to workers displaced by bankruptcy and labor restructuring of
MSOEs; (ii) social monitoring to determine the social impact on workers who have been
displaced by bankruptcy and labor restructuring, and who have received severance payments, to
identify them and ensure that the most vulnerable receive needed social services; and (iii) limited


                                                 - 2 -

assistance to further develop employment services.

2. Labor Redeployment. The goal of this component is to facilitate the redeployment of
workers displaced by bankruptcy and labor restructuring and privatization of Majority State
Owned Enterprises (MSOEs), the conflict in Kosovo, and the long-term unemployed and first
time job seekers, into the labor force. The component financed: (i) the development of an
administrative framework to enable the Agency for Transformation of Enterprises with Social
Capital (Agency for Privatization (AP)) to provide resources to MSOEs, or selected local
organizations, so they can organize labor redeployment services for workers displaced by
privatization; (ii) provision of labor redeployment services to the workers displaced by bankruptcy
and labor restructuring and the conflict, by contracting with local services providers to deliver
services; and (iii) an evaluation to determine the net impact of labor redeployment services.

3. Social Benefits. The goal of this component is to improve the targeting of social benefits and
the effectiveness of social protection programs. The component financed assistance to: (i)
improve the targeting efficiency of the social assistance program; and (ii) develop the capacity of
the Ministry of Labor and Social Protection to evaluate social protection and labor market
programs in order to improve program effectiveness.

4. Project Management. The goal of this component is to ensure effective administration of the
overall project program, financial accounts, and procurement. The component financed assistance:
(i) to coordinate project execution; (ii) to procure all Credit financed goods and services for the
implementing agencies; (iii) to operate the financial management system according to the LACI
requirements, and (iv) to act as a liaison between the technical ministries and World Bank staff
charged with monitoring project execution.

        The first phase of the enterprise restructuring program was commenced in 1994, and was
in particular supported by a Social Reform Technical Assistance Project (SRTAP), the first
Financial and Enterprise Sector Adjustment Credit (FESAC), and the Structural Adjustment
Loan/Credit (SAL/C). The Social Support Project was designed as a continuation of efforts
undertaken under SRTAP, and in support of the second Financial and Enterprise Sector
Adjustment Loan (FESAL II).

        The Government has made considerable progress in reforming social benefits and labor
market services to provide social support to laid off workers. This progress is evidenced by the
adoption of key social benefit reforms under the Social Sector Adjustment Credit (SSAC), and the
successful implementation of the SRTAP which was financing the provision of a range of labor
redeployment services,      technical assistance to enterprises undergoing restructuring, and the
development of effective social benefit programs to help the unemployed. The SSP was built on
this capacity, and provided labor services and social benefits (e.g. severance) to those workers
who were displaced by further bankruptcy/labor restructuring of state owned enterprises as well
as those workers who have been affected by the disruption of economic activity caused by the
Kosovo crisis. The project facilitated layoffs resulting from bankruptcy/labor restructuring of
enterprises, provided protection against poverty to affected workers, and facilitated their return to
the labor market through the use of carefully targeted labor services. The project facilitated the



                                                 - 3 -

bankruptcy of large state owned enterprises since bankruptcy judges were confident that a safety
net existed for the workers, which might be displaced.


3.4 Revised Components:
Components were not revised.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
         QAG review not available at the time of project preparation.

         The operation was directly related to Government objectives identified in the Bank
Country Assistance Strategy which called for (i) enhancing the efficiency of the state by
completing privatization of enterprises, and selling residual state-owned shares; and (ii) alleviation
of poverty and developing human capital by targeting benefits of social assistance programs,
continuing to upgrade front-line social services, initiating and adapting training systems, and using
nongovernmental partnerships for social/economic integration of marginalized groups.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
         Overall achievement of project objectives is judged to be satisfactory. The project was
designed as a response to, and in support of a major economic reform program initiated by the
Government of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia. All SSP objectives were met, i.e. (a)
the project facilitated the labor restructuring and privatization of Majority State Owned
Enterprises (MSOEs) through actions to reduce individual and community impacts of worker
dislocation while providing severance payment for redundant workers (b) carried out active labor
programs for about 35,000 unemployed workers in 43 communities providing 14,000 new jobs,
(c) improved the delivery of social benefits by strengthening the Ministry of Labor and Social
Policy with training of the staff, equipment, and establishing of Policy Evaluation Unit,

         The Credit original closing date was July 31, 2002. However, in the view of the necessity
to complete the labor restructuring as well as continue to deliver labor redeployment programs,
affected by delays in bankruptcy procedures, the Credit closing date was extended until the end of
July 2003.

4.2 Outputs by components:
The principal outcomes of the project are as follows:

Component 1: LABOR RESTRUCTURING - US$ 4.95 million

         The objective of this component was to mitigate the negative social and economic impact
of bankruptcy and labor restructuring of Majority State Owned Enterprises (MSOEs) and
facilitate divestiture of excess labor.

         This component financed: (i) severance payments, as regulated by law, to workers
displaced by bankruptcy/labor restructuring of MSOEs; (ii) social monitoring to determine the
social impact on workers who have been displaced by bankruptcy/labor restructuring, and who



                                                - 4 -

have received severance payments, to identify them and ensure that the most vulnerable receive
needed social services; and (iii) limited assistance to further develop employment services.

        This component was implemented by the Agency for Privatization (AP), under the general
guidance of the Managing Board of the AP, in close cooperation with Enterprises Payment
Operations Bureau (ZPP), the Ministry of Labor and Social Policy, and the PCU.

        At the onset of project preparation, twelve large insolvent enterprises were identified as
candidates for bankruptcy, and approximately 6,500 employees in these enterprises were expected
to be affected by bankruptcy and labor restructuring. The amount of severance was calculated on
the basis of one month average wage of the employee for every two years of service, but not more
than 12 monthly wages. The Credit funds were allowed to use for labor restructuring payments at
majority state owned enterprises that had formally entered bankruptcy and restructuring
proceedings under the Bankruptcy Law and had adopted a restructuring plan satisfactory to the
Association.

        According to the Project Appraisal Document, two scenarios were used to estimate
possible costs of severance payments, with the realization that these may change during
implementation due to changes in approaches to, and enterprises involved in, privatization and
restructuring. The first scenario was developed on the assumption that the process of enterprise
bankruptcy and privatization would result in laying off 1,975 employees (30 percent of total),
from seven of the twelve enterprises discussed under the proposed FESAL II.. According to the
second scenario, the process would result in laying off 3,292 employees (50 percent) of the total
in these enterprises. However, none of these scenarios were fulfilled.

        In fact, in the 5 enterprises that received support from the SSP, almost all workers were
made redundant. On the other hand, during the project implementation, the maximum duration of
severance payment was reduced from up to 12 monthly wages to 8 monthly wages which allowed
to expand the scope of severance payments.

        There was no clarity whether the Government intended to recover a portion of the
severance paid to workers of liquidated enterprises from the sale of the assets of the enterprise by
the trustee. Any such recovery from the assets may have allowed the Government to fund
severance pay to a larger number of workers, than if it relied solely on the SSP credit.

        So five out of 12 originally planned SOEs (social/state owned large loss making
companies) were supported through the project in restructuring through bankruptcy, selling or
liquidation by paying of severance for 4,483 dismissed workers in the amount of MKD
274,253,386.00 (equivalent to US$ 4,725,685 as follows: Hemteks ­ 583 workers, Frinko ­ 690
workers, Porcelanka - 1,087 workers, Zletovo Batteries ­ 767 workers, and Jugohrom - 1,356
workers. Seven enterprises were dropped from the list due to the fact that shares were sold and
they became predominantly privately owned companies, or companies were sold to private
owners and no dismissals were involved.

        In order to monitor the social impact on workers, and their families, who have been



                                                  - 5 -

displaced by bankruptcy/labor restructuring and who have received severance payments, and to
identify and ensure that the most vulnerable receive needed social services, a series of surveys
were conducted, including pilot surveys in three regions (Bitola, Veles and Skopje), and the full
survey was done for three enterprises in the above named regions. The results of surveys were
disseminated to relevant stakeholders. In particular, the results of the surveys confirmed that
around 96 percent of respondents spent severance to pay out their accumulated debts and for
living, and less than one percent tried to start a business on their own.

        Overall, outcomes of the Component are assessed by the Bank in this ICR as satisfactory.

Component 2: LABOR REDEPLOYMENT - US$ 5.91 million

        The objective of this component was to facilitate the redeployment of workers displaced
by bankruptcy and labor restructuring and privatization of Majority State Owned Enterprises
(MSOEs), the conflict in Kosovo, and the long-term unemployed and first time job seekers, into
the labor force. The National Employment Bureau (NEB) was responsible for implementation of
the labor redeployment program. An Enterprise Assistance Group (EAG), consisting of four staff,
two financed from the AP and two from the National Employment Bureau, was established within
the PCU to administer this component.

        The component financed: (i) the development of an administrative framework to enable
AP to provide resources to MSOEs, or selected local organizations, so they can organize labor
redeployment services for workers displaced by privatization; (ii) provision of labor redeployment
services to the workers displaced by bankruptcy/labor restructuring and the conflict, by
contracting with local services providers to deliver services; and (iii) an evaluation to determine
the net impact of labor redeployment services.

        The LRF financed a range of services including: employment counseling and relocation,
retraining, public works, small business assistance, small business incubator, local economic
development planning and loan guarantee programs. All labor redeployment services were
developed and implemented except for the Loan Guarantee Program.

        In total US$ 4.274 million project funds and US$ 1.113 million Government contribution
were allocated for 593 projects which were implemented providing services for 34,979
unemployed persons (compared to about 20,000 displaced unemployed workers anticipated in the
Project Appraisal Document), giving formal permanent employment to 13.954 persons. The
projects were distributed throughout Macedonia in 43 communities.

In particular,

   l 12 job counseling projects have been implemented involving 21,008 unemployed persons,
   l 523 training projects were implemented involving 10,822 unemployed persons,
   l 36 public work projects were executed, with community participation, involving 1,471
        unemployed persons;
   l 3 small business incubators were established and are operational hosting 41 enterprises




                                                  - 6 -

        with 205 new employees; all incubators function also as a small business support centers;
   l 10 small business assistance projects were carried out involving 1,473 participants,
   l 9 studies for communities economic development were completed covering 15 regions in
        the country.

        The average program cost per participant was US$ 159. The average cost per formal
permanent employment was US$ 382. Given the high level of unemployment in the country,
placement rates of program participants were exceptionally high. For example, more than 90
percent of the participants in training programs being completed have been employed after the
training. The incubators are still running, are self-sustaining, without outside funding, and the
failure rate in these incubators is less than 10 percent.

        Foundation of Loan Guarantee Program was fully supported by Technical Assistance but
was not financed by Project Funds due to lack of requested matching capital, the resistance of the
banks not being used to these types of services, and very short period for foundation of such
program. After the project completion, the program was launched with the help of the Swedish
International Development Agency (SIDA).

        The nature of services financed were determined by the characteristics of the community
and displaced workers involved (i.e. there was no predetermined allocation of resources to any
one service). Sub-contractors organizing the delivery of services were reimbursed for the costs of
the services according to specific principles and criteria as agreed with the Bank. Contracts were
performance based and included pre-negotiated employment rates. Service providers were only
paid on service delivered on a monthly basis. Services were demand driven and based on requests
from displaced workers and advisory input from the social partners. Eligible individuals were
those workers who have been dismissed from MSOEs under bankruptcy/labor restructuring, as a
result of the conflict in Kosovo, or who were long term unemployed (over one year) or first time
job seekers. The projects generated own initiative, self-help attitude, and responsibility, and
stimulated the further economical development of communities. Program monitoring and
evaluation system was implemented by PCU and National Employment Bureau, monthly
summaries were prepared and assessed, and when necessary, adjustments were introduced.

        The handbooks for relocation/counseling, training, public works, small business assistance,
small business incubator, regional economic development planning and loan guarantee program
were developed, disseminated, introduced and discussed with potential service providers,
enterprises and communities.

        Contract for TA Evaluation of net impact of active labor programs in the former Yugoslav
Republic of Macedonia, carried out in the period from April 1996 to September 1999, was
successfully completed. Final Report was presented on National Conference in Skopje in May
2002 and disseminated to Government and stakeholders.

        This evaluation was necessary to evaluate and enhance the effectiveness of the similar
labor redeployment program proposed under the Social Support Project. The study examined and
compared the employment and income levels of ALMP participants with similar nonparticipants in



                                                  - 7 -

order to determine the net benefit of the programs and how they may be refined and targeted to
improve benefits.

        The following active labor programs were examined: (a) Job counseling; (b) Training; (c)
Public works; (d) Incubators; (e) Small Business Assistance. The evaluation has established that
the programs addressed at the unemployed had a positive impact on employment and income.

        The study confirmed that the following net employment impacts have been achieved:

       l Counseling: 14 percent (doubled likelihood of obtaining employment)
       l New employment: 72 percent (14 times greater likelihood of obtaining employment)
       l       Institutional training: 54 percent (20 times greater likelihood of obtaining
            employment)
       l Public works: 34 percent (4 times greater likelihood of obtaining employment)

        The programs have also had a positive impact on income. For those participants who were
currently employed, the probability of receiving an increase in their net salary was greater
compared with the people currently employed who were in the control group.

        Employment Bureaus were fully supported and automated by establishing of WAN (Wide
Area Network) IT at the costs of US$ 138,000, from the reallocation of project funds from other
activities, allowing NEB to process pertinent data and prepare relevant reports for ministries and
employers. Now all 30 local employment offices are linked horizontally and vertically into the
information network. Reallocation of funds also allowed to support the State Statistical Office by
procurement of twelve licences for STATA and training of relevant staff.

        The implementation of this Component exceeded the scope of the original agreement with
the World Bank. Supplementary activities were supported due to savings gained in the fulfilling
the other tasks under the project, and its outcomes are assessed as highly satisfactory. Its
completion had a major impact on the institutions involved in provision of employment services.
The implementation of this Component may serve as the best practice for Bank relevant
operations in other countries in the region, while taking into account also exceptionally
complicated labor market situation in Macedonia.

Component 3: SOCIAL BENEFITS - US$ 0.26 million

        The objective of this component is to improve the targeting of social benefits and the
effectiveness of social protection programs. The component financed assistance to: (i) improve
the targeting efficiency of the social assistance program; and (ii) develop the capacity of the
MOLSP to evaluate social protection and labor market programs in order to improve program
effectiveness.

        The MOSLP was responsible for the implementation of this sub-component. Poverty
monitoring was implemented in cooperation with the State Statistical Office.




                                               - 8 -

        The component provided technical assistance to continue to work with the Social
Assistance Department of the MOLSP at further assessing possible revisions of the existing
Decree on social assistance and setting the framework for work programs for recipients of
benefits, as alternative method for supplementing the short term income support for the poor. The
contractor worked on estimation of the potential costs and benefits of the further revisions of the
Decree, developing methods for monitoring the impact of the work incentive and evaluating other
alternative approaches to the existing cash benefit program.

        In particular, the Government has revised the Social Assistance Decree. As part of these
revisions, the Decree was amended. The amendments implied restitution of the work incentive
component by limiting the duration of SA benefit to six years after which households would not
be eligible for the next two years. In practice it would imply that after the initial two years the
benefit would be reduced over the next three years to 70 percent each year respectively and in the
last sixth year to 50 percent. Other two relevant revisions of the Decree were related to increased
frequency of the random audits and onsite inspections and introduction of a criteria aimed to
prevent the artificial division of the households and to ultimately reduce the number of the
household receiving SA benefit.

        Currently the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia has one of the most developed
proxy means test type social assistance system in the region which implies asset test, such as
additional housing, business space, commercial and private vehicles, arable land in excess of 7,000
square meters, livestock providing income for living in the amount higher that the amount of the
social assistance benefit; as well as employment test (registration of able bodied members of
recipient families at the competent employment bureaus and obligatory participation in public
works programs five days per months if proposed by the employment bureaus). An interesting
solution in provision of social assistance is applied in rural areas, where many families were given
a piece of land and a grant in the amount of two average wages in exchange of lost eligibility to
the benefit. As a result of recent reforms, the number of eligible social assistance beneficiaries has
been substantially reduced to 63,000 families (September 2003). The social assistance system in
Macedonia is strongly pro-poor, that is, the share of poor in total social assistance spending is far
higher than their share in total population.

        The staff from line ministries were trained to work with Household Budget Survey (HBS)
data and carry out quantitative analysis. However, the accessibility of the Household Budget
Survey data remains to be an uneasy question in the relations between the State Statistical Office
and the line ministries, notably the Ministry of Labor and Social Policy.

        The Policy Evaluation Unit (PEU) has been established at the MOLSP and is fully
integrated in the Ministry's regular work. PEU gradually undertakes the increasing responsibilities
for policy analysis. The PEU has developed computer models for monitoring and forecasting
social protection programs. As a result of this work, the forecasting model for the Employment
Bureau was completed which enables assessment of the financial impact of recent changes in the
legislation governing labor and employment and also various characteristics of unemployed by
age, gender, income structure, duration of employment/unemployment, etc.




                                                 - 9 -

        The outcome of this Component is assessed as satisfactory.

Component 4: PROJECT MANAGEMENT - US$ 0.42 million

        The objective of this component is to ensure effective administration of the overall project
program, financial accounts, and procurement. The component financed assistance: (i) to
coordinate project execution; (ii) to procure all Credit financed goods and services for the
implementing agencies; (iii) to operate the financial management system according to the LACI
requirements, and (iv) to act as a liaison between the technical ministries and World Bank staff
charged with monitoring project execution.

        The PCU was established in the AP to manage the Credit, which contributed greatly to the
successful implementation of the project. The PCU has met its objective of management and
coordination by monitoring project implementation and producing the quarterly Project
Management Reports required by the World Bank. The PCU was operating the financial
management system in accordance with the Loan Administration Change Initiative (LACI)
requirements. It has developed the capacity to manage the project with high performance
standards. The success of the project management was also due to the fact that part of the PCU
team was previously involved in the implementation of the previous successful SRTAP project.

        The outcome of this Component is assessed as highly satisfactory.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
N/A

4.4 Financial rate of return:
N/A

4.5 Institutional development impact:
        The Project's institutional development impact is assessed as high. Especially with respect
to Labor Redeployment Component, the outcomes much exceeded the expectation at appraisal.
The tangible outcomes could be summarized as follows.

The project provided assessment of cost-effectiveness of labor redeployment programs and
employment services for the unemployed. Suggested amendments to the legal acts helped to
improve legislation regulating mass redundancies, employment services, and social assistance
programs.

The project assisted in capacity building with respect to institutions dealing with labor policies and
social assistance, especially MOLSP, NEB and AP.

The project helped to increase the diversity and targeting of active labor market programs and
services based on an evaluation of the cost-effectiveness of these programs with selected groups.
The project assisted MOLSP and NEB in improving monitoring of employment services and labor
redeployment programs. The project facilitated the labor restructuring and privatization of
Majority State Owned Enterprises (MSOEs).



                                                - 10 -

The project helped to improve information system to administer labor programs by establishing
WAN (Wide Area Network) information system. The project supported major enhancements in
the infrastructure of labor offices at local level through the process of provision of modern
information technology. Around 80 percent of the equipment of the National Employment Bureau
has been provided through the World Bank funds. The project provided an extensive staff training
for the staff of national and local labor and statistical offices.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
        The project was designed and implemented in an environment of political turmoil and the
economic disruption caused by the Kosovo crisis. The number of displaced workers and the rate
of unemployment have increased substantially since 1999. However, the tasks anticipated in
project preparation (in particular, submission to Parliament of relevant legislation to provide legal
basis for making agreed severance payments) were accomplished in a timely manner.                     The
Government has agreed with the World Bank that privatization will proceed before implementing
of the social support program. However, restructuring and privatization of the MSOEs started
later than was expected when the project was designed, and the process has been slow.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
        Selection of the Agency for Privatization as the coordinating implementation agency
contributed to the smooth execution of the project. The start-up of the project was slowed by the tight
fiscal environment which lead the Government to freeze local staff hiring which affected the hiring of two
project support staff.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
        The PCU was adequately staffed and received appropriate technical assistance and training which
was instrumental in assuring a successful coordination of project activities.

5.4 Costs and financing:
        Total project cost was estimated at US$ 11.6 million equivalent at appraisal, with the
Bank Loan of US$ 10.0 million, and a Government contribution in value of US$ 1.6 million. Of
this amount, US$ 1.35 million would be made available by the Government as a contribution to
the labor redeployment fund. The remaining US$250,000 would be made available by the
Government and would finance project recurrent costs, including the cost of PCU office space,
office maintenance, supplies, materials, staff salaries and other operating costs. Actual total
project costs were US$ 11.54 million, including US$9.92 million by the Bank and US$ 1.62
million by the Government.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
        The project sustainability is rated as highly likely. The Government anticipates to change
the legislation to improve the provision of ALMPs focusing on more cost-effective labor market
interventions, such as job counseling, job search assistance, training and job clubs. Business
incubators and small business assistance centers continue their activities. Incubation facilities have
contracts with their current landlords for at least 10 years. Labor regulations and Law on
Employment is under revision to make labor legislation more flexible.



                                                     - 11 -

        Although National Employment Bureau has limited budget for active labor market
programs - around 6 percent of the total is spent on active measures (excluding financing of
Bureau's staff), the budget tends to increase. European Union's CARDS program is supporting
training programs of the Employment Bureau's staff. In the 2004 state budget, the Government is
proposing to allocate funds to continue with MSOE restructuring program.

        Despite ongoing redundancies in civil service, Policy Evaluation Unit is incorporated in
the MOLSP, is well staffed and trained, and fully operational.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
        Most of the project activities have already been integrated into the regular operation of the
MOLSP and NEB, which has minimized the need for special transition arrangements. Additional
attention needs to be focused on staff training, enhancements in the infrastructure of labor and
social offices, improvements in legislation, and securing the budgets for activities of employment
services and social welfare offices.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
        The project was prepared in an exceptionally short period of time ­ in two months, as a
response to Government request to support labor restructuring of state owned enterprises. Key
areas of policy development in the field of enterprise restructuring, employment services and
social assistance, such as legal framework, institutional capacity building and infrastructure, were
properly identified. Bank staff apprised the project thoroughly and very quickly. The Bank staff
involved in project preparation incorporated the lessons learned in the design and implementation
of other projects on labor restructuring in the region. At a time of difficult political developments
in the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, the project objectives were consistent with the
country's economic policies and the Bank Country Assistance Strategy.

7.2 Supervision:
    Bank supervision was professional. The project received timely advice on project
implementation in light of difficult political and economic environment. Quick adjustments were
proposed within the components to reallocate unused funds which allowed to expand the scope of
the project, and in particular, to purchase WAN IT system for the NEB and twelve licences for
STATA for the Statistical Office. Technical assistance was provided to PCU to refine procedures,
including implementing agreed LACI development objectives. Skill mix and continuity of staff
were adequate. The project benefitted from the fact that the Bank team essentially remained the
same since the implementation of the Social Reform Technical Assistance Project that was
preceding to the Social Support Project. In 2000, the Project supervision was handed over to the
staff of Resident Mission.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
        The Bank's overall performance was satisfactory.        Supervision missions included the
required expertise and local staff who continuously monitored project activities.

Borrower



                                                  - 12 -

7.4 Preparation:
        The social impact of earlier bankruptcy and labor restructuring efforts, coupled to the
effects of the Kosovo crisis, prompted the Government to request the Bank's assistance for the
development of this project. Key stakeholders were actively involved in project preparation. In
particular, in addition to government agencies, unions were aware of the program and were
supportive. Highly satisfactory implementation of the SRTAP by the Government and lessons
learned from this project allowed to quickly prepare the project.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
        Despite frequent changes in the MOLSP and NEB leadership, the Government remained
committed to implementing the components and accomplishing the project objectives.
Counterpart funds were timely and adequately provided. Project implementation experience
confirmed that the Government is eager to use its partnership with the Bank to achieve its
development objectives.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
        The success in the project management was secured by the fact that part of the PCU team
was engaged in the implementation of the highly successful SPTAR project and thus have gained
relevant experience. The PCU was operating effectively and provided excellent administrative
support to the project, and liaison with the Bank. Regular project management reports (in total 15
reports) and audit reports were delivered as scheduled. Procurement capacity of the implementing
agency was properly assessed during project preparation and the training provided allowed to
accomplish all the tasks.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
        Overall, Borrower performance can be assessed as highly satisfactory. All project objectives were
achieved, and on Labor Redeployment Component, outcomes exceeded initial expectations.

8. Lessons Learned

        The project allows to make important conclusions which are most relevant for similar
projects in the sector and in the country.

1. There are economic, social and political objectives for providing social support packages to
    workers displaced by restructuring and privatization of MSOEs. However, severance
    payments had no impact on acceleration of privatization. Also no new jobs were created
    following divestiture of excess labor. Partially this was due to the fact that the firms affected
    were as a rule in the process of liquidation. The project outcomes confirmed an experience
    from Romania and Russia that severance as seed capital failed to result in an appreciable level
    of development activity (new businesses were not created). This was partially due to the fact
    that the amount of severance was limited, and partially due to an insufficient assistance to new
    business entities.

2. A lesson learned is also that the administration of social support programs for workers being
    displaced is best centered in one agency that has a direct interest to ensure that the program
    operates. This was the case in the Social Support Project where the AP/EAG had the
    responsibility for implementing the Labor Redeployment component.

3. The project confirmed that even in a situation of high unemployment in the former Yugoslav


                                               - 13 -

   Republic of Macedonia (predominantly lack of demand for labor), well designed and targeted
   active labor programs may have a significant impact on job placements and labor incomes. In
   the case of the four programs addressed at the unemployed (counseling, institutional training,
   new employment and public works), there has been a high positive net impact. Furthermore,
   the results of the net impact analysis show that the participants in these programs had a
   greater probability of increasing their net incomes.       Based on the impact analysis, it is
   recommended that the counseling, institutional training and new employment programs are to
   be continued. Integrating the counseling program with training programs for people who need
   new skills and qualifications in order to be employable should be considered. There is also a
   firm evidence available that regional economic development studies have already attracted
   significant investments into the communities.

4. The most successful labor redeployment program was the retraining program. Structural
   unemployment experienced by displaced workers, who lack skills or whose skills are not in
   demand, and who need some re-skilling to compete and re-enter the labor market can be
   helped by different types of retraining, including on-the-job training and institutional training
   needed in these circumstances. The placement rate after retraining varied between 90 and 100
   percent. According to the original criteria for retraining services agreed with the World Bank,
   all training contracts were to include a pre-negotiated rate of job placement in the range of a
   minimum of 50 percent for institutional training and 80 percent for on-job-training and would
   include incentives for exceeding agreed placement rates and disincentives for not achieving
   agreed placement rates.

5. In the institutional training program, a user fee was levied. The high net impact of the program
   suggests that the user fee did have an impact. For many of the participants the user fee
   constituted a large amount of money, giving them an incentive to select training programs
   carefully and only to participate in programs and courses which they strongly believed would
   significantly improve their employability. The user-fee system will probably exclude some
   people from the training. However, the fact that the level of interest in training participation
   was very high, according to the Agency for Privatization, indicates that many people can
   afford to pay the fees and are willing to invest resources in increasing the value of their human
   capital.

6. The temporary community employment program had an impact on employment. However,
   this impact was achieved at a very high unit cost. Therefore it is questionable whether the
   temporary community employment program should form part of any future active labor
   programs in Macedonia. Temporary community employment proved to be more expensive
   program but have been used as disciplinary measure to discourage informally employed from
   registering as unemployed or social assistance beneficiaries, e.g., to promote social objectives.
   The AP deliberately kept away from extensive use of these programs because of the low
   return, which is very different and more responsible approach than many other Governments
   (i.e. Romania, and Bulgaria).

7. The small business assistance programs have unfulfilled potential. Integrating the assistance
   they provide with other measures and programs to provide access to credit could therefore be
   considered.     The impact of the incubators still remains to be seen, as the participating
   enterprises are still attached to the incubators. Therefore they have not had the opportunity of



                                                - 14 -

     demonstrating their ability to maintain themselves without assistance.

 8. Active public information campaign also contributed to the success of the project. Brochures
     and information materials were printed and distributed to communities, enterprises and
     Employment Bureaus. Different presentations of the programs were given in informative
     meetings with National and Regional Employment Bureaus and communities. Seminars were
     held with SOEs, interested enterprises and potential service providers to inform about the
     programs, criteria and procedures. Regular presentations appeared in press, radio and TV.

 9. Regarding project implementation, the success of a project depends upon the qualifications
     and motivation of PCU. Especially in a politically volatile environment in which the leadership
     of key implementing agencies is rapidly changing, the continuity of PCU staff can be key for
     the project success.

10. The Borrower indicated that the project implementation would benefit if the differences in
     Bank and Borrower's procurement rules and laws are identified at an earlier stage, and if
     necessary, amendments to national laws are proposed (for example, with respect to custom
     duties). Government responsible officials need to be involved in an appropriate training on
     Bank procurement procedures. Also it was indicated that procurement training (in particular,
     in ILO training center in Turin) is not sufficiently country specific. The countries in the region
     face different challenges, and sometimes a more elaborated country specific training programs
     would be beneficial.

 9. Partner Comments

 (a) Borrower/implementing agency:



                           SOCIAL SUPPORT PROJECT - MACEDONIA
                                         IDA Credit 3268-MK

                 BORROWER'S IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                              December 2003

                                          Prepared by Borrower


               A. ASSESSMENT OF DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVES AND DESIGN

     1. Original Objective: The former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia has agreed with the
     International Development Agency (IDA) to borrow the equivalent of US$10 million to
     support a Social Support Project (SSP). This project supports further bankruptcy/labor
     restructuring of 12 state owned enterprises. The enterprise restructuring to be undertaken
     under the proposed second Financial and Enterprise Sector Adjustment Loan (FESAL II)
     envisages increasing the financial discipline by resolving the debts and curtailing further losses
     by large loss makers through initiation of bankruptcy, closure and liquidation of the 12 state
     owned enterprises, as envisaged by FESAL II. Also, selling of the enterprises to foreign
     investors was promoted recently by the Government as an option for restructuring of some of


                                                  - 15 -

the enterprises. Approximately 6,500 employees in these enterprises are expected to be
affected by the bankruptcy/labor restructuring. In addition, further increases in unemployment
and layoffs are expected from the disruption of economic activity caused by the Kosovo crisis,
in particular because of loss of markets in Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. These layoffs are
estimated at 35,000 by the Ministry of Labor and Social Policy (MOSLP). The Government
must address the social impact of both of these actions, as well as continue to assist the
general population of unemployed workers. The objective of the SSP is be to help mitigate the
negative social and economic impact of bankruptcy/labor restructuring of state owned
enterprises and the economic disruption caused by the conflict in Kosovo. The project has
four distinct components: (1) labor restructuring, (2) labor redeployment, (3) social benefits,
and (4) project management.

2. Revised Objective None.

3. Original Components Social Support Project comprises four components:

(1) Labor Restructuring The goal of this component is to mitigate the negative social and
economic impact of bankruptcy/labor restructuring of Majority State Owned Enterprises
(MSOEs) and facilitate bankruptcy/labor restructuring of excess labor. This component
finances: (i) severance payments, as regulated by law, to workers displaced by
bankruptcy/liquidation or selling/ labor restructuring of MSOEs; (ii) social monitoring to
determine the social impact on workers who have been displaced by bankruptcy/labor
restructuring, and who have received severance payments, to identify them and ensure that the
most vulnerable receive needed social services; and (iii) limited assistance to further develop
employment services.

(2) Labor Redeployment The goal of this component is to facilitate the redeployment of
workers displaced by bankruptcy/labor restructuring and privatization of MSOEs, the conflict
in Kosovo, and the long-term unemployed and first time job seekers, into the labor force. The
component will finance: (i) the development of an administrative framework to enable AP to
provide resources to MSOEs, or selected local organizations, so they can organize labor
redeployment services for workers displaced by privatization; (ii) provision of labor
redeployment services to the workers displaced by bankruptcy/labor restructuring and the
conflict, by contracting with local services providers to deliver services; and (iii) an evaluation
to determine the net impact of labor redeployment services.

(3) Social Benefits The goal of this component is to improve the targeting of social benefits
and the effectiveness of social protection programs. The component will finance assistance to:
(i) improve the targeting efficiency of the social assistance program; and (ii) develop the
capacity of the MOLSP to evaluate social protection and labor market programs in order to
improve program effectiveness.

(4) Project Management The goal of this component is to ensure effective administration of
the overall project, financial accounts, and procurement. The component will finance
assistance: (i) to coordinate project execution from a global perspective; (ii) to procure all



                                            - 16 -

Credit financed goods and services for the implementing agencies; (iii) to operate the financial
management system according to the LACI requirements, and (iv) to act as a liaison between
the technical ministries and World Bank staff charged with monitoring project execution.

B. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVE AND OUTPUTS

Outcome/Achievement of Objective

Social Support Project (SSP) implementation was highly relevant to the efforts of the
Macedonia in its economic reform program to deal effectively with the social dimensions of
reform. SSP, the tangible outcomes/achievements could be summarized as follows:

Legislation: subsequent to pertinent analysis, several legislation were introduced and enforced
in the social sectors influencing labor issues: The Law for condition and procedures for using
the funds of Social Support Project for payment the severance under Credit Agreement
between World Bank and Government of the Republic of Macedonia (Official Gazette of the
Republic of Macedonia No. 81/99), Government Decree for using of Social Assistance
(December 2001), Changes in the Labor Regulation Law regarding severance payment and
length of using of unemployment benefits ( February 2003) and Special Law for incentives of
employment ( March 2003).

Capacity Building: Institutions dealing with labor sector were supported, staffed, trained and
presently functioning in their fields of activity, such as establishing job clubs in one private, 10
Local Employment Bureaus and National Employment Bureau, procurement of computers,
WAN IT Technology for National and Local Employment Offices and procurement of
STATA for State Statistical Office, establishment of Policy Evaluation Unit within the
Ministry of Labor and Social Policy

Outcomes: All SSP objectives were met, i.e. (a) facilitated the restructuring of SOEs through
actions to reduce individual and community impacts of worker dislocation while providing
severance payment for redundant workers (b) carried out active labor programs for about
35,000 unemployed workers in 43 communities providing 14,000 new jobs, (c) improved the
delivery of social benefits by strengthening the Ministry of Labor and Social Policy with
equipment, training of the staff and establishing of Policy Evaluation Unit,

Specific Achievements: (1) 5 out of 12 FESAL originally planed SOEs (social/state owned
large loss making companies) have been supported in restructuring through bankruptcy,
selling or liquidation by paying of severance, for 4,483 dismissed workers MKD 274,253,386
(equivalent of US$ 4,725,685 was paid as severance (2) 593 active labor projects were
implemented providing services to 34,979 unemployed persons, with permanent jobs of
13,954, (2-a) 12 job counseling projects have been implemented with 21,008 unemployed
persons, (2-b) 523 training projects implemented involving 10,822 unemployed persons, (2-c)
36 public work projects executed, with community participation involving 1,471 unemployed
persons, (2-d) 3 small business incubators have been established and presently operating
hosting 41 enterprises with 205 new employees, (2-e) 10 small business assistance projects



                                             - 17 -

involving 1,473 participants were carried out, (3) 9 Studies for communities economic
development were financed and presented (4) Policy Evaluation Unit established at the
MOLSP, presently operating and generating required input to the Ministry and other
stakeholders, (5) Employment Bureaus were fully supported and automated by establishing of
WAN IT allowing them to process pertinent data and prepare relevant reports for ministries
and employers, since December 2002 these operations were improved and operating more
efficiently, (6) State Statistical Office was supported by procurement of STATA and training
staff, (7) carried out and dissemination of Analysis of Net Impact of Active Labor Programs
financed by the World Bank in the period from 1996 to 1999.

ASSESSMENT: SATISFACTORY

Output by Components ­ attached

C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING IMPLEMENTATION AND OUTCOME

Factors outside of Government or Implementing Agency: In the whole period (September
1999 - July 2003) of project implementation, the Kosovo Crisis and war in the country
impacted Macedonia's economy, resulting in temporary reduction of the real positive impact
of the Project in terms of restructuring of remaining large loss makers and job creation. In
practice due to liquidation of SOE's the number of displaced workers was bigger than it was
planned in Project scenarios (only 30 or 50% of total number of workers were planned to be
dismissed) and the general socio-political and economical environment was unfavorable for
implementation of the project.

Factors subject to Government control: (1) The choice of the Privatization Agency (AP)
where the Project Coordination Unit was established, contributed greatly for the successful
execution of the project, although it was very hard to coordinate all implementing units due to
very frequent changes of persons in charge in AP, National and Local Employment Bureaus,
State Statistical Office and Ministry of Labor and Social Policy.

Factors subject to Coordinating Agency control: PCU within the AP played a key role in
the conducting a successful coordination of the project and keep it within the basic objectives
and World Bank procedures.

D. SUSTAINABILITY

Rationale for Rating: Social Support Project is assessed as highly sustainable as per the
specific achievements above. SSP has been implemented from July 1999 to July 2003 as
continuation of highly satisfactory Social Reform and Technical Assistance Project. SSP was
coordinated by AP as a result of continuation with similar SRTAP arrangements, the favorable
assessment of WB for efficient implementation of all PCU activities, and as a result of an
agreement between World Bank and Government that for such a complex and sensitive
project AP is better prepared to carry out the Project for the present time.




                                            - 18 -

   E. LESSONS LEARNED

       - Continuous coordination meetings by the PCU of AP with all stakeholders contributed
   greatly to the success of the project. These meetings served to iron out and clarify (a) the
   project objectives, (b) the interdependence of all components and sub-components towards
   achieving the project goals, (c) explaining the Bank procedures to all stakeholders, (d)
   evaluating progress and redressing situations when needed.

       - Bank support was highly appreciated by the AP/PCU. Numerous supervision missions
   made the AP/PCU staff possible to execute the project as per the Loan covenants.

       - The early engagement by PCU a project management/procurement advisor enabled to
   establish sound management and financial techniques on the project under new LACI
   procedures.

       - The AP/PCU maintained a close link to the Government authorities, thus, forecasting
   problem areas and arriving with solutions prior to deadlocks.

       - Permanent training of PCU and Enterprise Assistance Group consist of three persons
   from AP and two persons from National Employment Bureau was key to the success of
   project implementation.

       - Right choice of locally hired staff by AP/PCU.         Fully committed and dedicated
   PCU/EAG staff to the project was key to operate the project properly.

       - Bank support was highly appreciated by the Government for the flexible adjustments
   brought about in the project implementation, providing changes, which were in line with the
   main project objectives.

       - The project was very complex and sensitive to socio-political environment of the
   country. The WB and the Borrower worked closely to improve coordination between PCU
   and Implementing Agencies, and their high commitment to project implementation had impact
   on achieving better results.

       - The right decision for reallocation of non-used Project funds that were made according
   to the real needs of the Government and Implementing Agencies within the main objectives of
   the project. These included: establishing the WAN IT for National and Local Employment
   Bureaus on horizontal and vertical level, purchasing STATA for State Statistical Office,
   upgrading and purchasing computer equipment in Implementing Agencies.


                                   Key Outputs by Components


Indicator/Matrix                            Actual/ Latest Estimate



                                              - 19 -

Component 1 ­ Labor Restructuring

(i) Legislation: to create new legislation, Project Coordination Unit in cooperation
similar to the legislation that was used to with National Employment Bureau and
allow the Government to pay severance for Ministry of Labor and Social Policy has
the previous 25 large loss makers. The      prepared framework and Law for making
Borrower will provide a framework for       severance payments by September 1999.
making payments by July 31, 1999.

(ii) Compliance with legislation: The       State owned enterprises from the list of
Project Coordination Unit (PCU), within     FESAL-2 were ascertained to use Project
the Agency for Privatization (AP), will     Funds for severance payment in the case
ascertain the eligibility of enterprises    of bankruptcy/liquidation and selling.
applying for severance payments. The
Bank will authorize severance payments on
a case-by-case basis upon receipt of this
information.
                                            Detail procedure for using Project Funds
(iii) Finalize Procedures: the Ministry of  for severance payment was defined and
Labor and Social Policy (MOLSP), in         adopted in December 1999.
cooperation with the Ministry of Finance,
the Agency for Privatization (AP), the
PCU, affected enterprises, Payment
Operations Bureau (ZPP), and the
National Employment Bureau (NEB), will
finalize procedures for disbursement of
severance payments to workers in selected
enterprises.                                Project funds for this category in total
                                            amount of US$ 4,725,658 were utilized
(iv) Make payments: to make payments to for severance payments for 4,483 workers
eligible workers at selected enterprises as as follows: Hemteks (583), Frinko (690),
agreed with the Bank.                       Porcelanka (1,087), Zletovo Batteries
                                            (767) and Jugohrom (1,356)




Social Monitoring                           TA for Social Monitoring was contracted
                                            in June 2000 and framework for surveys
(i) Design: the sample frame and survey     of vulnerable workers was designed.
based on surveys for similar objectives     Pilot surveys were done for vulnerable
undertaken in the region.                   workers in three regions (Bitola, Veles
(ii) Pilot test: the survey in one region.  and Skopje). Full survey was done for
(iii) Implement: the full survey fine-tuned three enterprises in Skopje, Veles and
based on the results of the pilot.          Bitola.



                                              - 20 -

(iv) Evaluate: the results of the survey in a Survey result was documented and
report that identify vulnerable groups, and distributed to stakeholders. Final Report
disseminate information to relevant           was disseminated to the stakeholders late
stakeholders.                                 March 2001.
(v) Replicate: continue survey and prepare
report every six months, or a total of four
times over the life of the project.
                                              Staff was fully trained in country and
Employment Policy and Services                abroad and have took part in overall
(i) Train: additional national and local      project implementation.
labor office staff in implementation of pilot
programs and new policies.

Component 2 ­ Labor Redeployment              The handbooks for relocation/counseling,
                                              training, public works, small business
(i) Agreements and Procedures: Refine         assistance, small business incubator,
procedures, by July 31 1999, developed        regional economic development planning
under SRTAP, for National Labor               and loan guarantee program were
Redeployment Fund (LRF), and sample           developed. Agreements were designed
contracts for use with service providers      and revised regularly.
which will be responsible for organizing
active labor services                         Handbooks, procedures and agreements
                                              were disseminated, introduced and
(ii) Publicity: Refine materials and          discussed with potent ional service
disseminate information to communities,       providers, enterprises and communities.
MSOEs, and potential service providers.
                                              Monitoring/evaluating system for the
                                              LRP's was designed by PCU and
(iii) Monitoring: Refine the system,          implemented by Service Provider under
developed under the SRTAP, to monitor         the PCU control.
the use of funds, and evaluate the impact
of local labor adjustment services.

Services: provide labor redeployment
services to the workers displaced by
bankruptcy/labor restructuring and the
Kosovo conflict
                                              PCU/AP signed and implemented 593
(i) AP/service Provider Agreements: Sign      Labor Redeployment Contracts in 43
agreements between the AP and service         communities with various service
providers for receipt and use of LRF          providers
resources following criteria and
procedures agreed with the Bank.

(ii) Active Labor Services for Displaced      Service providers were contracted by AP



                                                - 21 -

Workers: Deliver services to displaced      for the individual labor redeployment
workers through sub-contracts between       projects. In total US$ 4.274 million
the AP and local service providers.         Project Funds and US$ 1.113 million
                                            Government contribution are allocated for
                                            593 projects, which had provided services
                                            for 34,979 unemployed persons, creating
                                            permanent employment for 13.954
                                            persons. The projects were implemented
                                            throughout Macedonia in 43
                                            communities. The average cost per
                                            participant was US$ 159. The average
                                            cost per permanent employment was US$
                                            382. The projects generated its own
                                            initiative, self-help attitude, responsibility,
                                            and stimulated the further economical
                                            development of communities. Monitoring
                                            system implemented, regular field visits
                                            conducted, and certain adjustments were
                                            introduced when necessary.

(iii) Technical Assistance: Provide limited
technical assistance from AP to local       Project Coordination Unit and Enterprise
service providers to help them develop      Assistance Group within the AP have
services including small business           provided permanent technical assistance
incubators, model small business assistance to service providers and other
centers, community economic                 implementation agencies.
development plans, and loan guarantee
programs.

(iv) Monitor and Evaluate: Monitor and      Monitoring and evaluation were done by
evaluate organization and implementation    PCU and National Employment Bureau
of programs by service providers and        and monthly summary report were
provide monthly summaries.                  permanently prepared.

Evaluation: To determine the net impact of Contract for TA Evaluation of net impact
labor redeployment services by              of active labor programs in Macedonia,
implementing a quasi-experimental design    carried out in the period from April 1996
study.                                      to September 1999 under Social Reform
(i) Design: review similar studies, orient  and Technical Assistance Project
counterparts, design survey procedures      (IDA-2722-MK), was signed in June
and forms.                                  2000.

(ii) Collect Data: pilot test procedures,   Data collection and pilot survey was done
make necessary revisions, conduct surveys, in June 2001.
entry data, verify data, and construct data



                                              - 22 -

set.
                                               Interim Report was submitted in
(iii) Analyze data: describe economic          December 2001.
context, sample, evaluate impact, and
analyze local labor market conditions,
present policy implications, and then
discuss interim findings with advisory
panel.                                         Final Report was presented on National
                                               Conference in Skopje in May 2002 and
(iv) Disseminate results: prepare final        disseminated to Government and
report and disseminate.                        stakeholders




Component 3 ­Social Benefits                   Contract for TA Social Assistance was
                                               signed in June 2000.
Social Assistance: Improve the targeting
efficiency of the social assistance program The international consultant worked on
                                               estimation of the potential costs and
(i) Work Incentive: Pilot, develop             benefits of the further revisions of the SA
software and implement procedures to           Decree, development of methods for
monitor the work incentive system in the       monitoring the impact of the work
existing Social Assistance Decree, and         incentive introduced with the SA Decree
train staff                                    of 1998 and evaluation of other
                                               alternative approaches to the existing cash
(ii) Targeting Social Protection: Evaluate     benefit program.
alternate means for targeting social
protection to the most vulnerable groups,      Evaluation report was focused on
including (a) proxy means test; (b) tighter    reforming the eligibility and benefit
eligibility and benefit criteria in the social conditions in the Decree with result of
assistance decree; (c) work-fare; (d) social introducing changes, which were
funds; and if needed (e) social welfare        reviewed by the Government and World
services (non-cash programs). The              Bank, and were incorporated in the Social
evaluation should present experience of        Assistance Decree in June 2001.
other OECD and transition economies in
each area; and, for each option, should
address the (a) economic costs and             SA Department continue with close
benefits; (b) potential financing sources      monitoring of the impact of the revised
and costs; (c) administration; (d)             policy, and analyzing the patterns of
implementation arrangements; (e)               social assistance utilization in the light of
feasibility for implementation in the          Government's fiscal capacity.
country; and (f) consistency with overall
social protection system.

(iii) Evaluate: Develop pilot project



                                                 - 23 -

proposals to test and evaluate each feasible
option with built-in monitoring and
evaluation procedures in readiness for
implementation.
                                               The subcomponent team completed the
                                               planned activities regarding poverty
                                               monitoring. STATA software was
(iv) Poverty Monitoring: Strengthen the        installed, staff was trained, and training in
poverty monitoring capacity of the Poverty basic poverty concepts was organized as
Monitoring Group, comprising members of well as respective international study
the Statistical Office and the MOSLP by        tours.
improving the capacity to update poverty
lines, and conduct distribution analysis.      PEU developed computer models for
                                               monitoring and forecasting social
Policy Evaluation Unit: Develop capacity       protection programs. As a result of this
to monitor and evaluate social protection      work, the forecasting model for the
and labor market programs in order to          Employment Bureau was completed
improve program effectiveness.                 which enables assessment of the financial
(i) Establish, staff, equip and train a Policy impact of recent changes in the legislation
Evaluation Unit to regularly inform the        governing labor and employment and also
Minister and MOLSP departments with            various characteristics of unemployed by
program information, including: (a)            age, gender, income structure, duration of
budgeting and forecasting social protection employment/unemployment, etc. The
expenditures; (b) monitoring program data PEU is fully integrated in the Ministry's
collected by Automation Unit (AU) and          regular work and it gradually undertakes
other relevant agencies with regular           the increasing responsibilities for policy
reports/other types of information to each     analysis
line department and other users on a
monthly, quarterly and annual basis, as
needed and defined by the MOSLP.

(ii) Forecast Resource Requirements:
Develop, test, and implement social
protection model (consistent with the
pension forecasting model of the AU), in
order to budget and forecast total social
protection and labor market expenditures.
Train staff to independently fully
implement and fine-tune the model.

Component 4 ­ Project Management

i) Coordination: coordinate project            Regular meetings were conducted with
implementation by: (a) convening regular       the Implementing Agencies ensuring that
meetings of the Technical Coordinators to the project is being implemented in



                                                 - 24 -

discuss common issues; (b) ensuring that        accordance with the World Bank
the project is being implemented in             agreement.
accordance with technical agreements with
the World Bank; and (c) assisting with
project implementation as requested by the
technical ministries, MOF and MOLSP.

(ii) Procurement: manage all procurement
under the project in cooperation with the       The PCU executed all procurement under
technical ministries; specific responsibilities the project in time and in close
during the procurement process for              cooperation with the Implementing
equipment, and technical assistance and         Agencies.
training.

(iii) Financial Management: (a) set up and
operate a financial management system
based on technical agreements reached           Project accounts, disbursement levels, and
with the World Bank, (b) organize annual        Government contribution were closely
audits to be made by independent private        monitored and independent audits
auditor, according to the Bank's                performed.
requirements

(iv) World Bank liaison: (a) manage the
disbursement of all World Bank loan             Progress reporting was carried out in
funds;                                          accordance to the format LACI agreed
(b) monitor the availability of the             with the Bank.
government's budgetary contribution to
the project; (c) maintain project accounts
to be audited; (d) monitor implementation
progress of project components; and (e)
work with implementing agencies to
prepare quarterly progress reports in
accordance with a project progress
reporting format, to be agreed with the
Bank.


(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information




                                                  - 25 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                       1
               Indicator/Matrix                    Projected in last PSR                Actual/Latest Estimate
Component I. Labor Restructuring:

(a) The Borrower will provide a legal                                       (a) New legislation was created similar to the
framework for making severance payments                                     legislation that was used to allow the
by July 31, 1999.                                                           Government to pay severance for the
                                                                            previous 25 large loss making enterprises.
                                                                            Framework for making payments was ready
                                                                            as scheduled by July 31 1999. New
                                                                            legislation was approved in December 1999.

                                                                            (b) 5 out of 12 originally planned MSOEs
(b) Support is provided to approximately                                    (majority social/state owned enterprises)
3,300 workers displaced by enterprise                                       were supported in restructuring through
bankruptcy and labor restructuring;                                         bankruptcy, selling or liquidation by paying of
vulnerable workers are identified and poverty                               severance> Total amount of US$ 4.726
is alleviated among these workers and their                                 million were utilized for severance payments
families.                                                                   in Hemteks, Frinko, Porcelanka, Zletovo
                                                                            Batteries and Jugohrom MSOE's, and 4,483
                                                                            dismissed workers received payments.


                                                                            c) Extensive training to NEB staff, including
(c) Additional training is provided to staff of                             study tours provided.
National Employment Bureau



Component II: Labor Redeployment:
                                                                            (a) The handbooks for relocation/counseling,
(a) Develop legal framework to enable AP to                                 training, public works, small business
provide resources to MSOEs, or selected                                     assistance, small business incubator,
local organizations, so they can organize                                   regional economic development planning and
labor redeployment services for workers                                     loan guarantee program were developed.
displaced by privatization.                                                 Brochures and information materials were
                                                                            printed and distributed to communities,
                                                                            enterprises and Employment Bureaus.
                                                                            Seminars were held with SOEs, interested
                                                                            enterprises and potential service providers to
                                                                            inform about the programs, criteria and
                                                                            procedures. Regular presentations appeared
                                                                            in press, radio and TV.

                                                                            (b) 593 Labor Redeployment Contracts
(b) Provide labor redeployment services to                                  completed providing services for 34,979
the workers displaced by bankruptcy/labor                                   unemployed persons, giving formal
restructuring and the Kosovo conflict by                                    permanent employment to 13.954 persons.
contracting with local services providers to                                Including: 12 job counseling projects have
deliver services. Support is offered and                                    been implemented with 21,008 unemployed
provided to about 20,000 displaced                                          persons, 523 training projects implemented
unemployed workers                                                          involving 10,822 unemployed persons, 36
                                                                            public work projects executed, with
                                                                            community participation involving 1,471
                                                                            unemployed persons; 3 small business
                                                                            incubators have been established and
                                                                            presently operating hosting 41 enterprises
                                                                            with 205 new employees; 10 small business
                                                                            assistance projects involving 1,473
                                                                            participants were carried out, 9 studies for
                                                                            communities economic development were
                                                                            financed and presented

                                                                            The projects were distributed throughout
                                                                            Macedonia in 43 communities. Monitoring of
                                                                            gross impact of programs indicated a positive



                                                         - 26 -

                                                                         impact on post program employment and
                                                                         wages of participants.




(c) Conduct net impact study of labor                                    (c) Net impact study completed. Final Report
redeployment services by implementing a                                  was presented on National Conference in
quasi-experimental design study.                                         Skopje in May 2002 and disseminated to
                                                                         Government and stakeholders.

                                                                         (d) Employment Bureaus were equipped with
                                                                         Wide Area Network IT allowing them to
                                                                         process pertinent data and prepare relevant
                                                                         reports for ministries and employers; Twelve
                                                                         licenses for STATA software were
                                                                         purchased and staff from the SSO, MOLSP,
                                                                         and MOES participated in a training session
                                                                         on the basic operation of STATA. Staff from
                                                                         line ministries were trained to work with
                                                                         Household Budget Survey (HBS) data and
                                                                         carry out quantitative analysis.

Component III: Social Benefits:

(a) Improve the targeting efficiency of the                              (a) Social assistance is delivered to the
social assistance program.                                               poorest groups as tested by the Lorenz
                                                                         Curve.


(b) Develop capacity to monitor and evaluate                             (b) A training session in basic poverty
social protection and labor market programs                              concepts was organized where staff from the
by establishing Policy Evaluation Unit (PEU)                             line ministries and the SSO participated.
at the MOLSP, in order to improve program                                Policy Evaluation Unit at the MOLSP fully
effectiveness.                                                           operational. PEU developed computer
                                                                         models for monitoring and forecasting social
                                                                         protection programs. As a result of this work,
                                                                         the forecasting model for the Employment
                                                                         Bureau was completed which enables
                                                                         assessment of the financial impact of recent
                                                                         changes in the legislation governing labor
                                                                         and employment and also various
                                                                         characteristics of unemployed by age,
                                                                         gender, income structure, duration of
                                                                         employment/unemployment, etc.



Component IV: Project Management:

all Credit financed goods and services                                   (a) The PCU executed all procurement under
delivered on a timely manner to all the                                  the project in time and in close cooperation
implementing agencies;                                                   with the line Ministries and Bureaus. Project
                                                                         accounts, disbursement levels, Government
(b) Financial management system operated                                 contribution were closely monitored and
according to the LACI requirements, and                                  independent audits performed.

                                                                         (b) Progress reporting was carried out in
                                                                         accordance to the format agreed upon with
                                                                         the Bank (LACI). Quarterly and audit reports
                                                                         complete and on schedule




Output Indicators:
                                                                    1
               Indicator/Matrix                 Projected in last PSR                Actual/Latest Estimate




                                                      - 27 -

1End of project




                   - 28 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal     Actual/Latest  Percentage of
                                                          Estimate       Estimate        Appraisal
                     Component                            US$ million   US$ million
Labor Restructuring                                          4.97             4.95            99.6
Labor Redeployment                                           5.91             5.91             100
Social Benefits                                              0.26             0.26             100
Project Management                                           0.42             0.42             100

Total Baseline Cost                                         11.56           11.54
                        Total Project Costs                 11.56           11.54
                  Total Financing Required                  11.56           11.54


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB             NCB                2        N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                          0.00              0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                          0.00              0.00         0.26          0.00         0.26
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.26)          (0.00)       (0.26)
3. Services                       0.00              0.00         1.19          0.27         1.46
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (1.19)          (0.00)       (1.19)
4. Labor Restructuring            0.00              0.00         4.21          0.00         4.21
Fund
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (4.21)          (0.00)       (4.21)
5. Labor Redeployment             0.00              0.00         4.34          1.06         5.40
Fund                              (0.00)           (0.00)      (4.34)          (0.00)       (4.34)
6. Incremental Operating          0.00              0.00         0.00          0.23         0.23
Costs                             (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
   Total                          0.00              0.00        10.00          1.56         11.56
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (10.00)         (0.00)      (10.00)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB             NCB                2      N.B.F.      Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                          0.00             0.00         0.00           0.00        0.00
                                  (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                          0.14             0.00         0.27           0.00        0.41
                                  (0.14)          (0.00)       (0.27)         (0.00)       (0.41)
3. Services                       0.00             0.00         0.51           0.27        0.78
                                  (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.51)         (0.00)       (0.51)
4. Labor Restructuring            0.00             0.00         4.73           0.00        4.73



                                                - 29 -

   Fund
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (4.73)            (0.00)           (4.73)
   5. Labor Redeployment                    0.00               0.00              4.28             1.11              5.39
   Fund                                    (0.00)             (0.00)            (4.27)            (0.00)           (4.27)
   6. Incremental Operating                 0.00               0.00              0.00             0.25              0.25
   Costs                                   (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
       Total                                0.14               0.00              9.79             1.63             11.56
                                           (0.14)             (0.00)            (9.78)            (0.00)           (9.92)

     1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

     2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
       of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
       managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                       Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                                Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
1. Labor Restructuring          4.97         0.00         0.00        4.95         0.00       0.00       99.6      0.0       0.0
2. Labor Redeployment           4.53         1.38         0.00        4.53         1.38       0.00       100.0    100.0      0.0
3. Social Assistance            0.26         0.00         0.00        0.26         0.00       0.00       100.0     0.0       0.0
4. Project Management           0.17         0.25         0.00        0.18         0.25       0.00       105.9    100.0      0.0
TOTAL                           9.93         1.63         0.00        9.92         1.63       0.00       99.9     100.0      0.0




                                                           - 30 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

N/A




                                      - 31 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty                  Performance Rating
                                      (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)           Implementation Development
                    Month/Year  Count           Specialty                          Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
               May 1999                  1     Task Team Leader                       S               S
                                               Social Sector Project Officer
                                               Senior Operations Officer
                                               Procurement Specialist


 Appraisal/Negotiation
               June 1999                 1     Task Team Leader                       S               S
                                               Social Sector Project Officer
                                               Senior Operations Officer
                                               Procurement Specialist
                                               2 Economists

 Supervision
               FY00 through               7    Task Team Leader                       S               S
               FY02                            Social Sector Project Officer
                                               Senior Private Sector
                                               Specialist
                                               2 Economists
                                               Infrastructure Project Officer
                                               Senior External Affairs
                                               Specialist
                                               Procurement Specialist

                                                                                      S               S

 ICR
               November/                 1     Task Team Leader                       S               S
               January FY04                    Senior Labor Economist



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
                                    No. Staff weeks                   US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                 3.5                              6.9
  Appraisal/Negotiation                      4.0                              7.9
  Supervision                              68.2                             112.5
  ICR                                        7.0                             23.4
  Total                                    82.7                             150.7




                                               - 32 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 33 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 34 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents




                                      - 35 -

- 36 -

