                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                    Report No: 36495 ZA

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                         (TF-26341 IDA-40090)

                                                  ON A

                                                 CREDIT

                               IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 27.4 MILLION
                                   (US$40 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                                 TO THE

                                        REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA

                                                FOR AN

                        ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT AND GROWTH CREDIT




                                           December 28, 2006




AFTP1
Africa region

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                    CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

            (Exchange Rate Effective as of December 29)

                      Currency Unit = Kwacha
                           US$ 1.00 = K 4,406

                            FISCAL YEAR
                       January 1 - December 31

               ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ABB         Activity Based Budgeting
APAS        Annual Performance Appraisal System
CAE         Country Assistance Evaluation
CAS         Country Assistance Strategy
CEM         Country Economic Memorandum
BoZ         Bank of Zambia
BFS         Banking Financial Services
DFID        Department of International Development (UK)
DBZ         Development Bank of Zambia
EMGC        Economic Management and Growth Credit
EPZ         Export Processing Zone
ERB         Energy Regulatory Board
GDP         Gross Domestic Product
GRZ         Government of the Republic of Zambia
FSDP        Financial Sector Development Program
FIAS        Foreign Investment Advisory Service
HIV/AIDS    Acquired Immunodeficiency and Human Immunodeficiency Virus
HIPC        Heavily Indebted Poor Countries
IDA         International Development Agency
IFAD        International Fund for Agricultural Development
IMF         International Monetary Fund
LASF        Local Authorities Superannuation Fund
LDP         Letter of Development Policy
MoFNP       Ministry of Finance and National Planning
MoU         Memorandum of Understanding
MTEF        Medium-Term Expenditure Framework
NAPSA       National Pension Scheme Authority
NBFIs       Non-Bank Financial Institutions
NSCB        National Savings and Credit Bank
OAG         Office of Auditor General
OPE         Operations Evaluations Department
PMEC        Payroll Management and Establishment Control
PEMFAR      Public Expenditure Management and Financial Accountability Review
PIA         Pension and Insurance Authority
PPI         Private Participation and Infrastructure
PRSP        Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
PSD         Public Service Development
PSMD        Public Sector Management Division
PSPF        Public Service Pension Fund
RFP         Request for Proposal
TNDP        Transitional National Development Plan

ZAMTEL          Zambia Telecommunications Company
ZANACO          The Zambia National Commercial Bank
ZESCO           Zambia Electricity Supply Corporation
ZEPZA           Zambia Export Processing Zones Authority
ZIC             Zambia Investment Centre
ZNBC            Zambia National Broadcasting Corporation
ZPA             Zambia Privatization Agency
ZRA             Zambia Revenue Authority
ZDA             Zambia Development Agency



                        Vice President:     Hartwig Schafer
                     Country Director       Michael Baxter
                      Sector Manager        Emmanuel Akpa
       Task Team Leader/Task Manager:       Jos Verbeek

                                           ZAMBIA
                          ZM-Econ Mgmt & Growth Credit (FY05)


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data
2. Principal Performance Ratings
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
6. Sustainability
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
8. Lessons Learned
9. Partner Comments
10. Additional Information
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Annex 4. Bank Inputs
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Project ID: P040631                                                  Project Name: ZM-Econ Mgmt & Growth Credit
                                                                     (FY05)
Team Leader: Jos Verbeek                                             TL Unit: AFTP1
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: December 29, 2006


1. Project Data
                   Name: ZM-Econ Mgmt & Growth Credit (FY05)                      L/C/TF Number: TF-26341; IDA-40090
   Country/Department: ZAMBIA                                                             Region: Africa Regional Office

        Sector/subsector: Central government administration (45%); General finance sector (20%); Compulsory pension
                            and unemployment insurance (15%); General energy sector (10%); Telecommunications
                            (10%)
                  Theme: Macroeconomic management (P); Public expenditure, financial management and procurement
                            (P); Regulation and competition policy (P); State enterprise/bank restructuring and
                            privatization (S); Corporate governance (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 04/17/2004                                     Effective: 12/21/2004
     Appraisal: 07/08/2004                                         MTR:
      Approval: 12/14/2004                                      Closing: 12/31/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          The Republic of Zambia/Ministry of Finance and National Planning
                      Other Partners:      Ministries of: Energy and Water Development; Transport and
                                           Telecommunications, Environment, Tourism and Natural Resources, Commerce
                                           Trade and Industry. Cabinet Office (PSMD). Pension Funds and Bank of Zambia.

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Hartwig Schafer                                Gobind Nankani
Country Director:               Michael Baxter                                 Hartwig Schafer
Sector Manager:                 Emmanuel Akpa                                  Emmanuel Akpa
Team Leader at ICR:             Jos Verbeek                                    Jos Verbeek
ICR Primary Author:             Mansour Farsad

2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time:
Note that the ICR was written using the older system format which does not allow for the 6 level ratings system to
be used. However, guidelines permit and expect the text to use the 6 level rating system to be used. This is the

case for this ICR.
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
    Backgroun        d and Context

    During the 1990s the Government of the Republic of Zambia embarked on a sweeping program of
    liberalization and deregulation with the objective to reform the economy, to eliminate major market
    distortions, and to ensure a rapid transition to an open market system. However, the Government
    commitment to reform weakened when macroeconomic situation deteriorated and led to economic
    contraction in the mid-to- late 1990s. Since 2000, the economy has experienced some remarkable
    success. The sustainability of these successes, however, will depend on the Government's ability to
    remove the remaining distortion from the economy, to develop capacity to deal with new constraints,
    and to prevent the fiscal and current account deficits from increasing their share of GDP in the future.

    With the preparation and launching of its first Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) in July 2002,
    the Government developed a more comprehensive program to reduce the high income inequality and to
    sustain structural reforms. Most notably, the PRSP focused on the following three main objectives to
    reduce poverty: (i) promoting economic growth and diversification of production and exports; (ii)
    improving access and quality in the provision of social services; and (iii) mainstreaming the
    crosscutting issues of infrastructure, governance, HIV/AIDS, gender, and the environment. To broaden
    the scope of the PRSP, the Government also prepared the Transitional National Development Plan
    (TNDP) covering the period 2002-2005. The TNDP, which was launched in December 2002, brought
    in additional areas of the economy that were not included in the PRSP.

    To support the implementation of the PRSP and TNDP, the Bank prepared a Country Assistance
    Strategy (CAS) (Report No. 27654-ZA), which was discussed by Board in March 2004. The CAS was
    explicitly rooted in a results framework, which linked the overall goals of the PRSP and TNDP to
    specific strategic objectives, which were measured by long term outcomes and monitored by
    intermediate progress indicators that were directly affected by IDA interventions. In line with the
    objectives of the CAS, the Economic Management and Growth Credit (EMGC) was prepared to
    support implementation of the PRSP and given the alignment of the CAS with the PRSP, the policy
    and institutional reform agenda of the CAS. In addition, the EMGC draw upon sectoral strategies
    prepared by GRZ, e.g. Zambia's Financial Sector Development Plan, to select its milestones for
    tranche release.

    The EMGC was also built on the past achievements in the areas of macroeconomic management and
    structural reforms, which were supported by a three Tranche Fiscal Sustainability Credit (US$170
    million), approved by the Board in May 2001 and fully disbursed in June 2002. EMGC was, therefore,
    a continuation of the reform efforts that had been initiated by the previous adjustment operations in
    Zambia and was seen as an instrument to provide an umbrella of support for other operations in
    Zambia. Other inputs for the preparation of this operation were provided through the Public Service
    Capacity Building Project approved in February 2000 and through a variety of economic and sector
    work, which included the Public Expenditure Management and Financial Accountability Review
    (PEMFAR, Report no. 26 162-ZA), Financial Sector Assessment (FSAP, Report no. 27289-ZA),
    Country Economic Memorandum (CEM, Report no. 28069-ZA), Investment Climate Assessment
    (ICA, Report no.29741-ZA), and Foreign Investment Advisory Services report on Administrative
    Barriers to Investment.




                                                      - 2 -

    Objectives

    The EMGC (US $40 million) was the first (of the two) structural adjustment operation designed to
    support policy and institutional reforms as outlined in the 2004 base-case lending scenario of the CAS.
    The EMGC was designed to assists the Government in achieving four interrelated development
    objectives: (a) correct macro imbalances; (b) improve financial sector performance; (c) enhance the
    public sector management; and (d) improve business environment.

    The achievement of these objectives in turn depended on the implementation of specific reforms in the
    areas of: (i) pensions and payment culture among Government agencies; (ii) state- owned non-bank
    financial institutions; (iii) public expenditure management, debt management, and civil service reform;
    and (iv) private sector development including regulation for public utilities and private business.

3.2 Revised Objective:
    The EMGC objectives and components were not revised and remained relevant to the circumstances of
    Zambia throughout the EMGC implementation.


3.3 Original Components:
  The components of the EMGC aimed at four main reform areas consistent with the objectives described
above:

       Returning to a macro-economic framework conducive to robust growth, with emphasis on: (i)
    correcting macro imbalances; and, (ii) improving the financial sustainability of the pension system;
       Strengthening the role of the financial sector by: (i) resolution of state-owned non-bank financial
    institutions; (ii) building a better governance structure for the Bank of Zambia; and (iii) promoting a
    better credit culture for timely servicing of financial obligations;
       Strengthening the credibility and institutional capacity of the public sector through: (i) upgrading
    Government's debt management capacity to support fiscal sustainability; (ii) improving public
    expenditure management and financial accountability practices; and (iii) streamlining ministerial
    structures and improving incentives for service delivery; and,
       Rationalizing the interaction between the public and the private sectors by: (i) enhancing private
    sector development through improved business environment; and, (ii) strengthening the legal and
    regulatory environment for network utilities.

    The components chosen were in line with the Government development strategy and supportive of the
    Bank policy dialogue with the Government. The range of reforms covered by the EMGC program was
    broad, but appropriate for Zambia's economic situation at that time.

    The reforms and the supporting policy measures under each component were described in the Letter of
    Development Policy (LDP). They were also sequenced in the Policy Reform Program Matrix, with
    specific core measures critical for the reform program highlighted separately. The details of EMGC
    achievements and the outputs/outcomes of its components are presented in Annex 1 and described in
    section 4.2 below.
3.4 Revised Components:
    The original components remained unchanged.




                                                      - 3 -

3.5 Quality at Entry:
    There was no quality at entry review carried out by the Quality Assurance Group (QAG) on this
    operation.

    The ICR finds the quality at entry to be satisfactory. This assessment is based on the following
   considerations. The EMGC had clear strengths:

      Link to Country Priorities. The objectives of the EMGC were well linked with the development
   priorities of Zambia. They included policy measures, which placed the deepening of the reforms,
   particularly in the public sector, at the top of the Government's reform agenda. These priority reforms
   had also been identified in the 2004 CAS, which had explicitly linked the overall goals of the PRSP and
   TNDP to specific strategic priorities of the Government. Table 2 and Annex 5 of the EMGC Program
   Document identified how the key areas of reform were linked to the results matrix of the CAS and
   which CAS outcome was impacted by the EMGC measures. The CAS had envisaged the EMGC to be
   prepared if Zambia operates in the base-case lending scenario. However, at the time of the preparation
   of the EMGC Zambia was judged to be in the low case scenario. Moving to the base-case lending
   required achieving specific milestones in the following five areas: maintenance of good portfolio
   performance; satisfactory implementation of the PRSP; maintenance of a sound macroeconomic
   framework; progress in public sector reform; and satisfactory performance in the Education and Health
   sectors. By the time of the Board presentation of the EMGC, the Government had reached these
   milestones and was in compliance with all the base-case triggers of the CAS.

      Lessons from Previous Operations. To incorporate lessons learned from the previous IDA
   operations in Zambia, the EMGC preparation took particular note of the recommendations of the 2002
   Country Assistance Evaluation (CAE) carried out by Independent Evaluation Group. The key CAE
   recommendations focused on three areas: (a) providing a clear link between objectives and conditions in
   the design of structural adjustment lending; (b) strengthening donor coordination; and (c) giving
   priority to public expenditure management, governance, investment climate, energy reform, and
   HIV/AIDS. In line with the above, the team paid particular attention to include these recommendations
   in the design of the EMGC. In addition, the team also ensured that the EMGC complemented the IMF
   macroeconomic program in Zambia and supported the mutual objective of maintaining macroeconomic
   stability. The explicit links to the CAS and CAE, which the team demonstrated at the concept stage,
   were also viewed by the reviewers as one of the positive feature of this operation.

      Analytical Base. The design of EMGC and its components were mainly driven by the need for
   deeper structural reforms to sustain growth and to reduce poverty in line with the overall objectives of
   the PRSP. These reforms were mostly underpinned by both the previous Bank's operations and the
   solid analytical work in Zambia including: Fiscal Sustainability Credit; Public Service Capacity
   Building Project; Public Expenditure Management and Financial Accountability Review; Financial
   Sector Assessment; Country Economic Memorandum; Investment Climate Assessment, as well as a
   number of private sector related analytical reports such as the Challenge of Competitiveness and
   Diversification; Privatization Review-Facts and Assessment; Financial Sector Assessment;
   Agribusiness Sector Development; and, Investment Climate Assessment and the Administrative
   Barriers to Investment Study.

      Design and Focus of the Program The EMGC design was comprehensive and included a broad
   range of policy measures dealing with key structural issues. These measures were of high priority and
   in harmony with the country needs. The EMGC content included areas of critical importance such as



                                                      - 4 -

    improved functioning of the financial sector and increased credibility of the budget process and of the
    public sector. The EMGC also aimed at enhancing the role of the private sector through improved
    business environment and strengthened regulatory framework for utilities. These were all appropriate
    and critical to the success of the PRSP and TNDP policy measures in Zambia.

    Compared to the above-mentioned strengths, there were also few shortcomings in the design of the
    EMGC.

        First, some measures required more fundamental institutional changes (e.g. constitutional
    amendment) than were foreseen in designing the EMGC. Others required complementary institutional
    change or changes in the procedures and methods of operation. Line ministries were weak at the outset
    and needed further strengthening to allow them to timely implement EMGC supported policy measures.
    This became clear when by the time of the originally scheduled second Tranche, 8 out of 10 core
    conditions had not been met and the Government requested more time to fulfill the second Tranche core
    conditions. As a result there was a six-month delay in release of the second Tranche compared to the
    original schedule. This need for capacity building was also mentioned during the concept review
    meeting as some reviewers noted the possibility of a TA operation to accompany the EMGC. Even
    though in the areas of public sector management and financial sector development the Bank and donors
    made financial resources available for technical assistance this did not become fully available within
    the time frame needed to assist the Government with the implementation of the supported reforms.

        Second, the issues covered by EMGC required intensive engagement over an extended period of
    time, which went beyond a traditional one-year quick disbursing adjustment operation and warranted a
    programmatic operation, with a 3-4 years time frame. Such instrument of lending would have fit more
    appropriately with the task team intention, which was to help the Government to stay on track with its
    own development strategy and institutional reform agenda. Although the task team opted for a quick
    disbursing operation to help initiate the implementation of key reforms, the programmatic instrument
    would have provided more flexibility in sequencing of important reforms in a medium term framework
    and would have allowed more time for the Government to begin the process of implementation of the
    needed institutional reforms.

        Third, in view of the importance of fiduciary issues in enhancing public sector transparency and
    accountability, the operation could have included some key policy measures in the area of public
    financial management.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
    The achievement of objectives and outcomes of the EMGC is rated moderately satisfactory.

    The details of the achievement and outcomes under EMGC are discussed in section 4.2 and in Annex 1
    below. As a whole, the operation substantially achieved its outcomes identified in the Program
    Document. The key goal of the first component was to contribute to a stable macroeconomic
    environment as a basis for sustainable growth. This was achieved by improving economic management
    and continuing movement toward a financially sustainable pension system (see Component A below)
    and was further strengthened by the reforms undertaken under the third component. On the second
    component, the objective was to strengthen the role of the financial sector. This was substantially
    achieved by developing the Financial Sector Development Program (FSDP) and changing the legal
    setting of the state-owned non-bank financial institutions (see component B below). The reform



                                                    - 5 -

    objectives under the third component focused on strengthening the credibility and institutional
    capacity of the public sector. This was substantially achieved through clearer delineation of
    responsibilities on debt management, adopting measures to improve public expenditure management,
    financial accountability practices, and strengthening Government's capacity to manage its payroll
    (details in Component C below). On the fourth component, the objective was to rationalize the
    interaction between the public and the private sector. This was substantially achieved as evidenced by
    the business environment and revised policy documents governing network utilities (component D
    below).


4.2 Outputs by components:
    The details of the Government reform program supported by the EMGC and its components are
    discussed in the Program Document (No. 29294-ZA). Drawing on that document, this Section
    describes major accomplishments under each of the EMGC components.

    Component A: Returning to a Macroeconomic Framework Conducive to Robust Growth

    This component is rated as satisfactory. This rating reflects success of the Government in implementing
    EMGC's core and non-core policy conditions related to this component and in achieving the main
    objectives of: (i) correcting the macroeconomic imbalances; and (ii) implementing actions to improve
    financial viability of the pension system. The latter was critical to maintaining fiscal and
    macroeconomic stability.

    The macro economic program of the Government needed to focus on sustaining macro stability to
    provide a firm basis for implementing the structural reform agenda outlined in PRSP and TNDP. For
    this purpose the Government maintained a satisfactory macroeconomic framework in agreement with
    the IMF. Performance under the IMF program has been broadly satisfactory (see recent economic
    developments below).This was confirmed by a positive second and third review under the PRGF
    arrangement, which were concluded in April 2005 and January 2006 respectively.

    An important step in sustaining macroeconomic stability was the initiation of actions to improve
    financial viability of the pension system as current and the progressively increasing pension shortfalls
    in the coming years would need to be compensated for by direct transfers from the budget. The
    Zambia's pension schemes remain in financial imbalance, burdening the fiscal resources and
    threatening macro-fiscal stability. Three major public institutions provide pensions to retirees: the
    national -level public service pensions fund (PSPF); the Local Authorities Superannuation Fund
    (LASF); and the National Pension Scheme (NAPSA). The PSPF, whose benefit levels are protected by
    the constitution, was insolvent. LASF was on the brink of insolvency. Both PSPF and LASF held
    considerable arrears. NAPSA has enrolled all new civil servants after February 2000.

    The other related issue on macro-fiscal stability was the need to eliminate the build up of budgetary
    arrears and arrears by state-owned enterprises with the utilities. These arrears not only had put at risk
    the financial viability of the utilities themselves, but also required budgetary transfers to settle them.

    To address these issues, the Government of Zambia with support of EMGC undertook the following
    actions, though with considerable delays in the case of the second Tranche measures.

       Corrected macroeconomic imbalances. The Cabinet issued a decision to empower utilities and
    insurance companies to treat government institutions as any other client. The utilities and the insurance



                                                       - 6 -

companies were expected to discontinue their services to the Government institutions in similar fashion
as any other customer. In addition the Accountant General instructed accounting officers to pay their
utility and insurance bills on time. The Secretary of the Treasury also issued a letter to the utilities and
insurance companies reiterating the decision made by the Cabinet. In addition, the MoFNP adopted a
time bound restructuring plan for payment of the Government's arrears to the utility and insurance
companies. The Government made separate arrangements with each of the relevant utility and
insurance companies to dismantle the stock of arrears in a time bound manner. In addition, to
strengthen oversight and control over the utility payments and insurance premiums, the MoFNP
decided to pay all utility bills and insurance premiums directly from the Treasury and debit the
transfers it made to the government agencies that were billed by the utilities and the insurance
companies.

    Improved financial sustainability of the pension system. To improve financial viability in the
short run, the PSPF completed a draft three-year implementation plan to reduce administrative
expenses to 12 percent of 2003 annual accrued contributions as approved by the board. The PSPF also
negotiated a plan with the Government to retire a small percentage of its arrears and installed computer
equipment to produce monthly reports on benefits and to improve its projection of cash needs. Given
the fact that putting the PSPF on a financial sound footing would not be possible without a
constitutional amendment and in view of the fact that a general review of the constitution had been
initiated, the Cabinet approved a proposal to the constitutional review commission to change the
provisions of article 124 to enable PSPF reform to be applicable to existing participants in PSPF. To
strengthen its position, LASF negotiated a debt/equity swap to retire a part of the central government
arrears. It also negotiated a separate payment schedule with each local government authority to
improve cash flows and begin retiring arrears in this area. Negotiations with the major utilities that
participate in LASF reduced their arrears. In the case of NAPSA since most of the issues facing this
institution were operational rather than financial, NAPSA drafted an operation manual on its corporate
governance. A revised investment policy was also adopted by NAPSA's Board that allowed NAPSA to
invest in assets externally in 2005. This required the appointments of a global custodian and pension
fund manager. However, the appointment of a global custodian, and selection of a pension fund
manager faced delays (due to the tendering process) and did not take place in time for release of the
second Tranche. Subsequently, NAPSA completed the bidding process and is negotiating with two
potential global custodians. For potential investment managers, expressions of interest have been
evaluated and an RFP drafted. These are critical long-term relationships and, once established, are
costly to change. NAPSA's own inexperience, and the lack of local experience in these matters
generally, has lead NAPSA to proceed thoughtfully and with caution, which seems appropriate.

    Strengthened the capacity of the Pension and Insurance Authority. Ambiguities in the Pension
Scheme Regulation Act prevented effective supervision and monitoring of pensions. Moreover, the
Pension and Insurance Authority (PIA), which regulates employer-sponsored private sector schemes
and the two public sector schemes, had neither the capacity nor adequate resources to tackle
enforcement and compliance with the law. With support of EMGC, the Government made the PIA an
autonomous institution. It also amended the Pension Scheme Regulation Act to give the PIA the
authority over all pension schemes. The PIA in turn prepared an action plan for its operation, backed
by budgetary and human resource needs.

Progress on output/outcomes indicators. The medium term outcomes indicators for budgetary arrears
called for: (i) reduced arrears of the Government from an estimated 2.7 percent of GDP in 2004 to zero
by 2007; and, (ii) reduced domestic borrowing requirements from an estimated 3 percent of GDP in



                                                  - 7 -

   2003 to less than 1 percent of GDP by 2006. At end 2005, the domestic borrowing had dropped to 1.9
   percent of GDP and the Government arrears had been reduced to 1.2 percent of GDP. Further
   reductions in these ratios are expected in 2006 as part of the program agreed with the IMF. The
   outcomes indicators for pension reform stated the need to bring public service pension scheme in
   financial balance to ensure sustainability of the overall pension system. In November 2005, the Cabinet
   approved reform proposals of PSPF, including amending the constitution to allow PSPF, to undertake
   reforms in order to achieve and remain on a sound financial footing. This was a major step, though its
   ultimate impact on financial viability of the pension system may take some time to be realized. LASF
   has strengthened its financial position through retiring arrears, completed its first actuarial valuation
   since 1998 and collected data for analysis of various policy reform options.

   With respect to macroeconomic outcomes, policy measures implemented under the PRGF, particularly
   those aimed at reduction of budgetary arrears and domestic borrowing, contributed to improved
   macroeconomic environment. The measures supported by EMGC aimed at improving the payment
   culture by Government agencies and the utilities such that a re-emergence of arrears would be stopped
   and help in time improve the fiscal balance. However, these improvements will take time to show their
   impact on the fiscal balance and therefore it is still too early to draw concrete conclusions regarding the
   impact of the program supported.

   The recent economic developments show growth has been robust and broad based in the recent years
   in contrast to the 1990s. The growth rate of real GDP averaged 5.4 percent a year during the
   2003-2006 period, exceeding the 5 percent growth rate projected under the EMGC (Table 1).

                    Table 1: Key macroeconomic outcomes compared to EMGC projections
                                                          2003           2004           2005          2006
    Real GDP growth, % (pr )                               5.1           4.6             5.0          5.0
    Real GDP growth, % (ac)                                5.1           5.4             5.0          6.0
    CPI growth, % (pr)                                     17.2          20.0           15.0          10.0
    CPI growth, % (ac)                                     17.2          17.5           15.9          9.0
    Domestic Investment, % of GDP (pr)                     26.2          23.3           21.8          22.0
    Domestic Investment, % of GDP (ac)                     24.3          24.3           23.0          23.5
    Current Account Balance, % GDP (pr)                    -7.5          -6.4            -4.1         -3.8
     Current Account Balance, % GDP(ac)                   -9.31          -5.5            -3.8          -3.8
     Fiscal Balance, % of GDP (pr)                         -6.0          -3.0            -2.7          -3.1
    Fiscal Balance, % of GDP (ac)                          -6.0          -2.9            -2.7         -2.4
    Net Present Value Debt, % of Exports (ac)              192           164             132          45
    Reserves as Months of Imports (ac)                     1.3           1.1             1.3          1.5
Discrepancies are due to revisions by the Central Statistical Office and Ministry of Finance and National Planning
                                               of the actual outcomes.
   pr = projected at appraisal
   ac = actual for 2003 and 2004 and current estimates for 2005 and 2006
   Source: World Bank (EMGC President's Reports); Zambian authorities.

   The positive growth developments are driven to a large extent by favorable external developments.
   Zambia's terms of trade improved by 21.9 percent in 2004 and by 5.5 percent in 2005. This, combined
   with strong performance of non-traditional exports and a resurgence of copper prices and production,
   have led to a decline in its current account deficit from 9.3 percent of GDP in 2003 to a projected 3.8
   percent in 2006. In addition, reaching the HIPC Completion point in early 2005 wiped out
   approximately US$4 billion of Zambia's external debt stock and with the Multilateral Debt Relief


                                                       - 8 -

Initiative external debt will have been further reduced to approximately US$0.6 billion. This greatly
improved Zambia's external creditworthiness. Copper prices rose by approximately 100 percent
between 2003 and 2005, and overall export levels measured in US$ in 2005 are estimated to amount to
US$2.4 billion, almost three times the level of exports in 2000. The positive improvements in the
external account have resulted in build up of international reserves, which now stand at about 1.5
months of imports. The favorable external developments have also impacted the domestic currency,
which has been appreciating in real terms by approximately 8 percent annually during 2003-2004, and
by over 30 percent during 2005, putting at risks some of the favorable export diversification results
achieved.

In terms of other macro variables, fiscal policy has been put on a sustainable basis and has become
more predictable through the introduction of the MTEF. Fiscal deficit has declined from 6.6 percent of
GDP in 2003 to a projected 2.4 percent in 2006. After years of weak fiscal policy implementation, the
authorities have improved budget execution and reduced its domestic financing needs drastically.
Domestic borrowing was reduced from 5.1 percent in 2003, to less than 1 percent in 2005.
Complementing fiscal developments, the monetary policy itself has become tighter with growth in
broad money falling from 60 percent in 2000 to an estimated 14.6 percent in 2006. Tight monetary
policy and reduced budgetary deficit have reduced inflation from a stubbornly high 20 percent for most
of the beginning of the millennium to 8.6 percent for the year ending May 2006. The Government has
realized that through improved economic management, it would be in a better position to direct its
expenditure programs to provide the poor with a better opportunity to reap the benefits of the current
growth momentum in Zambia.

The details of achievements in these areas are mentioned in Section A of Annex 1.

Component B. Strengthening the Role of the Financial Sector.

On balance, this component is rated as moderately satisfactory. This rating reflects the fact that while
all the core conditions and major non-core conditions were met, actions under this component took
longer to implement than anticipated, and that moderate progress was achieved towards medium term
outcome indicators.

The Government's intention in this area was to remove weaknesses in the state-owned financial
institutions, including low intermediation; limited supervision; and insolvent public non-bank financial
institutions (including Zambia National Building Society, Development Bank of Zambia, and National
Savings and Credit Bank). To address these concerns financial sector stakeholders in collaboration
with the BoZ prepared the Financial Sector Development Program (FSDP). The FSDP was broad and
did not go beyond identification of financing needs in the areas of housing, rural, and investment
finance. However, despite its shortcomings, the FSDP provided for a systematic action to resolve many
issues related financial institutions. The restructuring of the state owned non-bank financial institutions
is to set the stage for improved intermediation for long term development finance and access to
financial services by the urban and rural poor. An important step was to ensure proper oversight by the
Bank of Zambia.

To begin addressing issues related to the state-owned non-bank institutions the Government of Zambia
under the EMGC undertook the following actions:

    Consolidated the legal framework of NBFIs. The Government undertook a number of measures
to consolidate the legal framework governing state-owned non-bank financial institutions (NBFIs). In


                                                   - 9 -

the mean time and as a means to control further demise of the state owned NBFIs, a Memorandum of
Understanding (MoU) was signed for each of the three insolvent NBFIs, the Zambian National
Building Societies (ZNBS), the National Savings and Credit Bank (NSCB), and the Development Bank
of Zambia (DBZ), to impose operating restrictions and to delegate the supervisory authority with the
Bank of Zambia. The necessary changes to the legal acts of the state-owned NBFIs with the objective
to bring each of them under the Banking and Financial Services (BFS) Act such that all supervisory
powers are with the Bank of Zambia (BoZ) was adopted by Parliament and was signed into Law by the
President in October 2005. The next step, which is to incorporate them under the company's act is
progressing and the amendments to the acts in question would be presented to the Cabinet for adoption
in 2006.

   Strengthened accountability and financial discipline. To improve financial discipline the MoU's
for NSCB, ZNBS and DBZ with the Government and BoZ ensured that: (a) no public funds will be
used with respect to these institutions without a business plan; (b) operations restrictions on DBZ shall
remain in effect until at least 75 percent of its equity is committed by a private entity; and (c) DBZ
shall neither accept deposits nor should raise any loan requiring government guarantee. In the case of
DBZ the agreed restrictions have been fully adhered to. The MoU between BoZ, MoFNP and NSCB
management provides adequate guarantees that NSCB will not engage in activities that will negatively
affect its financial situation. In addition, the International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD)
is providing technical assistance to improve management of NSCB as well as project financing to assist
the rural farming communities in Zambia. The operational restrictions on ZNBS have not led to a
recovery of its balance sheet as both NSCB and ZNBC had remained insolvent for more than a decade.
In principle NSCB should develop a business plan to serve the rural areas and not to become another
main stream commercial bank for the urban centers. ZNBC is expected to close down as there are
currently no viable solutions for its continuation.

   Improved governance structure. The Government wants to further improve the governance
structure of BoZ through embedding its independence in the proposed constitution, which will change
the procedures by which the Governor will be appointed as well as its board of directors. Also, the BoZ
has undertaken an evaluation of the available options and business model for setting up a credit bureau.
This is important in developing a credit culture, which so far has been undermined by non timely
servicing of financial obligations.

Progress in medium term output/outcomes. The CAS outcome indicators to which the EMGC
policy actions contribute stated resolution of state-owned financial institutions as a medium term
outcome. The EMGC policy actions correctly focused on the state-owned NBFIs as at the time of
preparation the privatization of the last remaining state owned commercial bank, ZANACO, was part
of the HIPC program. At the time the state-owned NBFIs were highly insolvent and pursuing business
opportunities that directly competed with commercial banks without proper oversight. The financial
sector development program has identified Zambia's financial sector gaps mainly in two areas: (i)
provision of investment finance and (ii) provision of financial services for the poor. In order to fill these
gaps, DBZ and NSCB need to be restructured to provide the public with these essential services. The
NBFIs have been brought under the supervision of BoZ through signing memorandum of understanding
(MoU). The MoUs also cover the implementation framework and business plan for each of the three
state-owned NBFIs. These MoUs were signed by the BoZ, MoFNP and management of each of the
three state-owned NBFIs. The MoUs designate the BoZ as the implementing agency for the
restructuring process.




                                                   - 10 -

The Cabinet has reviewed and agreed in principle to the proposed changes. The MoUs will remain in
place until legal changes are adopted. So far, progress has been slow and moderate on these fronts.
Therefore, the risks that specialized NBFIs remain by and large ineffective and distortionary
institutions within the landscape of Zambian financial sector remain in the medium term. Specifically,
NSCB could diverge from the goal of a becoming a specialized financial institution that targets rural
and urban poor and proceed with functioning as a State-owned commercial bank. Such a development
could also wipe out any gains from privatization of ZANACO. Similarly, keeping ZNBS operating
would undermine credibility of financial supervision and not help the broader issue of housing finance.
These risks are currently being mitigated by way of MoUs that target implementation of specific
business plans consistent with FSDP and EMGC objectives, between MOF, BOZ and the NBFIs.
However, delays in definition of appropriate business plans and implementation thereof could render
these MoUs ineffective.

The details of achievements in these areas are mentioned in Section B of Annex 1.

Component C. Strengthening the Credibility and Institutional Capacity of the Public Sector

This component is rated as moderately satisfactory. This rating reflects the fact that the Government
fulfilled policy conditions of EMGC with considerable delays, and that progress in reaching the
outcome was slower than expected. Under this component the Government achieved its three primary
objectives: (i) to upgrade Government's debt management capacity to support fiscal sustainability; (ii)
to improve public expenditure management and financial accountability practices; and (iii) to
streamline ministerial structures and improve incentives for service delivery.

In the area of public debt, the issues before the EMGC pertained mainly to institutional arrangements
for its monitoring and evaluation, which had made it difficult to formulate a consolidated debt strategy
because of the mixed responsibilities between MoFNP and BoZ. In the area of public expenditure
management despite the introduction of the MTEF in association with Activity Based Budgeting and
other improvements in budget management process, several problems remained, which undermined
Government's credibility with regard to the budget process. For one, actual spending differed
considerably from the planned amounts. This reflected the liberal use of supplemental appropriations
as a way to make major shifts in the budget during the year from one ministry to another or from one
subhead to another, with supplementary budgets presented to Parliament after spending had already
occurred. Also, information on past expenditures were not used effectively as cash release to ministries
and expenditure reporting continued to rely on the old system. Budget was approved by the Parliament
after the start of the fiscal year, and expenditure data from the previous year were not included with an
estimate for the current year to enable comparison with the proposed budget estimates. Also, the Office
of Auditor General (OAG) had resource constraint and poor staffing and its regulations limited its
ability to operate effectively.

On incentives for service delivery, the main issues before the EMGC were related to payroll data base
and consolidation of allowances. Zambia's civil servants had not increased significantly during the last
decade while payroll had been rising significantly. However, payroll data base was completely separate
from the Cabinet Office that managed the civil service and Cabinet Office was unaware of the recruited
staff for unauthorized positions. Also, Zambia's civil service regulations had allowed for over 50
allowances and many received allowances that were not directly related to their job specifications. This
created significant distortions in the pay system, which needed to be based on job responsibility and
educational background. The system also included dozens of fixed amount allowances, which had lost
value over the years. These distortions had contributed to an unsustainable growth in the wage bill


                                                  - 11 -

from 5.3 percent of GDP in 2000 to 8.4 percent in 2003, crowding out the ability of the Government to
effectively implement its PRSP and threatened macroeconomic stability.

To address these issues, with the support of EMGC, the Government of Zambia:

   Consolidated responsibilities between MoFNP and BoZ on debt management. MoFNP took
several actions in this regard including: establishing a task force to reconcile the debt database covering
domestic and foreign direct debt; establishing procedures for updating and maintaining the database to
produce regular reports; formulating a strategy for debt management post - HIPC completion point
with a particular focus on the distribution between foreign and domestic borrowing and preparing a
framework within which MoFNP can act as decision maker on domestic debt issues with BoZ acting as
agent. Further comprehensive debt management reforms continue to be undertaken under the Public
Expenditure Management and Financial Accountability reform program.

   Increased the credibility of the budget process. The Government met all the 5 core and 3 non core
conditions of EMGC related to expenditure management and financial accountability mechanisms.
Among the early actions taken to increase the credibility of the budget process, the Ministry of Finance
and National Planning (MoFNP) submitted recommendations to the constitutional review committee to
enable the budget to be approved by parliament before start of the fiscal year and to restrict approval
of supplementary appropriations. The office of the Auditor General also submitted its
recommendations to constitutional review committee to further enhance its autonomy and expand its
duties. MoFNP also submitted a Green Paper to the Cabinet with three-year indicative budget ceiling
for each ministry, inclusive of ceilings for personal emoluments. The 2006 ABB format Yellow
(Budget) book includes a section which provides information on codes, priorities, rules on varying
budget provisions, adoption of quarterly funding, non-varying of poverty reduction programs
expenditures, and the sanction that would be applied to those agencies that do not submit expenditure
returns on time. In addition, The Cabinet approved a revised Finance Act that strengthened financial
management and accountability mainly by strengthening the role of internal audit. The Finance Act has
been approved by Parliament and the MoFNP is in the process of finalizing the financial regulations.
Other actions to further strengthen the credibility of the budget process included: (i) the MoFNP tabled
in the legislature the annual budget for the year 2005 including an annex which compared the estimated
expenditures for the year 2005 with the budget releases for the years 2004 and 2003; (ii) the Cabinet
approved the new structure of OAG, which include authority to fill vacant auditor positions. Also, the
FMS software was installed in all ministries, and the Accountant General's Department generated a
report from FMS on actual expenditure by ministry for the first 6 months of 2004.

   Improved incentives for service delivery and restructured ministries. The Government
consolidated some allowances into base salary and reduced the overall ratio of allowances to base
salary. To further increase incentives for service delivery, the MoFNP: (a) transferred the payroll to the
Payroll Management and Establishment Control (PMEC) system; (b) trained users of the system in all
central ministries; (c) based Personal Emoluments releases on PMEC; (d) matched each public servant
to a specific post on the establishment; and (e) ceased to pay public servants whose post is not on the
establishment, except those identified for retrenchment, but not yet paid their terminal benefits. In
addition, Payroll Management and Establishment Control (PMEC) system was installed at a few
central ministries with funding from DFID. Also, the new annual performance appraisal system was
implemented for all management positions. The annual salary increments will no longer be automatic
but instead will be based on employee performance. To complete the initial restructuring of ministries
and remove the excess staff from the payroll, the Cabinet approved the new structure for the three of



                                                 - 12 -

the four remaining ministries i.e. Ministry of Sport Youth and Child Development, Ministry of
Community Development and Social Services and Ministry of Communication and Transport. Cabinet
is expected to approve the restructuring of the Ministry of Home Affairs shortly.

Progress in medium term output/outcomes. The stated CAS medium term outcomes refer to several
outcomes: (i) variations between planned budget and actual expenditures at sector level no greater than
10 percent; (ii) budget presentation reflects summary of the proposed budget alongside with actual
expenditures in the previous years; (iii) allowances are consolidated into base salary; (iv) All
Permanent Secretaries and staff in functions above the level of the PSs are on a performance pay
contract; and (v) composition of staffing shifts toward support of service delivery functions. Moderate
progress has been made in these areas. As a result of public expenditure management reforms, for the
first time, the 2005 budget document included a summary table that compared the estimated
expenditures for 2005 with the actual (and planned) budget for 2004 and the actual budget for 2003.
Expenditures have stayed within the appropriations, which are validated through audited reports.
Supplemental appropriations have not been approved by Parliament ex-ante, but no supplemental
appropriation takes place without cabinet approval as well as identification of savings needed to pay
for additional expenditures.    The outcome indicators also called for streamlining the civil service and
rationalizing its remuneration scheme in a manner to reduce the overall ratio of allowances to base
salary. In 2005, Government consolidated 14 general allowances into base pay for civil servants and
froze the nominal amounts for those allowances independent of the recipient's base pay. This has
indeed resulted in a decline of the overall ratio of allowances to base salary. Had the wage negotiations
in 2005 been successful a further and more substantive decline in the ratio of allowances to base salary
could have taken place.

On rationalization of the remuneration schemes, the transfer of the payroll to the new PMEC system
was completed in October 2005 and the payment of salaries and benefits from November is now based
on that system. The Government trained all users of the system in each central ministry before moving
their specific payroll to the new PMEC system. In those cases where the transfer involved decentralized
staff, the government agency responsible for the roll out also trained staff in the districts and provinces.
Each civil servant transferred from the old payroll system to PEMC system has been matched to a
specific post on the establishment. Approximately 5,000 civil servants out of a total of 115,000 could
not be matched to a post on the establishment. Before deciding on retrenchment of those servants whose
post is not on the establishment, the public service management division in the Cabinet Office would
evaluate the qualifications of this group to see if they can be allocated a post on the establishment that
has remained vacant. Once this process has come to an end the Government is committed to retrenching
the remainder of this group of civil servants in 2006. A budgetary allocation has been made for this
exercise in the draft 2006 budget.

The details of achievements in these areas are mentioned in Section C of Annex 1.

D. Rationalizing the Interaction between the Public and the Private Sector

Implementation of this component is rated as moderately satisfactory. This rating reflect the fact that
all the Credit conditions were substantially fulfilled though with some delays and that there was a
moderate progress towards reaching the Government's two-pronged objectives of: (i) improving
Zambia's business environment; and (ii) improving the legal and regulatory environment for network
utilities, designed to increase the efficiency of the energy and telecom sectors.

Zambia's weak business environment prevented the development of a strong and broad based private


                                                   - 13 -

sector to generate growth and employment. To build consensus among key stakeholders to design a
program to address key bottlenecks facing the private sector, the Government in collaboration with
IDA, organized a private sector development forum. The forum identified several areas for immediate
action, including consolidation of the many public sector agencies involved in private sector
development into one; removing administrative barriers to business entry, and improving the regulatory
framework for network utilities. In the energy sector, the main policy and institutional issues were
identified as: (i) the absence of a comprehensive document of Policy Statement for the energy sector
that clearly articulated the Government's vision for the development of the sector over the medium to
long-term; (ii) weak regulatory capacity and independence of the Energy Regulatory Board (ERB); and
(iii) the need to revamp electricity tariff policy to ensure viability of the sector entities. In the
telecommunication sector the issues were also similar to the ones on the energy sector, namely: (i)
absence of a comprehensive document of Policy Statement for the sector; (ii) the need to separate
policy and regulatory functions and strengthening regulator in issues of licensing and price setting; and
(iii) the need to separate mobile operations from fixed line services. Enterprises (ZESCO and
ZAMTEL), in both sectors were inefficient and unreliable and needed appropriate oversight by a strong
and independent regulator to attract large-scale investments in these sectors.

To address these bottlenecks, with the support of EMGC, the Government of Zambia:

    Improved Zambia's business environment. The Cabinet reaffirmed its commitment to market
based policies for private sector development by undertaking several measures including: (i) adopting
PSD Reform Action Plan and its implementation framework; (ii) creating a single Zambia
Development Agency; (iii) preparing and submitting to Parliament the Investment Act; (iv) and
amending the legislation on Export Processing Zone to establish regulatory framework.

    Improved the legal and regulatory environment for network utilities. The Government adopted
a Policy Statement for the Energy that clearly articulated the Government's vision and provided the
basis for adopting the required legislation and regulation in the sector over medium to long term. The
Government also prepared amendments to strengthen the ERB and made satisfactory progress in
improving ERB capacity and in implementing commercialization of ZESCO. Similar actions were also
followed in the case of telecommunications. The Cabinet adopted a comprehensive Policy Statement for
the telecommunication sector that articulated the Government's objective for the development of the
sector over the medium to long term. It also developed the new telecommunication law to ensure
autonomy of regulator and separation of its policy and regulatory functions. Progress was also made in
the commercialization of ZAMTEL to ensure effective management and regulation of its operation, and
to prevent its anti-competitive behavior.

Progress on output/outcomes indicators. The outcomes indicator in this component referred to the
need for a comprehensive and consistent approach to private sector development and the need for a
revision of Zambia's energy and telecomm sector policies in light of market developments. Priorities
have been identified to strengthen an enabling environment for private sector led growth. Satisfactory
progress has also been made in adopting the PSD Action Plan and in adopting a comprehensive Policy
Statements on the energy and telecom sectors. Progress has also been made in consolidating the
functions of various agencies dealing with PSD issues. The CAS outcome indicators also stated
improved domestic investment climate as key factors for attracting domestic and foreign investors and
for enhancing private activities in the economy. Private investment increased from an average 13
percent of GDP in 2003 to a projected 14.8 percent in 2006. Net private capital flows also rose from
US$263 million to US$477 million or 0.5 percent of GDP between 2003 and 2005.



                                                   - 14 -

    The details of achievements in these areas are mentioned in Section D of Annex 1.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
    Not Applicable. This was a policy-based operation.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
    Not Applicable. This was a policy-based operation.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
    The EMGC was a fast disbursing operation and was not expected to have significant institutional
    development impact. That impact has been assesses as modest as is described below:

    In the area of macroeconomic management, eliminating budgetary arrears as well as arrears by
   state-owned enterprises improved predictability of the budget and the financial position of the utilities
   themselves; measures implemented to improve financial sustainability of the pension system began to
   improve the financial situation of the NAPSA. In addition, the PIA was made an autonomous
   institution and the amendments to the Pension Scheme Regulation Guide gave the PIA the authority
   over all pension schemes.

   In strengthening the role of the financial sector institutional development impact included: approving
    the Financial Sector Development Program to undertake a systematic restructuring of NBFI; bringing
    the non-bank state-owned financial institutions under the Banking and Financial Services Act;
    incorporating NSCB and DBZ under the Company's Act; establishing supervisory powers of BoZ over
    non-bank financial institutions; preparing restructuring plan for DBZ and NSCB; and begin improving
    governance of BoZ through changing the procedures by which its Governor and the board of directors
    are appointed.

    In strengthening the credibility and institutional capacity of the public sector the institutional
    arrangements between MoFNP and BoZ on debt management was strengthened to improve monitoring
    and evaluation of public debt; MoFNP formulated a strategy on debt management post HIPC
    completion point; the autonomy and duties of Auditor General were expanded; FMS software was
    installed in all ministries to improve financial reporting system; and in the area of the civil service the
    payroll management system installed in central ministries, and a system was put in place to match each
    public servant to specific post in the establishment.

    In the area of the private sector development the Government: made progress in consolidating
    functions of many public sector entities involved in private sector development; established an
    implementation framework for private sector development Reform Action Plan; adopted a
    comprehensive Policy Statement for Energy and Telecommunication sectors; and, began improving
    regulatory framework of the Energy Regulatory Board, and made this institution more independent.

    The above mentioned institutional developments were anchored to the Government's own strategy for
    increased capacity building in the economy. They also complemented other parallel TAs, which were
    provided to the Government to further strengthen the institutional capacity in the public sector.


5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:



                                                     - 15 -

    An important factor outside the control of the government was the constitutional amendments required
    for the implementation of some key EMGC policy measures, particularly in the areas of pension and
    public expenditure management. Most important of which included amendment changing provisions of
    public pension fund, amendment to enable the budget to be approved before start of the fiscal year, and
    amendment restricting approval of supplementary appropriations. The office of Auditor General also
    required constitutional amendment to enhance its autonomy and expand its duties. Although the
    revisions to the constitution was meant to be a total revision and not just for the above mentioned
    amendments, the approval of the constitution and of these amendments is clearly beyond the control of
    the Government, and would potentially put at risk the timely implementation of the recommended
    policy actions in case such approvals are delayed.

    Another factor beyond control of the Government was the increase in energy prices. However, despite
    the significant increases in oil prices, inflation and current account deficit have remained below the
    projected levels at appraisal.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
    Although ownership and commitment of the Government to the reform agenda was strong, the
    implementation of certain reforms faced delays. This delay was particularly in the two important areas
    of public expenditure management and civil service reform. These plus other delays in meeting the core
    conditions effectively postponed release of the second Tranche by almost 6 months from its originally
    targeted release date of June 2005.

    A notable delay subject to Government control was the consolidation of allowances into base salary,
    which needed more time as it faced substantial resistance from the Public Sector Unions. The
    underestimation of this resistance was a weak element in the operation. Perhaps a more in-depth
    analysis of the political economy covering such points of resistance and developing specific strategies
    to deal with them might have helped setting a more realistic timeframe for the implementation of
    conditions of this nature.

    Other areas where more timely actions by the Government may have resulted in a better outcome
    included transfer the payroll to the PMEC system, and measures related to business environment and
    regulatory framework for network utilities.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
    See Section 5.2


5.4 Costs and financing:
    There were no changes in the costs or financing of EMGC. The Credit was in the amount of US$40
    million on standard IDA terms with 40 years maturity and a grace period of 10 years. EMCG was a
    two Tranche operation with core prior actions for Board presentation. The Credit was approved on
    December 14, 2004, became effective on December 21, 2004 and the first Tranche was released on
    December 26, 2004. The second Tranche of EMGC was released on December 12, 2005.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
    Sustainability is rated as likely. This is mainly because the EMGC components and reform measures
    were explicitly anchored to the Government's own reform program in the PRSP and TNDP as well as
    sectoral strategies. First, the macro targets were linked to the IMF's PRGF. Zambia has maintained



                                                     - 16 -

    macroeconomic stability since 2000. This is a good track record, which is expected to continue and to
    help sustain economic growth. Second, with release of the second Tranche, the reform has not slowed
    down and is continuing in line with the PRSP and TNDP policy priorities. For example, progress with
    the implementation of the financial sector reform has continued in tandem with the FSDP and necessary
    capacity in the bank of Zambia is being developed to move to a fully risk-based approach in 2007 of
    bank and non bank supervision as well as through the adoption of regulations governing microfinance
    institutions.

    Third, the reform programs in the public sector have provided further support to Government's own
    program in the areas of public financial management and civil service reform. In the area of public
    expenditure management, the financial regulations necessary to operationalize the revised Finance Act
    were prepared and are expected to be finalized by June 2006. In the area of debt management, the
    MOFNP has also begun the process of developing a comprehensive debt data base, which includes data
    on contingent liabilities and the debts of the remaining parastatals. Fourth, most of the EMGC policy
    measures on financial accountability practices, pension reform, public expenditures, and debt
    management, have been included into the regular operations of the Government, or into the legal and
    regulatory framework, and are unlikely to be reversed. Finally, the follow on IDA operations are
    essentially build on the continuation of the EMGC supported measures such as the recently approved
    public sector management project and the proposed water sector improvement project to be presented
    to the Board in FY07.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
    In line with the CAS, IDA is in the process of preparing the second development policy lending to
    Zambia as a successive operation to EMGC. The proposed second operation will build on EMGC
    achievements and will deepen the reforms in the areas of public expenditure management, private
    sector development, public sector reform, business environment, and regulatory framework. The core
    conditionality will be more weighed towards private sector development to ensure greater opportunities
    for employment and income growth and to make sure that growth can have maximum impact on
    poverty reduction. Agriculture will also be added to the operation to accelerate the development of the
    rural economy and to further encourage a private sector led growth.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
    The Bank's performance is rated moderately satisfactory. The reasons for this rating include:
    consistency with the CAS, timeliness of the operation, quick response of the Bank; focus of the reform
    measures, and the project design which took into consideration experience gained from the previous
    operations in Zambia. EMGC was consistent with the Government's development strategy, in
    particular the PRSP and TNDP. Its design covered several highly important requirements for rapid
    transition to an open market system. It was prepared with a full knowledge of the economy and
    Zambia's obstacles to structural reforms. Some considerable analytical work, such as those on public
    expenditure review, debt management, private sector development, and a FIAS study on regulations
    and administrative barriers to investment in Zambia, were all helpful in the preparation of this
    operation. The prior actions for Board presentation were critical to the operation and were considerably
    sharpened during the concept review meeting and the preparation missions.

    The project team consisted of seasoned professionals with relevant technical expertise in the areas of
    public sector reform and financial sector. The Bank team was also well managed by an experienced
    team leader. The fact that the team members continued their involvement in the operation and were


                                                    - 17 -

    managed by the same task manager benefited greatly the implementation progress of the operation. The
    presence of the Bank office in Zambia greatly facilitated monitoring the implementation of the EMGC.
    Close consultation was also carried out with the IMF.

    Although the project was appraised thoroughly, but the capacity of the Government to timely
    implement the second Tranche policy measures was overestimated. This was partly a reflection of the
    authorities own perception and optimism, particularly during the appraisal, to proceed quickly with the
    identified reform measures. Also, as mentioned before, the operation had some shortcomings as
    reflected in the underestimation of implementation and political risks as well as in putting as Tranche
    release conditions amendments to constitution, the approval of which was beyond control of the
    Government. Also, the decision on lending could have been made on a programmatic type operation
    such as PRSC, though as mentioned before this would happen if Zambia moves to the CAS high case
    scenario.


7.2 Supervision:
    Supervision quality is rated satisfactory. As a two Tranche operation EMGC did not require the
    multitude of supervisions associated with multi -Tranche programmatic operations. The team reviewed
    progress in achieving the milestones described in the LDP and the Program Document. The
    involvement of many team members that designed the EMGC in its implementation was important
    factor in keeping the supervision quality high. The supervision team established a good working
    relationship with the Government counterparts and was able to resolve many of the implementation
    problems. The aide-memoires of the missions were informative and well organized, with a clear
    summary of essential issues, agreed actions, and next steps. There was also a good follow up on the
    issues and agreed actions.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
    The overall Bank performance is rated moderately satisfactory in view of the rating for lending and the
    quality of supervision.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
    Borrower preparation is rated satisfactory. The preparation of EMGC started on a solid base with
    strong support of the Government and the implementing agencies. To facilitate coordination of
    activities, the Government during the preparation and appraisal appointed an inter-ministerial steering
    committee responsible for preparing the EMGC. The design and preparation of each component and
    sub-component was discussed and agreed on with each implementing agency during the appraisal. The
    Government and IDA had full understanding on the elements of EMGC as highlighted in the LDP. The
    Government participated in the Bank's Project Concept review. This helped create ownership of the
    programs and policies under the EMGC.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
    The overall implementation performance of the Government is assessed as moderately satisfactory. As
    discussed in section 4, the Government was effective in maintaining macroeconomic stability, which
    greatly helped implementation of other reforms.       The MoFNP and the steering committee also
    facilitated the policy dialogue and coordination of the activities of the numerous agencies involved in
    this operation. Although the Government was fully involved in the design stage and timely met the
    Board (first Tranche) conditions, its delays in the implementation of the second Tranche policy
    measures, particularly in the areas of public expenditure management and civil service reform,



                                                   - 18 -

    contributed to delays in the release of the second Tranche.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
    See section 7.5

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
    In view of moderately satisfactory implementation, the overall performance of the Borrower is rated as
    moderately satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

    Operations with deep institutional reform require longer time horizon than a one year quick
    disbursing loan. Institutional reforms are inherently difficult and time consuming to implement as
    changes will normally happen at slow speed and over a number of years. The EMGC supported
    institutional measures required intensive engagement over an extended period of time, and well beyond
    the one-year time horizon of that operation. In hindsight, given the long term nature of the reform
    measures supported by EMGC, and in view of the fact that the team was helping the Government to
    stay on track with its own program of reform considering its limited capacity, a programmatic
    adjustment operation, with a 3-4 years time frame, would probably have been a more appropriate
    alternative. Such instrument of lending would have provided more flexibility in sequencing of important
    reforms in a medium term framework, with a more appropriate time line for the implementation of the
    required policy measures.

    Uncertainty on the timing of policy implementation increases by requiring amendments to the
    constitution, which are beyond control of the Government. Although in special circumstances the
    reforms cannot proceed without such amendments (like the case of PSPF), adjustment operations
    should stay away, to the extent possible, from putting the amendments to constitutions or passage of
    legislation as Tranche release conditions. These requirements would potentially put at risk the timely
    implementation of policy measures and the follow up actions in case the approval of such amendments
    or legislation is delayed or does not materialize for political and other reasons.

    Continuity of policy dialogue on broad based operations calls for experienced staff with good
    knowledge of the country. The familiarity of the Bank staff with the circumstances of Zambia and
    their involvement in working closely with their counterparts proved to be an effective way in designing
    the program and in creating a genuine ownership for the reform agenda. Such ownership is essential
    both at the preparation and at the implementation stage. This experience also highlights the importance
    of involving staff throughout the life of the project. Although few staffs were changed during the
    EMGC program, maturity and experience of team members helped maintain continuity of policy
    dialogue on important issues and allowed fine tuning of the operations when needed. Involvement of the
    field staff in project supervision was also proved to be important in regular follow up on policy actions
    by the Government.

    Operations involving comprehensive reforms require quality supervision. Operations that are broad
    based and have strong policy and institutional implications would need adequate supervision staff and
    resources as they necessitate continuous dialogue with the Government and other stakeholders. The
    broad scope of the EMGC had important consequences for supervision as it required considerable
    range of skills and experience. Involvement of the many team members that designed the EMGC during
    its implementation was critical in keeping the supervision quality high and in building understandings
    of the reform agenda when there were changes at the level of Cabinet, or in counterparts.



                                                     - 19 -

    Expectations should be realistic in the case of one-year adjustment operations. The lessons drawn
    from EMGC exercise indicate that it is important to be realistic regarding how quickly it is possible to
    transform activities that were state operated into market based approach and on commercial basis. It
    usually takes quite some time before a state-owned bank, or an enterprise, can grow into institutions
    that can truly and independently operate on commercial terms. These institutions may remain
    dependent on Government support for many years to come before they can operate completely on their
    own.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:



                    Ministry of Finance and National Planning


                                  Implementation Completion report

                                             (ZM-PE-P040631)




                               ON A CREDIT IN THE AMOUNT OF


                   SDR 27.4 MILLION (US$40 MILLION EQUIVALENT)


                                                   TO THE


                                        REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA


                                                   FOR AN


                   ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT AND GROWTH CREDIT



                                                     - 20 -

                            SUMMARY OF PROJECT DATA

Country: Zambia


Program Name: Economic Management and Growth Credit (EMGC)


Loan Number: 4009 ZA


Sector/sub sector: Public sector (60%), Financial Sector (25%); Private sector (15%)


Theme: Public Sector Administration (P); other accountability/anti-corruption (P); other

       financial and private sector development (S)


Borrower/Implementing Agency: Ministry of Finance and National Planning

                 Other Partners: Ministries of: Energy and Water Development, Transport

                                  and telecommunication Environment, Tourism and Natural

                                  Resources, Commerce Trade and Industry, Cabinet Office

                                  (PSMD), Pension Funds and Bank of Zambia


Key Dates




                                           - 21 -

PCD:        April 2004

Appraisal: July 2004

Approval: December 14, 2004

Effective: December 21, 2004

Closing: December 31, 2005


Introduction

During the 1990s, the Government of Zambia embarked on a policy reform program of
liberalisation and deregulation aimed at eliminating major market distortions to ensure a rapid
transition to an open market system. However, with the deterioration of the macroeconomic
situation and the contraction of the economy in the mid to late 1990s, Governments
commitment to the reform program weakened.

In July 2002, Government prepared and launched its first Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
(PRSP), which, focused on reducing the high income inequalities through promotion of
economic growth and diversification and sustaining structural reforms by improving access
and quality in the provision of social services while mainstreaming the cross cutting issues. In
addition, Government expanded the scope of the PRSP to include areas of the economy not
include in the PRSP by preparing and launching the Transitional National Development Plan
(TNDP) in December 2002.

On December 14, 2004, the Bank approved the Economic Management and Growth Credit
(EMGC) of US$ 40 million as continuation of support to the reform efforts initiated earlier. It
was built on the past achievements in the areas of macroeconomic management and structural
reforms supported by a three Tranche Fiscal Sustainability Credit of US$ 170 million. The
EMGC was effective on December 21, 2004 and scheduled to close on December 31, 2005.
The first tranche of the credit was disbursed on December 28, 2004. This credit was designed
to support public sector reform program, financial sector reform and the private sector
reform.

Objectives

The EMGC was designed to support policy and institutional reforms by assisting the
Government in achieving four major development objectives of: (a) correcting macro
imbalances; (b) improving financial sector performance; (c) enhance the public sector
management and (d) improving business environment.

Specific reforms were to be implemented in the following areas to achieve the above
objectives: (i) Reforms to improve the Pension and payment culture among Government
agencies especially to utility and insurance companies; (ii) Reforms aimed at recuperating the
financial viability and stability of state-owned non-bank financial institutions; (iii) reforms
focused on improving public expenditure management, debt management, and civil service


                                            - 22 -

reform so as to reduce the fiscal burden of government; and (iv) reforms focusing on the
investment climate so as to achieve private sector development including regulation for public
utilities and private business.

Programme Components

As indicated above, the programme consisted of four reform components as follows:
Macro-economic reforms; financial management reforms; public sector management reforms;
and private Sector reforms.

Macro-economic Reforms

This component of the program aimed at maintaining an appropriate macroeconomic
framework conducive for strong economic growth with emphasis on (i) correcting macro
imbalances; and (ii) improving the financial sustainability of the pension systems. This
component involves implementation of reforms that would lead to the reduction and
elimination of the build up of budgetary areas and arrears by parastatals with utilities. In
addition, the component looked at improving the financial stability of the public service
pension schemes that were increasingly becoming a fiscal drain on government.

Financial Management

The reforms in this area involved strengthening the financial management framework and
improve the functioning of the financial sector by (i) resolution of state-owned non-bank
financial institutions; (ii) building a better governance structure for the Bank of Zambia; and
(iii) promoting a better credit culture for timely servicing of financial obligations.

Public sector Management

The reforms in this area were aimed at strengthening the credibility and institutional capacity
of the public sector through: (i) upgrading government's debt management capacity to
support fiscal sustainability; (ii) improving public expenditure management and financial
accountability practices and (iii) streamlining ministerial structures and improving incentives
for service delivery. This involved improving the institutional arrangements for monitoring and
evaluation of government debt, building the credibility of the budget preparation and
execution as well as improving the general management of the civil service so as to improve
the service delivery in the public sector.

Private Sector Development

This involved the rationalisation of the relations between the public sector and the private
sector by (i) improving business environment to enhance private sector development; and (ii)
strengthening the legal and regulatory frameworks and environment for network utilities of
energy and telecommunications. This involved removing the inconsistencies in government
policies towards private sector, strengthening the public service agencies serving the private



                                              - 23 -

sector, removing the existing contradictions between the Investment act and other related
legislation, reviewing the restrictive labor laws relating to retirement, retrenchment and
expatriate work permits, reducing the cost of establishing and operating business by
streamlining the number of licences required to establish a business,             developing a
comprehensive policy document for the energy sector and developing a comprehensive policy
document for the telecommunications sector.

Achievement of Objectives and Outputs

Objectives

The objectives and outcomes of the EMGC were to a large extent achieved. Though some
delays were experienced in the implementation of some components of the programme,
generally, the objectives as a whole have been achieved. One key objective of the programme
was the achievement of a stable macroeconomic environment. This was achieved as a result of
the interactions between the different components of the program.

Outputs by Component

Component A. correcting macroeconomic imbalances

This component was adequately implemented as reflected in the success of implementing the
EMGC's core and non-core policy reforms related to this component and in achieving its main
objectives of a stable macroeconomic environment as reflected in the table of selected
macroeconomic variables below.

Table 1: Selected Macroeconomic Variables, 2003-2005
                                                           2003    2004    2005     2005
                                                                           Target   Outturn
Real GDP Growth rate                                       5.1     5.4     6.0      5.1
Domestic Financing of fiscal deficit (% of GDP)            5.1     1.9     1.6      1.8
Money Supply Gowth (Annual Percent Change)                 23.4    30.3    13.0     0.4
Inflation (end period)                                     17.2    17.5    15.0     15.9
Interest rates (December vales)                            37.2    29.8             27.4
Current Account deficit (% of GDP, excl. grants)           (16.2)  (10.7)           (11.9)
Gross international reserves(month of import cover)        1.3     1.2     1.3      1.8

Within this component, Government needed to correct the macroeconomic imbalances and
maintain a conducive macroeconomic framework focusing on sustaining macroeconomic
stability as a basis for a successful implementation of structural reforms outlined in the PRSP
and TNDP. To this effect, a stable macroeconomic framework agreed with the IMF under the
PRGF arrangement was maintained.

To achieve a stable macroeconomic environment, Government needed to improve the
financial viability and sustainability of the pension systems. To improve the viability of the



                                                  - 24 -

system, government was to make transfers to pension companies serving the public service
retirees: Public Service Pension Fund; the Local Authorities Superannuation Fund (LASF);
and the National Pension Scheme (NAPSA), directly from the budget. However, the
sustainability of the pension systems has not been satisfactory because these pension funds still
depend on fiscal resources for their sustainability

To achieve further fiscal stability, Government needed to eliminate the build up of budgetary
arrears and the arrears by state-owned enterprises with the utility companies. This would
reduce the budgetary pressure on the government to settle these arrears. Specifically, the
following actions were under taken:

 Reduction of Arrears: The Ministry of Finance and National Planning (MoFNP) adopted a
time bound restructuring plan for payment of the Government's arrears to utility and
insurance companies. The Secretary to the Treasury issued instructions to the utility and
insurance companies to treat government agencies on commercial terms and the Accountant
General instructed controlling officers to ensure prompt payments of utility and insurance
bills. Even if these measures were undertaken, it has not yet led to the changes in payment
behaviour that were envisaged. A multi-year plan for the dismantling of all audited domestic
arrears was prepared and is being implemented.

 Improvement of financial sustainability of the Pensions systems: Cabinet approved a
proposal to the constitutional review commission to change the provisions of article 124 to
enable PSPF reforms to be applicable to existing participants in Public Service Pension Fund
(PSPF). To improve financial viability in the short term, the PSPF completed a draft
three-year implementation plan to reduce administrative expenses to 12 percent of 2003
annual accrued contributions as approved by the board. In addition, The PSPF also negotiated
a plan with Government to retire a small percentage of its arrears. Computer equipment were
installed to produce monthly reports on benefits and to improve its projections of cash needs.

The Local Authorities Superannuation Fund (LASF) negotiated a debt/equity swap to retire a
part of the central government arrears. It also negotiated a separate payment schedule with
each local government authority to improve cash flows and begin retiring arrears in this area.
As for National Pension Scheme (NAPSA), to improve its operational problems, an
operational manual was drafted on its corporate governance, a revised investment policy was
adopted which, required the appointment of a global custodian and selection of a pension
fund manager. However the appointment of the global custodian and selection of the fund
manager were delayed due to the tendering process. In addition, a program for training
trustees was developed.

 Strengthening the capacity of the Pension and Insurance Authority: Pension and
Insurance Authority (PIA) was made an autonomous institution in line with the FSDP
recommendations to strengthen its capacity to tackle the issues of enforcement and
compliance with the law. The Pension Scheme Regulation Act was also amended to give the
PIA the authority over all pension schemes. In return, PIA prepared an overall vision paper
backed by operating action plans and budgetary and Human Resource needs.



                                            - 25 -

Progress on Output/Outcomes Indicators

Overall Policy measures implemented under the PRGF programme supported by the IMF in
particular those relating to reduction of budgetary arrears and domestic borrowing contributed
to improvement in macroeconomic environment. Measuring success of the actions supported
by EMGC aimed at improving the payment culture by Government agencies and state owned
companies in meeting their obligations towards payment of utilities to prevent a re-emergence
of arrears can only be observed on a long term basis and thus its impact would not be felt in a
short term. Therefore, it would be too early to draw any concrete conclusions regarding the
impact of the programme on this output.

Component B. Strengthening the Financial System

All the core conditions and major non-core conditions were met, although this component
took longer than anticipated to implement. The intention of Government in this area was to
remove weaknesses in the state owned institutions including low intermediation; limited
supervision; and insolvent public non-bank financial institutions, such as Zambia National
Building Society, Development Bank of Zambia, and National savings and Credit Bank. To
address these concerns, A Financial Sector Development Plan was prepared by the Bank of
Zambia in collaboration with financial sector stakeholders. This plan among other things
outlines the necessary action to resolve the issues surrounding the non-bank financial
institutions, National Savings and Credit Bank (NSCB), Zambia Development Bank of
Zambia (DBZ), and the Zambia National Building Society (ZNBS).

To address issues related to the state owned non bank institutions, Government undertook the
following actions under the EMGC.

 Consolidation of the legal framework of NBFIs: progress was made in the process of
adopting and consolidating the necessary legal changes to the Building Societies Act, the
National Savings and Credit Bank Act, and the Development Bank of Zambia Act. The
necessary changes to the legal framework of the state-owned NBFIs with the aim of bringing
them under the Banking and Financial Services Act (BFSA) so that all supervisory powers are
with the BOZ were adopted by parliament. Additionally, the Bank of Zambia, MoFNP, and
the Development Bank of Zambia signed a Memorandum of Understanding, which specifies
the supervisory role of the Bank of Zambia and the MoFNP with regard to the Development
Bank of Zambia until DBZ falls under the BFS Act.

 Strengthened accountability and financial discipline: Government commenced the
implementation of its Financial Sector Development Plan pertaining to the reform of
state-owned NBFIs including NSCB, ZNBS, and DBZ, to ensure that no public funds are
used without a business plan, and DBZ would neither accept deposits nor raise any loan
requiring Government guarantee. In addition, operations restriction on DBZ would remain in
effect until at least 75 percent of its equity is committed by a private entity. The restrictions on
DBZ have been fully adhered to while the MoU signed between BoZ, MoFNP and NSCB



                                               - 26 -

management provide guarantee that NSCB would not engage in activities that would
negatively affect its financial situation.

 Improved Governance Structure: Governments aim is to improve the Governance
arrangement of the BoZ so as to guarantee its independence and independent execution of
monetary policy. So far the appointment of the Bank governor by the president is ratified by
parliament. Furthermore, BoZ undertook a comprehensive evaluation of available options
with regard to which business model of a credit bureau before setting up a credit bureau. This
is essential in developing a credit culture.

Component C: Strengthening the Credibility and Institutional Capacity of the Public
Sector

The aim of this component was to strengthen the current weak institutional arrangements for
monitoring and evaluation of Government debt that make it difficult to formulate a
consolidated strategy since responsibilities are split between MoFNP and BoZ. Government
under the EMGC managed to upgrade governments' debt management capacity to support
fiscal sustainability; improve public expenditure management and financial accountability
practices and to streamline ministerial structures and improved incentives for service delivery.

With the support of the EMGC, Government achieved the following:

 Consolidation of responsibilities between MoFNP and BoZ on debt management: the
following actions were undertaken to improve debt management institutional arrangement as
well monitoring and evaluation of debt: establishment of a Task Force with the objective of
reconciling the debt database covering domestic and foreign direct debt, as well as on-lending;
establishment of procedures for updating and maintaining the debt database, regular reports
on outstanding debt were produced for internal use by MoFNP and BoZ, and work was
initiated on establishing clear procedures for updating and maintaining the debt database; a
strategy for debt management post-HIPC completion point with a particular focus on the
distribution between foreign and domestic borrowing was prepared in broad terms and a
framework within which the MoFNP can act as decision maker on issues regarding domestic
debt with BoZ acting as agent was prepared.

 Expenditure management and financial accountability to increase credibility of the
budget process: All the core and non-core conditions of the EMGC relating to expenditure
management and financial accountability were met though with some delays. Among the
actions taken to increase budget process credibility are: the submission by MoFNP
recommendations to the constitutional review committee that would enable the budget to be
approved by Parliament before the start of the fiscal year and enhance accountability for public
expenditure by restricting retroactive approval of supplementary appropriations; the
submission by the Office of the Auditor General its recommendations to the CRC on
enhancing its autonomy and expanding its duties; approval by Cabinet and Parliament of a
revised Finance Act that strengthens financial management and accountability, including
provisions that: define the role and functions of the Treasury; strengthen the role of internal



                                            - 27 -

audit through establishment of audit committees; define the responsibilities of the Accountant
General's Department; enhance provisions for oversight of statutory corporations, and
prohibits expenditures from being incurred that exceed the appropriation.

To further strengthen the credibility of the budgeting process, the following actions were
undertaken: MoFNP submitted a Green Paper to Cabinet in the third quarter of 2004 with
three-year indicative budget ceilings for each ministry, inclusive of ceilings for personal
emoluments (PE's). New Financial Management System (FMS) software was installed in all
ministries that would permit reporting by ABB format; Accountant General's Office
generated a report from the FMS on actual expenditure by ministry for the first six months of
2004 under the ABB classification; Cabinet approved the new structure for the OAG, which
includes authority to fill vacant auditor positions.      MoFNP tabled in the Borrower's
legislature the annual budget for 2005 including an annex, which compared the estimated
expenditures for the year 2005 with the budget releases for the years 2004 and 2003. The
presentation of the annex together with the annual budget for 2005 was however delayed
because of procedural problems in government regarding sending annexes together with the
budget.

 Improved incentives for service delivery and restructured ministries: government
consolidated most allowances into base salary and reduced the overall ratio of allowances to
base salary. Further, Government transferred the payroll to the Payroll Management and
Establishment Control (PMEC) system; trained users for all central ministries; based Personal
Emoluments releases on PMEC; matched each public servant to a specific post on the
establishment; and ceased to pay public servants whose post is not on the establishment except
those identified for retrenchment but not yet paid off.

To complete the restructuring process, Cabinet approved the new structures for three
remaining ministries and any excess staffs removed from the payroll. The new annual
performance appraisal system (APAS) was implemented for all public service positions and a
circular issued that annual salary increments are no longer automatic but instead will be based
on employee performance.


Component D: Improving Zambia's Business environment

The objective of this component was to improve the business environment to enhance private
sector development and strengthen the legal and regulatory frameworks and environment for
network utilities. This component was well implemented but with some delays. Government
achieved the following under the EMCG:

 Improved Zambia's business environment: Government reaffirmed its commitment to
market-based policies for private sector development by adopting the PSD Reform Action
Plan and established an implementation framework for the PSD Reform Action Plan. In
addition and in an effort to further improve the investment climate, the process of establishing
a "one stop shop" for investor the Zambia Investment Agency began. Further more, a revised



                                            - 28 -

    draft Investment Act was finalized and circulated to the private sector.

     Improvement of the legal and regulatory environment for network utilities: In the energy
    sector, interim point actions for commercialisation of ZESCO were met while the preparation
    of a comprehensive energy policy document began. In the telecommunications sector,
    Government adopted a comprehensive Policy Statement for the sector that clearly articulates
    the Government's vision for the development of the sector over the medium to long-term.

    Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

    The program implementation was affected by factors both within and out side the control of
    government:

     Policy measures that delayed the release of the second tranche of the funds arising for the
    government side were mainly in the areas of public expenditure management.

     Most policy measures especially those related to budget preparation and public
    expenditure management as well as areas around the pension schemes and enhancement of the
    autonomy of the office of the Auditor General required amendments to the constitution which
    was beyond government control.

     The consolidation of allowances into base salary was also a delay not entirely within
    government control as it could not be fully implemented without agreement with public
    service unions. In setting up the timeframe for the implementation of this measure, the
    resistance from the unions was underestimated and thus its implementation was affected.

    Conclusions, Lessons Learnt and Recommendations

     Need for reduction on the number of milestones to be met and remain realistic in the case
    of such short 춗erm adjustment programmes.

     There is need for mechanisms to be put in place for ensured adequate and timely
    communication between line ministries, departments and lending institutions for smooth
    implementation of activities.

     Similarly, there is need for mechanisms to ensure adequate and timely communication
    between the Bank and the Government authorities.

     Considering the difficulties associated with implementation of measures and reforms
    affecting institutional arrangements and the time it takes for such measures to show results,
    such measures should not be implemented under a short loan arrangement.

     Policy based conditions should not be used as a condition for tranche release of funds as
    such policies are influenced by other factors beyond government control.

(b) Cofinanciers:



                                               - 29 -

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information




                                             - 30 -

    Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix



           Reform Measures                                                           Outcomes and outputs
Board: December 2004                  Second Tranche: December 2005
                 A. Returning to a Macroeconomic Framework Conducive to Robust Growth
Maintenance of an appropriate         Maintenance of an appropriate          Government maintained a satisfactory
macroeconomic framework               macroeconomic framework                macroeconomic framework in
                                                                             agreement with the IMF.

                                                                             Performance under the program has
                                                                             been broadly satisfactory. This was
                                                                             confirmed by a positive second and
                                                                             third review under the PRGF
                                                                             arrangement, which were concluded in
                                                                             April 2005 and January 2006
                                                                             respectively

                                                                             The growth rate of real GDP has
                                                                             averaged 5.4 percent a year during the
                                                                             2003-2006 period, exceeding the 5
                                                                             percent growth rate projected under the
                                                                             EMGC. The positive growth
                                                                             developments were driven to a large
                                                                             extent by favorable external
                                                                             developments. Fiscal policy has been
                                                                             put on a sustainable basis and monetary
                                                                             policy has become tight.
A.1 Correcting macroeconomic imbalances
Cabinet has issued a decision to      The MoFNP has adopted a time           The Cabinet issued a decision to
empower utilities and insurance       bound restructuring plan for payment empower utilities and insurance
companies to treat government         of the Government's arrears to utility companies to treat government
institutions as any other client      and insurance companies.               institutions as any other client.
including that the utilities and
insurance companies would be                                                 The Government made separate
expected to discontinue their services                                       arrangements with each of the relevant
to Government institutions in similar                                        utility and insurance companies to
fashion as any other customer;                                               dismantle the stock of arrears in a time
The Accountant General has                                                   bound manner.
instructed accounting officers to pay
their utility and insurance bills on                                         At end 2005, the domestic borrowing
time;                                                                        had dropped to 1.9 percent of GDP and
                                                                             the Government arrears had been
The Secretary of the Treasury has                                            reduced to 1.2 percent of GDP. Further
issued a letter to the utilities and                                         reductions in these ratios are expected
insurance companies reiterating the                                          in 2006.
decision made by Cabinet.

                                                                             Accountant General instructed
                                                                             accounting officers to pay their utility
                                                                             and insurance bills on time.




                                                       - 31 -

                                                                                MoFNP adopted a time bound
                                                                                restructuring plan for payment of the
                                                                                Government's arrears to the utility and
                                                                                insurance companies.
A.2. Working towards a financially sustainable pension system
PSPF Board has approved                 Cabinet has approved (i) a proposal to In November 2005, the Cabinet
amendments to reform pensions           the constitutional review commission approved reform proposals of PSPF,
including the benefit formula,          to change the provisions of article 124 including amending the constitutional
commutation factors, and                to enable PSPF reforms to be            to allow PSPF, to undertake reforms in
contribution rates for new PSPF         applicable to existing participants in  order to achieve and remain on a sound
members since the year 2005 and         PSPF and (ii) a reform program that     financial footing.
PSPF has completed a draft three        ensures the financial sustainability of
year implementation plan to reduce      the fund                                LASF has strengthened its financial
administrative expenses to 12 percent                                           position through retiring arrears,
of 2003 annual accrued contributions The National Pension Scheme                completed its first actuarial valuation
as approved by its board.               Authority (NAPSA) has (i) adopted a     since 1998 and collected data for
                                        revised investment policy, appointed a  analysis of various policy reform
                                        global custodian, and selected a        options.
                                        pension fund manager; (ii) drafted an
                                        operations manual on corporate          PSPF completed a draft three-year
                                        governance; and (iii) developed a       implementation plan to reduce
                                        program for training trustees.          administrative expenses.

                                                                                The PSPF negotiated a plan with the
                                                                                Government to retire a small
                                                                                percentage of its arrears.

                                                                                LASF negotiated a debt/equity swap to
                                                                                retire a part of the central government
                                                                                arrears.

                                                                                NAPSA drafted an operation manual
                                                                                on its corporate governance. A revised
                                                                                investment policy was also adopted by
                                                                                NAPSA's Board that allowed NAPSA
                                                                                to invest in assets externally in 2005.
                                B. Strengthening the Role of the Financial Sector
B.1. Resolution of state-owned non-bank financial institutions
Cabinet has approved the Financial      The Borrower has made progress in       The financial sector development
Sector Development Program, which the process of adopting the necessary program has identified Zambia's
stipulates the repeal of those sections legal changes to the Building           financial sector gaps mainly in two
of the Building Societies Act, the      Societies Act, the National Savings     areas: (i) provision of investment
National Savings and Credit Bank        and Credit Bank Act, and the            finance and (ii) provision of financial
(NSCB) Act, and the Development         Development Bank of Zambia Act          services for the poor.
Bank of Zambia (DBZ), such that (i)
these institutions can be incorporated The Borrower has commenced               The NBFIs have been brought under
under the Company's Act, (ii)           implementing its Financial Sector       the supervision of BoZ through signing
inconsistencies with the BFSA are       Development Program pertaining to       memorandum of understanding (MoU).
removed; and (iii) supervisory powers the reform of state-owned NBFIs           The MoUs also cover the
over NBFIs by the Bank of Zambia        including NSCB, ZNBS, and DBZ, to       implementation framework and
are strengthened.                       ensure that no public funds will be     business plan for each of the three
                                        used without a business plan            state-owned NBFIs.
The Bank of Zambia, MoFNP, and          acceptable to IDA.                      The MoUs were signed by the BoZ,



                                                           - 32 -

the Development Bank of Zambia                                                MoFNP and management of each of
have signed a Memorandum of             DBZ shall not (i) accept deposits and the three state-owned NBFIs.
Understanding, which specifies the      (ii) raise any loan requiring
supervisory role of the Bank of         Government guarantee.                 The MoUs designate the BoZ as the
Zambia and the MoFNP with regard                                              implementing agency for the
to the Development Bank of Zambia                                             restructuring process.
until DBZ falls under the BFS Act.

                                                                              The Cabinet has reviewed and agreed
                                                                              in principle to the proposed changes.

                                                                              The MoUs will remain in place until
                                                                              legal changes are adopted.

                                                                              The necessary changes were made to
                                                                              the legal acts of the state-owned NBFIs
                                                                              with the objective to bring each of them
                                                                              under the Banking and Financial
                                                                              Services (BFS) Act.

                                                                              The MoU between BoZ, MoFNP and
                                                                              NSCB management provides adequate
                                                                              guarantees that NSCB will not engage
                                                                              in activities that will negatively affect
                                                                              its financial situation.

                                                                              International Fund for Agricultural
                                                                              Development (IFAD) is providing
                                                                              technical assistance to improve
                                                                              management of NSCB.
               C. Strengthening the Credibility and Institutional Capacity of the Public Sector
C.2. Improving Public Expenditure management and financial accountability practices
The MoFNP has submitted                 MoFNP has tabled in the Borrower's The 2006 ABB format Yellow (Budget)
recommendations to the constitutional legislature the annual budget for 2005 book includes a section which provides
review committee that would (i)         including an annex, which compares information on codes, priorities, rules
enable the budget to be approved by     the estimated expenditures for the    on varying budget provisions,
parliament before the start of the      year 2005 with the budget releases for
fiscal year; (ii) enhance               the years 2004 and2003. This would    Government adopted quarterly funding,
accountability for public expenditure be presented in summary table           non-varying of poverty reduction
by restricting retroactive approval of aggregated by budget head, showing     programs expenditures, and the
supplementary appropriations; and       the PE and non-PE spending from       sanction that would be applied to those
(iii) the Office of the Auditor General GRZ resources.                        agencies that do not submit expenditure
has submitted its recommendations to                                          returns on time.
the CRC on enhancing its autonomy
and expanding its duties.                                                     The MoFNP compared the estimated
                                                                              expenditures for the year 2005 with the
Cabinet has approved for submission                                           budget releases for the years 2004 and
to Parliament a revised Finance Act                                           2003.
that strengthens financial
management and accountability,                                                The Cabinet approved the new
including provisions that:(i) Define                                         structure of OAG, which include
the role and functions of The                                                 authority to fill vacant auditor
Treasury; (ii) Strengthen the role of                                         positions.
internal audit through establishment



                                                            - 33 -

of audit committees; (iii) Define the                                           FMS software was installed in all
responsibilities of the Accountant                                              ministries, and
General's Department; (iv) Enhance                                              The Accountant General's Department
provisions for oversight of statutory
corporations, and (v) prohibits                                                 generated a report from FMS on actual

expenditures from being incurred that                                           expenditure by ministry for the first 6

exceed the appropriation.                                                       months of 2004.


Cabinet has agreed that it will                                                 Payroll Management and

approve any supplemental to the                                                 Establishment Control (PMEC) system

budget, if any, prior to the spending                                           was installed at a few central ministries

occurring and that such supplemental                                            with funding from DFID.
would show not only where spending
will increase, but also where it will be                                        MoFNP submitted a Green Paper to the
reduced as a result.                                                            Cabinet with three-year indicative
                                                                                budget ceiling for each ministry.
MoFNP has submitted a Green Paper
to Cabinet in the third quarter of 2004                                         Cabinet approved the new structure of
with three-year indicative budget                                               OAG, which include authority to fill
ceilings for each ministry, inclusive of                                        vacant auditor positions.
ceilings for personal emoluments
(PE's).                                                                         The Revised Finance Act was approved
                                                                                in 2005 and implementation regulation
                                                                                has been prepared.

                                                                                The MoFNP submitted a proposal to
                                                                                the CRC for chances to the constitution
                                                                                that would allow the requested
                                                                                improvements
C.3. streamlining ministerial structures and improving incentives for service delivery
                                        PSMD in the Cabinet office has          Government consolidated 14 general
                                        consolidated most allowances into       allowances into base pay for civil
                                        base salary and reduced the overall     servants and froze the nominal
                                        ratio of allowances to base salary      amounts for those allowances
                                        subject to negotiations with Public     independent of the recipient's base pay.
                                        Service Unions and the identification   This has indeed resulted in a decline of
                                        of their fiscal implications.           the overall ratio of allowances to base
                                                                                salary.
                                        MoFNP has (i) transferred the payroll
                                        to the PMEC system; (ii) trained users  MoFNP matched each public servant to
                                        for all central ministries; (iii) based a specific post on the establishment;
                                        Personal Emoluments releases on
                                        PMEC; (iv) matched each public          MoFNP ceased to pay public servants
                                        servant to a specific post on the       whose post is not on the establishment,
                                        establishment; and (v) ceased to pay    except those identified for
                                        public servants whose post is not on    retrenchment, but not yet paid their
                                        the establishment except those
                                        identified for retrenchment but not yet terminal benefits.

                                        paid off.                               The Government trained all users of
                                                                                the system in each central ministry
                                        .                                       before moving their specific payroll to
                                                                                the new PMEC system.

                                                                                Each civil servant which has been



                                                            - 34 -

                                                                        transferred from the old payroll system
                                                                        to PEMC system has been matched to a
                                                                        specific post on the establishment.

                                                                        Approximately 5,000 civil servants out
                                                                        of a total of 115,000 could not be
                                                                        matched to a post on the establishment
                                                                        and are awaiting re-assignment or
                                                                        retrenchment.
                  D. Rationalizing the Interaction between the Public and the Private Sector
Note that in this area no credit release milestones were identified.




                                                           - 35 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal     Actual/Latest  Percentage of
                                                          Estimate       Estimate        Appraisal
                     Component                            US$ million   US$ million
                                                            40.00           40.00              100


Total Baseline Cost                                         40.00           40.00
                        Total Project Costs                 40.00
                  Total Financing Required                  40.00           40.00


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB             NCB                2        N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                          0.00              0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                          0.00              0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
3. Services                       0.00              0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
4. Miscellaneous                  0.00              0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                  0.00              0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                  0.00              0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
   Total                          0.00              0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB             NCB                2      N.B.F.      Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                          0.00             0.00         0.00           0.00        0.00
                                  (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                          0.00             0.00         0.00           0.00        0.00
                                  (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
3. Services                       0.00             0.00         0.00           0.00        0.00
                                  (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
4. Miscellaneous                  0.00             0.00         0.00           0.00        0.00
                                  (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                  0.00             0.00         0.00           0.00        0.00
                                  (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                  0.00             0.00         0.00           0.00        0.00
                                  (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
                                                - 36 -

      Total                                0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)

    1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

    2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
      of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
      managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                      Percentage of Appraisal
       Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                               Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.




                                                          - 37 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Not Applicable




                                      - 38 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                       No. of Persons and Specialty                  Performance Rating
                                           (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)           Implementation Development
                    Month/Year     Count             Specialty                          Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
               February - 03                  8    1 team leader; 1 economist; 1
                                                   pension specialist;
                                                   3 consultants; 1 sector manager;
                                                   1 advisor
               April - 04                    13    1 team leader; 2 economists;
                                                   3 public sector specialists;
                                                   1 financial sector specialist;
                                                   2 energy sector specialist;
                                                   2 private sector specialist;
                                                   1 pension specialist; and
                                                   1consultant

 Appraisal/Negotiation
               June/July - 04                12    1 team leader; 1 economists;
                                                   2 public sector specialists;
                                                   1 financial sector specialist;
                                                   2 energy sector specialist;
                                                   2 private sector specialist;
                                                   1 pension specialist; 1 results
                                                   specialist; and 1consultant.


 Supervision
               May/June - 05                  8    1 team leader; 1 economists;            S               S
                                                   1 public sector specialists;
                                                   1 financial sector specialist;
                                                   1 energy sector specialist;
                                                   2 private sector specialist;
                                                   and 1consultant
               October/Nov - 05               4    1 team leader; 1 economists;            S               S
                                                   1 public sector specialists;
                                                   and 1 private sector specialist

 ICR
               June - 06                      2     1 team leader; 1 consultant

Note that ISR rated implementation progress Moderately Satisfactory after both supervision missions and
rated performance with regard to the development objective after the first supervision mission Moderately
Satisfactor and after the second supervision mission Satisfactory using the new rating system under the ISR
system.

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                        Actual/Latest Estimate
                                        No. Staff weeks                    US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                    92.5                             547.0
  Appraisal/Negotiation                         35.2                             161.2



                                                    - 39 -

  Supervision                                    32.5                        182.0
  ICR                                             4.0                         32.0
  Total                                        164.2                         951.2
Note that services of short term consultants are included in the US$ numbers but are included in the No. of
staff weeks. Note that the cost of the initial preparation which was abandoned in FY03 accounted
for a total of 63 staff weeks and US$326.9 thousand of total expenditures. Hence, the preparation
which led to the approved lending operation amounted to 29.5 staff weeks and US$247.1
thousand of total expenditures




                                                    - 40 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                            Rating
  Macro policies                          H      SU     M       N       NA
  Sector Policies                         H      SU     M       N       NA
  Physical                                H      SU     M       N       NA
  Financial                               H      SU     M       N       NA
  Institutional Development               H      SU     M       N       NA
  Environmental                           H      SU     M       N       NA

Social
            Poverty Reduction             H      SU     M       N       NA
            Gender                        H      SU     M       N       NA
            Other (Please specify)        H      SU     M       N       NA
  Private sector development              H      SU     M       N       NA
  Public sector management                H      SU     M       N       NA
  Other (Please specify)                  H      SU     M       N       NA
   (S=Satisfactory, MS=Moderately SatisfactorySU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                                               Rating
    Macro Policies                                             S
    Sector Policies                                           MS
    physical                                                  NA
    Financial                                                 NA
    Institutional Development                                  M
    Environmental                                             NA

    Social

        Poverty                                               NA
       Gender                                                 NA
       Other                                                  NA
    Private Sector Development                                MS
    Public Sector Development                                 MS
    Other (specify)                                           NA




                                                      - 41 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU
    (HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, MS=Moderately Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory,
    HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)

    6.1 Bank performance                                       Rating

    Lending                                                      MS
    Supervision                                                   S
    Overall                                                      MS




    6.2 Borrower performance                                    Rating

    Preparation                                                   S
    Government Implementation performance                        MS
    Agency Implementation Performance                            MS
    Overall                                                      MS




                                                    - 42 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

  1. Economic Management and Growth Credit, Program Document, Report No.29294 ZA
  2. Zambia: Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper, 2002.
  3. Zambia: Transitional National Development Plan, 2002-2005.
  4. Zambia: Country Assistance Strategy, Report No. 27654 ZA, 2004
  5. Financial Management and Financial Accountability Review, Report no. 26262   ZA.
  6. Financial Sector Assessment, Report No. 27289 ZA.
  7. Country Economic Memorandum, Report No. 28069 ZA.
  8. Zambia: Public Expenditure Review
  9. Investment Climate Assessment, Report No. 29741 ZA.
  10. FIAS Report on Administrative Barriers to Investment.
  11. Economic Management and Growth Credit, Release of Second Tranche,
      Dec. 2005.
  12. Development Credit Agreement, Credit Number 4009 ZA, Dec. 2004
  13. Minutes of ROC meeting and Concept Review Meeting, July 20, 2004ay 19, 2004.
  14. Agreed Minutes of Negotiations, October 2004.
  15. Supervision Mission Documents, Aide-memoires, Back to office reports, Implementation Status
         Reports.




                                               - 43 -

- 44 -

