                                            Zambia
             EconomicManagementandGrowthCredit (Cr.No. 4009-ZA)
                   Releaseofthe SecondTranche-FullCompliance


                              I.            BACKGROUND

 1.        On December 14, 2004 the Board of Executive Directors o f the International
Development Association (IDA) approved the Economic Management and Growth
 Credit (EMGC), a structural adjustment credit, for the Republic o f Zambia inthe amount
o f SDR27.4 million (US$40 million equivalent). The Credit, a two tranche operation o f
 SDR13.7 million each, was declared effective on December 21,2004 and the first tranche
released on December 26,2004.

2.         Inview o fthe overall performance andprogress withthe implementationofthe
program supported by the Credit, and in compliance with the specific conditions o f
release referred in paragraph (d) o f section 2.02 and listed in Schedule 2 o f the
Development Credit Agreement, the Second Tranche o f SDR13.7 million, equivalent to
US$19.8 millionat current exchange rates, can be released to the Borrower.

3.        The EMGC is the first development policy operation to support policy and
institutional reforms as envisioned in the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for the
period 2004-07 (Report No. 27654-ZA).          The CAS envisaged that over the four-year
period o f CAS implementation, there could be at least two development policy lending
operations.   This credit assists Zambia to: (a) return to a macroeconomic framework
conducive to robust growth; (b) strengthen the role o f the financial sector; (c) strengthen
the credibility and institutional capacity o f the public sector; and (d) improve Zambia's
business environment. IDA and the Government o f the Republic o f Zambia (GRZ) agree
that achieving these objectives inpart depends on the implementation o f specific reforms
inthe areas of: (i)pensions and payment culture among Government agencies; (ii)        state
owned non-bank financial institutions; (iii)public expenditure management, debt
management, and civil service reform; and (iv) private sector development including
regulation o fpublic utilities and private business.


            11.            RECENT ECONOMICPERFORMANCE

4.        Performance under the IMF's Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility (PRGF)
supported macroeconomic program has been positive. Economic growth has been robust
and broad based.     Strong performance o f non-traditional exports combined with a
resurgence o f copper prices and production, have greatly improved Zambia's external
accounts. In addition, reaching the HIPC Completion point in early 2005 has wiped out
approximately US$4 billion o f Zambia's external debt stock greatly reducing GRZ's
external debt service and improving its external creditworthiness and solvability. The
proposed Multilateral Debt Reduction Initiative (MDRI) will further reduce Zambia's

 external debt to just about US$0.6 billion. At the same time fiscal policy has beenput on
 a sustainable trajectory and has become more predictable through the introduction o f a
 Medium Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF). Even though levels o f inflation and
 interest rates remain fairly hgh, monetary policy has been relatively tight.

 5.         Zambia is experiencing a robust growth period with positive per capita GDP
 growth for seven consecutive years and with all sectors positively contributing. This
 contrasts sharply to the early period o f reform o f 1991-1998. As a consequence, the
 overall poverty headcount has declined from 73 percent in 1998 to 68 percent at the end
 o f 2004.   Even though this decline is less than needed to reach the poverty related
 Millennium Development Goal (MDG), which aims to reduce the proportion o f
 Zambians whose income is less than one dollar a day by 50 percent between 1990 and
 2015, the decline is a welcome outcome after decades o f decreasing incomes and
 increasing poverty. Real GDP Growth i s estimated to equal 4.3 percent for 2005 albeit
 the country experienced a drought for the 2004/05 farming season and witnessed serious
 fuel shortages in the fall o f 2005 because o f an unanticipated production failure at the
 local refinery.

 6.         These positive growth and poverty developments are supported and for a large
part driven by favorable external developments. Zambia's terms o f trade improved by
21.9 percent and an estimated 2.1 percent in2004 and 2005 respectively. This has led to
a decline inits current account deficit after grants from 7.5 percent o f GDP in2003 to 3.7
percent in 2004 and an estimated 4.6 percent for 2005.           The main source o f this
improvement is the exceptional rise in copper prices by approximately 100 percent
between 2003 and 2005.         This combined with a recovery in copper production has
allowed growth o f export proceeds to outperform increases in imports. Imports rose
sharply during this period as well triggered by rising fuel costs and imports of related
investment goods for the mining sector inparticular. Inaddition, non traditional exports
have also grown rapidly amounting to an estimated US$540 million for 2005 up by 115
percent compared to its US$ level in 2000. As a result, overall export levels measured in
US$ in 2005 are estimated to amount to US$2.1 billion, almost three times the leveI o f
exports in2000.

7.         These improvements inthe external environment have resulted in a buildup o f
international reserves which stand now at 1.4 months o f imports, still a relatively low
level, but up from less than 1month o f imports at the beginning o f this millennium. The
favorable external developments have impacted the Kwacha, which has been appreciating
inrealterms by approximately 8 percent annually in2003 and2004, andappreciated over
17 percent alone over the first 8 months o f 2005.       The impact o f this appreciation,
brought about by a fundamental improvement in Zambia's external environment, on its
competitiveness can be curtailed if it i s matched by increasing productivity and reducing
the cost o f doing business.

8.         After years o f weak fiscal policy implementation, the authorities have
improved budget execution and reduced its domestic financing needs drastically.
Domestic borrowing was reduced from 5.1 percent in2003 to 0.8 percent in2004, which

                                             - 5 -


 has crowded in credit resources available to the private sector and reduced yields on
 bonds and T Bills significantly. In 2005, the overall fiscal deficit i s estimated to be
 around 2.7 percent o f GDP, up slightly from a low 1.7 percent deficit in2004. Under the
 recently issued Medium Term Expenditure Framework for the period 2006-08, domestic
 borrowing is expected to remain subdued allowing domestic resources to be increasingly
 channeled through the banking system to much needed private investment.

 9.        The reduction o f the deficit from 6.6 percent in 2003 to an estimated 2.7
 percent o f GDP for 2005, has basically taken the fiscal angle out o f inflation.
 Nevertheless, inflation remains relatively high and stood at 17.2 percent for November
 2005, 1.1 percent lower, than the CPI inflation for November 2004. The smaller than
 anticipated reduction in inflation i s mostly caused by the effect o f the drought on food
 prices and the increase in oil prices on the world market. Monetary policy itself has
 become tighter with growth in broad money falling from 60 percent in 2000 to an
 estimated 18 percent in2005.

 10.       The Government is in the process of preparing its next National Development
Plan, which will cover the period 2006-10 and which is to focus on growth and its
contribution to poverty reduction. It i s recognized that through fiscal consolidation and
public expenditure management reforms e.g. introduction o f program budgeting and
commitment control mechanisms in particular, the government is in a better position to
provide not only a growthhvestment conducive macro economic environment but also
to better direct its expenditure programs to those in need and on those public investment
programs and services that will allow the poor to be able to more fully participate in and
benefit fi-om the current economic growth momentum inZambia.


 111.          PROGRESSAGAINST TRANCHE RELEASE CRITERIA

11.        The Government has maintained a satisfactory macroeconomic framework.
This has been confirmed by a positive second review under the PRGF arrangement,
which was concluded on April 8, 2005. Zambia's current three-year arrangement in the
amount o f SDR220.1 million was approved by the IMF Board on June 16, 2004. Its
Executive Board is tentatively scheduled to conduct the third review o f the program on
January 11,2006. IMF staff has informed IDA that performance under the program has
been broadly satisfactory. All quantitative performance criteria and benchmarks for the
third review, which is based on program benchmarks for June 2005, were met, while all
but one o f the performance criteria for end-September was met. Under the structural
program, all performance criteria have been met. Some benchmarks were, however,
implemented with some delay.

12.        The conditions o f release referred inparagraph (d) o f section 2.02 and listed in
Schedule 2 o f the Development Credit Agreement (DCA) betweenthe Borrower and IDA
dated Decemberl6, 2004, state that for the release o f the second tranche the following
milestones mustbe fulfilled:

                                            - 4 -


 Milestone1: TheBorrower's Ministry of Finance and National Planning (MoFNP) has
 adopted a time-bound restructuringplanfor payment of the Borrower 's arrears to utility
 and insurance companies in accordance withparagraph 9 of the LDP.

 13.        This milestonehas been met. The Borrower has made separate arrangements
with each o fthe relevant utility andinsurance companies to dismantle the stock o f arrears
 ina time boundmanner. Inaddition, to strengthen oversight and control over the utility
payments and insurance premiums, the MoFNP has decided to pay all utility bills and
 insurance premiums directly from the Treasury and debit the transfers it makes to the
 government agencies that are beingbilledby the utilities andthe insurance companies.

Milestone 2: The Borrower's Cabinet has approved a financial reform program for
Public Sector Pension Fund (PSPF) including: (a) a proposal to the Constitutional
Review Commission to change theprovisions of article 124 of the Constitution; and (b) a
reform program for PSPF that ensures the Jinancial sustainability of the fund, all in
accordance with paragraph 14of the LDP.

 14.       This milestone has been met. InNovember 2005, Cabinet approved PSPF's
reform proposal including the constitutional amendments that will allow PSPF to
undertake those reforms that will put the fund on a sound financial footing. Government
has indicated that it will pursue parliamentary approval o f the changes needed to the
constitution. This will allow the reform program to be implemented within a shorter
timeframe, greatly reducing the cost to the Zambian economy.

Milestone 3: The National Pension Scheme Authority (NAPSA) has: (a) adopted a
revised investment policy, appointed a global custodian and selected a pension fund
manager; (b) adopted an operations manual on corporategovernance; and (e) developed
aprogramfor training trustees, all in accordance withparagraph 14 of the LDP.

15.        This milestonehas been substantively met. A revised investment policy that
instructs NAPSA to invest inassets externally was adopted by NAPSA's Board in2005.
This requires the appointments o f a global custodian and pension fund manager.

16.        Although not yet final, the lengthy process o f selecting a global custodian and
NAPSA's first international asset manager is nearing completion.            A request for
proposals from global custodians is now pending before. the Tender Board o f the
Government o f Zambia.     Simultaneously, NAPSA is developing a short list o f asset
managers from an expression o f interest to which 16, mostly well-known, international
asset managers responded. Drafting a request for proposals from prospective short-listed
bidders i s also underway. The draft proposal will be submitted to the NAPSA Board o f
Directors for review and comment inJanuary. This review is essential since the Board is
responsible for development and oversight o f NAPSA investment guidelines.             The
request for proposals will be submitted to the tender board following approval o f the
Board.    It should be acknowledged that institutional reforms o f this type take time,
require consensus building and therefore their exact pace cannot be determined with full

                                             - 5 -


 certainty at the outset. However, NAPSA's management has reiterated its commitment to
 without undue delay appoint the global custodian and hndmanager in2006.

 17.        With regard to sub milestone (b), an operational manual on corporate
 governance was prepared and adopted by NAPSA's board. The training program, sub
 milestone (c), as well as the training itself has taken place with participation not only of
NAPSA's trustees but was also attended by officials o f the Ministry of Labor, including
 the Minister, and members o f the Board o f PSPF.

 Milestone 4: TheBorrower has madeprogress in theprocess of adopting the necessary
 revisions to the Building SocietiesAct, the National Savings and Credit Bank (NSCB)Act
 and the Development Bank of Zambia (DBZ)Act, all in accordance withparagraph 19 of
 the LDP.

 18.        This milestone has been met. The necessary changes to the legal acts of the
 above mentioned state-owned non-bank financial institutions (NBFIs) with the objective
to bring each o f them under the Banking and Financial Services (BFS) Act such that all
supervisory powers are with the Bank o f Zambia (BoZ) has been adopted by Parliament.
These amendments to the Building Societies Act, the National Savings and Credit Bank
Act and the Development Bank o f Zambia Act have been signed into Law by the
President inOctober 2005.

Milestone 5: The Borrower has commenced implementing its jkancial sector
development plan pertaining to the reform of state-owned NBFIs including NSCB, ZNBS
and DBZ, to ensure that: (a) nopublicfunds will be used with respect to NSCB, ZNBS or
DBZ without a businessplan; (b) operations restrictions on DBZ shall remain in effect
until at least 75% of its equity is committed by aprivate entity; and (c) DBZ shall not: (i)
accept deposits; and (ii) raise any loan requiring government guarantee, all in
accordance withparagraph 19of the LDP.

19.         This milestone has been met. The financial sector development plan, which
was endorsed by Cabinet inJuly 2004, identified gaps inZambia's financial sector intwo
particular crucial areas: (i)
                            provision o f investment finance and (ii) provision o f financial
services for Zambia's poor both in urban and rural areas. Inorder to fill these identified
gaps, DBZ and NSCB are to be restructured to provide the Zambian population with
these essential services.   Government has put in place an implementation framework
through a Memorandum o f Understanding (MoU) for each of the three state-owned
NBFIs. These MoUs were signed by the BoZ, MoFNP and management o f each o f the
three state-owned NBFIs. The MoUs designate the B o Z as the implementing agency o f
the restructuring process. Inaddition, Cabinet also reviewed the proposed changes to the
status o f the state-owned NBFIs and agreed inprinciple to the proposed transformation o f
each o fthem.

20.         Inthe case of DBZ the agreed restrictions as spelled out inthe milestone have
been hlly adhered to and are an integral part o f its M o U with the B o 2 and the MoFNP.
The M o U between BoZ, MoFNP and NSCB management provides adequate guarantees

                                           - 6 -


 that NSCB will not engage in activities that will negatively add to its financial situation.
 In addition, the International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD) is providing
 technical assistance to improve management o f NSCB as well as project financing to
 assist the rural farming communities inZambia. The operational restrictions on ZNBS as
 specified inthe M o Uhave not ledto a recovery o f ZNBS's balance sheet

 Milestone 6: The Borrower's Ministry of Finance and National Planning has tabled in
 the Borrower's legislature the annual budgetfor theyear 2005 including an annex which
 compares the estimated expenditures for the year 2005 with the budget releasesfor the
years 2004 and 2003, in a summary table aggregated by budget head, showing the
Personnel Emoluments (PE) and non-PE expendituresfrom the Borrower's resources all
 in accordance withparagraph 27 of the LDP.

21.         This milestone has been met. Due to confusion around the interpretation o f
those articles in Zambia's constitution that stipulate which documents need to be
presented with the budget for next fiscal year to Parliament, the Ministry o f Finance and
National Planning issued the annex at the time the Medium Term Expenditure
Framework for 2006-08 was presented to Parliament, which took place in November
2005.     Note that however for the first time the 2005 budget document included a
summary table that compares the estimated expenditures for 2005 with the budget
releases for the year 2004 and the original budgeted expenditures for the year 2004 as
well as the releases for 2003 per head but not disaggregated by PE and non-PE
expenditures.

Milestone 7: The Borrower's Public Sector Management Department in the Cabinet
Office has consolidated routine and current allowances into base salary and reduced the
overall ratio of allowances to base salary subject to negotiations with Public Service
Unions and the identflcation of their jiscal implications in accordance with paragraph
30 of the LDP.

22.        This milestonehas been met. Zambia's civil service regulations identify over
50 allowances. In 2005, Government merged 14 general allowances into base pay for
civil servants and froze the nominal amounts for those allowances independent o f the
recipient's base pay.     This has indeed resulted in a decline o f the overall ratio o f
allowances to base salary. It should be noted that the wage negotiations in 2005 were
tense as wages had been frozen innominal terms for almost two years and that therefore
it was extremely difficult to ask for additional changes in conditions o f service, which
could have led to a firther and more substantive decline inthe ratio o f allowances to base
salary.

23.        Government has also embarked on a comprehensive review o f its pay structures
as part o f its overall reform program in the area o f public sector management.       This
reform effort i s supported by several donors including the Bank through a Sector Wide
Approach (SWAP). IDA'Sproposed contribution to Zambia's public sector management
reform program will be presented to our Board o f Executive Directors for approval in

                                              - 7 -


January, 2006 and includes support for the proposed pay reform which deals with the
absorption o f allowances into basepay.

Milestone 8: The Borrower's Ministry of Finance and National Planning has (a)
transferred the payroll to the Payroll Management and Establishment Control (PMEC)
system; (b) trained users of the system in all of the Borrower's central ministries; (e)
based Personal Emoluments releases on PMEC; (d) matched each public servant to a
specijic post on the establishment; and (e) ceased to pay public servants whose post is
not on the establishment, except in relation to those identi9ed for retrenchment but not
yet paid 08all    in accordance withparagraph 30 of the LDP.

24.        This milestone has been met. The transfer o f the payroll to the new PMEC
system was completed in October 2005 when the transfer o f the staff o f Ministry o f
Health was completed. The payment o f salaries and benefits o f November 2005 i s based
on the PMEC system.         Government trained all users o f the system in each central
ministry before moving their specific payroll to the new PMEC system. Inthese cases
were the transfer involved decentralized staff, the government agency responsible for the
roll out also trained staffinthe districts andprovinces.

25.        Each civil servant which has been transferred from the old payroll system to
PEMC system has been matched to a specific post on the establishment. Approximately
five thousand civil servants out o f a total o f 115 thousand could not be matchedto a post
on the establishment. Before deciding on retrenchment o f those servants whose post i s
not on the establishment, the public service management division inthe Cabinet Office i s
evaluating the qualifications o f this group o f civil servants to see ifthey can be allocated
a post on the establishment that has remained vacant in another government agency.
Once this process has come to an end the Government i s committed to retrenching the
remainder o f this group o f civil servants in 2006 and a budgetary allocation has been
made for this exercise inthe draft budget for 2006.


                             IV.            CONCLUSION

26.        Inview ofthe overallperformance andprogress withthe implementationofthe
program supported by the Credit and in compliance with the specific conditions o f
release as described in paragraphs (13-27) above the International Development
Association has informed the Borrower o f the availability o f the second tranche in the
amount o f SDR13.7 million (US$19.8 millionequivalent).

