Dmument of
The World Bai
FOR OmCAL US ONLY
Rqut N. P-5923-HO
REPORT AND RECOMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT  OF  E
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED AGRTCULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO
SDR 43.3 MILLION (US$60.0 MILLION)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS
JULY 14, 1993
MICROGRAPHICS
Report No: P- 5923 HO
Type: PR
This document has a restricted distribution and may be nsed by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not othenrise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of June 30, 1993)
Currency Unit    =    Lempira
US$1.0           =    L7.00
L 1.0            =    US$0.18
SDR 1.0          =    US$1.38612
On June 19, 1992, the Central Bank introduced
a freely floating exchange rate regime.
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS
AFE          -      Public Forestry Sector
AMDP         -      Agricultural Modernization and Development Program
AMI          -      Intensive Management Program
AGSAC        -      Agricultural Sector Adjustment Credit
BANADESA  -         Agricultural Development Bank
BANASUPRO -         National Basic Products Supplies
BAS          -      Business Advisory Service
BCH          -      Central Bank
BMI          -      Mother and Child Coupon
BMJF         -      Woman Head-of-Household Coupon
CACM         -      Central American Common Market
CEM          -      Country Economic Memorandum
CFF          -      Compensatory Financing Facility
CG           -      Consultative Group
CIDA         -      Canadian International Development Agency
CODA         -      Committee for Agricultural Development
COHDEFOR  -         Honduran Corporation for Forestry Development
CONAMA    -         National Enviromnental Commission
CPAR         -      Country Procurement Assessment Review
CSIR         -      Country Strategy and 1Iplementation Review
EAP          -      Environmental Action Plan
EEC          -      European Economic Community
ENEE         -      National Power Company
ESAC         -      Energy Sector Adjustment Credit
ESAF         -      Extended Structural Adjustment Facility
ESW          -      Economic and Sector Work
FFI          -      Formal Financil Intennediaries



101R OIICM& USE ONLY
PHIS         -      Honduran Soci Invesmen Fund
FLAS         -      Foreig   vestment Advisory Service
GATT         -      General Agree_m on Tariff and Trade
GDP          -      Gross Domestic Product
GNP          -      Gross Nadonal Product
G00H         -      Government o Hondas
GT:          -      Germa Association for Technical Cooperation
IlDB         -      hnter-American Development Bank
IDF          -      Is          Development Fund
IFPC         -      International Finance Corporation
HHMA         -      Hondura Agricultural Market  Instute
IMP          -      Interational Monetary Fund
INA          -      National Aga Instite
LMA          -      Law for the Modernization and Development of the
Agriculral Sector
LIA          -      Agrrian Reform LAw
MIGA         -      Multlateral Inveatm   Guarntee Ageny
NAFTA        -      North Amedcan Free Trde Agreement
NEAP         -      National Environmnl Action Plan
NGO          -      Non-Goveramental Organization
PFMU         -      Public Forest Management Units
PFP          -      Policy Framework Paper
POA          -      Anual Opeating Program
PRAP         -      Family Assistn  Program
PS?          -      Policy Support Program
RUTA         -      Regional Unit for Technical Assistance
SAC          -      Stuctural Adjustme  Credit
SAL          -      Strucral Adjustment Loan
SANAA        -      Public Water Udlity Company
SlTC         -      Standard International Trade Classification
SOE          -      Statement of Expendures
SRN          -      Secretriat of Naural Resources
TOR          -      Terms of Reference
UNCTAD       -      Unied Nations Confer   on Trade and Development
UNDP         -      United Nations Development Prgrmme
UPSA         -      Agriultural Sector Planing Unit
USMD         -      United States Ageny for Ieational Development
WID          -      Women in Developmet
Thb document hs a resucted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the prfornwnce
of their officW dutis Its contents may not otherise be diclosed without World Bank authorLi.,~



HONDURAS
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
PART I - COUNTRY POLICIES AND BANK GRO)UP ASSISTANCE STRATEGY ........                                         1
A. Historical Perpective and Recent Performmce  ........................    1
B. The External Environment .....................................    4
C. Country Development Objectives and Policies .........................    6
D. Bank Group Country Assistance Strategy ............................   14
E. Summary Assessment ........................................   19
PART II - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR PROGRAM   ........................   19
A. Sector Overview  ...........................................   19
B. Sectoral Development Program and Recent Reforms  ......................   20
C. Land Tenure  .............................................   21
D. Forestry  ................................................   23
E. Rural Fimmce            .....................               ........................   26
F. Government Expenditure and Public Administradon  .....................  28
PART III - THE PROPOSED AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT ....... 29
A. Bank Experience and Rationale for Lending for Agriculture  ................  29
B. Tranche Release Conditions  ....................................   30
C. Procuremet, Disbursement and Auditing ...............                    I    .............   31
D. Benefits, Impa  on Environment and Risk ...........................   32
PART iv - RECOMMENDATION  .......................................   35
LIST OF TABLES AND BOXES
Table 1 - Selected Macroeconomic ndicators ..................................  4
Table 2 - Honduras Country Portfolio ...................................... 17
Box   1 - Women in Development .........................................  7
Box 2 - Safety Net Operations .              ......................................... 8
Box  3 - Environmen    Strategy ......................................... 12
LIST OF ANNEXES
1. Standard Macroeconomic Data
2. Policy Matrix
3. Letter of Agricultural Development Policy
4. Agricultral Sector Reforms
5. Policy Support Program
6. Environmental and Economic Impact Assessment c 'the Changes in Forestry Policy
Embodied in Law 31-92
7. Supplemental Loan Data Sheet
8. Action Plan. Implementation Progress
This report was prepaed by Ms. G. C   a (Task Manager, LAAG), with conribu n from Ms. C. Kimes and
Mesrs. D. Cotlear and J. Kuhn (LA2C2), Messrs. A. Peller, H. Hevia, R. Ravettio, G. Sclrooder, D. Blaer and T.
Downing (Consudta). Ms. Patricia Gross asised with the wordrocessig of this reporL The Divs    Chief is
Michael Baxter and the Countrv Denartmet Dirtor is Edliht Sesua.



HONDURAS
AGI[CULTORAL SECTOI ADJUSTM T CRlDIT
CREDIT AND PROGRAr SUMMR
Borower:            Republic of Honduras
Amount:             SDR43.3 million (US$60.0 million equivalent)
E     4 1eoft  Agac:   Ministry of Natural Resources
Baes:     Rural pouiaton engaged directy or indirecdy in agriculural and forestry
activities.
Terms:              Repayment in 40 years, including a 10 year grace period on standard IDA
terms.
Descripio:          The proposed credit would support the Government's medium-erm
Agricultura Sector Modenation and Development Program which is
designed to: (a) improve land use by supporting modifications to the Agrarian
Reform Law (LRA) to seure land propeny rights, sUppoIt the development of
land markets and consolidate the process of the agrarian reform; (b) lay the
basis for a sustinable management of the countrs rich forest resources by
improving forestry property rights and reorienting the role of the public
foestry sector towards the protection and management of the forest and the
promotion of biodivesity conservadon; and (c) help improve sector planing
and coordinaton by strngein and making better use of the budgeing
process. It will also consoldate reforms in trade, agricultural pricmg policy,
gran markeing, and rural finamce implmented during 1990-1992 and
supported by the Second Strucural Adjustmnt Loan (Loan 3257-HO).
The proposed Agriculturl Sector Adjustent Credit (AGSAC) is exected to
benefit Honduras' agicultural sector through: (a) improved resource ailocaion
resulting from the elimination of disortions associed with price and trade
policies, credit subsidies, and regulations and legislation related to land use
and forestry; (b) improved inv     climate by supporting cages in the
land and frestry legislation to guarantee security of land tenure and private
property rights in forest resources; (c) inreased employment as a result of the
expected acceleation of agricultural growth and the expansion of more labor
intensive activities; (d) laying the basis for a more rational management of
forest resources and better protection of the forest !y improving the system of
land and timber property rights and lminatn legal provisions that promote
deforestation; and (e) supportg  equal rights for womet i the agrrian
reform process and credit by elimiing discriminatory provisions in the
acces to land. As a result of past and proposed adjustment actions in
Honduras, the agriculual sector is expected to grow at an average rate of



- ii -
more than 4.0 pecent per year during project implementation compared to 3.0
percent experienced during the previous decade.
ML.                 There are three major risks associated with the proposed operation. First, the
introduction of policy reforms may prove difficult to implement becase of
public opposition, particularly since the country has entered its presidential
election year. To minimize this risk, the introduction of of key policy
reforms were required prior to Board Presentation. (Satisfactory
modifications to the land tenure and forestry laws and regulations have been
sanctioned, and te institutions responsible for overseeing the implementation
of the new policy implementation are being restructured satisfactorily).
Govemment (GOH) held extensive discussions with farmers' groups and
azsociations and the private sector to seek consensus on the proposed reforms
of the Law for the Modernization and Development of the Agricultural Sector
(LMA) and its regulations. In addition, GOH has been conducting a series of
seminars explaining the objectives and implications of the proposed policy
changes. Second, GOH has a weak institutional capacity. Policy reforms
supported under the AGSAC will substantally reduce the role of the state by
ehiiinatng functions related directy to production and marketing. Scarce
GOH manpower resources would be better utilized in a regulatory role and as
a ptrveyor of key services. GOH has requested the donor community to
readjust their existing technical assistance projects to strengthen its capacity to
implement the new agricuiral legislation. In addition, GOH is carrying out
a Policy Support Program (PSP) to strengthen its policy planning,
management, implementation and donor coordination capabilities. A third
possible risk is that initially, the process of returning property rights of the
forest to landowners could accelerate harvesting until the new system is
trusted and Honduran Corporation for Forestry Development (COHDEFOR)
is fully restucured and empowered to monitor and enforce rational harvesting
on public and private forest lands, and safeguard protected areas. In addition,
and due to the poor land information system and deficiencies in land
regisration, the process of reurning forest rights to forest landowners could
induce illegal occupancy of government land and the displacement of settlers
from private lands. To minimize such possible impacts, supported by the
AGSAC, GOH: (a) is supporting the implementation of an arbitration system
to protect famers' legal and de facto rights; (b) has spelled out in the
regulations to the LMA the steps for individuals and communities to take to
caim forest rights; (c) will intensify cadastral work and the identification of
areas suited for forest development; and (d) is reorganizing the public forest
administtion empowering it to monitor and enforce the new policy.
1 X _  :            The proceeds of the IDA credit would be disbursed in ftfree tranches:
SDR18.1 million (US$25.0 million equivalent) upon effectiveness, SDR10.8
million (US$15.0 million) after a satisfactory performance review anticipated
for June 1994, and the remaining SDR14.4 million (US$20.0 million
equivalent) after a satisfactory performance review anticipated for March



1995. RPoative fincing wi be peottd for eligible expedu
Inced beginig four months prior to the credt siging date up to an
amount equivaet to SDR8.66 mdllion (US$12.0 million equivalent). The
Clesing Date will be June 30, 1995.
Schedue d
D;sbwse_ :   llDA FdYear                        T            T
-SS milion
Anual                       40           20
Cumulative                  40           60
Financing Plan:     The loe-American Devdeopmnt Bank is co-financing the same Agriculural
Modenization and Delopment Prom to be supported by the proposed
AGSAC with a loan of US$50.0 million
A     pfrod kReporit:   This is a combined Staff Appras u  Presiden's Report.
L- 14HNISACARSAYUP
Juy14. 99



PERT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE  EDENT
OF THE          ATIONAL DEVELOPNT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTNT CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$60.0 MILLION
TO THE REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS
1.   I submit the following report and recommendations on a proposed Agricultural Sector Adjustment
Credit (AGSAC) to the Republic of Honduras for the equivalent of SDR43.3 million (US$60.0 million
equivalent) in support of the implementation of an Agricultural Modernization and Development Program
(AMDP). This program is described in the Letter of Agricultural Developmert Policy (Annex 3). The credit
would be on standard IDA terms, with 40 years including a grace period of 10 years. The program is being
cofinanced with a US$50 million loan from the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB).
PART I - COUNTRY POLICIES AND BANK GROUP ASSISTANCE STRATEGY
A. Historical Perspective and Recent Performance
Background
2. Honduras ranks among the least developed countries in the Western Hemisphere. The economy is
relatively small (with an estinated GDP of about US$3 biflion), and highly sensitive to changes in the
external environment because of its dependence on a few vommodities and on donor assistance. Per capita
GNP (1992) is estimated at U'$580, and poor social indicators reflect this low level of development. About
one-third of the population is estimated to live in extreme poverty. Agriculture accounts for almost 25
percent of GDP and generates over 80 percent of merchandise exports. Banana and coffee account for over
60 percent of export receipts, although the economy has been diversifying rapidly over the past three years
into non-traditional export commodities such as fruits, vegetables, and shrimp. Forestry potential is substan-
tial, but requires sound policies and careful management to ensure sustainable development. Manufacturing
and mining combined also account for about 25 percent of GDP. Manufacturing was traditionally dominated
by agro-industries, but has diversified in recent years to include apparel, electric appliances, leather goods,
and other exportables, produced mainly for the US market. Honduras has considerable mineral resources
and hydrocarbon potentiai, but oil exploration has been limited. The service sector (including public adminis-
tration) accounts for about 50 percent of GDP.
Historical Perspective
3. 1980W1989. During the 1980s, Honduras experienced a steady deterioration in the rate of economic
growth, accompanied by increasing trade and fiscal imbalas. In the 1970s, GDP growth averaged 4.5
percent annually, stinulated by high public and private expenditures. While exports grew at an average
annual rate of only 3.7 percent, imports grew rapidly throughout the 1970s, reaching more than 40 percent
of GDP by the early 1980s. The combination of strong domestic demand and sluggish exports resulted in
the emergence of balance of payments problems, which were managed in the early 1980s by recourse to
bilateral and multilateral credit. However, in the absence of sustained policy reforms, economic performance
deteriorated. During the 1980s, real annual GDP growth declined to an average of 2.5 percent, national
savings dropped significantly, and public sector deficits averaged 8 percent of GDP. Between 1980 and 1989,
Honduras' total external debt more than doubled, from US$1.5 billiou to US$3.3 billion, of which 70 percent
was owed to official creditors. When exernal sources of finance began to dry up in the late 1980s, the
Government resorted to external arrears and domestic sources to finance the public sector deficit. This
intensified pressure on the balance of payments and provoked an increase in inflation. By the end of 1989,
annual inflation had reached 20 percent (wholesale price index), the parallel exchange rate was twice the offi-



-2 -
cial rate, external arrears amounted to US$620 million, and the country was cut off from intemnational credi-
tors.
4.   Behind the poor economic performance of the 1980s and the crisis of 1989 lay deep-seated structural
problems. Honduras' development strategy had been based on import substitution behind high protective
barriers and had relied on extensive Government intervention via credit subsidies, price controls, and tax
incentives. This had resulted in: (a) a large and inefficient public sector; (b) extensive administative controls
over economic activities, discouraging efficient private sector development; (c) an export sector dependent
on a few agricultural products; (d) a trade regime that discouraged the growth of ntn-traditional exports; and
(e) inefficient financial uatermediation, contributing to low domestic savings. Little attention had been given
to investing in human rescurces with the consequence that labor force skills and capacities were largely
underdeveloped. Successive governents were slow in taking corrective measuies to address these structural
problems, because Honduras received record inflows of foreign assistance throughout the 1980s, that camou-
flaged the seriousness of underlying economic trends. As much of the assistance was linked to the 'Contra
War" being fought along the Honduras-Nicaragua border and structural constraints were not addressed, it did
relatively lilde to contribute to an expansion of the country's productive capacity and economic advancement.
It did, however, support an expansion in the size of the military establishment and help increase the latter's
already considerable influence in domestic politics. The Government elected in November 1989 was therefore
faced with the delicate task of introducing long overdue economic reforms while forging a new political
balance between civilian and miltay authorities.
5.   1990-1992.  The current Government, which took offlce in January 1990, was committed to
implementing a far-reaching economic reform and poverty alleviation program. The basic goals of the
adjustment program were to: (a) re-establish macroeconomic stability; (b) reduce the size of the public sector
and strengthen public sector management; (c) improve the incentive framework for private investors through
deregulation, trade liberalization, and financial sector reform; and (d) shift resources into priority social
programs, and establish a safety-net for the poor during the adjustment period. The Govermment was also
interested in normalizing its relations with the international financial community as quicldy as possible, with
the objective of resuming needed inflows of capital for investment, restructuring the country's external debt,
and having access to technical and financial assistance for its reform program.
6.   The first phase of the economic reform progrm was introduced in March 1990 when the Government
substantially reduced maximum import tariffs, eliminated most tariff exemptions and surcharges, devalued
the lempira by 100 percent, approved major tax increases to enhance revenues, and attempted to rein in
current expendituras. The impact of these measures, when combined with worker strikes, flooding, and oil
price increases linked to the Gulf crisis, was a contraction in economic output in 1990. The economy
registered only 0.1 percent real growth in 1990, the fiscal deficit reached 8 percent of GDP, the current
account deficit grew sharply to 11 percent of GDP, and inflation rose to about 36 percent, fueled by price
adjustments and expansionary fiscal policies. In 1991, the Government deepened and extended its reform
cfforts, with major policy changes including: introduction of flexible exchange rate management and further
reduction of tariff levels and dispersion; elimination of most restrictions on domestic and foreign trade;
removal of price controls on agricultual commodities; reforms in pricing of public services and improved
tax collection; liberalization of lending interest rates; eliination of subsidies on all Central Bank rediscount
credit lines; and reclassification of commecial bank portfolios and strengthening of loan loss provisioning
requirements. Restructring programs were introduced for major public enterp.ises which had been signifi-
cant contributors to the fiscal deficit. In mid-1992, the Government authorized coimmercial banks and foreign
exchange houses to freely buy and sell foreign exchange, moving for all intents and purposes to a floating
foreign exchange regime.



7.   The cumulative impact of these reforms began to show positive results during the second half of 1991.
In 1991 real GDP grew by an estimated 3.2 percent, the fiscal deficit shrank by more than 4 percentage
points to about 3.7 percent of GDP, and inflation fell to about 22 percent. The current account deficit
remained virtually unchangeJ, however, at 11 percent of GDP. Data for 1992 indicate that economic
performance continued to improve. Inflation only amounted to 6.5 percent, and CDP grew by 4.3 percent.
The fiscal deficit, however, deteriorated daring the course of the year to about 4 percent, due to an increase
in public investment equivalent to 0.6 percent of GDP. Selected macroeconomic indicators for 1990-92 are
presented in Table 1.
8.   The Government complemented its macroeconomic adjustment efforts with a series of detailed sectoral
reform programs. Common to the different sector reform initiatives has been the emphasis on scaling back
direct State imervention and creating a favorable environment for private sector development.  A
comprehensive energy sector reform program was introduced in late 1991. Its major elements comprised
strengthening sector planning and policy coordination, aligning electricity tariffs with long-run marginal costs,
improving management and operational efficiency of the national power company (ENEE), and gradually
liberalizing the petroleum sub-sector. To create a more favorable environment for private sector
development, Congress approved a new Investment Code in May 1992 that streamlined administrative
procedures for investors, conferred the same rights and privileges on foreign and domestic investors, and lib-
eralized dividend and capital repatriation regulations. The Government has also begun implementing a major
reform progiam in the agricultural sector to complement the trade and pricing measures introduced under
the structural adjusmexnt program. This program, to be supported by the proposed AGSAC, is discussed in
Part n.
9. The Government cleared Honduras' accumulated external debt arrears in two stages. The vast
majority of multilateral arrears was paid off in mid-1990, and the bulk of bilateral arrears was handled in the
context of a Paris Club rescheduling agreement in September 1990. Honduras had been declared IDA-eligible
in August 1990 on the basis of its heavy indebtedness, low income level, and marginal creditworthiness. In
rescheduling arrears and debt service, the Paris Club extended its most generous terms for highly-indebted,
lower middle-income countries. Honduras was reclassified as an IDA-only country in September 1991, and
in February 1992, the International Monetary Fund (IME) placed it on the list of countries eligible to borrow
from the Extended Structural Adjustment Facility (ESAP). Following the approval of a 1992-95 ESAF
program in July 1992, the Paris Club agreed in October 1992 to reschedule debt service falling due during
the ESAF period, on enbanced-Trinidad terms. As part of that agreement, the Paris Club offered to cancel
one-half of Honduras' US$1 billion outstanding debt at the end of the ESAF period, if the Government
satisfactorily implements the three year ESAP program. The Government has also worked with commercial
bank creditors to retire external commercial debt via debt conversions, and has recently applied to the IDA
Debt Reduction Facility for assistance in implementng a commercial debt reduction operation.
Recent Performance
10.  The significant progress made since 1990 in eliminating major macro- and sector-level distortions pro-
vides a good foundation for cond  improve   in economic performance during 1993 and beyond.
GDP growth in 1993 is expected to be reasonably solid at 4.3 percent. However, fiscal performance
deteriorated sharply in the first half of 1993, reflecdng in part pressures arising from elections scheduled in
November. Public sector expendituMs (both current and capital) rose to unsustainable levels, resulting in a
fiscal deficit equivalent to 5.9 percent of GDP on an anual basis and reflected in an increased inflation rate
of 12 percent. Once this predicament became apparent to them, the Authorities acted swifty to bring the
fiscal situation back under control. In close collaboration with the IMF, they developed a set of corrective
measures which are expected to reduce the deficit to 3.8 percent of GDP for 1993 as a whole. Principal
actions include introdhution of a tax on revalued assets, a major reduction in fuel subsidies, selective cutting



'-4 -
of capital expenditures, and increasing reveme from import duties through a higher customs evaluation factor
.(this is, in essence, the exchange rate at which imports are valued for duty collection purposes). Furtier
meur  will be taken to reduce the 1994 fiscal deficit to 2 perent of GDP. These will include the virtual
elimination of fuel subsidies, a broadening of the sales tax, and the introduction of toll charges on main roads.
D. The 1E tnlEnonme
11. The outcm of Honduras's economic progrm is closely linked to developments in the external
t      ,irnmm given the coutry's dwepdence on twfo prkany export oomodities and on large foreign capital
infows fhom private investors and the donor community. The critical variables for the remainder of thi8
decade inclue price movemens for banant and coff*e (as tbe account for over 60 percent of export
earnhng), a-ado policies of its mqjor trding parmer, foreign investr decisions, anld tellds in officia
m8is e, pardculaly from bilateal sources Overall, edW ftreds in the eatml environmenlt would
appea to placserious cons  bt on Honduras' developmet prospects over the mediun term,wt
potenly sevee iVmpat on domestic fincme and Governmen revemlue. Cbmequetly, sounld ecownumc



-  -
management and continued domestic reforms will be even more critical than would be the case in a more
favorable external environment.
12.  Bana exports will be affected by the current European Economic Community (EEC) plans to impose
import quotas on Latim American exporters. Although estimates of the net impact of these measures on
Honduran exports vary, the banana industry has canceled substantial investment plans in the pipeline for
Honduras, and the Government anticipates dtat the volume of exports will stagnate at its 1992 leve' (which
was substantially lower than that achieved in 1988). It is also likely that the EEC import restrictions will
depress world prices, leading to the possibility of firther revenue losses. Banana exporters are aggressively
pursuing alternative market outlets in the Far East and in Eastern Europe, but even with these expansion
possibilities, market prospects appear bleak in the medium term.
13.  International prices for Honduran coffee were at their lowest average ever in 1991 and 1992. Present
indications suggest that they will remain at this low level for 1993, and that they will recover at a slow pace
thereafter. However, any possibility of a significant price increase during the first half of the 1990s is likely
to be dampened by the release of stocks in the coffee importing countries. Real prices are projected to
strengthen in the second half of the 1990s.
14. One of the major factors that will determine the success of Honduras' economic program will be the
ability to attract private fore   investmnt for export-oriented ventures (e.g., agriculture, tourim, m ,
apparel) as well as for domestic production and service delivery (e.g., power, telecommunications). Although
there has been growing foreign investment in Honduras in recent years, particularly in Free Trade/Industrial
Processing Zones, there are now concerns that potential new investment might be diverted to Mexico if the
North Amencan Free Trade AReement (NAFTA) is ratified and implmented. To increase Honduras'
atractiveness as an investment site and facilitate internationl trade opportunities, the Government has been
activc in pursuing membership in the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATI) (its membership
application is under review) and in negoiDang free trade agreements with other Central American countries
in the famework of the Central American Common Market (CACM). While these trade initiatives will help,
Honduras' export prospects will remain limited for the foreseeable future.
15. With competing demands for assistance from Eastern Europe and the former Soviet Union, as well as
for supporting the peace process in El Salvador and Nicaragua, official transfers to Honduras are declining
and are expected to continue to fall during the rest of the decade. Debt rescheduling will be an important
complementary ttvi iur relieving pressures on the balance of payments and releasing fimds for productive
investment. The Paris Club has rescheduled Honduras' official bilateral debt on highly concessional terms,
and, as indicated in para. 9, has offered to forgive one-half of its official debt in 1995, subject to successful
completion of the ESAF. Multilateal lending, primarily from the Iter-American Development Bank (IDB)
and IDA, has been increasing in recent years, but is not expected to be sufficient to compea  for the drop
in bilateral assistance and to close the external financing gap (see para. 41).
16.  Given the fragility of the balance of payment position, a marked deterioration in any one of these
external variables could significantly affect the country's ability to invest for the future and to service its
sizable external debt. ConseqUenty, HondUras will continUe to depend heavily on the international
community and on contnued IDA assistance for at least the next 3-5 years. To meet the challenges posed
by the difficult exeral enviroment, the Government has been actively promoting trade liberalization and
private sector investment policies that are resting in export diversification and increased revenues from non-
traditional exports. IDA has encouraged this policy orientation, and worked closely with donors through the
Consultative Group (CO) to increase concessional aid flows.



-6-
C. Country Development Objectives and Policies
17. Honduras' leaders recognize that they face difficult internal and external challenges as the country
approaches the twenty-first century. Key among these are Honduras' widespread poverty, low social
indicators, severe indebtedness, institutional weaknesses, and economic dependence on two major export
commodities. Moreover, although the economy is heavily dominated by agriculture-related activities, the
natural resource base is deteriorating rapidly. Significant progress has been achieved in eliminating major
macroeconomic and sector level distortions, but remaining inefficiencies in the marketplace and in the public
sector are keeping the country from realizing its full potential.
18.  The Government is committed to continuing the reform process in order to consolidate achievements
to date and to implementing a medium-term action pln (reflected in the 1992 Policy Framework Paper,
PFP), that gives priority to maintaining a sound macroeconomic framework and to addressing critical
development challenges. The major elements of the Government's medium term program are outlined below
and would: (1) maintain a stable macroeconomic environment, (2) reduce poverty and increase social
development indicators, (3) increase public sector efficiency, (4) stimulate private sector development and
competition, (5) improve adequacy of economic and social infrastructure, and (6) protect the environment and
promote sustainable management of the country's natural resources. The complementary actions in the
agricultural sector (see Part II), constitute an important component of the program.
19. Elections will be held in November 1993 to elect a new President, Congress, and municipal leaders,
and a new Government will take office in January 1994. IDA has initiated contacts with the two major presi-
dential candidates, and these discussions have revealed that there is basic agreement on the critical devel-
opment challenges facing the country and general support for the medium-term strategy outlined below. Both
presidential candidates have indicated that the upcoming elections should not delay work on major elements
of the medium-term program (e.g., public sector reform, education sector modernization, environmental
protection) and have requested that IDA missions maintain contact with their advisors during the pre- and
post-election period in order to facilitate the transition and enhance program continuity over the medium term.
Macroeconomic Policy Framework
20. The current Government is making efforts to prevent the types of expansionary macroeconomic policies
that often accompany the last year of an outgoing administration. The Government's aim is to hand over to
the new Government a relatively stable macroeconomic environment in order to maintain the recent growth
momentum and enhance prospects for the deepening of the structural reform effort. During its rem
time in office, the Government will focus on implehnentation of the corrective measures agreed under the
ESAF program (see para. 10) in order to prevent a resurgence of inflation and excessive fiscal pressures.
in addition to maitaining a flexible exchange rate policy and market detrmined interest rates, the
Government will continue steps to strengthen prudential supervision of the financial system. Legislation has
been submitted to Congress to establish adequate Centrai Bank supervision and regulatory powers over
financial intermediaries. It is expected that these macroeconomic policies and the reform effort will be
continued during the next administration, as both presidential candidates have expressed support for the
adjustment program.
21.  As soon as the new Government team is in place, and building on contacts already established, IDA
will exchange views on a broad range of economic issues, using as a framework for discussion a Country
Economic Memorandum (CEM) that is being prepared in collaboration with Govermnent staff. The main
focus of the CEM would be how to achieve growth with equity in the Honduran context, based on an
assessment of developments in the economy, the progress and impact of the reform program, and remaining



- 7 -
constrints to growth. Support for macroeconomic management is expected to be provided primarily through
public sector reform operations, although structural adjustment lending could be considered after an
assessment of the situation with the new Government.
Poverty Reduction and Human Resource Development
22.  Honduras face s a series of
social problems which are aggravated  :               1 
by the country's widespread poverty
and  still  unfavorable  conditions                  . . m. ...  e.....
affecting women (see Box 1). Total    ocrr        Miattu hw  Irafim.
fertility is high for Latin America    ~ ,                  ~  )~d
(about 5 per woman), and maternal
mortality rates are also amnong the                      bRt*hUjIXIM  i*f{  CV)
highest in the hemisphere (221 per      ...eI..
100,000 live births). hnfant mortality         _    7                         g _ _
averages 65 per 1,000 live births, and                      E
malnutrition affects 45 percent of         ~~                                   .... .
children in the under-five age group.    -Rvso                     ~ 
According to the most recent data,   ..      I) e0IWi         Io   Ot~~~4   h *n
AIDS incidence is the highest in
Central America and is spreading by a
heterosexual transmission into bothi
rural and urban areas. Adult literacy   pme.ao4  Pb
and years of schoolin are among the  ~Ute        4m~~i  9$*    r
lowest in Latin America, averaging                      
about three years of primary educa-
tion. These national averages mask                      I        i        
sharp regional disparities, especially in
rural areas.  Rural-urban migration   Aou. 4 
into fth capital exceeds 5 percent per                                    to1# K8$O
year, fueled partly by unsustanable                         b   ou.m
agricultural practices and environmen-    _p                           ;
tal degradation. At the same time that                  k...
these ftreds place an  increasing           e 
burden on already strained social.
services and infrastructure, they mean   U =  =         _
that the current and future labor force r   _m     a
is not weli able to respond to new
opportunities as the economy
modernizes, due to il health and poor
education.
23. Poverty reduction and investment in human resources have been a major emphasis of the current
Government over the past three years. At the same time that implementation of the structural and sectoral
adjustment programs was getting underway, the Government created the Honduran Social Investment Fund
(FRIS) and the Family Assistance Program (PRAP) as targeted poverty alaon insuments to cushion
the soial effects of reform measres on the very poor (see Box 2). The FH1S was established in March 1990
to implement an emergency employment generation strategy by financing: (a) social infrastructure (such as
rebabilitation of health posts, schools, water and sewerage systems); (b) targeted projects in health, nutrition



- 8-
and education; and (c) a limited nmmber of
productive activities. The HIUS has proved                   I 0 
to be an effective targeting mechanism, for               ~19)~W
reaching poor comunities and strengthening                                          
grassroots organizations.  The PRAF was          llk . ....~~e~soa
created in July 1990 to provide nutritional     ~~5OS  4~3a 
assistance to the most vulnerable members of         4                     s oia:    .8 =
society during the adjustent period through                            a       X  i i   .
income transfers in the fonn of food coupons.  S                m i   e          . !   1
Operated initially through the primary school s
system in the very poorest departments, a  g                   i   irewl z   _tcri.
pilot program was introduced in 1991 to test  2  ii
de.livery of food coupons through the basic                    ~.
health network. The pilot program proved.~*~~)5 
effective, and implementation of a second     # v__~    
phase expansion program for PRAF activities 
and for strengthening preventive health care
services began in early 1993.          IF
24.  In  parallel with  these  safety-net 
operations, the Goverament, under the aus-
pices of a bi-partsa Presidentia Commission     ~               n    r   .:~.~ bai
for Public Sector Modernization, has been   ~     b.  5          ~
analyzing in-depth how to reform delivery of    ~. 
education and health services with the goal of  .W$c~~adw.'h
mncreasing equity and program quality. With-.
in the fr-amework of Commission deliber-
tions, the Government has defined reform
programs for the education and health sectors 
that would increase operational efficiency and  ~
shift resources to priority activities, such as
primary education, basic health, targeted    t 3  i  | | _
nutritional assistance, and reproductive care.        5iO
Medium-term goals, which are shared by both
presidential candidates, are to increase access
to water suply and basic sanitation in rural 
areas by 50 percent and to reduce adult 111-   .                                ....
teracy (particularly in rural areas) by one
third, repetition rates at all education levels
by at least 15 percent, maternal mortality by almost 30 percent, iniint mortality by 20 percent, and the
prevalence of early childhood undernuton by one-tird. Enabling families to manage family size according
to their preferences and health status, by increased access to contraceptive methods, is also a public health
goal. Underpinning the social sector reform effort will be a redefinition of institutional relationships between
line minisries, the municipalities, community groups, and autonomous entities, such as the FHIS. Supported
by the proposed AGSAC (see Part II), the GOH is also introducing reforms to land tenure policy and the
rural financial system, with the goal of improving the poor's access to land and capital, and increasing the
returns to their labor.
25.  IDA is supporting implementation of the Governmen's poverty reduction and human resource
development strategy through credits to the HIUS (Cr. 2212-HO and Cr. 2401-HO) and for the Nutrition and



-9-
Health Project (Cr. 2452-HO). Future lending will be channelled to support additional reforms and priority
investments in the education, water supply and saitation, and health sectors. Project design and targeting,
to the extent appropriate, will be guided by the poverty assessment work being carried out in the framework
of the CEM under preparation (see para. 21). Following completion of the CEM, the Government has
requested that the findings of the poverty assessment and the poverty profiles be disseminated locally so that
they can be the subject of a seminar to be attended by representatives of the Government, private sector,
academia, and NGOs.
Public Sector Reform and Insttutional
26.  The period of heavy administrative controls and State intervention in the economy has left a legacy of
an overized and poorly structured bureaucra, with programs and fimctions that no longer correspond
to the economic and social policy framework that the current Government has introduced. Public sector
implementation capacity is generally weak, and program quality often suffers from inefficient use of available
resources. A particularly delicate issue faces Honduras' civilian authorities with respect to the appropriate
role and size of the military establishment, which expanded significanly during the "Contra War" years. The
military has seen its budgetary allocations eroded since 1990, resulting in fierce behind-the-scenes competition
for scarce public resources. Increasingly, the military is openly entering private sector activities via military
pension fund investments in privatized public enterprises as a means to secure alternative revenue sources.
Lack of accountability in the public sector, and the judicial system's inbility to provide redress (whether
economic or social issues are involved) are subjects of increasing public concern.
27.  The Goverment has taken steps during the past three years to begin addressing these issues. In the
context of sector reform programs, istitutional restucting has focussed on eliminatng unjustified programs
and withdrawing from activities that could be better managed by the private sector. For example, in the
transport sector, road mannance is now largely executed by private contaors, and uneconomic railway
lines have been closed and staff laid off. Resuctuing plans for major public enterprises in the electricity
and agricultural sectors are under implemation and have included sbtmlining of employment, among
other measures, to increase operational efficiency and focus resources on primary mandates. With respect
to public sector accountability, an ad-hoc Presidental Commission was established in March 1993 to examine
security police abuses and the functioning of the court system. The estabishment of such a commission was
considered an indication of the evolution that has taken place over the past three years in redefining the
balance between civilian and military authorities, and in establishing government accountability. The
Commission's recommendations, presented in April 1993, included abolishing the security police force,
seting up a new civil police force, and creating an independent Mnistry of Public Affairs. Congress is now
considering the creation of the new Ministry.
28.  The Government recognis that a more fundamental restuctuing of the public sector apparatus,
management procedures, and persomel policies is required if the State is to become more efficient and defi-
cits are to be kept to manageable levels. Therfore, in its remnin time in office, the Govermment plans
to develop a comprehensive public sector reform program, to underpin its fiscal reform efforts and enable
the public sector to perform its essential fumctions more efficiedy. The Presidential Commission for Public
Sector Modemization, responsible for rg   options and specific implementation actions, has focus-
sed on decentralization and central government re rig, the judicial system and the police, electoral
reform, and the role and size of the military. Of this broad agenda, the reform program would need to con-
centate on the following issues during the 1993-95 period: (a) redefining the essential fimctions of the public
sector and restuctuing the institonal apparatus to be consistent with that redefinition; (b) clarifying the
respective roles of the central and municipal levels of government, and establishing an effective revenue and
expendiue management system to underpin the new division of labor; (c) implemendng a civil service re-
form (including modem personnel management practices and improved wage policy) that would permit decen-



- 10-
tralization of functions and of professional staf; and (d) stngthening the public sector financial system,
including investment program prioritization, to ensure that scarce public resources are allocated to priority
programs. Within this general framework, priority will be given in the short term to implementing ieforms
in the education and health sectors. Both presidential candidates have indicated that they support such an
approach and would contnue implementation of public sector reform efforts.
29. IDA is working closely with the Government in the development of its public sector reform program,
providing technical advice and expertise whenever possible. As requested by both major presidential candi-
dates (and supported by the Government), IDA missions will keep them briefed on program development as
preparation progresses during the pre-election period. IDA lending in support of public sector reform would
include adjustment lending and capacity building operations focussed on the priority themes enumerated
above. In the immediate term, IDA and the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development
(UNCTAD) have jointly prepared a program to strengthen external debt management capacity in Honduras,
and program implementation is expected to proceed during 1993-94 (pending mobilization of concessional
financing).
Private Sector Development
30.  Efficient private sector development and diversification of the export-oriented sectors are key objectives
of the Government's reform progmm. M res taken to date in support of these goals have included moving
to a flexible exchange rate regime, liberliing trade policies, negotiating free trade agreements, and
liberalizing the financial sector. In addition, the Investment Code and Regulations have been substantially
revised and improved with the goal of facilitating investment by both domestic and foreign investors. Key
elements of the Investment Code Legislation, as approved by Congress, include streamlined administrative
procedures, grantng of the same rights and privileges to foreign and domestic investors, and liberalized
dividend and capital repatriation regulations.
3<1. While these reforms have resulted in increased private sector dynamism, competition in the domestic
market is still in its early stages as entrepreneurs adjust to an enviromnent characterized by less protection
and public largesse. The transition to greater competition and market efficiency has been slowed by the fact
that the private sector is characterzed by considerable concetration of wealth in a few key corporate groups
and families with privileged relationships to private banks. This has created a market structure where entry
by newcomers is difficult and collusive price fixing in selected markets is common. Although the dismantling
of quantitative trade restrictions, liberalization of the financial markets, and floating of the exchange rate has
limited the scope for rent-seeking behavior, the regulatory apparatus and associated adinisrative
requiements are still burdensome in many cases, and have in practice reinforced the privileged position of
established economic groups and discouraged efficient business practices.
32.  To address these remaining constraints to comption and efficiency, the Government is studying exist-
ing restrictions to entry in selected sectors (e.g., truckng) with the goal of developing a deregulation policy
to stimulate competition. Financial sector legislation recently submitted to Congress would also encourage
competition in the domestic market by establishing standards for shareholder borrowing from private banks,
that would, inter alia, limit prefeential access to finance and diversify non-shareholder access to available
funding. The Govermnent should also review in the near future its corporate income tax policy to ensure that
it does not discourage potential foreign investors, as well as examine the labor code, existng minimum wage
policy, and the functioning of the labor market to ddemine the need for reforms to encourage employment
creation.
33. IDA's primary role in promoting market efficiency/private sector development would be to provide
policy advice based on selected studies. As the IDB has conducted preliminarY analysis in this area with a



- 11 -
Private Sector Assent, IDA staff and Honduran officials have discussed the desirability of initiating work
on a second CEM in mid-FY96 that would focus on consrints to private sector development and market effi-
ciency and would identiij additional measures to promote competition and stimulate economic growth. In
addition, provided that eligibility criteria are met, funds could be made available for a commercial debt reduc-
tion operation from the IDA Debt Reduction Facility, based on the Government's recent request (see para.
9). Such an operation would contribute, over the longer term, to improved creditworthiness and renewed
private sector access to medium- and long-term international credit.
Economic and Social
34.  Social and economic infrastucture in Honduras is inadequate to meet the current needs of the
population and economy, much less future needs. An estimated 60 petcent of the population is inadequately
housed, and the lack of potable water and sanitation facilities is acute. Primary schools and first tier health
clinics are in a poor state of repair and inadequately equipped (and staffed) to provide basic services. Seventy
percent of energy consumption comes from fuelwood, linked in part to inappropriate pricing and
underdeveloped distribution networks. Telecommunication services cannot keep pace with demand, due to
outmoded equipment and concentration in a few urban centers. Transport infrastucture is generally adequate
but has suffered from poor mantenance and management practices in the past. There is an absence of well-
located airports with modern refrigeration facilities that would permit timely transport of fruit and vegetable
exports, which are growing rapidly. These infiasucture consaints have a debilitating impact on both social
development and the economy's ability to modernize and compete in world markets.
35.  The Govermnent attaches high priority to rehabilitaing and, where needed, expanding the country's
economic and social infucture. As part of this effort, emphasis has been placed during the past three
years on transort infrastuc , water supply and sanitaion systems, primary schools, and basic health cen-
ters. This emphasis is expected to condinue under the next Administraion. Attention would also be given
to developing power facilities and distribution lines and to upgrading telecommunication services. To attain
its infrasucue goals, the Government recogizes that it will be necessary to rely heavily on the private
sector for construction and operation of facilities, and where possible, for investment funds and ownership
of assets. In cases where operation of facilities or provision of services remains in public hands, upgrading
of the physical infrastructure would be dependent on putting in place budgetary or fee-based mechansms to
ensure reliable funding of operton and mateace  costs over the long-tem   Expansion of social
infrastruce would be largely limited to rural areas and marginal urban neighborhoods that are currewly
underserved.
36.  IDA is currently supporting inrasucture rehabilitation in the transport and energy sectors, under the
Morazan Dam Emergency Project (Cr. 2417-HO) and the recently approved Transport Sector Rehabilitation
Project (Cr. 2458-HO). In future, IDA support for  rasu  improvements will be limited to those
called for under the Govermnent's poverty reduction and human resource development strategy, with an
emphasis on education, water supply and sanitation, and health. In addition, IDA could assist Government
efforts in settig inrstuct  reabilition priorities by conducting an iastuctu  assessment.
EnvIonet Protecon and                  D
37.  Honduras' natumal resource base is deterioratng at an increasingly rapid rate as population and
economic pressures inrease. The country is heavily forestd and predominantly montainous, with narrow
coastl plains and nmrous inland valleys. Honduras' topography dictates that arable land available for
cultivation is ihnited. This factor, when combined with a high concentradon of land ownership, past "anti-
forestry" policies, and high population growth rates, has resulted in the exqmsion of the agricultural fiontier
into marginal areas as well as in no-selective timber extraction practices. The conseqence of these tends



- 12 -
has been accelerating defrvstaton and soil erosion, and secondary impacts on climate (rainfall pattems)
and water sources. Water conta    on (both fresh and coastal) resulting from poor human sanitation
practices, agricultural chemical use, and industrial processes is already affecting health negatively, and if not
addressed, could have significant economic consequences for industry as well (particularly tourism and shrimp
farming). Disposal of solid wastes is not generally managed according to sanitary standards, and the resulting
contamination of water and soil resources is becoming of greater concern as the urbanization process
accelerates. Environmental institutions and policies designed to promote sustainable resource use are recent
additions to the political landscape, and have not yet established an effective track record.
38.  Public awareness is growing in Honduras of the importance of protecting the country's valuable timber,
soil, water, and coastal resources and of improving natural resource management in general. Supported by
the AGSAC (see Part U), the Government has begun a major reform of its forestry management and land
tenure policies, and implementation of these policies will be critical to sustainable development over the
medium- and long-term. More broadly, Congress approved in June 1993 basic environmental legislation that
clarifies institutional responsibilities and policies as they apply to natural resource management and environ-
mental protection. Under the new law, the National Environmental Commission (CONAMA) will be
upgraded to ministerial rank to -ensure that it has sufficient administrative authority for effective action. A
national Environmental Action Plan MAP) has been completed by the Government that establishes institu-
tional, policy and investment priorities and provides the basis for Honduras' medium-term environmental
strategy (see Box 3). The Govemment is now
organizing a three month consultation process
with NGOs, academic circles, the private sector,
and local muiiaiisand community gopsp
in order to better identify and establish
consensus on national priorities. Commets and          -
suggestions received during this process will be
used to prepare the fuml revised version of the
EAP. The Govenament intends to periodically           .wu
update the EAP and to use it to guide future
investment  decisions  in  the  area  of
enviromental protection.        = 
39.  IDA has provided extmnsive support over
the past few years for the development of the    .
natural resource management miniatives to be    OS      j       Uu  .ii
supported by the AGSAC. More recently, the
Bank approved an 18-month IIDF gran last
October 199  that is providing assistanc to
CONAMA for developing a prioritized work       ___
program a   Undtrann plan, defining the scope
and requirements of a national Environimental
Impact Assessment sys5tem   aW1  drafig t
regulatons called for under the new environ-.
mental law.  The grant also supported the                 ~
prearaionof the EAP, through poiso  of  .
techncal expert.  In future, IDA  would.       t t  lo        rt
consolidate progress in both these areas by
supporting furthe  institutionalstethng.r    d
related to broad eniomna   oiyand
strategy and to natural rmsurce mangement.     ~



- 13 -
Medium-term Prospects
40.  Implementation of the medim-term strategy oudined above would consolidate recent improvements
in economic performance and contribute to the long-term sustainability of economic and social development
efforts. The Government's development strategy, which is expected to be continued by the next Administra-
tion, would lead to increased agricultural productivity, expanded private investment, continued diversification
of the agricultural and manufacturig sectors, and growth in job formation. Over the medium-term, these
trends would result in an economy characterized by a better public/private sector mix, a dynamic export
sector, reduced dependence on exceptional foreign financing, and gradual declines in poverty levels.
Investments in education and health services would produce, over time, a healthier, more literate workforce,
and sustainable use of the natural resource base would make possible continued economic and social
development. In quantitative terms, implementation of the Government's program is expected to result in
real GDP growth of around 4.3 percent a year, stabilization of inflation, and a reduction in the current
account deficit from 11 percent in 1991 to about 6 percent of GDP by 1995, with further reductions bringing
it to about 3 percent by the year 2000. Central to the achievement of these targets will be a reduction of the
overall public sector deficit, and an increase in domestic savings and investment rates. Macroeconomic indi-
cators for 1990-1992 and projected estimates for 1993-2001 based on the RMSM model are presented in
Annex 1.
41.  Extea Fhianng Rque t. Continued implementation of the Government's stabilization and
structural reform program will require large inflows of grants, concessional assistance, and debt relief,
amounting to US$290-310 million per year between 1993 and 1995. On the basis of likely disbursements
from major multilateral and bilateral donors, there would be annual financing gaps ranging from US$15 to
US$55 million between 1993 and 1995. It is expected that these gaps would be covered by debt relief
resulting from Paris Club and non-Paris Club reschedulings and further commercial debt reduction.
42.  Creditwortdoess. Honduras is severely indebted, with a heavy concentrtion of official and preferred
creditor debt. It is currendy classified as an IDA-only country and is not eligible for Bank lending. Total
exteral debt, amounting to US$3.2 billion at the end of 1991, represened 105 percent of GDP and 330
percent of export earnings. By the end of 1991, total debt service to export earnings had increased to about
35.4 percent, of which 16 percent was for interest payments. Honduras' long term debt (about 93 percent
of the total stock) is almost all public or publicly guarnteed (98 percent), ad of that, roughly 90 percent
was owed to official creditors. Preferred creditor debt amounted lo almost two-thirds of official debt in 1991,
and accounted for about 70 percent of 1991 long term debt service. The lBRD/IDA share in Honduras' stock
of medium and long term debt in 1991 was 20 percent, representng about 40 percent of preferred creditor
debt. Debt service on outstanding IBRD/IDA obligations in 1991 represted about 9 percent of export
eaniings, and about 45 percent of preferred creditor debt service. Honduras is not expected to become
creditworthy for Bank lending during the foreseeable future. Similarly, access to foreign financing on
commercial terms is not expected to become a possibility over the medium term.
43.  Risks. The economic prospects described above are ainable, provided that the external environment
does not deteriorate substntally from current conditions and that there is continmity in the implementation
of economic and development policies. Risks that could jeopardize program success are related to the fragil-
ity of the economy and its vulnerability to enemal shocks, in particular, to further price declines of its major
exports and/or additional restrictions to market access by its major trading parters. Continuity in economic
management over the medium term could also be at risk, due to presidential elections in November 1993 and
the subsequent change in goverment in Janury 1994. While both major party candidates state publicly that
they do not question the need to continue with the adjustment program, they have also emphasized that they
may wish to take firther measures to soften Its impact on the poor by stengbthi  and expanding social pro-
grms. If this desirable emphasis were to spill over into populist policies with significant fiscal implications,



- 14-
the progress achieved in recent years could be seriously eroded. In such circumstnces, it is mhtikey that
the international financial community would be willing to provide exceptional financial support for Honduras
or that foreign investors would consider the country to be an attractive investment site. Under such condi-
tions, it is likely that Hondurs would return to intermittent periods of non-payment of extnal debt service
and accumulaon of arreaus to multinational and bilateral creditors.
44. To minimize these risks, the Government is pursuing export promotion policies and encouraging private
sector investment with the goal of strengthening the external accounts and smlating economic growth. IDA
is encouraging the Govermnent to contimne these policies over the medium term, and, in addition, will be
working closely with the Goverment and the donor commu!nity in the context of the CG to develop a strong
project and program pipeline for external funding. Based on discussions with the two major presidential can-
didates, it is our expectation that the programs and policies oudined above will be continued during the next
Administraion.
D. Bank Group Country Assstane Strate
Assdstace Sraty
45.  The Bank Group's future assistance program is designed to assist the Goverment in overcoming the
country's critical development constraints. Given IDA resource limitations, the proposed approach is to be
highly selective and to focus on areas where the Bank and IDA can play a catalytic role. In keeping with this
philosophy, the proposed IDA assistance strategy would roncentrate on helping the Govenmen in its efforts
to achieve three major objectives of its medi-term program - reduce poverty, modernize the economy and
the publie sector (thereby creatng a busmess enviroment conducive to private sector development), and
sustinably manage the country's natural resources. Implementation of such a strategy would be accomplished
by means of: (a) economic and sector analyses, focussing on key structural, sectoral, and institutional issues;
(b) design and implementation of a lending portfolio comprising policy-based, sector rehabilitation, and
investment operations; (c) assistance for building institutional capacity in the public sector; and (d) aid
coordination, to assist in mobilizing adequate fimding for economic and social programs, on highly conces-
sional terms. IPC has a potental role to play in facilitating the transition to greater private sector provision
of services previously reserved to the public sector (such as electricity, telecommunications, and ports/airports
management). IDA would continue to work closely with the IDB and the IMF on sensitive reform programs
to minimize conflicting policy advice and to increase aid mobilization for reform operations.
Leading Levels and Compoddon
46.  Past Operations. During the 1980s, Bank/IDA lending to Honduas was sporadic and disperwd across
sectors. Twelve IEBRD and 2 IDA lending operations, for a total of US$399.3 million equivalent, were
approved between 1980 and 1989, supporting investment needs in the power, educaion, transport, municipal
development, water supply, industry, and agriculture sectors. When the economic situation deteriorated in
the late 1980s, the Bank provided finani support for the implementation of an ecomic adjustment program
through a first strucurl adjustment loan (SAL), but this assistance, as well as ongoing project siUpOort, was
suspended for an 18-month period between December 1988 and June 1990, when the country accumulated
arrears on its Bank and IDA debt. Lending was resumed in September 1990, initially on IBRD teWns and
subsequenly on IDA terms. New lending commtments during FY91-93 have totalled US$292 million equiv-
alent, and have focussed on three major areas: structural and sectoral adjustm, representig about 55
percent of total volume (SAL II, a supplemental Structurl Adjustment Credit (SAC), and Energy Sector
Adjusmw  Credit (ESAC)); poverty alleviaton and human resource development, representig about 20
percent of the total (IS I, FHIS II, and Nutrition and Health); and infratructurerabiLitation projects,



- 15 -
for about 25 percent of the total (Morazan Dam Emergency, Transport Sector Rehabilitation). In addition,
IDA Reflows amounting to US$64 million equivalent have been approved in FY92-93.
47. Future operadons. The core program proposed for Honduras between FY94-97 could include up to
eight lending operations, complemented by studies and technical advice on the priority areas of emphasis
identified above. While the current FY94-96 country IDA allocation is SDR84 million (US$120 million equi-
valent), successful execution of the Government's economic and social program would establish a strong case
for higher levels of support from the donor community. Over the medium term, it is expected that about 30
percent of the total credit volume would support human resource development/poverty reduction operations,
about 50 percent would support public sector reform and economic policy reform, and about 20 percent
would support environmental protectionand natural resource management activities. Providing that eiigibility
criteria are met, Honduras would also be able to participate in IDA-only programs such as IDA Reflows and
the IDA Debt Reduction Facility. IDA Reflows could potentially add SDR 15-20 million per year to the basic
lending program allocation. Under the assistance strategy, net transfers from the Bank Group to Honduras
would be positive in the early years, turning itegative in the outer years. In view of Honduras' severe
indebtedness and low per capita income, continued lending on IDA terms is expected over the next 4-5 years.
Proposed assistance in each of the priority areas is summarized below.
48.  Over the next four years, povert reducton and hIuan resource developmet will be central to the
IDA lending and ESW program. The overall thrust of IDA's poverty reduction and human resource
development efforts would be to increase access to social services for the entire population, with a particular
emphasis on improving operational efficiency, program quality, and institutional arrangements in the
education, water, and health sectors. Priority will be given to expanding program delivery in underserved
rural areas and addressing the needs of poor women and girls. Actions supported under the proposed
AGSAC, through the LMA, wfll help reduce poverty in rural areas by amending certain provisions of the
agrarian reform law (increasing smallhoklers' and women's ability to obtain title to land) and reforming rural
financial policies and institutions. Technical advice on social sector reforms and poverty reducton efforts
would be provided by RUTA Social (see para. 51). We are working with the Goverment in the preparation
of water and educaton sector projects, and expect to work closely with the lDB on these operations.
49.  Increasing public sector efliEicy and ondating    ro in economic modernization will be
priority themes for the IDA assistance strategy. IDA would aid the Government increase public sector
efficiency through a combination of adjustment lending and capacity-building projects focussed on public
sector management reform and on municipal development and decentralizadon issues. Proposed lending
operations would help improve public sector management in the areas of personnel adminisi, financial
management, and investment programmig, stgen municipal management and operational capacity, and
introduce structural reforms in the public sector. EDB is expected to work closely with IDA in the
development of the public sector adjustent operation and to provide co-financing. The need for a follow-up
structural adjustment operation will be evaluated further into the next administration's term of office, when
progress in implementing the different strucual and sectoral reform programs could be assessed and policy
measures could be refined and reoriented, as required. Technical advice on constraints to private sector
development and options for stimulatig competition would be provided through the preparation of a CEM
(see para. 33). The proposed AGSAC would provide support for resructuin critical agriculture sector
nstitutions and for reforming financial management and investment programming in the sector.
50.  Support for emiromnental protetion and   M   e resource management will become increas-
ingly important in the IDA program. The program supported by the proposed AGSAC would be consolidated
in a few years through a follow-up operation that would focus on strengthening the sector institutions
responsible for natural resource magement (such as forestry, agricultual research and extension, and land
titling and registration). To orient speiffic activities of the proposed follow-up project, we plan to carry out



- 16-
a Land Markets Study as part of the ESW program to update knowledge of land market dynamics in rural
areas following the recent policy reforms. Building upon the capacity-building activities supported by the
IDF grant and on the framework provided by the recety completed BAP, we plan to develop with the
Govenmnent a proposed follow-on Enviroment  Institutions project that would assist in strengthening
CONAMA as it takes on its new functions, in developing a domestic strategic environmental planning capa-
city (through the monitoring and periodic updating of the EAP), and in supporting priority investment or
training activities identified in the EAP.
51. Capacity Building. In addition to specific institutional development components included in proposed
lending operations and the proposed public sector management reform program, IDA is using a variety of
instruments to strengthen operational and management capacity in the public sector. The IDF grant approved
for CONAMA is one such example (see para. 39), and the IDA/UNCTAD debt management strengthenng
program is another such (see para. 29). In the social sectors, a technical secretariat under the President has
been established with support from a Japanese Technical Assistance Grant, to conduct policy analysis,
program monitoring, and sector coordination. The Bank-exu   Regional Unit for Technical Assistance
in the Social Sectors (RUTA), which has been recently established, is based in Honduras and will provide
technical support for institution building efforts.
52.  Portfolio        en-t. The lending p-rafolio comprises 12 operations tat have been either approved
or are under implementation. A grant und.zr the IDF has also been approved. The portfolio is highly di-
verse, and includes sector investment projects, adjustment operations, and safety net programs. The oldest
project in the portfolio was approved in 1984 and the most recent one in 1993. The 12 projects have a total
loan and credit value of US$392 million, of which US$211.6 million have been disbursed and US$184.3 mil-
lion remain undisbursed as of May 31, 1993. Two receny approved lending operations are not yet effective.
One of the most distinctive aspects of the Hondziras portfolio is that within the next 18-24 monfts, 10 of the
12 projects currently under implementation are expected to be completed. This means that by the end of
1994, the portfolio will have shrunk by about 85 percent in terms of number of operations and by about 50
percent in terms of undisbursed balances. Consequently, 1993-94 will be a critical period for developing a
lending pipeline for implementation during the second half of the 1990s.
53.  Project hnplemeion has been generally satsfactory over the recent past. Significant progress has
been made in introducing structural and sector reforms agreed under the Second Structural Adjustment Loan
(SAL II) and Energy Sector Adjusutent Credit (ESAC) programs, as well as under the proposed AGSAC.
Execution of the safety net programs by the PHS and PRAP have been notable for the effectiveness of tar-
geting mechanisms used to reach poor communities and families at risk of malnutrition. Implementation of
on-going investment projects has continued to be satifactory, and four new lending operations were approved
in the last year. No projects are crrenly rated as "3" or "4", and the average portfolio rating for the entire
country program is 1.6. This represes a noticeable improvement compared to the country portfolio rating
conducted during the FY92 ARIS exercise (from 1.75). Sunmy data on the lending portfolio with Hon-
duras are presented in Table 2.



- 17-
Table 2. Hondurs Couty Portfolio
Projects Approved or under Implemeon
PROJECT           LN/CR      APPROVAL       LW/CR    DISBURSED  UNDISBURSED  CANCELED   OVERALL
NAME              NBR         DATE         ANOUNT   (5/31/93)   (5/31/93)                 RATING
Water Supply/Drainage    2421-Ho    5-22-84        19.6        11.4         8.1                      2
Industrial Credit III    2703-NO    5-29-86       37.4         31.9         3.2         2.3          2
Rural Primary Education   2804-NO    5-05-87       4.4          1.7         2.7                      2
Agricultural Credit IV    2991-HO    9-15-88       25.0        23.5         1.5                      2
SAL II                   3257-HO    9-13-90        90.0        65.0        25.0                      2
FRIS I                   2212-HO    2-28-91       20.0         18.6         1.1                      1
FHIS II                  2401-HO    6-25-92        10.2         4.4         6.0                      1
ESAC                     2306-HO   10-31-91        50.6        37.4        16.2                      2
IDA Reflows              2306-2    12-23-92       32.8         16.9        14.8                      1
Morazan Dam              241.'-HO    8-04-92       12.0         0.8        11.8                      1
Nutrition/Health *       2452-HO    1-05-93        25.0         0.0        25.3                      NR
Transport Sector Rehab. * 2458-HO    2-16-93       65.0         0.0        66.6                      NR
Environ. Institutions    2872-IDF  10-23-92        0.2          0.0         0.2                      1
*  Not yet effective
NR Not Rated
Loan/Credit amounts are given in US Dotlars. Inconsistencies between the Credit Amount and Disbursed/Undisbursed
data are due to fluctuations in the SDR/USD rates since credit approval.
54.    While implementation has been satisfactory overall, delays have been experienced in carryin  out
agreed activities for both investment projects and adjustment operations. These delays are reflected in
lower disbursement levels than planned and in negative trasfers between the World Bank and Honduras
that could have been avoided. Of particular concern are delays in completing Honduran procedures for
credit signing and ratification, as this means that funds approved by the Bank and at the disposal of the
Government cannot be accessed. At present a combined total of US$90 million, for two operations, is
caught in such a limbo. Delays have also been encountered at times with respect to the submission of
audit reports by independent auditors for project accounts.
55.    These delays appear to be largely due to weak management capacity in the public sector and to
budgetary constraints affectmng counterpart fund allocations for investment projects. With respect to
management capacity, two trends appear to be at work: insufficient numbers of high-level professionals
(particularly for the adjustment program) and frequent staff turnover in project management units (even
at the directorial level). For the adjustment program (SAL U, ESAC, AGSAC), limited staff .apacity
has negatively affected the Government's ability to coordinate among institutions, monitor implementa-
tion, and keep to agreed timetables for tranche release, with serious consequences for the balance of pay-
ments. Staff turnover at the investment project level has resulted in a loss of institutional efficiency, as
new staff must be trained and brought up to speed. More i      indamently, it has interfered with institution
building within the public sector, as kmowledgeable individuals have left positions of responsibility.
Cumbersome administrative procedures in the central government agencies also have contributed to
observed delays.
56.    IDA is addressing these weaknesses through intensive supervision at the project level, and perio-
dic Comutry Stratea  and  -mplmntion Revew  (CSIR) meetings at the country level. The first
CSIR took place in September 1991, and a follow-up meeftng took place in June 1993. These meetings
have provided a useful forum for reviewing both cros-cauing portfolio issues as well as project-specific



- 18 -
questions. As a result of the latest CSIR consultations, the Government has taken several steps to
institutionalize portfolio management procedur  with a view to more timely monitoring and taking of
corrective actions where necessary. Future CSIR meetings are expected to take place roughly every 12-
18 months. In addition to the CSIR mecbanism, in-country disbursement, procurement, and audit
seminars are held periodically to ensure underst  of Bank/DA procedures at the executng agency
level. The most recent disbursement seminar took place in March 1993, and the most recent procurement
seminar, in May 1993. Addressing the underlying causes of staff turnover and insufficient high-level
professionals will require a much longer time horizon by means of concerted actions to reform civil ser-
vice administration and public sector management practices. Similarly, introduction of an integrated
financial management system for the consolidated public sector and strengthening of investment
programmng performance would help correct some of the weaknesses observed in the allocation of
bu(dgetary resources to investment projects and priority programs. These structural issues of personnel
administration and financial management in the public sector would be addressed by proposed operations
oriented to public sector reform (see para. 49).
57.   lFC/MGA. Since 1964 IFC has made four loan and equity investments in Honduras totalling
US$11 million in pulp and paper, leather tanning, textiles, and shrimp fanning. IFC's strategy in
Honduras will focus on assisting private sector investors with: (a) plant expansions or refurbishments for
selected industrial activities; and (b) export-oriented businesses, including those in export-processing
zones. In addition, IFC is considering a possible credit line to a commercial bank and assistance for
private sector infastructr projects. At the request of the Govemment, the Foreign Investment Advisory
Service (PIAS) reviewed the Honduran legal and regulatory framework for private investment in mid-
1991 and made recommendations to the authorties for improving the country's investment code which
were incorporated in the Investment Code legislation approved by Congress in May 1992. Honduras
became a member of Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency (MIGA) on June 30, 1992. MIGA has
received three preliminary applications to support investment projects in Honduras.
58.   Aid Coordnaton. Because of Honduras' external finaucing needs (see para. 41), aid coordina-
tion will continue to play a crucial role in the success of the program. The principal mechanism will be
the Consultative Group, in conjunction with informal donor meetings organized around specific sector
themes. At the most recent CO meeting in Washington in March 1992, discussions focussed on the
Government's implementation of the adjustment program and poverty alleviation efforts. The next CG
meeting is tentatively scheduled for mid-1994 in order to give the new govermment time to define and
present its program to the donor community. In addition to the CG, informl donor nmetg have been
held in Honduras during the preparation and appraisal of the proposed AGSAC, mainly to disuss forestry
sector reforms. These meetings have contributed to achieving a consensus on the program's policy
orientation and to identifying measures to mage the transition and avert potential negative social
impacts. Such informal meetings will continue to be used for the agricultural program as well as for
other program initiatives, as appropriate. Potetia topics for futre informal donor meetings include
discussions of the EAP and the conclusions of the poverty analysis to be conducted as part of the CEM.
59.   C_ofidng. Co-financing with other muldlateral ins"tions and bilateral donors, particularly
on concessional terms, has become a central feature of IDA support to Honduras. The US$292 million
equivalent in new BanklWA assistance since lending resumed in FY91 have been largely exceeded by
official co-financing moung to US$440 million. IDB has been one of the major co-financiers of
Ban/IDA supported operations, and is the major multilateral donor in Honduras. In the past three years,
the IDB has lent a total of US$467.0 million (US$268.0 million on market terms, US$198.0 million on
soft terms, and US$1.0 million in tecdmical cooperation grants). The planned IIDB lendn program for
1993-95, projected at US$385 million, fowsses primarily on water and sanitation, road rehabilitation and
social sector investment. In addition to co-financint on cash terms, the donor community is working



- 19-
closely with IDA and the authorities to provide needed technical assistance upstream  for project
preparation as well as for project implementation support. As with the proposed AGSAC, IDA plans to
work closely with co-financiers in futr operations through joint project preparation and supervision.
60.   Cooperaton with the NIM. The Bank, IDA and the IMP have worked closely to ensure that
proposed stabilization measures and medium-term structural reforms are consistent and appropriately
sequenced. An IMP stand-by arrangement for SDR 30.5 million, approved in July 1990, was completed
sa.isfactorily in February 1992 and aU planned purchases were made under the program. In February
1992, the IMP approved additional assistance to Honduras amounting to SDR 44 million under the
Compensatory Financing Facility (CFF) for export shordalls experienced in 1990/91. Following
agreenent on a PFP and detailed first-year program in early June, an ESAP for Honduras of SDR 40
million was approved in July 1992. Agreement has been reached between the Government and the IMP
on a satisfactory macroeconomic framework for 1993-94, including specific performance targets for 1993.
The authorities and the IMP expect to begin discussions on the progrm for the second year of the ESAF
and to update the PFP in October 1993. The results of these disssions would be reviewed and
confirmed with the new administron early in 1994.
E. Summary Asment
61. The Honduran authorities have begun a long overdue process of economic and structural reform.
Results of the progrm to date are encouraging, and medium-term prospects for sustainable growth are
improving. Nevertheless, the country's economic and financial situation remains fraile, as the economy
is still highly vulnerable to exenal shocks. In addition, continuity in domestic policy may prove dificult
to maintain as the country goes through presidential elections in late 1993 and a newly elected government
takes office in early 1994. IlDA's program of assistance, including the proposed AGSAC, plays a key
role in supportig the Government's efforts to deepen the structural reform process and in ensuring that
inadequate or untimely levels of extnal finance are not a contrbuig factor to policy backsliding.
62.   IDA's planned assistance program depends on the continued willingness and ability of the Govern-
ment to pursue sound macroeconomic management policies and to define and implement a major reform
program that wiUl begin lo tackle the structnl problems in the Honduran public sector. Criteria to judge
progress would include: maintenane of a supportive macroeconomic framework, including flexible
mangement of the exchange rate an tight control over public finas; contiation of price liberali-
zation and trade policy reforms; hiproved public enterprise performance, including generation of
operational surpluses; implementation of agreed reforms in the energy and agriculural sectors; and
gradual restucurng of social sector progrms in the direction of increased equity and operational
efficiency. Gven the importance of macroeconomic policies to the success of any sectoral reform
program, the proposed AGSAC inchld  assurances on satisfactory macroeconomic wanagement and on
continued adherence to relevant elements of the SAL n program (para. 70).
PART ll - TEE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR PROGRAM
A. Sector Ovaeviw
63.   Agricultural activities are critical to the economy and to Honduras' long-term growth.
Agriculture employs more than one-half of the labor force, accounts for 25 percent of GDP, and
generates about 80 percent of export eanings. Over 1980-89, real agricultual GDP grew at an average
of 2.9 percent per year. In 1990 it grew only by 1.1 percent mainly due to a strike by banana industry
workers and flooding. However, during 1991 agricultual ouput grew at 5.4 percent and a similar rate
is expected during 1992.



- 20 -
64.   The development of the agricultural sector during the 1980s was constrained by distortions in
reladve prices, natural resource misuse, institutional weakness, and inadequate investment. During the
1980s, agriculture was subject to considerable Govermnent intervention. Overvaluation of the lempira,
supported by a growing battery of trade controls, discriminated against all exports, in particular those of
an agricultural nature. Industa sector-oriented protection policies negatively affected agricultural terms
of trade. The suport price system for basic agricuttural products implemented through the Honduran
Agricultural Marketing Institute (IHMA), a grain trading agency which had the monopoly of all grain
imports, was ineffective in protecting producer prices. Consumer price subsidies, implemented through
the Government's retail outlet, the National Basic Products Supplies (BANASUPRO), did not protect
poor consumers' real income.  Credit subsidies through the Agricultural Development Bank
(BANADESA) were intended to counteract lower prices for farm products, especially basic grains. In
sum, these Government interventions misallocated resources, were costly and inhibited private investment.
65.   Until recently, the legislation concering land and forest resources, land tenure policy and forest
management inhibited and distorted private investment in agriculture and forestry. The Agrarian Reform
Law (LRA) caused tenure insecurity as it allowed land to be easily expropriaXd. Titles provided to
agrarian reform beneficiaries were provisional, thereby inhibiting land transactions in the form of sale,
rental or mortsgae. The LRA imposed restrictions on owners' land use decisions. The forestry
legislation and the LRA actually encouraged farmers to cut forest and replace it with pasture-even on
fragile lands, hills, and areas already degraded-to regain control over their property. Vested with the
ownership of all forest, COHDEFOR participated actively in wood processing and had the lumber export
monopoly.
66.   Public investment and expenditure in agriculture is low. It decreased sharply as a proportion of
agricultural GDP over the 1980s, from 23 percent in 1980 to about 4 percent in 1991. During the 1980s,
GOH expendit   in the sector were primarily for: (a) generalized food subsidies; (b) credit and input
subsidies; (c) an extensive system of Government enterprises in production, marketing, and storage of
agricultural products; and (d) a large bureaucracy. Despite this unfavorable policy environment,
agriculture had been undergoing a slow process of adjustment and resource reallocation which has
accelerated as a result of recent policy changes. There has been rapid growth of nontraditional exports,
especally pineWple, cantaloupe and seafood. Production of conmodities for the domestic market, such
as palm oil, plnin, poultry, and cabbage, has also expanded rapidly, while corn yields have increased
from 1 ton/ha in the mid 1970s to 1.75 ton/ha in 1991.
B. Sectoral Development Po           and Recent Reorms
67.   Sedoral Devdopent Program. Supported by SAL IL, GOH embarked on a major program
of economic reform early in 1990. As part of this program, GOH, assisted by the Bank/IDA, the IDB,
and other donors, started to formulate a comprehensive agricultural sector development program to
establish the basis for a modern, competitive agricultural sector. The program aims to establish incenives
to: (a) foster sustainable, private sector-led growth; (b) improve natural resources mamagement; (c)
expand export earnings; and (d) generate employment. The new sectoral strategy is outlined in the
Secretariat of Natural Resources' (SRN) document entitled Agricultural Modernization and Development
Program (AMDP, dated August 1991), which was approved by Congress in April 1992 (see para. 69).
It includes refonns in the: (a) trade regime; (b) agricultural price policy and marketing regulations; (c)
mral financial sector; (d) policies and legislation affecting private property rights over timber and land
resources; (e) role of the state, specifically a move towards a regulatory role and purveyor of key
services, in particular to small producers; and (t) public sector framework for formulating and
implementing agricultural policy straty and budgeing.



- 21 -
68.   Recent Sectoral Reforms. GOH started to implement the first stage of the AMDP in early 1990,
supported by SAL H. Substanti  reforms in agricultural price and trade policy have already been
introduced, such as the: liberalization of all agricultural import and export regimes; reduction and
harmonization of trade tariffs; liberalization of all agriculh -ral producer and consumer prices-guarantee
prices for basic grains have been replaced with a price band (i.e., a variable levy); reduced Government
intervention in agricultural commodity purchases and food distribution-IHMA's role has been limited
to the management of a "strategic reserve" of basic grains (for natural disasters), while BANASUPRO
is selling food at market prices; and the elimination of interest subsidies on all agricultural loans.
Progress has also been made in restructuring the rural financial sector, in particular with regards to
BANADESA (see Annex 4).  These reforms, together with the improvement in the overall
macroeconomic enviromnent, have strengthened agricultural terms of trade and made investing in the
sector more attractive.
69.   However, to further stinmlate private investment and ensure sustainable medium-term growth,
these gains need to be complemened with reforms in: (a) land and forestry property rights and
management, and utilization of land and forest resources; and (b) agricultural public sector management.
Policy changes in these areas could not be implemented under the then prevailing land tenure and forestry
legal framework. Therefore, early in 1990 and as part of the preparation of the AMDP (para. 67) and
of the proposed AGSAC, the Government embarked on the preparation of a comprehensive biUl entitled
"Modernization and Development of the Agricultural Sector." This bill also included legal changes to
institutionalize the reforms on price, trade, grain marketing and rural finance that were being
implemented under SAL II since 1990. The bill was submitted to Congress in December 1991 after
substantial consultation (lasting more than 6 months) with the population expected to be affected most and
with IDA, as part of the preparation of the proposed AGSAC; it was enacted by Congress as Law 31-92
(Agricultural Modernization Law, LMA) in April 1992.
70.   The proposed AGSAC will support implementation of the policies and structural reforms
embodied in the LMA with respect to land tenure; forest rights, management and utiliaon; and
agricultural public sector management. It will also consolidate reforms in trade, agricultural price policy,
grain marketing, and rural finance begun under SAL II. These reforms, together with the overall
macroeconomic strategy of GOH consistent with and supportive of the agricultural adjustment program
for sustained growth-including efforts to reduce the fiscal deficit, flexibly manage the exchange rate and
liberalization of interest rates, and improve the management of public enterprises-are included in the
Government's Letter of Agricultural Development Policy, dated December 8, 1992 (Annex 3). The letter
also includes action plans to implement the agreed reforms in the areas of land tenure, forestry, rural
finance, and Government ewpenditure and Public fiance. In general, imple tn of the agreed plans
are satisfactory. The Policy Matrix of key actions under the AGSAC is presented in Annex 2.
C. Land Tenure
71.   The LRA was enaced in 1962 to distribute land to the landless, and to provide them with services
necessary to improve living conditions. To implement the agrarian reform process and coordinate policies
and services with other public agencies, the National Agrarian Instiute (INA) was created. While in its
nearly 30 years of opeaton INA has distributed 400,000 ha of land (15 percent of Honduras' farmed
area) to about 70,000 beneficiaries, it has been duplicating services rendered by other agencies and
neglecting its most important role-the distribution of land to the landless. In addition, the agrarian
reform process has been at a high cost; public expendiur  for the program tbrough 1988 (the latest year
for which data are available) are estimated at about US$2,200/ha, equivalent to the investment required
to irrigate one hectare.



- 22 -
72.   The LRA actually caused tamre insecurity and imposed restrictions on owners' land use
decisions, thereby discouraging Inestment and efficient land use. Tenure insecurity derived from
potential expropriation by INA and invasion by peasnts. Although INA had not been active in
expropriating land in recent yeas, the risk of expropriation remained and represented a disincentive to
investment. (Landowners, including land reform beneficiaries, were subject to continuous "evaluation"
by INA officials, and their property could be exproprited if they did not engage in "direct" and
"efficient" land eiploitation.) The climate of insecurity was exacerbted by the legal impediments to
titling farms of less than 5 ha (a way to discourage minlfundio). INA estima   that at present the
number of farms of less than 5 ha exceeds the number reported in the 1974 Census, the latest available
land distribution data: LRA did not contain the proliferation of small landholders but deprived them of
their de facto possession rights and hence of incentives to settle and invest in better management
practices, both of which are necessary, though not sufficient conditions, for increased productivity.
73. Legal and administrative rules of the agrarian reform process hampered landowners' exercising
property rights, itroduced distortions in land use efficiency, and obstructed the development of a land
market. Legal safeguards against expropriation of land under perennial crops or livestock have shifted
land use away from anmual crops. The definiton of "efficient" exploitation to mean that at least 90
percent of farm area should be under cultivation or pasture, encouraged the clearance of forest areas on
private lands, with the predictable negative impact on soil and water resources. Because private land
rental arrangements were prohibited until recenty, land markets are underdeveloped and land use
efficiency low. Small farmers' access to credit continues to be limited becse rural land cannot be
pledged as collateral due to the provisional nature of the titles given by INA or the lack of land ttling.
Furthermore, land has been distributed under the land reform program almost exclusively as "collective"
property to producers' associations or cooperatives. Thus, land reform beneficiaries have been defacto,
although not de jure, limited to organize as production cooperatives or commnal farms. LRA also
established the rules and regulations for the selection of land reform beneficiaries. Before the new law,
a number of these rules and regulations made land adjudication and ttling very cumbersome, and
discriminated against women (who were not allowed to hold title unless they were single mothers with
dependent children).
74. Land market development is also affected due to the incomplete coverage of the cadastral, and
hence of the titling, system. In addition, coordination between INA, the Depament of Cadastre
(Cadastro), and COHDEFOR is inadequate, and the Public Registrar is not up to date. The rural cadastre
has been completed only in 7 of 18 Departments. Tiding programs have been supported by external
donors but with limited success due to the process embodi'4 in the LRA and the lack of inter-agency
coordination within GOH.
75.   The Refon  Progam. The objective of the land tenure reform program to be supported under
AGSAC is to improve land use and consolidate the process of land reform. To that end, Law 31-92
modifies the LRA to: (a) guarantee and secure flu land ownership rights; (b) legahe land rental
arrangements, except for some types of share-cropping; (c) counteract provisions of LRA which distorted
land use patterns; (d) revise and simplify the adjudication and titg process (e.g., by reducing the
minim  time for title eligibility from 40 to 3 years of contnuo  operation); (e) eliminate the
prohibition of titling to holders of less than 5 ha; (f) provide women with equal rights of access to land;
and (g) ensure consistency between general sectoral policies and those of agrarian reform. These changes
will provide a more secure land tenure basis and expand and accelerate adjudication and titling programs
for individual and community (ejidl land.
76.   GOH has recenly approved a set of satisfactory regultions to implement the reforms to the LRA
under Law 31-92 after extensive disussions with farmer groups and IDA (para. 102.(b)). The



-23 -
regulations ensure that all types of land rental other than a narrowly defined form of share-cropping will
be allowed. GOH has also approved a satisfactory restuchatng of INA to have it focus primarily on land
titlng; this includes the divesting of assets and activities not related to land titling, reducing its labor force
to 800, and contracting-out some services. A Land Tenure Action Plan agreed between GOH and IDA
and attached to the Letter of Agricultural Development Policy (para. 70 and Annex 3), is intended inter
alla, to accelerate: (a) land adjudication and titling; (b) cadastre work; (c) the recovery of INA's dues
from its land adjudication and titling program; (d) the divestiture of INA's assets and activities not related
to land adjudication and titling program; (e) the restructuring of INA, in particular with respect to the
reduction of its labor force; and to ensure (f) that funds for the 'seed capital" scheme budgeted under the
SRN will not exceed 25 percent of INA's budget in any particuar season. During the first year, INA's
activities will be centered on the Departments where cadastre work bas been completed. Priority will go
to providing titles to women and smallholders previously deprived of such a right (holders of less than
5 ha), and on converting provisional titles into pmanent ones, in so doing allowing beneficiaries to
decide whether to be titled individually or as a group. In forest lands, INA will closely coordinate its
activities with Cadastro and COHDEFOR (para. 83). A  pemanent coordinatng committee has been
established between INA, COHDEFOR and Cadastro to define responsibilities and harmonize required
information for the titig and regularization program. In addition, INA has started implementing the
agreed action plan (paa. 102.(c)) (in particular with respect to its rtucring), and GOH has budgeted
the financial requrements for the 1993 cadastral work required in support of the land titling program.
Satisfactory implementation of the Land Temnre Action Plan would be conditions of Second and Third
Trance rass (paras. 103.(a) and 104.(a)). Presentation of satsfactory terms of reference for a
fnancial and operational audit of INA would be a condition of Second Tramlhe release (para. 103.(c)),
while presentaton of a satisfactory audit report would be a condition for Third Trache release (para.
104.(c)).
D. Forestry
77.   Honduras bas significant forest development potential. However, output is limited due to
distortions of incentives resulting from government interventions, absence of private property rights over
the forest, and poor forest management practices. Undl March 1992 (when the LMA was approved),
forestry laws and regulations discouraged imvestment, efficient resource use, commercial exploitation, and
conservation and development of the natnral forest. Two-thirds of Honduras is classified as suitable only
for forest pover but the actual forest area is only 45 peet of totl land area and severe degradation
in some regions attests to widespread misuseY The annal rate of deforestation is estimated at 1.1
percent (about 80,000 ha), mainly of broadleaf forest. The forestry indutry is also in a state of decline.
Lumber production in 1990 was 600,000 to 700,000 cubic meters, or about 30 percent below 1978-79
production; the export value of prmary forest products has decreased by more than 40 percent in the
same period. Revenues and marketed volumes have declined faster than the harvestig of logs. The
sector's regulatory frmeork has resulted in the producdon of low-value products, and considerable
inefficiency in resource use: currenty, neither the objectives of susianable commercial foresty nor
conservation of enviromnentally fragile areas are beig met.
78.   The principal factors causing degradation of fort lands are the settemat of generally landless
families in forested land and extensive livestock ranching. The LRA and forestry laws and policies
11    There is no accuae hfmaton on forest coverage. Esdcas Foresales 1989^ by CORDEFOR and PAOIUNDP
and miion calcula    estmate tat die present f     a is 7.6 million ha, of whicb 2.4 mion ha is broadleaf noest and
2.9 miion ha is conifrows an 2.3 mSion ha (many broaf frest) is dortesXd. Slight over half of the people living
in forest area occupy communal (o) land, and less thn 10 percn le on private lands. Most of the population on
deforestd areas are on ejdo or non-ejdo public lands.



- 24 -
prevailing until April 1992 established a perverse set of incentives which encouraged cutting the forest
and replacing it with crops or pasture to avoid possible expropriation of land and lumber resources. The
law that created COHDEFOR gave it legal rights and full control over all timber resources, even those
on private lands. Commercial logging was also inefficient due to COHDEFOR's: (a) stumpage fee which
resulted in "high-grading"; (b) practice of granting shott-term (less than one year) extraction permits,
which failed to establish an incentive to increase yields through improved forest management; and (c)
weak monitoring and enforcement of sustinable forest management. COHDEFOR's legal monopoly of
timber exports, direct intervention in pricing and production, and controls over the production and
marketing of wood products, reflected and encouraged the short-rn, extractive nature of the Honduran
forest resource utilization, and inhibited the development of a sustainable private sector forestry industry.
Excessive protection of the domestic sawmill industry through the 49 percent limitation on foreign capital
participation in forestry-related venture discouraged improvements in forestry management practices.
79.   In recent years, and with substantal support from the donor community, COHDEFOR has made
efforts to address some of these problems. First, a new stumpage valuation system, based on standing-
tree value, is being implemented. Second, it has started to re-direct its policies and activities away from
forest exploitation towards resource management, stopping all its production activities and closing its
sawmills. Third, it is divesting all assets related to production and processing of lumber; the five
remaining enterprises have been offered for sale, and the divestiture process is expected to be completed
by end-1993. Fourth, an intensive management program (AMIs) has been introduced on a pilot basis
under the support of the Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA). In this, owners or settlers
are incorporated into a management system that minimizes tree harvesting and has the potential of
yielding results in terns of prevention and detection of forest destruction, as well as aireely benefiting
the rural poor.
80.   The Reform Progam. The objective of the forestry policy reforms to be supported by the
AGSAC is to lay the basis for a sustinable management of the country's rich forest resources with
increased participation of the private sector. To that end, Law 31-92 introduced modifications to the
forestry laws to: (a) elminate any activity or function of the forestry public sector (AEE, i.e.,
COHDEFOR) related to the production, marketing and trade of forest products; (b) reorient the APE's
role towards management and protection of public forests, regulation of private forests, fire pretection,
and forest extension and research; (c) require management plans as a pre-requisite for all forest
utilization; (d) return and guarantee ownership of tmber resources to landowners; (e) exenpt all forest
lands from future expropriation under the LRA; and (f) allow private sector entry into forest production,
industrialization and marketing.
81.    GOH has recently approved satisfactory reguations to implement the enacted forestry changes
under Law 31-92 (para. 102.(b)), that include: (a) the role and responsibilities of APE; (b) that public
stumpage sales and other revenues generated by the public forest lands would be part of the Treasury's
income; (c) standards for the mangemet plans to be submitted to AFE as prerequisite to utilize any
forest resources; (d) procedures to demonstrate the right of use of forest resources by forest land owners;
(e) transitional dispositions to identify public forest areas; (f) rules to establish dispute settlement
mechanisms in forest areas; (g) policies and procedures to regularize communities in national forests
and/or to compensae farmers in cases of involuntary resettlement; and (h) regulations to establish and
manage Protected Forest Areas and to promote biodiversity conservation. The regulations stipulate also
that the resources to implement the APE's anmual work program would have to be sanctioned by the
Ministry of Finance and would be independent of the revenues generated by the public forest lands.
82.   A simple workable scheme for the development of forest managemen plans to safeguard public
interest and the eaviroment on one hand, while providing incentives to the owners to husband the



- 25 -
resource on the other, is critical. The rules, regulations and standards of the management plans have
been developed by GOH with technical assistance from the donor conmmunity under close consultation
with IDA. These regulations minimize requiements for the numerous, small landowners who are not
located in environmentally critical areas, while concentrating attention and effort on the fewer larger
owners and environmentally critical areas (e.g., nucleus of protected areas). GOH's policy, as stated in
the Letter of Agricultural Development Policy (Annex 3), is that in the majority of the public forest area,
settlers would need to be regularized (e.g., through conditional long-term leases) and incorporated into
management systems which minimize or avoid harvesting. In critical areas, owners and/or settlers may
have to be bought out or moved in land swaps. In general, however, GOH policy is to mininize
involuntary resettlement, and it will only be exercised in cases of urgent need and only as a measure of
last resortY The extent of the population that might be resettled will only become apparent as individual
management plans are prepared and approved. Resettlement rules and regulations, consistent with
Operational Directive 4.30 on Involuntary Resettlement, are part of the regulations to the LMA (para.
81). In particular, the latter states: (a) the cases in which resettlement will be considered; (b) the
irstitutions responsible for resettlement; (c) that a resettlement plan must be prepared as soon as the need
for resettlement is identified; (d) that any resettlement action must include an appropriate comnpensation
package as part of the plan; and (e) that comnmnity participation must be an important element in
resettlement activities. GOH has agreed to present to IDA for its approval, a plan for any proposed
resettlement before any resettlement action is initiated (para. 101) and carry out such actions in
accordance with such plan. Implementation of such plans would be monitored pror to Second and
Third Tranche releases as part of the Forestry Action Plan (para. 84).
83.   The regularization of forest land settlers and the return of LMA ownership of the forest to
landowners will have to be done carefuilly in cooperation with the INA and Cadastro (para. 76) because
of the precarious status of the land transaction recording system and the limited coverage of the cadastre
(para. 74). To mitigate possible risks associated with the above, GOH has issued clear rles for: (a)
reinrning forest resources to landowners; (b) the establishment of an efficient arbitration system; and (c)
the imposition of a strict control by APE of the validity of the titles to claim forestry property rights and
of possible fuure edcroachments in state land. Rules to implement such measures are spelled out in the
regulations to the LMA that were recently approved by GOH (para. 84), and the execution of such policy
would be monitored before Second and Third Tranche releases as part of the Forestry Action Plan
(paras. 84, 103.(b) and 104.(b)). Also, to accelerate the regularization and titling process, it is imperative
to expedite the development of a land capability system to identify the forest areas (included degraded
forest) most suited for forestry (i.e., "potential forest areas"), and to accelerate cadastral work in forested
areas with higher population concentraIons. According to Law 31-92, potenti  forest areas are not
subject to expropriation or adjudication and hence state forests cannot be privatized. Gt)H will be
assistd by the German Association for Technical Cooperation (GTZ) in identifying potential forest areas,
a task expected to be completed during 1993.
84.   A satisfactory Forestry Action Plan agreed between GOH and IDA is attached to the Letter of
Agricultural Development Policy (pam. 70 and Annex 3) and includes, inter alfa, actions for the: (a)
restructuring of AFE; (b) identification of potential forest areas; (c) auctioning of forest resources from
public lands eligible and suitable for commercial forestry; (d) establishment of public forest management
units (PFMUs); (e) formalization of usufiu  rights of communities or implementaton of resettlement
plans, if any; (f) preparation of management plans; (g) establishment of a Protected Forest Area system;
and (h) implementation of a program to monitor the social and environmental impact of the forestry
2/     The LMA does not change the legal stus of protecd areas and tre  does not ree GOH to resettle ocupant
of protected areas. However, GOH could decide to exerche ias acrr  righs to preserve legally- established protected areas,
in which case it might consider defraying the cost at resettemenit



- 26 -
reform program (Annex 6). GOH has initiated implementation of the agreed plan (para. 102.(d)), in
particular: (a) satisfactory restrucring of APE has been approved by GOH; (b) stumpage in all public
lands has been increased to parity level with private lands; (c) an auctioning system of timber sales has
been initiated; and (d) funds to implement the agreed social-enviromental monitoring system have been
ensured. Satisfactory implementation of the agreed Forestry Action Plan will be monitored prior to
Second and Tdb  Tranche releases (paras. 103.(b) and 104.(b) and Annex 3). In addition, presentation
of satisfactory terms of reference to undertake a financial and operational audit of COHDEFOR would
be a condition of Second Tranebe release (para. 103.(c)), while presentation of a satisfactory audit report
would be a condition for a Third Tranche release (para. 104.(c)). An economic and environmental
statement of the possible impact of the forestty policy reforms contained in Law 31-92 and to be
supported by the proposed operation is in Annex 6. This sXtaement was prepared by IDA based on
information provided by COHDEFOR and has been discussed with GOH officials and the donor
conmunity.
E. Rural Fiance
85.   GOH, with substntial support from international agencies, tried to compensate farmers for the
adverse terms of trade for agriculture (para. 64) by giving subsidized credit through: (a) a large number
of Central Bank (BCH) credit lines for agricultre; (b) a first-tier state-owned bank, BANADESA, which
catered mainly to rural borrowers at highly concessionary terms; and (c) INA, a nonfinancial institution
that provided financial resources to agrarian reform beneficiaries. By the end of the 1980s, total
agricultural interest subsidies from the banking system (including BANADESA's own operations but not
its trust funds) alone were equivalent to about two percent of agricultural sector value-added.
86.   Commercial banks provide credit primarily to medium- and large-scale commercial farmers, using
BCH rediscounts. Citing lack of collateral, they often turn down small rural producers. Low-income
nrr producers' difficulties in obtaining formal finance have been due to: (a) their inability to mortgage
land since they lack title to it; (b) high costs of monitoring borrowers in distant locations; (c) economies
of scale in commercial bank operations which penalize small accounts; and (d) deficiencies in the
collateral system which force lenders to require extremely high collaterals. Ceilings on interest rates and
other service charges did not allow formal intermediaries to cover transaction costs or higher risks.
Informal markets are generally more flexible but have higher costs and do not intermediate effectively
among rural areas.
87.   BANADESA, the main source of formal credit for small farmers, was created in 1982 as the
successor to an agricultural bank that went bankrupt. Since its inception, BANADESA has faced
solvency and liquidity problems due mainly to insufficient capital and loan losses. Political interference
in credit allocation and approval frequently resulted in loans of dubious quality. The more than 30 trust
funds managed by BANADESA, each requiring its own management and with varying, ambigous credit
regulations, contribute to BANADESA's excessive int tion costs of about 10 percentage points.
Moreover, BANADESA was given a nunber of tasks unrelated to its primary mission.
88.   As nart of the Fourth Agriculural Credit Project (Ln. 2991-HO, approved in September 1988),
GOH agreed to take the first steps towards rationalizing the rural financial sector. The main objective
of the agreed rationalization program was to stgthen the incentives for the financial sector to allocate
resources more efficiently in rural areas. This policy commitment was complemented and deepened under
SAL It. Fulfillment of financial sector policy conditionality under these two operations has been
satisfactory. In particular, commercial bank lending rates have been liberalized and rediscount rate
subsidies eliminated (Annex 4). In addition, in 1993, and funded under Ln. 2991-HO, GOH will initiate



-27 -
a study to idewt  major deficiencies in the collateral system and to propose short- and medium-term
couses of action to overcome such constraints. The study is epected to be completed duing 1993.
89.   Under SAL 11, the Bank and GOH agreed on a restrcturing plan for BANADESA. In
accordance with that plan, BANADESA has: (a) laid off 45 percen of its personnel; (b) increased to
market levels lending rates on a portion of its portfolio; (c) stow lending to public sector instiutions
and providing loans in excess of US$50,000 equivalent to a single borrower; and (d) started to divest
from its non-fcial activities. However, during 1991-early 1992 (GOH failed to improve overall loan
recovery (mainly due to the announcement of a debt forgiveness program In mid-1991). Since mid 1992,
the Goveent has generally complied with the financial comnitments (para. 90).
90.   The Reform Progrm. Liberalization of interest rates (pan. 88) and improvements in the
agriculunral terms of trade and land teue property rights (paras. 68 and 75) will substantially improve
farmers' access to formal fiancial credit in the medium- and long-run. Therefore, the objective of the
mral financial sector reform program to be supported by the AGSAC is to help improve the efficiency
of rural financial intermediation and to increas access of small farmers to credit facilities as reflected
in the Rural Financia Sector Action Plan attached to the Agreement's Letter of Agricultural Development
Policy (para. 69). GOH has shown its commtment towards this objective by satisfactory implementation
of BANADESA's restuct    plan agreed under SAL II since April 1992, in particular with respect to
maintaining the August 30, 1991 Central Bank rediscount level, adjustd by inflation, and providing no
additional Tray  fimding to the insituon throughout 1992 (par. 102.(e)). The Government has
committed itself to mahinn such financing limit and not to provide any additional debt forgiveness to
agricWultal credit beneficiaries (Letter of Agricultual Developmn Policy; Annex 3). These financing
commments will be closely monitored prior to Second and Third Trandw releass (pa. 103.(d) and
104.(d)). In addiion, GOH has agreed to divest BANADESA to facilitate gre r participation and to
develop more efficient finmcial intermeaes in rural fiacig and has prepared satisfactory terms of
reference (TORs) to evaluate diveste alteraves. Initiation of concrete agreed actions to divest
BANAD13SA (e.g. havng completed the sales of a portion of BANADESA's portfolio or of some
branches, or having completed the preparation of tender documents to sale the institution as a whole)
based on the study carried out under agreed TOR would be a condition of Second Tranche while
substntial progress on the divesdtur process would be a condition of Third Tranhe release (para.
103.(e) and 104.(e)). In the short run, there is a need to ident  and develop ways to increase the
participation of formal financial insttutions in rural financing. Therefore, GOH has also prepared and
approved satsfactory TORs for a study to ident  a scheme to promot the increased participation of
for fal financial imedi in agricultural credit. Satisfactory implementation of the agreed action
plan to promote increased participation of fancal itmediaries based on  eons  of the
study, would be monitored prior to Second and Tlird Tranche releases (aras. 103.(e) and 104.(e)).
91. To better attend fte needs of small fiamers, Law 31-92 has established the legal basis for two new
types of entities in the rural financial system: rural credit banks (Cajas Rurales) and a land credit fund.
The main objective of GOH in the creation of rural crit banks is to improve credit access to small ural
borrowers by making fiam    groups responsible for their own finances. The main objective of the land
credit fund is to facilitate small farmers' access to financial resources to purchase land. IDA has agreed
with the SRN and the BCH regadi  the nature and function of these new entities and the need to
establish suh h a network of rral credit bans with adequate fan    supervision and managerial skills.
Similarly, it has been agreed to limit treasy esources for the land credit fund to those stipulated in the
LMA, that is, to the recoveries fom the lani adjudication and titing under such law. The basic
principles under which such schmes would operae are spelled out in the Rural Credit Action Plan agreed
between tg  GOH 0and IDA and attaced to the Letter of Agricultural Developmet Policy (pan. 70 and
Ann  3). In summary it was agreed tatthe land credit fund scheme wod: (a) be a line of credit open



- 28 -
to all qualified financial intermediaries; (b) lending will be at market interest rates; and (c) financial
intermediaries will be filly responsible for credit risks. The rural credit banks will be: (a) private
financial institutions tightly controlled by a competent regulatoy entity; and (b) financially self-sufficient.
GOH has recenty approved the regulations to operate the Land Credit Fund (para 80.102.(f)) while the
deta on how the rural credit bns will operate are beig developed by GO  with assistnce from the
United States Agency for International Development (USAID). Prior to Second Tnhe  Release (pam.
103.(1), GOH would approve satisfactory schemes, rules and regulations to implement the rural credit
banks, based on the principles laid out in the Rural Credit Action Plan; implementation of these two
schemes according to agreed rules and regulations would be monitored prior to Second and Third
Trenche releases (paras. 103.(t) and 104.(D).
F. Government Ependiture and Public Administration
92.   The organization, functions, and regulatory systems of the agricultural public sector need
immediate and broad-based reform, both to adapt it to the proposed new policy environment and to
correct the following administaive and managerial deficiencies and major sector management problems.
93.   A complex system of decenlized, functionally overlapping government institutions and
paastals involved in all aspects of the production-distribution chain was developed to enforce price and
trade controls, and other regulations. Most were inefficient and operated with minimum or no cost
recovezy, so contributing to significant fiscal deficits. In addition, due to GOH's weak budgeting system,
sectoral agencies are not well informed about planning parameters or financial restictions for the
budgeting process; the system does litfle more than track the movement of money in a rudimenty way.
Expendt   classifications are obsolete and the absence of common standards prevents uniformity in
budgeting classification. Under these conditions, budgeting control becomes difficult, if not impossible,
as it does not allow monitoring of achievement of the objectives stated in the Annual Operating Programs
(POAs), or of the cost efficiency of activities.
94.   Law 31-2 provides the institutional framework for overall sector coordination, and allocates
responsibility to formulate and implement the agricultural policy, strategy and budgeting to the SRN.
Under this system, the Agricultural Sector Planning Unit (UPSA) within SRN provides technical support
to the Committee for Agricultural Development (CODA). This new instittional framework provides the
basis for managing stmctur  administrative reforms and implementing the overall policy changes
supported by the pwposed AGSAC. GOH has begun to use this new system to develop coordinated and
coheret sWategies and policies for the agricultural sector assisted by the sector agencies. It was used to
prepare the AMDP and Law 31-92.
95.   The Reform Program. The objective of AGSAC-suported actions in agicultural public
adminitron is to improve sector policy planning and coordination by strngtning and making better
use of the budget process. Public agricultural instittions would need both to effect economies in
administrve and opeting costs, and to justify the continuation and/or start of specific programs and
projects on efficiency and economic grounds. Improvements to sector budget managemnt are a crucial
precondition to policy and management improvements, and would allow SRN to exercise effectively its
lead role in policy coordination ald execution, and strengthen the policy dimension of UPSA in sector
manement and budget control. The proposed AGSAC would require POAs and budgets for the sector
and for each sector instion, satisfactory to IDA, be approved by the Economic Cabinet prior to their
approval by the Ministry of Finance and be presented to IDA by Auust 30 of each precedig year of
the imple   ion of the Credit, startng in August 1993. These are to include the government's
agricultural seaor investment progrm and to reflect and support agricultural policies agreed under this
operaion (paas. 102 to 104 and Annex 2) and under SAL II (para. 68 and Annex 4). Implementation



- 29 -
of POAs and budgets for the sector as a whole and for each of the sector institutions would be reviewed
by the SRN and be presented to IDA at the end of each following quarter to ensure that they did support
the agreed policy changes under this credit and SAL II. These requirements are reflected in the Public
Adndtratdon Action Plan agreed between the GOH and IDA and attached to the Letter of Agricultural
Development Policy (Annex 3). Satisfactory implemention of the Public Administration Action Plan,
in particular with respect to implementation of agreed POAs and budgets, would be monitored prior to
Second and Third Tranches (paras. 103.(g) and 104.(g)). In addition, the Economic Cabinet and the
Treasury have approved satisfactory 1993 POAs and budgets for the sector and for SRN, INA, IHMA,
APE, and BANADESA, reflecting and supporting the policies agreed under the proposed operation and
under SAL II (para. 102.(g)).
96.   Technical Assstance. In conjunction with the proposed credit, GOH has agreed to implement
a Policy Support Program (PSP) to provide UPSA and the sector institutions with technical support to
strengthen policy planning, management and implementation capabilities (para. 102.(h)). The PSP's main
objective is to help define, develop and institutionalize the managerial capacity needed to implement the
new sectoral policies. The PSP has three main components: (a) the provision of specialized technical
assistance to execute and control POAs and budgets within the context of sector policy priorities; (b) the
implementation of the restructuring and provision of insfitutional management techniques needed to carry
out the proposed policy reforms; and (c) coordination of the technical support provided by international
and bilateral orgnizations active in Honduras' agricultural sector (among others, USAID, CIDA, GTZ,
RUTA, and UNDP). Under this program assistance will be provided to UPSA, SRN, INA, APE and
BANADESA. GOH has been receiving technical assistance from USA1D, CIDA, RUTA, UNDP and
IDB to prepare the regulations to Law 31-92 and the reorganization structure and implementation plan
for the sector institutions, particularly INA and COHDEFOR. In addition, since GOH is receiving
tehical support from USAIJD to formulate and implement agricultural policies, GOH has requested
USAID financial support to finance the proposed PSP satisfactory to IDA (Annex 5); satisfactory PSP
iplementation during 1993 and 1994 will be monitored prior to Second and hbird Trancle Releases
as part of the Public Administration Action Plan (paras. 103.(g) and 104.(g)).
PART m - THE PROPOSED AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMET CREDIT
A. Blank Experience and Rationale for Lending for Agriculture
97.    B/DDA Experien  In LEding for Agriculture. During 1970-90, IDA and the Bank made
four credits and three loans, totalling US$113.4 million, to Honduras for six agricultral projects. Many
of the lessons learned from them were incorporated in the design of the Fourth Agricultural Credit Project
(Loan 2991-HO) of 1988. However, due to Honduras' non-accrual status during 1988-9, the Loan
2991-HO only becne effective in June 1990, during the final phase of SAL II processing, once arrears
to the Bank Group were cleared. SAL II supports a number of agricultural policy changes, in particular
related to price and trade and rural financial markets. Lessons learned from the implementation of both
SALs have also been incorporated in the design of the proposed AGSAC.
98.   Raionale for l[DA Ihwolvemnt. Agricultural activities are critical to Honduras' long-term
economic growth and IDA and IDB have been working closely with GOH and SRN in designing the
AMDP. The Bank and IDA have supported GOH efforts to implement the first phase of this program
through SAL II (para. 68 and Annex 4), which was cofinanced by IDB. The proposed reforms of the
agriculural progrm  are important components of the structural adjustment/stabilization program
supported under SAL H, SAC and ESAC and essenti to GOH's medium-term progrm (para. 13). The
proposed AGSAC suppons the most important reforms included in the Government's AMDP and Law
31-92, and would help consolidate sector reforms inated under SAL 1I to rblish the country's



- 30 -
compaaive advantage in agriculture modemization sector and ensure sustainable medium- and long-term
growth.
B. Trauche Release Conditions
99. Cofinavclng. The IDB is co-financing -the same policy program as that supported by the
proposed AGSAC with a US$50.0 million loan. The IDB loan, to be disbursed in three tranches against
fulfillment of the same conditions as the IDA credit, was approved by IDB Board in mid-December 1992.
Its effectiveness has been conditioned to the approval of the proposed AGSAC by IDA's Board.
100.  Credit Tranchi. IDA support of SDR43.3 million (US$60.0 million equivalent) is proposed
to be disbursed over 27 to 30 months as follows: a First Tranche of SDR18. 1 million (US$25.0 million
equivalent) would be disbursed upon effectiveness, a Second Tranche of SDRIO.8 million (US$15.0
million equivalent) would be disbursed afier about 9 months upon satisfactory compliance with Second
Tranche release conditions, and release of the remaining SDR14.4 milion (US$20.0 million equivalent)
is anticipated by the first quarter of 1995 after satisfactory compliance with Third Tranche release
conditions. The Closing Date of the Credit will be June 30, 1995.
101.  In addition to the monitorable actions specified in paras. 102 to 104, all trance releases would
be contingent upon: (a) the mainenance of a sound macoeconomic frmnework consistent with and
supportve of the agriculural sector adjustment program for sustained growth; and (b) satisfactory
performance in overal agricultural program implementation consistent with the Letter of Agricultural
Development Policy and SAL n agricultural policy commments. GOH would also be required to
pesent to IDA, for its approval, a satisfactory plan before underaking any resettlement action and carry
out such action in accordance with such plan.
102. The following major actions were taken by the Government before presentation of the credit to
the Board of Executive DLrectoa:
(a)    Law 31-92 containing satisfactory modifications to the land tenure and forestry policies
was enacted in April 1992 (pan. 69);
(b)   Regulations to implement the enacted land tenure and forestry chapters of Law 31-92
satisfactory to IDA have been approved by GOH (paras. 76 and 81);
(c)    GOH has initiated implementation of the agreed Land Tenme Action Plan (pan. 76);
(d)   Implementation of the agreed Forestry Action Plan has been initiated (pan. 84)
(e)    Satisfactory progress in the implementation of the restucgt    plan of BANADESA
(pan. 90);
(t)    Safactory basic principles to establish and operate rural credit bans and satisfactory
regulatons to establish and operate the land credit fund have been approved by GOH
(pua. 91);
(g)   Satisfcory 1993 POAs and budgets for the sector and for SRN, INA, IHMA, APE and
BANADESA (pan. 95) have been approved by the Economic Cabinet; and
(h)   GOH has approved on the PSP and its financing, satisfactry to IDA, to strengthen sector
planning, management and implementation capabilities to undertake proposed policy
reforms (para. 96).



- 31 -
103.  Secod Tlnche Rdease would be conditional upon the following actions:
(a)    Satisfactory implementation of the Land Tenure Action Plan (para. 76 and Annex 3);
(b)    Satisfactory implementtion of the agreed Forestry Action Plan (para. 84 and Annex 3);
(c)    Satisfactory TOR to undertake a financial and operational audit of INA's and AFE's
records and accounts (paras. 76 and 84);
(d)    Evidence that the Central Bank funding to BANADESA has been limited
to the August 30, 1991 level, adjusted by inflation, and that there has
been no additional treasury funding (para. 90).
(e)    GOH  has completed the study to promote increased participation of financial
intermediaries in agricltural credit as agreed with IDA, presented a plan to implement
recommended actions, and has initiated implementation of the agreed plan of action to
divest BANADESA based on the reommendatons of the evaluation carried out under
agreed TOR (pana. 90);
(f)    GOH has approved satisfactory rules and regulations to establish and operate the rural
credit banks, based on the agreed basic principles, and provide evidence that, to the
extent the land credit fund and the rural credit banks are operational, are functioning in
accordance with agreed schemes, rules and regulations (para. 91); and
(g)    Satisfactory implementation of the agreed Public Admiistration Action Plan (paras. 95
and 96).
104.  Third Tranche Release would be conditional upon the following actions:
(a)    Satisfactory implmentation of the Land Temnre Action Plan (para. 76 and Annex 3);
(b)    Satisfactory implementation of the Forestry Action Plan (para. 84 and Annex 3);
(c)    Satisfactory audit report of INA's and APE's operations based on agreed TOR (paras.
76 and 84);
(d)    Evidence that the Central Bank funding to BANADESA has been limited
to the August 30, 1991 level, adjusted by inflation, and that there has
been no additional treasury funding (para. 90).
(e)    Substantial progress in implementing the agreed recommendations of the study to promote
increased participation of financial intmediaries in mrual financial markets and of the
agreed plan to divest BANADESA (pan. 90);
(f)    GOH bas provided evidence that land credit fund and the rural credit banks, to the e.-tent
that they are operational, are functioning in accordance with agreed schemes, rules and
regulations (para. 91); and
(g)    Satisfactory implementation of the agreed Public Administration and Expenditure Action
Plan (pan. 95 and 96).
C. Procurement, Dibursement and AudIting
105.  The credit proceeds will be used to finance the foreign exchange cost of general imports (goods
and relevant foreign services), excluding goods financed by other muldlateral or bilateral agencies, and
other goods specifically prohibited in a negative list defined under the Standard International Trade
Classification (SITC) or equivalent classification. Retroacive financing for up to 20 percent of the credit
amount is recommended for eligible expenditures incurred beginning fourth months prior to the credit
signing date.
106. A Country Procurement Assessment Review (CPAR) carried out by IDA in September 1990
concluded that Honduran legislation which govers public procuremet promote contracting on the basis



- 32 -
of competitive bidding is compatible with IDA guidelines. It also determined that private companies
generally follow acceptable commercial practices among which the most current is the use of limited
competitive bidding procedures among qualified suppliers; importers generally obtain quotations from
several suppliers and buy on the basis of quality and price. Based on the CPAR findings it is proposed
to apply the following procurement procedures:
107.  Imported goods by public and private sector entities valued at US$5.0 million or more would be
procured through simplified international competitive bidding (ICB) procedures in accordance with IDA
guidelines with the exception of commodities which will be procured through inernational competitive
procedures acceptable to the Bank. For petroleum imports being supplied under existing contracts,
relevant expenditures would qualify for reimbursement under the credit in an amount not to exceed per
unit the reference average FOB price published in the Platt's Oilgram for the US Gulf Coast or the
Caribbean, as applicable, on the date of loading and adjusted for the type and quality of crude or product
only. Any financing on any such oil imports would be eligible for reimbursement under the credit. A
similar criterion would apply to the reimbursement of expenditures for imported commodities under
existing contrcts for which the reference unit price would be the average price posted by a recognized
commodity exchange; and
108.  Imports valued at below US$5.0 million equivalent would be procured in the case of: (i) public
sector entities, in accordance with the procedures applicable to such agencies; and (ii) private iniporters,
in accordance with established commercial practices of the sector based on price quotations except where
direct contracting may be appropriate under para. 3.5 of IDA Procurement Guidelines.
109. Disbursements of each tranche would be made against import documentation received from the
Central Bank, which would be responsible for the collection of the relevant documentation and submission
of credit withdrawal applications. IDA will follow the simplified documentation procedures for
adjustment operations described in the recent Board note on this subject (SecM92-767; June 8, 1992).
For those contracts each valued at less than US$5.0 million equivalent, IDA would reimburse the
Borrower on the basis of Statements of Expendiu  (SOEs) prepared by the Cental Bank. Applications
for withdrawals will be consolidated and submitted in amounts not less than US$250,000 equivalent.
Expenditures for: (a) goods procured under individual contracts valued at less than US$10,000 equivalent;
and (b) crude oil imports in amounts exceeding the equivalent of 25 percent of the credit would not be
eligible for financing under the credit. Supporting information related to the SOEs will be retained by
the Central Bank for review by IDA and for audit by exenal auditors. In addition to standard auditing
covenants, an audit report covering relevant SOEs would be submitted to IDA no later than 90 days after
the full disbursement of each tranca.  Submission of the audit report for SOEs of the previous tranche
release would be a condition of disbursement of each following tranche.
D. Benefits, hpact on Envhromnent and Risk
110. Benefits. The proposed AGSAC would benefit Honduras' agricultural sector through: (a)
improved resource allocation resulting from the elimination of distortions associated with price and trade
policies, credit subsidies, and regulations and legislation related to land use and forestry; (b) improved
investment climate by supporting changes in the land and forestry legislation to guarantee security of land
tenure and private property rights in forest resources; (c) increased employment as a result of the
expected acceleration of agricultural growth and the expansion of more labor intensive activities; (d)
laying the basis for a more rational management of forest resources and better protection of the forest by
improving the system of land and forest property rights and eliminating legal provisions that promote
deforestation; and (e) supporting equal rights for women in the agrarian reform process and credit by
eliminating discdminatory provisions in the access to land. As a result of past and proposed adjustment



- 33 -
measures in Honduras, the agricultural sector is expected to grow at an average rate of more than 4.0
percent per year during project implementation compared to 3.0 percent experienced during the previous
decade. The expected inmpact of the reform program on different agricultural product groups is outlined
below:
Traditional Export Crops: In spite of the past unfavorable policy conditions, banana and coffee
have been Honduras' main export products, accoundng for over 50 percent of its export earnings.
Production of these two crops has declined during the last two years due mainly to a strike of
banana workers and bad weather. Other traditional export crops are sugar and tobacco.
Profitability of these non-traditional export crops has improved as they are now benefiting from
a more favorable exchange rate regime. Although future world prices and markets for coffee and
bananas are not encouraging, some expansion of area under these two crops is taldng place in
Honduras as they remain competitive. In the longer run, the effects of the more favorable
foreign exchange regimen and a shift of the tax regime from export to income taxes should
further improve profitability. In addition, reforms to the LRA supported under this project will
facilitate land rental and improve temnre security, and so are expected to increase investment and
hence productivity. In the next two years, coffee and bananas are expected to reach the
production levels of the late 1980s. Thereafter, productivity increases in coffee and some area
and productivity increases in bananas are foreseen.
*     Non-tadtonal Export Crops: The most successful non-traditional export products are shrimp
and lobster, although the area planted with pineapples and melons has doubled in the past
decade. Despite recent growth, non-traditional export crops occupy only about 10 percent of
cultivated land in Honduras. There is considerable potential in producing high-value crops for
export, which will generate foreign exchange and rural employment, and will utilize land more
intensively than traditional crops. The subsector is therefore well positioned to benefit from
GOH's economic reform program, as devaluation of the currency and elimination of trade
barriers protecting domestic m      will increase the attractiveness of investment. Key
provisions of the LMA which allow land rental and joint ventures are expected to accelerate
investment and the expansion of the productive capacity in this important subsector.
o     lBasic Grais: Honduras' main basic grains-maize and, to a lesser extent, beans, sorghumn, and
rice-have already benefitted from on-going policy reforms. Adjustment in the foreign exchange
regimen has increased prices and demand for domestically-produced grains and has improved the
viability of investments to increase productivity. Price and trade policy changes are expected to
bring about a shift in real income from urban consumers to rural producers. In spite of the
negative protection of maize over the last decade, maize yields have increased steadily; in the
medium term, the productivity of maize (and of other basic grains) will accelerate. In the long-
run, there is likely to be a reduction of the area under basic grains, and possibly even of
production, due to the greater profitability of other agricultural activities. Resultant possible
increases in basic grain imports are expected, however, to be more than compensated for by
increases in other agricultural exports.
Livestock: Honduras has been an importan.  plier of beef within Central America. However,
production and exports have fallen since the late 1970s and domestic consumption has been
shifting toward chicken meat, production of which expanded rapidly in the 1980s, supported by
the low cost of imported inputs. However, price and trade policy changes are now making beef
consumption more attractive. In addition, there will be productivity increases in cattle production
as other activities compete with pasture for good agricultural land.



- 34 -
Forest Product:  The proposed policy reforms are expected to raise the price of lumber to
international levels; increase revenue from the sector, investnent and productivity; and provide
landowners with incenives to reforest and improve the utilization of forest resources. By
improving the atlocation efficiency of resource use in commercial timber areas, the value-added
of forest products will increase, and over time the productive base will also increase. In areas
not suited to commercial production, especially the broadleaf forests, forestry programs will be
developed with greater community participation and COHDEFOR's role in improved management
of protected areas will be strengthened.
111.  Environmental Impadt. The entire sector adjustment credit is designed to create new policies
and procedures for the environmentally sustainable management of land and forest resources. Therefore,
a separate, free-standing enviromental assessment exercise was not considered appropriate. Instead, an
environmental statement on the forestry policy reforms embodied in the LMA is presented as Annex 6.
It covers the major environmental and social issues and impact which the project is designed to address.
The proposed operation addresses environmental concerns by: (a) correcting the negative environmental
effects of current forestry and land reform policies and legislation; (b) promoting reforestation by granting
property rights of the forest to forest landowners; (c) encouraging land and forest conservation by giving
security of temnre, either through land titles or conditional long-term leases; (d) promoting improved and
sustamiable forest management by requiring management plans as a pre-reqiisite to exploitation; and (e)
promoting improved management of Protected Forest Areas and biodiversity conservation. All these
reforms are expected to have an important positive environmental impact.
112. Risk. There are three major risks associated with the proposed operation. First, the introduction
of policy reforms may prove difficult to implement because of public opposition, particularly since the
country is in its presidental election year. To minimize this risk, key policy reforms were intrduced
prior to Board Presentation. Modifications to the land tenure and forestry laws and regulations have been
sanctioned, and the institutions responsible for overseeing the implementtion of the new policy
iplementation are being restuctred, both satisfactory. GOH held extensive discussions with farmers'
groups and associations and the private sector to seek consensus on the proposed reforms of the LMA
and its regulations. In addidon, since the enactment of the Law GOH has been conducting a series of
seminars explaining the objectives and implications of the proposed policy changes. Second, GOH has
a weak institutional capacity. Policy reforms supported under the AGSAC will substantally reduce the
role of the state by eliminating functions related directy to production and marketing. Scarce G0H
manpower resources would be better utilized in a regulatory role and as a purveyor of key services.
GOH has requested the donor community to readjust their existing technical assistance projects to
strengthen its capacity to implement the new agricultural legislation. In addition, GOH is carrying out
a PSP (para. 96) to strengthen its policy plannming, management, implementation and donor coordination
capabilities.
113. A third possible risk is that initially, the process of returning property rights of the forest to
landowners could accelerate harvesting until they trust the new system and COHDEFOR is fully
ructred and empowered to monitor and enforce rational harvesting on public and private forest lands,
and safeguard protected areas. In addition, and due to the poor land infonmation system and deficiencies
in land registration, the process of returning forest rights to forest landowners could induce illegal
occupancy of government land and the displacement of settlers from private lands. To minimize such
possible impacts, supported by the AGSAC, GOH: (a) is supporting the implementation of an arbitration
system to protect farmers' legal and de facto rights; (b) has clearly spelled out in the regulations to the
LMA the steps for individuals and communities to take to claim forest rights; (c) will intensify cadastal
work and the identification of areas suited for forest development; and (d) is reorganizing the public forest
administradon and empower it to monitor and enfrce the new policy (para. 83).



- 35-
PART IV- ROAnOMAIN
114.  I am safied thut the proposed credit would comply with the Articles of Agreement of the
Association, and recommend that the Execuive Directors approve the proposed credit.
Lewis T. Preston
President
Washington, D.C.
July 14, 1993



PailA  xEut1mc atLa 
apll u2
amn d Id wmry*
191 Pe Ca4plt GNP   US:           S
MId-1991 Populalio (dn:           5.26                                                 qp I of i
GON Domlsdo Product              5,132 10,334 12,540 16,072 18,166 20,464 22,624 24,423 28,351 38,222
Not Indite Taxpe                  539  1,078  1,381  2,097  2,139  2,24  2,4   2,762  3,147  4,16
GDPatFact Codt                   4,593  9,M6 11,159 13,975 16,027 18,170 20,177 21,661 25,4 54,5
bmpos (GNS) 1/                   2,261  3,121  4,823  5,787  6,195  6,914  7,54  8,3   9,614 12,95
bipoz  (GNFS) I/                 1,860  2,944  4,2   4,880  ,918  6,576  7,3  8,077  951  13,24
Resource Balae                    .401  -177  -598   -907  .2T7  .337   -310  -160   -113   340
Total Eenditures                 5,533 10,511 13,138 16,9  18,443 20,01 22,935 24,2 28,466 57,882
Total Consmton:                  4,262  84 10,5  13,162 13,827 15,7S2 17,414 18,428 21,0   27,571
Gonameo                           650  1,475  1,621  1,70  1,961  2,128  2,421  2,54  3,0  4,204
Privae                          3,612  7,219  8,879 11,393 116  13,624 14,993 15,8  18,000 23,167
Gos Donmelc _wsiauaz             1,271  1,817  2,638  3,817  4,416  S,049  5,520  6,S   7,371 10,511
Govrameno                         477   561   699  1,58  1,606  1,678  1,878  2,    2         2,867
Pztvate21                         794  1,256  1,39  2,759  3,011  3,31I  3,643  4,152  5,103  7,644
Memorandum ftams:
GrossDomeStiags                   870  1,640  2,040  2,910  4,339  4,711  5,210  5,9   7,258 10,851
Not PFact" tLOo                  -27S   622   -947 -1,132  1,336 -1,450 -1,17 .1,530 -1,495 -1,534
NoteCunatTransfwa                  15    39    116    53    53    d0    67    71    8o   lO1
Nional Sap                        610  1,057  1,209  1,831  3,056  3,22  3,759  4,537      3  9,418
Opiona deels for RIAMSX.
NoetlectT                         ..    ..      ...
Indirec Team                                                        *
Subsidies                                                           ..    ..    ..
PM Dk Cosen Pre Da
Grss Dometic Product             8,141 10,334 10,342 10,6  11.127 11,606 12,106 12,625 13,734 16,253
Impocts (GNPS) 1/                3,242  3,121  3,041  3,051  3,114  3,241  3,349  3,481  3,751  4,305
Expots (ONPFS)                   2,7S4  2.94   2,26  2,7S0  3,218  3,456  3.    3,639  3,     4,782
RuwoueBalance                    -4    -177  -116  -301   103   196   151   1S7   228   477
Total BpaiE r                    8,630 10,511 10,458 10,70 1124 11,410 11.953 12,468 13,506 15,777
Total C _E:awdow.                4,702  8,694  8,511  8,66   8,464  8,818  9,7   9,8  10,2  11,741
Go _emom                        1,083  1,475  1,277  1,146  1,11  1,095  1,17S  1,209  1       1,622
PrAte                           5AM   7,219  7,23S  7,518  7,313  7,723  8,104  8,    8,9  10,120
Total _ve. Epedtsum              1,92   1,817  1,946  2,305  2,50  2.592  2.674  2,879  3,229  4.055
Govanmeat                         721   561   524    645   80    887   936   96   1,24  1,136
Privat 2/                        1,207  1,256  1,422  1,660  1,669  1,70S  1,738  1,914  2,20   2899
Tas of Trod () ECM   t             47      0   -261   177  -243            488   425   .272  -364
Goso Domesic  om                 8.055 10,334 10,81 10,491 10,8   11,252 M.81  1,400 13,462 1589
Dom_sc        sl T i.)           1,353  1,640  1569  I87  2421  24    2,537-. 2811  3.184  4.148
Il Goode sad amaiBauvlos
21 bhbolud. hage in JAGA



~P22f3
4 _doulw.                        26.9%  27.1%  274%  2B4%  22.8%  2.7%  23%     22.5%   225%  22.%
1.uiy, f wh:                     23.2%  243%  24.1%  24.1%   W5%  25.1%  24.8%  24.7%  24.7%  24.7%
M _bu                            ..    ..    ..    ..    ..    ..    ..    4..             .     .
smlees                           49.9%  48.6%  48.A    47.4%  51.7%  S2.2%  52.7%  5282  52.8%  52.8%
Tota_                          109.0% 100.0% 100.0% 100.0% 100.0% 100.0% 100.0% 100.0% 1to"    100.0%
NolZsodeo   *amwd pwchd            j sonddd  o oeat db _dat a
Put DIt IW1TM &o_ adtes
Grow Doauti Pko4ctm .p.                 4.6%   5.2%   2.5%   4.3%   4.3%   43%
Agdoubme                               2.S%   1A#  3.0%   2.90  4.21   4.4%
,ndo     t:y, of obidL                 6.2%   5.3%   2.8%  10.6%   3.9%   4.4%
sanbg                                  O4.8%   7.S%   2.0%   2.9%  5A%   4A%
EioaotGNl8                               4.8%   33%   0.0%  17.0%6  4.3%   4.7%
.oaaofGtP                               4.3%   4.6%           2.1%   3.%   33.S
Toidl &padt                              3.9%   64S   2.2%   05%S  4.11, 4.0%
TOoal                                    4.1%   6.0%   2.4%  -23%   4.0S  3SA
_ovamm"                                 6.0%   8.7%   0.5%   0.4%   3.4%   4%16
Pdvdo                                   3.8%   SAS   2.7%  -2.7%   4.1%   3.2%
OrmsDomadc  k_wd t                      3.2%   83%   1.6%  11.1%S  4.8%   5.7S
Govum                                    ..   15.7%  -1.0%  38.15   2.U%   2.6%
iN.                                      ..     5.1%   2.9%   0.5    5.7%   7.1%
Cva* fy hmlost                           4.3%   4.16 -0.3%  154%b  4.%   44%
rogDoauNis_   om.                        3.9%   5A%   2.4%   3.7%6  4.3%   4.2%
Gro Nad ina omo                         3.%   5.39b  2.5%   2S%   4.4%   4J5%
oom NaIonl P.d.S                        44%   4.9%   2.55   4.3%   44%   4.55
Gro D awv          (4q-.)                ..    3.7%   2.8%  325%   SAS%  U8%
Gro Nalo"a &wio  (4dj. TX)               ..    0.9%   2.8%  25.2%   7.3%   8.0%
Pepuatio                                 2.9%   3.%  3SAS   2.9%   2.9%   2%
Labor Fom                                 4%   3.31  3.9%   4.1%   3.9%   3.6%
GDPw Caibt                               1.7%   1.7%  .0.9%   1.4I0   1.4%   1.S%
Vbhh"dvMVind0fb&



HONDURAS- NATIONAL ACCOLUlI                                                 1
Pap 3 of 12
PartE: nna Growh R
(Am    -ot ra. ~alWMh  km custt price da
Pap3 of 3
GrDomeaDotcPoductm.p.            0.7%   4.3%   0.1%   3.2%   4.3%   4.3%   4.3%   4.3%   4.3%   4.3%
AJicuuwl                         2.1%  10.0%   1.1%   6,3%   2.9%   4.8%   3.8%   3.8%   4.3%   4.3%
bIdut                           .0.8%   6.7%  -1.0%   2.7%  10.6%   3.5%   3.5%   3.5%   4.3%   4.3%
Servns                           2.8%   2.3%  -0.9%   0.5%   2.9%   6.5%   5.7%   3.9%   4.3%   439%
OwnsDomotlclnoom                  1.1%   5.5%  -2.S%   4.3%   3.7%  3SA4    5.0%   4.9%   4.2%   4.3%
GrossDomestic awtmsat            -9.6%  -1.5%   6.9%  18.5%  11.1%   1.2%   3.2%   7.6%   5.5%   6.2%
Total Conmton                     8.4%   5.3%  -2.1%   2.1%  -2.3%   4.2%   5.2%   3.3%   3.6%   3.2%
Popuation                         3.3%   2.9%   2.9%   2.9%   2.9%   2.9%   2.9%   2.9%   2.8%   2.8%
Per Capita Gowt Rawe:
ros Domustic 1Pdu m.p.          -2.6%   1.4%  -2.8%   0.3%   1.4%   1.4%   IA.    IA%   1.5%   1.5%
Toud Coalmpn                     SAS.1%   2.4%  -5.0%  .0.8%  -5.2%   13%   2.3%   0.4%   0.8%   0.4S
Ptivao geeeecm-4.S%   2.8%  -2.8%   1.2%  -5.6%   2.7%   2.0%   0.6%   0.4%   0.2%
Part: Pi. Jaie dlee.
Q(ationa Accounts DsfltorsD  18-100)
Growc Do      Ptoda               63.0  100.0  121.3  150.7  163.3  1763  186.9  193.4  206.4  235.2
mopt (GNFS)                       69.7  100.0  158.6  189.7  198.9  213.3  226.8  236.6  256.3  300.9
Expost (ONPS)                     67.5  100.0  144.4  177.4  183.9  191.4  208.1  222.0  238.8  278.0
Ttd       s ER=dkww               64.1  100.0  125.6  154.8  167.3  182.3  191.9  197.2  210.7  240.1
f30_optim                         63.6  100.0  123.4  151.9  163A   178.6  187.7  192.2  205.2  233.1
_rmatme                           65.9  100.0  13S.5  165.6  180.3  194.8  206.4  213.8  2283  260.S
Agricuture                        71.9  100.0  126.9  151.5  159.2  ..    ..
Industty, of which                65.4  100.0  130.0  164.1  180.5  ..    ..
MMn-                                            * .    -.*....   .. ...   .. ..
M n big                            ..     ..      ..     ..    ..      ..     .      .      .
Sonico.                           59.5  100.0  114.9  139.6  150.7  ..    ..
Part G: Oh Ec_onilk 1ndiato
IApost Emtcit (consa)                     13   .0.1   0.9    0.8    2.6    3.4    0.5
-    Swig R
GrosDomeosdIcavings                       5.7   35.8   293   383 ..
Grows Naloxa_siav                        14.2  30.0   31.6  39.8
ICOR pe.od avrs)                          5.3   21.7   13.8    4.9    2.0  33.6   373
Labor Por  (%)
A 8due                                   ..    ..    ..    ..   63.S%    5%
kds                                      ..    ..    ..    ..   14.8%  16.2%
S A                                      ..    ..    ..    ..   21.7%  23.3%
Tot_                                                              100.0% 100.0%



NONDU*E^TRNLT                                                      Al
Pbop 4of 12
A: Vohlue, Vaoe, ma PdM
Pop 1 of 2
Volume Idices 1989-100
Merchandise Exprts
COFFEE                           66.6  100.0  122.3  101.7  127.7  128.7  117.3  119.0  127.5  146.3
BANANA                          105.4  100.0  94.0  85.1  106.4  117.2  118.9  120.7  124.3  132.0
SHUIP & LDOSTER                  56.1  100.0  104.1  132.0  15S.0  176.2  198.8  216.6  257.4  343.7
PAEAT                           308.9  100.0  121.4  140.0  148.1  148.0  153.2  158.5  169.8  194.9
Other Ebpors                    146.1  100.0  97.5   85.7   95.7  100.6  105.0  111.3  127.1  168.9
Toad Merch. Export (FOB)        109.0  100.0  102.5  93.9  112.9  120.5  122.0  126.4  137.7  164.2
Curret Prices (USS mmI.)
Merhandie Exort
COFFEE                            204    191    181    146    164    143    142    183    235    386
BANANA                            228   352    366   333    382   416    426    440    472    543
SHRIDP& LOBSTER                    23     72     73    105    121    134    154    172   207    284
MAEAT                              61     20     25     29     32    31      32     34     42     62
Other Expors                      334    249    203    195   216    223    243    267    330    515
Total Mach. Exorts (FOB)          850   883    848   8M8    91S    947    997  1,097  1,286  1,791
Volume Idices 1989"100
Merchandise Imports
food                              76.9  100.0   97.7  109.5  117.7  123.3  126.5  129.0  133.6  143.0
OtWer Consumer Goods             152.4  100.0  137.3  119.1  126.0  132.5  138.2  143.6  155.5  178.1
POL I1 and Other Engy             63.2  100.0  88.4  107.6  112.8  118.1  123.2  128.5  139.8  164.1
Inutrmediae Goods                137.0  100.0  92.2   88.9  89.7  95.1   99.2  103.5  113.0  131.6
Primary Goods                    ..    ..    ..    ..    ..    ..    ..
Manu         Goods               ..    ..    ..    ..    ..    ..    ..
Capld Goodi                      18S.2  100.0  95.9   95.0  92.9  94.1   97.0  104.5  II.0  147.7
Total Mahrc. Inports (CIF)        111.1  100.0  96.1  101.8  104.6  109.4  113.5  118.5  128.7  149.6
Curren Pries (US$ m.)
Food                               155    154    138   151    152    159    169    186   212    276
OdterConsumerGbods                 103    89    129    114    126    135    142   151    17S    228
POL and Odier Ergy                 171   14S    167   165    168    173    181    193   238    355
Itermediate Goods                  348   334    326    321    338    363    383    409    477    632
-dmuy Goods
Manufatured Goods                ..    ..    ..    ..    ..    ..    ..
Capial Goods                       262    188    191   193    197   202   211    233    281    400
Tota March. Imports (CIF)        1,039    910    951    944    981  1,031  1,086  1,172  1382  1,892
USSPriceIndices 1989m100
Terms of Trade
Merchandie Expots Prics           88.3  100.0  93.6   97.3   91.7  U8.9  92.6   98.2  105.7  123.4
Merchandise Impors Pce            102.8  100.0  108.7  101.8  103.0  103.6  105.2  108.7  118.0  139.0
MerhnudiseTermsofTrade            85.9  100.0  86.1   95.6   89.0   85.9   88.0  90.3   89.6   88.8
Il Cmud and Derivatie



Pap 5 of 12
Pqp2of2
s_ bo  C 11 l g:Ii m                          GFRRVOG  ht
~~~~eutlend Imot Vh.Rtes
and mports (ha crenti Primas           &~M aOMata  ric data
Actual  Pkv        de-               Actua   it.        dee
190   12   137   21               190-91   12 1992-97199741
Meomiie xoue()
COFFEE                           24.0%  17.9%  18.3%  21.6%             3.9%  25.6%   0.0%   3.5%
BANANA                           26.8%  41.8%  36.7%  303%             -1.9%  25.0%   3.2%    I.S%
SEM P& LOISTER                    2.8%  13.2%  16.1%  15.9%             8.1%  17.4%  10.7%   7.5%
MIEAT                             7.1%   3.%   3.3%   3.4%             -.9%   5.8%   2.8%   3.5%
Ode  Expozta                     39.3%  23.6%  25.7%  28.8%            -4.7%   11.6%   5.8%   7.4%
Totl March. Expor (FOB)          100.0% 100.0% 100.0% 100.0%           -1.3%  20.2%   4.1%   4.5%
Mero_ha   bwods (%)
Food                               14.9%  15.5%  153%   14.6%            3.3%   7.4%   2.6%    1.7%
Ohr Consumler Goods                9.9%  12.9%  12.7%  12.1%            -2.2%   5.8%   4.3%   3.4%
POL ndOther      }                 16.5%  17.1%  17.2%  18.8%            5.0%   4.8%   4.4%   4.1%
Jaturmedic Goods n..I:            33.%  34.4%  34.5%  33.4%             -3.9%   0.9%   4.7%   3.9%
Pdmuy Goods                        ........
Mam&ctuOd Goods                    ........
CapDS Goods                       252%  20.1%  20.3X  21.1%             -5.9%  -2.2%   4.9%   5.8%
Total March. ISmpot CF            100.0% 100.0% 100.0% 100.0%            0.08%   2.7%   4.2%   3.8%
Cs Ttnds i No_fcw Smi_
Volum Indices. 1969- 100
Expoul of Noafacto Services         .       .      .       .      .       .      .
Exports of oafactor Services        .       .      .       .      .       .      .
Ipt of Nouo Servics                 ..      ..     ..      ..    ..       ..     ..



HONDURAS - BALANCE oQPAYPJDmeI
Pagp 6 of 12
Pap lof 2
A. EorsofGMPS I/                    943  1,023    990    951  1,061  1,105  1,169  1,283  1,509  2,112
1. MN  audis (F7B)                 850    883    848    808    915    947    997  1,097  1,28   1,791
2. Non-factor Servie                93    139    142    143    146   IS    171    186    223    321
B. ImpoXkof ONfS                  1,128  1,041  1,080  1,072  1,110  1,162  1,219  1,308  1,527  2,058
1. Merandia (POB)                  954    835    870    83    892    937    987  1,6   1,26  1,720
2. Non-faot Servios                174    206    210    209    218    225    231    243    271    338
C. Rouroo Balance                  -185    -19    -91   -121    -50    -57    -50    -25    -18       54
D. Net Factor  om                  -154   -234   -239   -220   -239   -244   -244   -243   -237   -244
1. FactorRwep$s                    24     11      8      9      9      11     19     21      23     27
2. Faor Pyms                       178    245    246    229    249    255    263    264    261    270
a.Totl Interest                   120    170    172    157    171    176    183    182    174    171
b. Are .m                        ..    ..    ..    ..    ..    ..    ..
c.Other Fcor PqamM                 38    75      -      72      78     79     79     81      87     99
I;.NetCurrenTraasfs                   a     20     26      10     10     10      11     11     13     16
1. C amtR                        ..      .      ...
a. Workers rmia                   ..    ..    ..    ..    ..    ..    ..             .      .
b. Othr cmrr. ..an                ..    ..    ..    ..
2. Curre  Paymet                  ..    ..    ..    ..    ..    ..    ..             .
F. Current Acowunt Blance
1. Befor off. tasfe               -331   -233   -304   -331   -280   -290   -283   -2S7   -243   -174
2. Offlclltnaftes                   14     53    208    148    144    125    115       70     70     70
3. After off. tansdfer            -317   -181    -96   -183   -136   -165   -168   -187   -173   -104
0. LT Capitd Icnfow n.a.i 2/        263     40    164      94    120    202    185    174    173    104
1. DIect nveasmient                  6     51     44     45      44     40     55     55      85     95
2. NtLTBonrowig                   258    -11    120     49      76    162    130    119      88      9
a.DlDbumren 3/                    345    176    341    230    311    393    341    314    304    261
b. Reaynmmas                       87    187    221    181    235    231    212    1M5    217    253
3. Ohe LT Infows n(a)                0      0      0      0       0      0      0       0      0      0
EL Totd Odw hemte   (aen)           -25    117    -29    157      39     13     33      43     30     20
l.No ST Capkaln.ei                  18     35   -238      4      56    -71    -20    -15       0      0
a. IntdrAtAremra                    0     83   -121    -13    -41    -46       0      0       0      0
b. OderNot STCpitap                18    -48   -117      7    -15    -25    -20    -15        0      0
2. Capid }4ovs na. 4/                5    124    143      s8    100     84     53      58     30     20
3.Eirrs &Omlmsionh                 -48    -42     67    105      -6      0      0       0      0      0
L Chaes inNet NotsRve                78     24    -39    -69    -23    -50    -50    -30    -30    -20
1.NetCtedl FromlDF                  29    -24     19      1      S1     15      3    -30      -8    -5
2. PeAst Chane n.e.i.             ..    ..       .
3. Eacrow Acconn                  .      .
1 Goode nd nmnfloter sevices
21 a.. dnote - neat cbw&    ncdd
4I Idoed  ad  bofrcsn.ps d                          i a



Pap 2 of 12
P4p2cf2
L. As sbae of GDP (cur.USS):
1. RIou   sBalanoc                 -7    -1    -3    -4    -2    -2    -1    *1             0      1
2. JebatPynuts(LT+W+ST)             5      S      6      5      S      S      s      5      4      9
3. Cut.Ace.Bal. (SsP.1.)          -13    -7   -11    -11    49        4      4      -7    -5    -3
4.LTCaphkldlflow (f.2.+G)           10     1      6      3      4      6      5      4      4      2
S. NtCredgfromlDMP                   1     -1     I      0      2      0      0     .1      0      0
K. PeWp Riaaupgo Renm:
1.NotReam  (eicd.okl)             150    47    67   138    186   236    286    316   376   456
2. God (end-Yr London P&O)          9   ..    ..    ..    ..    ..    ..
3. GrOSRe..(WUd. gki)              159    47    67   138    186   236    286   316   376   456
4. Gr.R.Qn monzholpoKe)              1     0      1      1      2      2      2      2      3      2
1- ExcBuge Rte (LCUMU$):r
'.Nom. Olt bxc Rao.
a. Anoual venq                  2.00   2.97   4.58   5.36   5.58   5.95   6.23   6.30   6.30   6.30
b. nof-ywr                      ..    ..    ..    ..    ..    ..           .
2.Red EffX-Rs( 19W9-O1)
a.MUV/PAC eadmat5S6I            0.4%  4.7%   5.7%   2.1%   4.4%   1.3%   1.2%   2.5%   3.4%   3.3%
b. Index el ic. mu 7l           78.1  100.0  132.2  117.9  117.8  117.8  117.8  117.8  117.8  117.8
3. X-Ra for NComanverso          2.00   2.97   4.58   5.36    .S    S.95   6.23   6.3    6.30   6.30
M        .. Jdunadm Ru:
GDP (art US$ uillions)         2,566  3,479  2,738  2,999  3,256  3,440  3,631  3,880  4,SO4  6,072
N. Ogon Detall for RUMM
1. Totl Pasoe Pyments:           ..    ..    ..    ..    ..    ..          .
a. Go1.n.me                      ..    ..    ..    ..    ..         .     ..      .      .
b. Pvat Seor trs..    ..    ..    ..    ..    ..    ..
c. Po"tandr*P.ia. ...                   .      ..     .      ..    .      ..      .     ..      .
2. Of fici C pJ  qasn             .      .      .      .      .      .      .      .      .     .
a a  bPdotry fl_8                .      ..     ..     .      .      .      .      .     ..     .
b. To  b*. b. .. .....a.d."....
3. Gov. ase LT Ib m               .      .      ..     .      .     .       .      .     ..     .
b. Resm"mo                      ..
4. RM    ntLT       :             ..     ..     ..     ..     ..     ..     ..     ..     ..    .
a. D      _                      .      .      .o.           .     ..     ..     ..     ..     .
S5 WdV   m _  dk viM   Isdext *fmA eiow fie. N^ Gonunw, k^ UM, i USA to _dwdshg _udai.
agmued in UAL. doewa
WPACrebueWWa BMkUaac       AmugdmCMie.
71/An I w   ,  in d. lat inaidit a ea depeoiani ndkeLTmlm.



BONSR -  LXEU CArL AND M Ts
Pap8 of12
am8 ulfusm at autu it les
Np I of 4
s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ WE
PUbIC&Publidy am. LT            263.7  156.4  333.1  206.1  311.2  3929  341.3  313.8  304.4  261.4
1. OfMlioW Cr.dlt:             150.7  139.7  298.8  207.2  298.4  38.6  320.0  293.S5  274.4  231.4
a. MuhlatKl                   112.7  56.7  178.8  125.6  235.9  302.7  237.4  262.7  197.1  141.1
of whih MDA                  17.7   0.0   0.0  48.0  60.0  105.1  83.2  110.5  54.0  31.0
of wich IBD                  24.4   1.8  82.2  30.0   3.1  36.4   1.6   0.4   0.0   0.0
b. d 1atw 1I/                  38.0  83.0  120.0  81.6  62.5  85.9  82.6  30.9  77.3  90.3
2. Plvate Cgedll               113.0  16.7  34.3   0.9  12.9   4.4  21.3  20.2  30.0  30.0
a. Rond                         0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0
b. CommulcW Dabn               58.0   2.4  30.0   0.9   3.5   1.    0.5   0.2   0.0   0.0
Supplers + Oder PIvfa         5S.0  14.3   4.3   0.0   9.4   2.9  20.8  20.0  30.0  30.0
NHvatNoaguaratoed                81.3  20.0   8.0  22.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0
Togaf1Om LT kSaS                345.0  176.4  341.1  230.1  311.2  392.9  341.3  313.8  304.4  261.4
DdFWPrdbjae                      29.1   0.0  28.8   3.   81.0  18.0  18.0   9.0   0.0   0.0
Not SMoe-Tom Capitd             ..   -4.0 -117.0   7.0  -15.0  -25.0  -20.0  -15.0   0.0   0.0
Totl Dib. (MLT+DM+S1) 2         374.1  128.4  2S2.9  240.1  377.2  385.9  339.3  307.8  304.4  261.4
3. Rqaymea 31
Pubio&sublldy Guar. LT          39.1  179.3  196.0  166.6  222.5  217.9  199.7  185.8  209.7  251.7
1. Ofica Czedhogs:              22.6  135.7  153.9  146.7  185.2  185.4  175.7  169.5  10.6  217.3
a. Mulhitaod 4/                20.3  85.7  102.7  104.7  124.4  126.2  129.9  126.7  13S.1  137.1
of whc IMA                    0.2   1.0   1.2   1.4   1.4   1.4   1.4   1.6   1.8   2.0
Of whicb BD                   4.1  42.9  S0.6  43.7  45.7  48.6  51.   51.6  54.7  37.0
b. Blata 114/                   2.3  50.0  51.2  42.0  60.8  59.2  45.8  42.8  42.5  80.3
<oouc                        ....  .......  ....... ....
2. PtIvate Cedito               16.5  43.6  42.1  19.9  37.3  32.5  24.0  16.3  29.1  34.4
a. Bods                         0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0
b. Commeca Daub                13A   10.0   2.7   8.1  10.0   9.0   8.0   8.3   3.5   2.4
c. Suppliers + OdbwPrio         3.1  33.6  39.4  11.8  27.3  23.5  16.0   8.0  25.6  32.0
P       dva_Naepmatod           48.3   8.0  25.0  14.0  13.0  13.0  12.0   9.0   7.0   1.0
TOW ffl LT 1om                   87.4  187.3  221.0  180.6  235.5  230.9  211.7  194.8  216.7  252.7
P Dardu                          0.0  24.4  10.0   2.0   0.0   2.9  15.1   3.5  t80    5.0
Tota &grammta                    87.4  211.7  231.0  1826  235.  233.8  226.8  233.3  224.7  257.7
2/ LT 1dmt    son W rdme_s Shout Two
311980 repapmesmsAbeds   9 -20u1msa&aedbWL
4/Je_d. neduMq.



sODRS  rM    CAPfrAL AD T MMAM 
POg 9 of 12
Pug. 2 of 4
C. NE  iDmo_w
Publc& Publidy Quw. LT          224.6  -22.9  137.1  41.5   U.7  175.0  141.5  127.9  94.7   9.7
1. OcAl Aedkod:                128.1   4.0  144.9  60.5  113.2  203.2  144.2  124.0  93.8  14.1
a. M    _ltila                 92.4  -29.0  76.1  20.9  111.5  176.  1075  135.9  59.0   4.0
ofwhihDA                     174   -1.0  -1.2  46.6  58.6  103.7  81.8  109.0  522   29.0
ofvwich MD                   20.3  -41.1  31.6  -13.7  -42.6  -12.2  -50.0  -51.2  -54.7  -37.0
b. 1latuI                      35.7  33.0  68.8  39.6   1.7  26.6  36.8  -11.9  34.8  10.0
2. Pdvat Cuedte                 96.5  -26.9  -7.8  -19.0  -245  -28.2  -2.7   3.9   0.9  -4.4
a. eands                        0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0
b. Commwaial Bub               44.6  .7.6  27.3  -7.2  .6.5  -7.5  -7.S  43.1  -3.   -2.4
o. SUpPlib + OdatP*Ivm         51.9  -193  -3S.1  -11.8  -17.9  -20.7   4.8  12.0   4.4  -2.0
2Sivas No tEeaWastead           33.0  12.0  -17.0   8.0  -13.0  -13.0  -12.0  -9.0  -7.0  -1.0
Total fxnnLTloass257.6  -10.9  120.1  495   75.7  162.0  129.5  118.9  87.7   8.7
MPFAgreome.ts                   29.1  -24.4  18.8   1.0  81.0  15.1   2.9  -29.   48.0  -5.0
D. hnt"u 3/
PubIIAsd&blidy Gaiw. LT         58.5  140.9  146.1  137.9  152.2  156.1  161.2  163.5  1629  162.5
1. Official Caixdtom            31.2  122.8  128.8  127.7  139.2  144.9  152.0  155.5  155.6  157.1
. MuItiltamal 4               24A   85.7  95.7  99.2  97.6  98.8  103.6  104.4  103.1  100.3
of vwhic IDA                  0.4   0.6   0.6   0.7   0.9   1.4   2.0   2.8   3.9   5.5
of wbhcb I3RD                12.4  44.4  433   43.9  42.S  42.5  40.   36.S  27.8  14.2
b. Bilatwld 14/4                6.8  37.1  33.1  28.6  41.6  46.2  48.4  S.1  52.4  S6.8
2. Pivaft CaitaOs               27.3  18.1  173   10.2  13.0  11.2   9.2   8.0   7.3   5.4
a. IcOD                         0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0
b. ConummOCl Realm             25.6   4.7   4.0   7.1    53    4.6   3.9   3.2   2.4   1.5
*.8UPPlIetc+0IWh PIdvat.        1.7  13.4  13.3   3.1   7.7   6.6   5.3   4.8   5.0   3.9
P UN       _dmomw               24.6   2.8   1.0   4.0   5.0   4.0   3.0   2.    1.0   0.0
TOtd Oa LT loIOQ                 83.1  143.7  147.1  141.9  157.2  160.1  164.2  166.0  163.9  165
1Mp8mvlc.dc0u                    0.7   3.5   2.5   5.0   6.7   9.4   8.8   7.2   1.2   0.4
No Sbhct-Tao Cq*l               36.4  23.0  22.0  10.0   7.4   6.   10.3   9.1   8.6   S.6
Total Jatreg %LtW+IMF    2/     120.2  170.2  171.6  156.9  171.4  176.0  183.2  182.3  173.7  1713
21 LT desu  luot tw, STdr e_ Bst Toam
f11960 sqqmoananabao. 1968.2000 mmanasoal bode.
411.lud..



Pgp 10 of 12
Pap3 of 4
IL   1 ea Dakt (DOD)
Publc & Publily G. LT           974.0 2,62.3 3,217.3 2,865.0 3,162.3 3,334.4 3,519.1 3,690.1 3,901.1 4,655.8
1. Offical Cedltuo:            700.5 2,399.8 2,86.7 2,584.4 2,955.3 3,226.7 3,414.1 3,581.2 3,781.5 3,953.6
a. Muldlat  4/                457.2 1,476.9 1,578.8 1,618.2 1,882.8 2,076.1 2,183.6 2,319.5 2,462.7 2,495A
of which IDA                 64.0  79.3  76.9  125.8  193.0  296.7  378.5  487.5  609.1  766.5
of Wbih IMD                 152.1  527.6  558.0  550.9  652.8  640.6  590.6  539.5  426.5  246.6
b. Bilatea 1/4/               243.3  922.9 1,287.9  966.2 1,I02.S 1,150.6 1,30.5 1,261.7 1,318.8 1,458.2
2. Pflvat Crsditks             2735  422.5  350.6  280.5  207.1  107.7  105.0  108.9  119.6  102.2
a. Bobd                         0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0
b. ComnmeWIal Bans            193.8  207.9  198.3  15S.7  125.2  49.7  42.2  34.1  27.9  16.6
c. Supplis + Odhr Pnvae        79.7  214.6  152.3  124.8  81.9  58.0  62.8  74.8  91.6  85.6
rvtde Noa ntond                 191.1  84.0  66.0  75.0  62.0  49.0  37.0  28.0  13.0   0.0
Totda LQ4mmnn DOD             1,16S.1 2,906.3 3,283.3 2,940.0 3,224.3 3,33.A 3,556.1 3,718.1 3,914.1 4,055.8
IP CredIt                       32.8  35.0  32.0  34.0  115.0  130.1  133.  103.S  60.8  40.8
Not Shout-Term Cuplp            272.2  394.0  209.0  203.0  188.0  163.  143.0  28.0  128.0  128.0
Totd DOD (LT+IMPI4'1) 21      1,470.1 3,33.3 3,5243 3,177.0 3,527.3 3,676.5 3,832.1 3,949.6 4,102.9 4,224.6
P. As dae ofIToa DOD (S)
PubUcAJ ublily Guzt. LT        66.3%  84.6%  91.3%  90.2%  89.7%  90.7%  91.8%  93WA   95.1%  96.0%
1. Officld Crndbton           47.6%  72.0%  81.3%  81.3%  83.8%  87.8%  89.1%  90.7%  92.2%  93.6%
a. multblhal                 31.1%  44.3%  44.8%  50.9%  53.4%  56.5%  57.0%  58.7%  60.0%  59.1%
of whichDA                  4.4%   2.4%   2.2%   4.0%  5.%   8.1%   9.9%  12.3%  14.8%  18.1%
ofwhIch 3RDB               10.3%  15.8%  15.8%  17.3%  18.5%  17.4%  15.4%  13.7%  10.4%   5.8%
b. Bilated                    16.5%  27.7%  36.5%  30.4%   A.4%  31.3%  32.1%  31.9%  32.1%  34.5%
2. Privat CedIos              18.6%  12.7%   9.9%   8.8%   5.9%   2.9%   2.7%   2.8%   2.9%   2.4%
a. BonD                       0.0%   0.0%   0.0%   0.0%   0.0%   0.0%   0.0%   0.0%   0.0%   0.0%
b. Commercha Beaks            13.2%   6.2%   5.6%   4.9%   3.5%   1.4%   1.1%   0.9%   0.7%   0.4%
c. SupOies + OE Pivae         54AS  6.4%   4.3%   3.9%   2.30   1.6%   1.6%   1.9%   2.2%   2.0%
PYvthNoquarntend               13.0%   2.5%   1.9%   2.4%   1.8%   1.3%   1.0%   0.7%   0.3%   0.0%
Tota L*nu4w-a DOD              79.3%  87.1%  93.2%  92.5S  91.4%  92."0  92.8%  94.1%  95A%  96.0%
WAFCreodk                       2.2%   1.0%   0.9%   1.1%   3.3%   3.5%   3.5%   2.6%   1.5%   1.0%
Not Shogt-T Capmtpl            18.5%  11.8%   5.9%   6.4%   5.3%   4.4%   3.7%   3.2%   3.1%  3.0%
Total DOD (LT+IMP+S)          100.0% 100.0% 100.0% 100.0% 100.0% 100.0% 100.0% 100.0% 100.0% 100.0%
1/Inlue uslgtlts sou  --s
2V LT doatme oSg taem, Sr doots Short Termo  Jachd. inusest arsrms
3/ 19i 0 _ reayme   a  csh basbI. 1988- 20  we on acaua bass.
4/ hadide readoUla.



RLNURS- ZECrA CFrALAD                                                  A _1
PsagP4 of 4
0. Pant of Toaal MALT DOD
oa ConCsdood Tatma               ..    ..    ..    ..    ..    ..    ..
WIhb Vrl ablo L Raw              ..    ..    ..    ..    ..    ..    ..
H. IBD an Rated Ratio
lRDDDe*SvmvoBtS                   1.7   8.4   9.4   9.1   8.2    8.2   7.8   6.8   5.4   2.4
DBRDDebtScevWoePubloDS           16.9  27.3  27.5  28.8   ?S.5   24.4  25.5  25.2  22.1   12.4
PofeCreditorDS/PublicDS          46.5   62.2  61.6  69.2  61.0  63.4  71.3  79.2  67.2  58.6
8k  of 18RD Patodill             ..    ..    ..    ..    ..    ..    ..          .       .     .
I. DOD-O-Exports Ratios 1/
lonTem D 1/EVou                  120.4  281.3  329.2  306.1  3013  303.1  299.3  285.2  255.4  189.7
IMp CrdlExpz                      3.4   3A    3.2   3.5  10.7  11.7  11.2   7.9   4.0   1.9
Shog-T-em Db/BVote               28.1  38.1  21.0  21.1   17.6  14.6  12.0   9.8   8.4   6.0
LT+DIF+ST DOD/LVoIts            151.9  322.8  353.4  330.8  329.7  329.3  322.6  302.9  267.7  197.5
L. DOD4o-GDP Ratios
Lo-Tem DebW/GDP                  45.4  83.5  119.9  98.0  99.0  98A   97.9  95.8  86.9  66.8
MP CtedWGDP                       1.3   1.0   1.2   1.1   3.    3.8   3.7   2.7   IA    0.7
Sort-Tom Det/GDP                  10.6  11.3   7.6   6.8   5.8   4.7   3.9   3.3   2.8   2.1
LT+IMP+ST DOD/GDP                57.3  95.9  128.7  106.0  1083  106.9  105.5  101.8  91.1  69.6
K Detservick Expou  I/V
Pubfic &GuatOSdLT                10.1  31.0  34.3  31.7  35.0  33.5  30.4  26.8  24.3  19.4
Pd?rIvNon-guuaneedLT              7.5    1.0   2.6   1.9   1.7   1.5    13    0.9   0.5   0.0
Total La Term Debt Saevic         17.6  32.0  36.9  33.6  36.7  35.0  31.6  27.7  24.8   19.4
MM Rqnurch +Sev. Chgp.            0.1   2.7    13    0.7   0.6   1.1   2.0   3.5   0.6   0.3
baeea only on ST Debt             3.8   2.2   2.2   1.0   0.7   0.6   0.9   0.7   0.6   0.4
Totl (LT+IMP+STJnt.)             21.5  37.0  40.4  35.3  38.0  36.7  345   31.9  26.0  20.1
L Intere Burden R4ato
Tot  IlanteretDP 2/               4.7   4.9    63    5.2   5.3   5.1   5.0   4.7   3.9   2.8
Total    t/Exports 1/             12.4  16.S  17.2  16.3  16.0  15.8  15.4  14.0  11.3   8.0
Vl Experts hwhW6 Include nurail. expus ad reOeIPt. firo 20046010f saVoa, hter service. a-d 's..ram r.mlisano ,.
21 Rpm_a anoa     b  ebcek opt fo 1980.



Palo 12 of 12
Pap Iof I
Dinc>Te                            261    381    446    643   887  1,146  1,179  1,053  1,219  1,644
ldrct Taxs 11                      460    915  1,394  1,38   2,115  2,273  2,423  2,735  3,119  4,128
NoutaxReipR a 2/                   443    310    371  1,024  1,"0  1,141  1,352  1,532  1,785  2,442
Tot Cu mrnot Reva               1,164  1,606  2,211  3,555  4,032  4,560  4,953  5,320  6,1   8,214
Jste. oa }3xta     Deb*             74    196   490   651    725    724    724    757    794   841
IaotszanoDomectkDebt                37    162   207   247    2SS    307    317    342    397    535
Total _entm                        111   357    697    89    978  131  1,041  10    1,191  1,376
Ode Cwvect Transe                   47     71    129   274    343    53    226    19    170   229
Subadidl                             0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0
Cmmmpdoa 3/                        864  1,332  1,474  1,669  1,867  2,128  2.421  2,564  309   4,24
Totd Cumllt Evowitw             1,021  1,70  2,300  2,841  3,188  3,712  3,688  3.859  4,451  5,810
BudSetay S9                        142  -154    -89    714   844    848  1,2    1,462  1,672  2,404
Capitl Revee 4/                   ..            ..    .. .. ..               .
Cpal T ers                        ..      161    105    113   -43       0      0      0      0      0
Budgetr bNwOA                      603    587    825  1,203  1,633  1,678  1,878  2,003  2,268  2,867
Total Capital Exp _ra             603    748    930  1,316  1,590  1,678  1,878  2,003  2,268  2,867
Total Deficit Financing           461   -902 -1,019   *602  -746   430   -612   -541   -S96   43
E.ena Caplt  anta                   6     62    270   148       0      0      0      0      0      0
1xtmlflorwlag (oet)               289   -2S9    891    836      0      0      0      0      0      0
)afotar ty_ Crodft (u)            122   227    318    318       0      0      0      0      0      0
Odw Dom. Borowing(ade)            -22    118    -      -69      0      0      0      0      0      0
Odhr                               6S    754   -391   -631      0      0      0      0      0      0
Dcbt (at and of t year)
Extarn Debt
(in _mis ofLCUs)                 ..    ..    ..    ..    ..    ..    ..    ..
(ia milions of US$)              ..    ..    ..       .
Domecic Debt
To     ty ..                     ..    .. .. ..
OdaDoesDebt                      ..     .. ..         ..    ..    ..    ..    ..    ..
,nsyaano                         .-350   -545   -322    296    232    201   42      55     59     913
vcaira amntinlluaka   + "dotPwssedeommods
SI Jacldee mm and saaries =4 pods san eniame
4/ca. r  nedatfo  aloao qedars



Appedix A
Page 1 of 1
GDGo    ras
Rea GD? Growth                               Jifttiout
7.0%                                       3S.0%
6.0%.                                      30.0%
5.0%
4.Off                                      2.0%                         /
3 34'0%       %                            2 0 tt5.0%
2 .0%                                      1 1.0%
0.0                                     300
-1.0%                                       5.0%
-2.0%                    _0.0%
PuWlic Sctor Defidt                      Current Account Defidt
12.0%                                      14.0%
10.0%                                      12.0%
04    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~   ~~101.0%
88.0%                                    8 8.0%
'~6.0%                                       60
* 4.0%                   ~60
A                                   ~~~~~~~~~~4.0%
2.0%                                       2.0%
0.0%    .  .  .  ,   .     .  *           Q0.0%
Notes: 1I lbationasmeasum  byCPI(yrlyyr)
Soure: Snodad Table Annex A



HONDURAS
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
PolW Matrix
POUCYAREA                                                                                                                                     ,MCHE comnIOftAUTY
968WS          |    OGJECtVES                                               ACTIONS TAKIE                                             PRIOR TO SECOND IRANCHE          PRDR TO THIRD TRANE
i. GewaCoo
Te ne for a             To maintin a          OOH he adoptd a fle*ly  nsg exc tang  ate rgim  and Is maintann a Smeconaic                   Maitain sound _acroeconomIre   hMkita  soud
_u    e                 macn                  frmework con et wthh an"d   p           of the agc      er  adjurtm  prgm.                    framewo*k consse  with amd       mscroeconowie framework
naoocooio"framework wMc is                                                                                                                  suppwtiv of the egrtcrkura       consistet with eNW supportiv
framebork,              supportv of                                                                                                         setr adstment prognra  for       of th agtstaa setr
sustaind                                                                                                            staine d g      dwth Nd         adusmnt pogram fo
agcutr  aeel                                                                                                        satifacoy Perfrmance In           aihed gowth and
gowth                                                                                                               ovewi ag0 utal pram             satIfacwy perfrman  In
- p       -aen     consaten vit  overail      -     proFa
the Letter of Aglcdtwl           nulmentaftlo contsiste
*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~&Ap- XLr4t                                                                                        _c*w awofArufa
Dewbpn Picy ad SAL                t      the L ter   A ula
aglaiua                         Deeomn Ptdley and SAL II
-   cobmt aent.                 agrim    podY
GOM has: (a) reduced tadtf dispsion too 5a20% range; and Ib) elInte quattatied kport an       Maitain a8 pliy eoms             Maintain  Peoy refoms
axpont rettos on an arIcultal product.                                                          pementd up to AGSAC             npbemented up to AGSAC
effeetveness an docuntd         second MOn  rbse and
undorti cradiL                  docmnented under Oti credit.
P'lc  of aN &ag  ul cmmodin   their deriva s ed of al awrcutrns hhve been
deconotrold arnd ame now determined by maret forcest.
AM= 2
Page 1 of 5



|   POIJCY ARA                                                                                                                       TRANCHE CONDIoNAUTY
ISULIE8   0   I       JECI   P s                                       ACTIONS TAKEN                                         PRIOR TO SECOND TRANCHE I    PRIOR TO THID TRANOCE
v. dX T_M
Ararin Rform Lw        inprove lbnd use by                                                                                         Pese  evdence of satactory   Preen evience of
(WA) curtse prvte    provi    a moe                                                                                                             of the LnWd       satibsfctr ImpeenttIn of
property igts aN       stbe and sacur                                                                                              TenM Action Plan, In particular  the Lnd Ten  Aeten Plan
htAbd Infdt and   legal bs fr land                                                                                                 that:                         in p0tIcides that:
u                           .              Appoval of Law Mo. 31-92 and of satifctory egult    to modf acrticl  atces of the UA to:
wnder the     lRA:   ',_p  the             go       t end secure f  ownership th  ovr blnds;                                       a) at  m 6,000 r land W) at est 35.000 now
blandownes wae at  effiiency of the       b) legalize ln rent arrngme    escapt fr aM  types of ds oppbV;                            tite he ben Issued to          addton  tles have been
perMn  rsk of    lendreform process.  c) countueact prvio  whih dIst  ln use pattens,                                                Igble benefiarIs             proided to eEibble
es_pogiatiu                             d) rIs end s_tif WlAd ajdication nd tili  proces  e.eg.. reducnkg the nimum tim for     b) cadasel work is unrWay         bereficias;
b) land rna was                               ti   elgty frm 40 to 3 yes of colnuous opeation and splfy   ing pmocess for             In at la  2 departms        b) castre wokhs bean
Nilb   ad a cause                          frm  Of les than 5 ha).                                                                 previously agreed wM th       coplete in   t  25%
of espopitn;                            a) elimn  the prehialon of tigland to holds of l thn 6 ha;                                 Ink;                           of the area wIht
el fawm unts of es     Aoelec_t lend       fn Pvd wo_m  wIth equa ditf aess to bnd; and                       ec  at lmt 50% of wAs                                  cadastre as of Juni 30.
thn S is coud no   tilin process and    Of esr consstcy between geal sector poies and tho  of agrin mrform.                        pontfolio In h a  as of        192;
be tited;          povid  permane                                                                                                  Jun 30, 1992 of t  n d        i al INA potfoo In aras
df fm    haitdo        tddeetosa                                                  totl tade _  aLtRA has                                                             as ofJam  30, 192 of ks
oecupy lon for     benefIcide.                                                                                                     bee prvatey contrcted to       lan tiing wide the IRA
more titan 30 yea                                                                                                                  a collection agneny;           has been privately
to be ied               it lea and                                                                                              d  furnds for the seed cap iaI c aced to acoection
a) tding dIsrImInated   adiItaIeschme do not exceed 25%                                                                                                              ageNcy;
gains women.  br_         I_I f_                                                                                                   of IWA's budet in any      dl hfnds for the sed captal
ad_judicat  a                                                                                                  partIclr yea                   se_m do nt exceed
ting end to                                                                                                 a) the pn to reduce IAs           25% of WA's budt In
wome.                                                                                                          lb  frce has be               aW pny a-   sr
subStant   conpletd; nd  e ) Ws labor force does not
Land rorm              Enau  freedom of                                                                                            n  te a_grd pln to dive           eceed S0 psn; and
beIa   were, do    asoieion to ln                                                                                                       WA's asets and aitie      a  all assets and ac*ti s not
facto,  hdt            rom bnficiaore.                                                                                                not red to th landtl           reltd to  end titnft
productlon                                                                                                                           prorm Is on trget.             p am t    been
coperives.                                                                                                                                                           dbated.
INA has deied its nw  le to niplean d   lend pocv rorms, approved a satsfactr new      Present sahtfact  TOl to     Ptesem  satacty audit
stuctr, and   atd a saifcty restucurin process (eg., eliminated 400 potonm, snd        undrtak a financl and          rort based on aeed TOM.
ated diwesttu fom  ctves that do not espond to its new role).                          opern  uit olf IA's
records aid accounts.
A pennent coordinat  conw*tee between INAk CONDEFOR and Cadesto has ben establshed to
harmonz required idforman f tie lnd til  and rgularization progrm.
Fhnnll requiremets for the cadsiral work necessy to support the land tii g program for 1993
have bee budgeted for.
Annex 2
Page 2 of 5



N,.
F , r i    -     -| --*t
ji    jig. fit           l               jjli  Ii' la  S
E    I1iti  .     18111    .          *411 



PO.ICY AREA                                                                                                                          TRANCHE CONDITIONALITY
ISSUES             OBJECTIVES                                          ACTIONS TAKEN                                         PRIOR TO SECOND TRANCHE        PRIOR TO TMIRD TRANCHE
IV. bnatF   h 
Non-tensperent        Improve credit       GOH has unified all tedicount rates and has priced them at the margnal cost of funds to commrcil
nterest aft subsies    alocation by        banks and libwalied comrercial bank nterest rates.
have limited small     elmtn interest
farmrs access to       *ate subsidy end
credit.               reduZt fiscl drin.
Commercial banking    In the interir, ceate  In the long run, mm co and sector polcV reforms wIl result in increased participation of the COS.  To have completed the stody to   Satactory progress in
system (COS) has been   inenftves to       GOH has prepared satisfactory terms of reference (TOR) to develop a scheme to promote Iceased    develop a sdcme to promot  irplementing the agd
consrvatIv in         Increase Ciro        partciation of formal finnci itermedes (FFI) in agricultural credit.                    Increased prticiption of Fm    action plan to pro
finning the           lendhg to the                                                                                                hagrbutal credit under agreed  Incresed patncipaon of FFI
agricultural sector.  sector.                                                                                                      TOR, and have presented a pban   In rurl fancbt mkets based
to Implement the  reed actions,  on agreed acdon plan.
Instuo   and           Strengthen the rurat   The GOH Is restucuring BANADESA. end has dercded to divest i form the public sector wFie  To have Wted the agreed pbn   Substan   completion of
politcal probbms in   fiancia system bv    developing ltemve sources of rural fwnanl intemedation. GOH has also prepared safactory  of action to divest BAADESA   agreed plan to difest
BANADESA resulted In   dbiesti             TOR nd timet ble to evaluate atertive waye to divest ANADESA.                           based on the reommendatin      BANADESA.
lWe lon losses         SANADESA to allow                                                                                           of the evahas- tion caried out
Iindering is capablity    gtr pariipon   Satictory ptoress on te awreed res turing plan of BANADESA. in particuar:                 under agread TOR               Present evece tht Central
of servin small        of mre effbient                                                                                                                            Bnk hfundi  to iANADESA
producers.             fnancd              a) Cel   xank funig has been imied to its August 30. 1991, level adjusted by inflaton and  Pesent evene that Central   hs been limed to is Auust
i  mediedes.        b) _th  has been no addiil govemment transafs during 1992.                              Bsant fhing to BANADESA has   30, 1991 le, adjsted b
been kilIed to hs August 30,    ination, end that ther has
1991 lv,. edjsted by Inflation   been no addin  treasuy
ad that tinere has been no    fhdig.
additiol g8van n traners.
iUmited access to credit   Impe crOt       Law 31-92 created the 'Cos Rurels' as pdvate intutions wih resoure Hm     t ust funds    Appo   of Satisfactory seme.  Provide  idence that -Cejas
In nl reas because    access to smnall ua afinlstered by BDAADEA.                                                                  nues end egulatlons to estblsh   Ruralese, to tde eaent that
formalfin Ilan         benrowers by                                                                                                and operate the Cae RuRss'  they re opeaive, ae
nstitbns do not        makn farmer                                                                                                 based on agreed priciples:    functonig In accordance with
espond to tfam'        gros msp_e                                                                                                  Provide eidence tha Cejas     ageed regulats.
neads.                for thelr finences.                                                                                          Rae. to the exte  t  tyhe
aeo operative, om functioning in
acodnewtvh agreed
Limited small farme'    achtte sma         Law 31-92 creted the      cr dit fund whresources from the sales of Govemment lnd, to   Povie evidence det the 'land    PiW   evidenc et the
"ac   to financelnd M  frmer scca to    tinance and purcases of  t man  10 ha.                                                     credit ftund. to theextent t it  *iand credfit fud, to the
puichas               fiandia m.wces                                                                                               is operapive, le functioning in  eatent that it is opeati, is
to purchase land.   GO  has approved Satisfactory ndes and regulatlons to establh and opeate the liand credit fund-,   accordance with ae  futioning In accordence with
stipting mh*b doet                                                                     -e .                           agred regulation.
a) it wbe be   ofr of    _vab    to all qu_Wfd FFia;
b) it wi opeate at market _ert mes eM
c   r   ust wlvA be full pon&ty of P1d
Annelx 2
Pge 4 of 5



POLICY AREA                                                                                                                          TRANCE CON1 ROAUTIY
ISUES              OIJCTnVes                                           ACTIONS TAKEN                                         PRIOR TO SECOND TRANCHE        PRIOR TO THIRD TRAIOC
V. 1 Ad_ OW _0bM
Lac Of secto           Strengtn sctto    Congress has approved Law 31-92 tht provides the  sutsona framework for ovems sectot      Satsfcoy implmanctioi Of       tsfactoy               of
Cownatlon in poikc     polcy plnng aNd    coordination  d the eadesip to fomuiet   d IplemUen aktura poeiy strategy and   dget     the agred Pubc  Adn tratton   the agreed Pubik
end pogm plannig.    manaent               to the Sertat of Natural Resources (SRLM. To that ed UPSA has bean established to prvid  Action Pln, In paitcula, wth  Administration Acdon PAN In
capablides.         tal support to the SRN and to the Conso de Deanodo Agrcob (CODA).-                     respect to:                    pctar, with rpet tW.
GOH has _steblshad an WPSA41F ^Tedla Comni    to coodIte budget preparon and           a) esetin of th aged           a) excton of agreed 1994
execution.                                                                                 1993 POAs and budgt;          POAs and budgets land for
any futu"e date mui
GON has bIiad  stictoy Inpb_mnti  of the agrWeed Pl Ad_nisaton Acon Pn In              b) prsentaion Of satisfactory    oageed betwn GOH  nd
particr                                                                                    POAs and budt or 1994         IDA);
(and tfr ans ohw eftue
at satactwy 1993 POA ando bdto for the sector and for SRN, RIA, MlA. AfEand                daten ytalareed            b) prsntation of
BANADESA. refectin ad supporting secto poNcis agreed unde this creit an under SAL n    betwe GO nd IDA) f             satifctory POAs and
have ben approvd by the Eonmic Cabbet and to Mt  of F cnd Pc  Cedit OmI                the sector and tha secW        budgts for 1995 land for
b) GOH has approv  a satiscty Poliy Support Program to trgn rsetor plan   and              Institutions. These we to     any otw   futur date
_mamt caabtes at ectoat and sctor Instion level to undte agred pofly                   Icde a  d revie Invstnt        nwtuaiy ageed betwen
reform  and                                                                            pgn   In support to            GOM end IWA) for the
Lack of budget         Reoren sectorl     ca  SON has ensured adequate funding for the agreed Policy  _Ppt Program                    agd  ctor policies. end        s.or ed t  seco
magemet dsciln         prga   ad                                                                                                      to have been approved by      biution. These ae to
rsritadin  efficin     budgets from                                                                                                   the Economic Cabnet; and       ncdo a evisd
resou"ceocation,       hefmcient                                                                                                   c)  atsfactory kilenntation      investment progm in
-            subsides                                                                                          of tho  reed Polcy Support    suport of _are   etor
towards p-                                                                                                     Prdctv.                       policies. nd o  hae been
-nvstmnt                                                                                                                                     apprved by th Ecmc
Cabet and
ci satisfctor
I,,ieanato of do
AnnSx 2
Page 5 of 5



Amnex 3
Page 1 of 31
NON OFFICIAL TRANSLATION FROM ORIGINAL IN SPANlSH
HONDURAS
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTME    CREDIT
Letter of Development Policy
Honduras, December 8, 1992
Mr. Lewis T. Preston
President
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
WashWngton, D.C. 20433
Dear Mr. Preston:
1.    Over the last three years, the Govermment of Honduras has put in place an important economic
program aimed at laying the foundations for the country's fiture development. As part of this program,
the Government has carried out a broad structural reform program for the purpose of achieving sustained
economic growth based on internationally competitive activities.
Mao_eonomic Prora
2.    The stabilization program has included the adoption of a flexible exchange rate policy; a reduction
in the level and scope of tarifs; the liberalization of prices of all products, including agricultural products;
deregulation of interest rates and the elimination of subsidies for Cental Bank redisounts; the intrduction
of prudentia regulaions in the private banking system; adjustments in public service tariffs; rationalization
of the tax system, and sizable cutbacks in govenment spni  to reduce the fiscal deficit.
3.    Another main element of the economic and fiscal progrm is a reduction in the number of public
enerprises, through the privatization or forclosing of certain enteprises and   me nt the efficiency
of those public enterprises that, for satiegic reasons, will remain under Government control.
4.    As a result of this program, the economy improved significantly in 1991 and even more
encouraging results are expected for 1992. Real GDP grew 2.9% in 1991, and the performance of
economic activity indicators leads us to expect a growth rate of more than 4% for this year. Inflation
fell dramacally from 21.4% in 1991 to less than 6.0% in 1992. The consolidated public sector deficit
was reduced in 1991 to 3.5% of GDP.



Annex 3
Page 2 of 31
5.    Notwithstanding the introduction of the changes in economic development strategy referred to above,
the economy remains fragile and highly vulnerable to external shocks.
6.    To strengthen the economy and promote sustained real per capita income growth, the Government
has formulated a medium-term program for 1992-1995 that will continue the stabilization effort and
consolidate and deepen the structural reforms initiated in 1990, supported by an IMP enhanced structural
adjustment facility (ESAF) program.
7.     This program places particular emphasis on improving conditions for investment, particularly
private investment, streamlining and improving public sector efficiency, rehabilitating the social and
economic infrastructure, and expanding programs to reduce poverty.
8.    Given the importance of agriculture in the Honduran economy, the reforms to be implemented in
this sector, as set out below, are a key element in the Government's medium-term economic program.
The program also includes urgent measures to improve management of the country's natural resources.
To complement the agricultural sector reforms, the Government will maintain both a restrictive fiscal and
monetary policy without financial and monetary restrictions and controls. The Government is also
committed to retaining the present flexible exchange rate system.
9.    The Government will also seek to enhance the efficiency of the public administration through
further tax reform, administrative improvements in the management of customs, reductions in Government
current expenditure in real terms and further restructuring of major public enterprises, including the
HonduranCorporationforForestry Development (COHDEFOR), the National AgriculturalInstitute (INA),
the Honduran Agricultural Marketing Institute (IHMA), and the National Bank for Agricultural
Development (BANADESA).
10.   The Government expects that implementation of the medium-term program will bring about a GDP
growth of approximately 4.5% by 1995; an inflation of about 4% per year, while the current account
deficit will be reduced to 6% of GDP. The Government recognizes that to achieve these goals it is
imperative to continue the steady reduction of the public sector deficit, to reach 1.5% of GDP by 1995.
The Government is convinced that these goals can be achieved if the exchange rate, fiscal, monetary and
foreign trade policies outlined above are implemented.
Agricultural Sector Reform Progra
11.   In order to lay the bases for a modem, competitive agricultural sector, the Government has
effected significant policy reforms in the sector and has enacted legislative changes needed to ensure their
implementation.
12.   The initial sectoral policy reforms focused on liberalization of the agricultural import and export
regimes and of the prices of agricultural products; replacing guarantee prices for basic grains with a price
band system (variable levies); elimination of interest subsidies on al rediscount lines for the agricultural
sector; and reduction of Government intervention in the purchase of agricultural commodities-IHMA's
role will be limited to the management of a strategic reserve of basic grains to be used only in cases of
national disaster. To this end the Government will maintain maximum stocks of 20,000 tons of maize
and 2,000 tons of beans, and will limit sales from the strategic reserve, except when natural disasters
occur, purely to stocks rotation carried out under clear rules.



Annex 3
Page 3 of 31
13.   At the same time, the Government has initiated the privatzation of IHMA's assets. The
Government intends to complete the transfer of these installations to the private sector no later than mid-
1993, and will retain, at most, the storage site located in Tegucigalpa for management of the strategic
reserve. The Government has also begun the process of reorganizing BANADESA so as to convert it
into a self-sufficient institution specializing in meeting the needs of small rural producers.
14.   The macroeconomic and sector-level policy reforms introduced in Honduras have generated an
economic enviromnent that is more supportive of agricultural sector development. In 1991 agricultural
GDP grew in real terms by 5.4% and it is estimated that this growth will be 5.8% this year. The
Government recognizes the need to maintain the thrust of the economic policies introduced as part of the
stabilization and structural adjustment program for 1990-1992, and is also aware of the urgent need to
intensify its actions at the sectoral level to achieve the objectives proposed in the medium-term economic
program.
15.   In view of the need to expand sectoral reforms to other key areas, and to institutionalize the above-
mentioned reforms, Congress approved Law 31-92, the Agricultual Modernization and Development Law
(LMA), in April 1992. This Law includes important amendments in the areas of land tenure, agricultural
credit, forestry development, research and extension services, and institutional reform of the agricultural
sector. It also contains the measures needed to institutionalize the policy changes in the areas of foreign
trade, prices, and marketing of basic grains. The Government has prepared action plans to implement
the basic agricultural policy changes referred to above, which are summarized in the attached policy
matrix. These plans will be executed over the next three years, the principal areas affected being the
following:
Land Tenure
16.   The Agrarian Reform Act of 1962 (LRA) caused land tenure insecurity, restricted ownership rights
and promoted inefficient land use. Under that Act, landowners continually faced the risk of expropriation
if they violated any of the many restrictions imposed on the use of their land, including a prohibition on
land rental. The titling of farms with less than five hectares was prohibited and collective ownership was
forced on individuals. The fact that areas being used for certain crops were protected from the risk of
expropriation led to distortions in the selection of crops in accordance with their profitability.
17.   Law 31-92 has established a new legal framework to improve the economic environment of the
agricultural sector. The new Law guarantees full property rights to all landowners within the lot size limits
established by the LRA; it legalizes land rental arrangements and co-investment; it revises and simplifies
the land adjudication and titling process; it eliminates the prohibition on titling lands to farmers having
de facto rights to state lands who are living on farms smaller than five hectares; and it grants women equal
rights of access to land.
18.   These amendments will provide more secure land tenure to landholders and will facilitate the
expansion of the adjudication and dtling programs for national and community (eiidal) held land.
19.   The Government has also approved regulations that include simplified land adjudication, titling,
and registration procedures; criteria under which the property limitations establshed in the LMA may
be exceeded; the clear distnction between permitted and prohibited methods of indirect operation (share-
cropping, partnership, and occupation), and the operation of the "seed capital" system.



Annex 3
Page 4 of 31
20.   Likewise, in accordance with the new Law, INA has been reorganized to adapt it to its new role,
restricting its activities to administration of state-owned lands and focusing its efforts on adjudication and
titling of state-owned lands under the adjudication and tiing policies set out in the LMA. The
Governnent has also prepared a Land Tenmue Action Plan, to be implemented over the next two years,
to ensure proper execution of its new forestry policy.
21.   To enhance the efficiency of the titling and registration system, the Government has clearly defimed
Cadastre's, COHDEFOR's, INA's, and Public Registries' responsibilities in these processes and has set
up a permanent committee to oversee data harmonization and coordination among these institutions. It
is expected that these measures will speed up the process of titling and legalizing families and comunities
on forest land as detailed below.
22.  During 1993-95 the Government will accelerate cadastal work in the departments not yet surveyed
so as to complete the peaceful tiding of state-owned lands occWied by settlers and the regularization of
families and communities on state forest lands within i maximum of four to five years. During 1993 INA
will concentrate its titling efforts on deprtment in which cadastral work has already been completed.
Cadastral work in other parts of the country will also begin in 1993 and in 1994-95 INA will focus on
departments in which this work has been initiated from 1993 onwards.
23. The Government acknowledges that one of the most important aspects of ensuring efficient execution
of the Land Tenure Action Plan is that of ensuring sufficient resources for the subsector. For this purpose
the Government will allocate the necessary fnds to implement the Plan, using a system of quarterly budget
advances and payments. It wiUl also be necessary to ensure that INA uses the funds allocated to it efficiently
and consequently the Govermment will require operating and financial audits of INA activities.
Forestry Sector
24.   The forestry sector has been affected by a set of outdated laws and policies that have promoted
the depletion of Honduras's significant forest resources and led to reduction of forestry activities on private
lands. The serious undervaluation of forest resources, due to the low standing-tree values, have led to
waste and inefficiency in forest management. The public setor's concention on logging, sawing, and
marketing activities has acted as a deterrent to the private sector investm   needed for sustained woodland
developmnent and has prejudiced the state's ability to fulfill its duties to protect resources and the
environment.
25.   The forestry policy reforms contained in Law 31-92 are designed to promote the rational and
sustainable use of Honduras's forestry resources; the Govenment's new policy measures thus include:
(a) eliminating the Government's direct participation the acties related to production and markeing
of forest products; (b) reonenting the Government's role towards management and protection of public
forests, regulation and oversight of private forest, fire protection, and forest exension and research; (c)
requiring formulation of management plans as a pre-requisite for forest utilization both in public lans
as well as private; (d) retning and guaraneeing ownehip rights to forest landolders with reet to
forest resources, subject to submission of management plans; (e) exempting forest lands from futre
expropriation; and (f) allowing private sector entry into the production, insiion, and marketing
of forest products.



Annex S
Page 5 of 31
26.   To achieve the LMA's objectives, the Government has approved regulations needed to enforce
its forestry-related provisions. These regulations include, among others, rules for regularizing the position
of forest land settlers, resolving disputes and resetling and compensating communities that must be
relocated as a result of the application of the new forestry policy. In addition, to ensure satisfactory
implementation of the new forestry policy, the Government has prepared a Forestry Action Plan to be
implemented over the next two years.
27.   This plan places particular emphasis on reorganizing COHDEFOR to adapt it to its new
responsibilities, namely, the identification of areas with forestry potential; application of public bidding
process for sales of wood resources owned by the state; the establishment of public forest management
units and preparation of management plans; regularization of the legal and other rights of settlers in _de
facto occupation of stat-owned forest lands; establishment and evaluation of the System of Protected
Areas and preparation of management plans to improve their protection, and implemenation of a system
for monitoring the social and ecological impact of implementation of the changes in forestry policy
contained in the LMA.
28. In general, communities and settlers in state forests will be regularized either by giving medium
and long-term leases or tides or by being incorporated into forest activities via the management plans to
be prepared as a prerequisite for the usufruct of forestry resources, whether public or private. The
Government's policy is to minimize involuntary resettlement as a consequence of the application of the
ne-w forestry policy.
29.  As soon as the need for resettlement in any forest area is detennined, the Government will prepare
a resettlement and development plan for the communities to be relocated. This plan will among othef
things specify the institutions responsible for the various activities, identify the displaceme and
resettlement zones, set out the compensation and development packages for the communities to be resettled,
and stipulate the ways in which active community participation will be sought in the planning and
execution of the resettlement plan.
30.   Regularizaion of the forest land settlers and the return of the rights of forest ownership to owners
of forest lands will be carried out in close cooperation with COHDEFOR, INA and the Directorate General
of the Cadastre. The Government recognizes that, to minimze the length of the transition period, it is
of the greatest importance that the process for returning these rights be effected quickly and in an orderly
fashion. However, care will be taken to recognize the legal and associated rights stemming from def
occupation by communities now located in forest areas.
31.   The Government acknowledges that there are risks in implementing this process in view of the
deficiencies in the systems of property registraton and the limited coverage of the cadastre. To minimize
these risks, the Government will emphasize impletion of a dispute setlement mechanism with
meaningful representation of local counities and will speed up cadastral work, ideification of areas
with forestry potential, and reorganization and strengthening of COHDEFOR. With the assistance of the
German development agency GTZ the Government intends to conclude the identf ication of forestry during
the first half of 1993.
32.   The Government also recognizes that it needs to ensure efficient allocation of state"Woned forest
resources. Accordingly, the Governnt will begin the process of public bidding for the sale of public
forest. Whenever public bidding cannot be carried out, development of the forest will be pursued under



Annex 3
Page 6 of 31
contracts with cotmnunities of farmers or individual small farmers settled on the forest lands. In any
event, the management plans-which will be the basis for the bidding-will ensure adequate recognition
of the rights of the conmmunities located on forest lands.
33.   The Government acknowledges that one of the most important aspects of ensuring efficient
execution of the Forestry Action Plan is that of ensuring sufficient resources for the subsector. For this
purpose the Government will allocate the necessary funds to implement the Forestry Action Plan
independently of such resources as the sector may generate for the state, using a systemn of quarterly
budgetary advances. Likewise, it will be necessary to ensure that COHDEFOR makes efficient use of
Treasury funds allocated to it, and consequently the Government will require annual operating and financial
audits of COHDEFOR activities.
Rural Finance Sector
34.   Several factors have traditionally distorted the iural finance sector, leading to inefficient allocation
of resources, high fiscal costs, and severe limits on provision of financial services, especially for small-
and mediun-scale producers.
35.   These distortions have included, among other things: (a) broad, non-transparent interest rate
subsidies; (b) deficient administration of BANADESA, mainly due to poor credit practices that lacked
proper technical standards, reflected in high losses over time; (c) deficiencies in the collateral system
(guarantees and mortgages) and in the legal-regulatory system, which make it difficult to foreclose on loans
in a timely and efficient manner; and (d) a weak legal framework for land tenure.
36.   In accordance with its overall financial sector strategy, the Government of Honduras has made
significant efforts in the last three years aimed at eliminating these distortions, including: (a) elimination
of interest rate subsidies through unification of all rediscount rates at a level equal to the marginal cost
of funds for commercial banks and (b) formulation and implem. tion of a plan to reorganize
BANADESA, including: cleaning up of its portfolio and capital restructure; lowering the level of real
indebtedness permitted with the Cental Bank; adjustment of its lending and borrowing operations to
market rates; privatization of nonfinancial activities; and cost reduction, including a substantial cutback
in personnel.
37.   The Government recognizes that further significant changes in the financial system are stll required
to ensure provision of financial services in the mral sector, particularly for small- and medium-scale
producers. With this in mind, the Government has formulated a series of actions that are specifically
intended to achieve that objective, which are to be carried out during the period 1992-1995. Specifically,
the Government will take action in the foliowing areas:
BANADESA: During the first half of 1993, altematives will be analyzed to determine the nature
and timetable of the process to be followed to transfer this institution to the private sector. The
privatization process will be initiated during the second half of 1993. To improve its financial
position, the institution is being reorganized, centering the efforts on cleaning up its portfolio.
limiting its operational growth, avoiding additional asset degradation and, in particular, on
preparing the institution for privatization. To this end, the Government intends to maintain the
volume of Central Bank rediscounting at its August 30, 1991 level, adjusted for inflation, and not
to transfer any Treasury funds to BANADESA. The Government also believes that after



Annex 3
Page 7 of 31
implementation of Decree 77/92 no addidonal loan condonation for BANADESA beneficiaries
will be needed.
Land Credit Fund: A financial fund will be established during 1993 to be made available to
financial intermediaries for the purpose of providing market-rate financing for small-scale
producers to purchase rral lands. This fund will have the purpose of broadening access to land
and developing an orderly and stable land market, as well as providing a permanent private system
of land financing. The Government funds made available to set up this fund will be limited to
those established in Article 69 of the LMA.
Private Rural Credit Banks: A system of private rural credit banks (Caias de Credito Rural
will be established in 1993 to supply streamlined and timely financial services in the rural sector,
especially to the smallest producers, in the various sectors of economic activity. The basic
principles to be incorporated in the rules governing the operation of these banks will require them
to be financially self-sufficient institutions, professionally administered under prudent standards
and practices, and appropriately supervised. The system will take shape as parties interested in
forming these banks come forward making cash capital contributions. The Government resources
to set up these banks will be limited to those established in Article 43 and 44 of the LMA.
38.   The Government is aware that the rural finance sector is only one part of the national financial
system, and that commercial banks and other formal financial intermediaries will be called upon to provide
the majority of the financial services that the sector requires.
39.   The sector's greater competitiveness and the increased clarity in land tenue should lead to more
active participation by those intermediaries as agricultural policy changes are implemented. Nonetheless,
the Govermment is concerned that there may be an excessive delay in the bankdng system's reaction to
the new conditions in the agricultural sector. For this reason, early in 1993 the Govermment will launch
a study to identify methods of promoting greater participation by the commercial banking system in the
rural sector, particularly in the financing of small-scale producers. The recommendations of the study
will be implemented during 1993.
40.   A review of the legal-regulatory system will also be started, including an analysis of the system
of guarantees and mortgages as collateral for loans, with regard to their role in efficiently facilitating
compliance with loan contracts. The Government expects to complete both studies during the first half
of 1993; actions based on those studies will be implemented in the second half of the year.
Administration of the Public Agricultural Sector
41.   The organization, functions, and regulations of the public agricultural sector are in need of a
broad-based and immediate reform, both to adapt to the new policy framework and to correct their inherent
administrative and managerial deficiencies. For this purpose, the Government is undertaking a series of
measures intended to: (i) improve coordination, budgeting, and control systems at the sectoral level; (ii)
improve the allocation and use of sectoral funds; and (iii) strengthen organizational and management
capabilities.
42.   In this regard, and as stipulated in the LMA, the sector has established a Committee for Agricultural
Development (CODA), which has the technical support of a Sector Planning Unit (UPSA) and an



Anmex 3
Page 8 of 31
UPSA/Finance Ministry Technical Committee. Under the direction of the Minister of Naural Resources,
the CODA will work to ensure that national and international fnds are used to support the new sectoral
policies.
43.   The Government, through the UPSA, has formulated and tested new planning and budgeting
procedures for the sector, including preparation of an integrated sectoral Annual Operational Program
and a consolidated sectoral budget. Through the Technical Committee, the Ministry of Finance will
cooperate with the CODA to ensure that expenditures executed during 1993 follow the agreed Annual
Operating Programs (POAs) and sectoral budget plans, so as to support implementation of the sectoral
policies referred to above and spelled out in the various 1993-1994 Action Plans.
44.   With regard to strengthening organizational and managerial capabilities, since mid-1992 the
Government has implementing a Technical Cooperation Program finaced by the Inter-American
Development Bank, to enhance the UPSA's capability in the areas of policy analysis, planning and
budgeting, administration and coordination of multilateral and bilateral financial aid. The Government
has also received substandal technical assistance support from US/AID to support the formulation and
monitoring of agricultural policy, which has strengthened UPSA's skills in these areas.
45.   The Technical Cooperation Program includes also resources to support the reorganization of
COHDEFOR and create the necessary technical and administrative capabilities to fulfill effectively its new
priority functions of protecting forests and the environment, and monitoring the social and environmentl
impact of the new forestry policy. In the case of INA and COHDEFOR the Government plans to use
private contractors for the purpose of supplementing the available capability to carry out such tasks as
the management of protected areas and technical assistance (COHDEFOR) or cadastral and land titling
functions (INA).
Conlusion
We wish to reiterate that the Government of Honduras is fully committed to implementing the
stabilization and economic development program described above and is also resolved to execute the
Agricultural Sector Development Program contained in Decree Law 31/92. We are convinced that this
is the most effective and efficient way to increase the growth of the agricultur  sector, improve
management of natural resources and, therefore, the well-being of the Honuran people, especially those
in the rural sector. Taking into account our significant progress in changing agricultural sector policy



Annex 3
Page 9 of 31
and the medium-term program described above, the Government requests your favorable consideration
in support of the Agricultral Sector Developmet Program.
Sincerely,
/s/ Ricardo Maduro
President
Central Bank of Honduras
and Coordinator of Economic Cabinet
Is/ Benjamin Vilianueva Tabora                18s Mario Nuflo Gamero
Seretary of State                             Secreutay of State
Department of Finance and              Deprnent of Natual Resources
Public Credit



Anmex 3
Page 10 of 31
HE3ONDURh$
AGRICULSE CTOR MODERNIZATION
AN1D DEVELOENTM ]PROGRA
LAND TENURE
PLAN OF ACTION
I. Objectives
The objectives of the Govenmnent of Honduras' land tenure reforms are as follows: (a) to bring about
more efficient land use through development of a stable, secure tenure system in which the State seeks
to ensure property rights, whether public or private, thereby achieving greater investment and thus greater
emiployment in the sector; and (b) to improve the efficiency of the adjudication and titling process, with
due regard for the preferences of beneficiaries, and to speed up this process with a view to completing
it at medium term, estimated at three to four years. This latter goal will be achieved through the approval
and subsequent implementation of the regulations to the Agricultural Modernization Law 31-92 and the
restructuring of INA, which will focus its activities in providing permanent titling of land to complete
this program as quickly as possible.
H. Targets
Listed below are the minimum actions which the Government undertakes to carry out in the Land Tenure
area in order to achieve the objectives indicated above.
Actions Prior to Release of the Second lranche of the Credit
1.    Present evidence of satisfactory implementation of the new land tenure policy, in particular, that:
(a)   at least 5,000 new land titles have been issued to eligible beneficiaries;
(b)   cadastral work is under way in at least two departments previously agreed with the Bank;
(c)   at least 50% of INA's portfolio in arrears as of June 30, 1992, arising from its land titling
program under the LRA, has been privately contracted to a specialized collection agency;
(d)    funds for the seed capital scheme budgeted within the SRN do not exceed 25% of INA's
total budget in any particular )ear;
(e)   the plan to reduce INA's labor force has been substantially completed; and
(f)   the agreed plan to divest INA's assets and activities not related to the land titling program
is on target.
2.    Present satisfactory terms of reference for undertaing a financial and operational audit of INA's
records and accounts.



Anmex 3
Page 11 of 31
Prior to Release of the Third Tranche
1.    Present evidence of satisfactory implementation of the new land tenure policy, in particular, that:
(a)    at least 35,000 new additional land titles have been provided to eligible t meficiaries;
(b)    cadastral work has been completed in at least 25% of the area without cadastre as of June
30, 1992;
(c)    all INA's portfolio in arrears as of June 30, 1992, arising from its land titling program
under the LRA, has been privately contracted to a specialized collection agency;
(d)   funds for the seed capital scheme budgeted within the SRN do not exceed 25% of INA's
total budget in any particular year;
(e)   INA's work force does not exceed 800 persons; and
(f)    all INA's assets and activities not related to the land titling program have been divested.
2.    Present satisfactory audit report based on agreed TIOR.
HI. Strategy for achieving the objectves
Listed below are the complementary actions that will facilitate attainment of the targets indicated earlier.
These actions may be revised by mutual agreement between the Govermnent and the IDA.
.1.    To be completed by December 30, 1992:
(a)   Identification of the teams of private contractors who will be invited to submit proposals
for the delivery of the services to be contracted out by INA, and decision on how they
will be informed of the decisions.
(b)   Identification of NGOs and PDOs that might be interested in cooperating in any permanent
titling requested by members of cooperatives or other associations of farmers.
(c)    Establishment of the timetable of activities for the Commission that will be responsible
for coordinating the cadastral survey to be undertaken in the country by domestic or
foreign contractors, to start prioritizing and coordinating the work to be carried out as
soon as possible. The Commission will be made up of staff from INA, COHDEFOR,
and the Departnent of Cadastre and the Interior. In the case of INA, semi-annual targets
will be set for the information required beginning on January 1, 1993, to permit the land
titling program to be completed within 28 to 36 months.
(d)    Detailed estimate, in terms of number and costs, of what is involved in resolving and
paying-off for land that was subject to expropriation. Tentative timetable for the work
to be carried out over an 18-month period.
(e)    Start evaluating INA's information management capacity for carrying out the plan of
action.



Annex3
Page 12 of 31
(f)   Identification of the procedure to be followed by INA in soliciting proposals for its
account payable, whether for tiding land or others. In addition, idenify a detailed
accounting of delinquent and current balances on those account.
(g)   Identification of a procedure to expedite the transactions involved in the replacement of
provisional titles and occupancy guarantees by permanet titles.
2.    To be complet  by January 30, 1993:
(a)    Inplementation of INA's organizational chart, structure and manual of functions based
on a maximum staff of 800 persons.
(b)    Preparation and approval of the terms of reference for teams of private contractors who
will be performing selected fumctions that can be contracted out by INA.
(c)    Tentative or final   ements with NGOs and PDOs that wish to cooperate in the task of
issuing permanent land titles to cooperatives or other associations of farmers who so
request.
(d)    Agreement of the two departments on which cadastral work will be undertaken on a
priority basis.
(e)    Preparation and approval of the criteria for establishing the roster of contractors to be
invited to submit proposals to participate in the competitive bidding for the cadastal
survey to be conducted first in the two departments agreed, and subsequety, in the eight
remaining departments. Opening of this roster in the Department of Cadastre and
invitation to register.
(f)    Titling and delivery of at least 300 pmanent land titles.
(g)    Estblishmentof, and definitive dmetable for, the procedure to be used in resolving cases
involving expropriations.
(h)    Establishment of relevant procedures and implementation of improvemnts to INA"s
information management capacity.
(i)    Preparation and approval of the terms of reference for inviting bids on the collection of
INA's claims.
(j)    Start-up the smlined system for reguarizing dtles.
3.    To be completed by June 30, 1993:
(a)    Opening of roster of contractors; invitation to bid, and award to private contractors of
selected functions that can be conacted out by INA.
(b)    Signing of contracts with the NGOs and PDOs selected, and start-up of their activities.



An= 3
Page 13 of 31
(c)    The Depamen of Cadastre to have requested bids and have awarded the contrat(s) for
carying out the castral work, to have started the work and to have delivered the il
reports to INA.
(d)    Titling and delivery of at least 13,000 peannt lmnd tites.
(e)   Initiaton of the final setdement process for at least 100 files involving expropon.
(t)    Start-up of INA's enhanced computer system at both the central and the regional level.
(g)   Invitation to bid, contract award, and start of collections of INA's claims.
(h)    Finalization of sales of INA"s nonessentl assets.
4.    To be completed by D15tS, 1993
(a)   INA fimctions that can be contrcted out to be fully operated by private conftrors.
(b)    Completion of at least 20% of the work contacted out to NGOs and PDOs.
(c)    Delivery by the D  qarmet of Cadastre to INA of the cadastrl data conacted for this
period (data from two previously agreed departmen).
(d)    Tiling and delivery of at lest 23,000 additonal pemunent land titles.
(e)    Final settlement of 100 fles involving previous eopriations, and iniation of the same
process for at least another 200 cases.



Annex 3
Page 14 of 31
HONlDUA
AGRCUR  SECTOR MODERATION
AMl DEELPEN PROGRA
FORESTRY PLAN OF ACTION
I. OBJECTIVES
The objective of the Honduran Government's reforms in the forestry sector is to achieve sustined
economic growth within the framework of a sound environmental policy that safeguards biodiversity.
This objective will be achieved through the approval and subsequent implementation of the regulations
to the Agricultural Modernization Law 31-92 and the restructuring of COHDEFOR. The activities
identified in the plan of action will serve to establish the guidelines for implementing the program of
reforms in the forestry sector. The key areas of the plan of action are as follows:
1.    Forest Propty Rights: To restore forest user rights to those who can prove land tenure and
ownership. Private owners of forest lands will be required to draw up management plans to guide
and monitor the use of private forests.
2.             ent of Public Forests: Public forest land will be subject to management plans that
promote sustained forestry activities, while at the same time: (i) safeguarding the user rights of
the communties and settlers established in affected areas; and (ii) protecting areas of critical
importance.in terms of their amenity value, such as land, water, conservation, and biodiversity.
The process of selling timber and other goods and services derived from public forest lands will
be steered toward a transparent, competidve and efficient market that reflects world price levels
for similar goods and services.
3.    Environmntal Prot n: To protect and manage a representative sample of all the ecosystems
that exist in the country, by consolidating the Honduran Protected Areas System so as to protect
fragile ecosystems or areas that merit protection by reason of their biodiversity or other environ-
mental considerations. To improve the monitoring of forests and to step up punitive efforts to
discourage activities that result in enviormental degradation.
4.    Reform of the Stae Foresty Ad itration (AFE): The emphasis of the public forestry
adinisration should be shifted from a commercial forestry corporation (COHDEFOR) toward
development of a forestry agency (APE). The new APE will be responsible for: (i) administering
public forest lands from the standpoint of harvesing, environmental protection, and conservation
of nture and of protected wildlife reserves; (ii) regulating, monitoring, and ensuring compliance
with forestry legislation on all forest lands; (iii) supporting private forest-sector marketing
functlons (owners of private forest lands, forestry industry, municipalities and ejidos, and society
at large); and (iv) providing forestry extension services, particularly to groups of small forestry
operators. In addition, the organizational unit responsible with enforcing the law should have
sufficient autonomy to ensure that the laws are applied on both private and public forest lands.



Annex 3
Page 15 of 31
II. TARGETS
The following are the minimum actions which the Government undertakes to carry out in the forestry
subsector.
Actions prior to release of the second tranche of the credit
Present evidence of satisfactory implementation of the new forestry policy, in particular:
(a)    satisfactory implementation of the agreed plan to restnctre APE;
(b)    all potential forest lands in Honduras have been identified on the basis of the agreed
criteria;
(c)    forest resources from public lands eligible and suitable for commercial forestry use are
allocated on a competitive and efficient basis under procedures acceptable to IDA;
(d)    at least 10 public forest management units (PFMUs) have been established, and usufruct
rights of communities on at least 50% of the PFMUs have been formalized, or
resettlement plans, if needed, are being executed;
(e)    management plans for at least 5 PFMUs are being executed;
(f)    an evaluation, under agreed terms of reference, of the relevance and relative morace
of protected areas, both existing and proposed by APE, has been completed; and
(g)    satisfactory implementation of the agreed program to monitor the social and enr
impact of the forestry reform program.
2.    Present satisfactory terms of reference to undertake a fincial and operational audit of APE's
records and accounts.
Actions prior to release of the third tranche of the credit
I1.    Present evidence of satisfactory implemention of the new forestry policy, in particular:
(a)    implementation of the plan to restructre APE is subsntly completed;
(b)    all PFMUs have been identified;
(c)    all PFMUs in cadastral areas have been regularized, mna tplans are in execution,
and usufruct rights of at least 50% of the commuities have been formized;
(d)    at least 70% of all PPMUs have management plans in execudon, and plams to reglarize
usufruct rights of communities have been prepared;
(e)    management plans for at least 15 protected areas are being established;
(f)    satisfactory execution of resettlement plans, if any; and



Ann  3
Page 16 of 31
(g)   satisfactory implementation of the agreed program to monitor the social and evioe
impact of the forestry reform program.
2.    Present a satisfactory audit report on AFE's operations based on the agreed terms of reference.
Mll. STRATEGY
1.    Listed below are the complementary actions that will facilitate attainmem of the targets indicated
earlier. These actions may be revised by mtual agreement between the Goverment and IDA.
Implemeation of the reforms embodied in the Agricultural Modenization Law will require major
technical, administrative and budgetary changes in the state forestry sector over the next 24
mouths. During this period, COHDEFOR will consolidate its conversion to a forestry service
and discontinue its production and marketing activities. Under the Modeization LAw, the new
forestry service will emphasize the management and protection of state lands and the monitoring
of private forestry activities.
2.    To be complted by Janry 30,1993
(a)    approval of the Regulations on forestry aspects of the Modenization Law (Decree 31-92
of April 6, 1992), which will cover at least the following aspects:
(i)   the role and responsibilities of AFE;
(ii)   that public stumpage proceeds and other public sector revemes geneated by APE
should bepart of the Treasury's income;
(iii)  standards for the management plans to be submitted to APE as prerquisite to
utilize private and publicly owned forest resources;
(iv) procedures to demonstrate the right of use of forest resources to forest land
owners;
(v)   transitional dispositions to idendfy public forest areas;
(vi)  rules for the establishment of dipute settlement mechm    in forest areas;
(vii)  policies and procedur  to regulaize commurties in national forests and/or to
compensate farmers in cases of involuntary resettlement; and
(viii) regulations to establish and manage Protected Forest Areas and to promote
biodiversity conservation.
(b)    approval of the Work Plan for identifying potential for forety land, using a methodology
to be agreed among APE, INA and the National Cadastre. Tle plan should also include
actions to identify those areas primarily suited to comm ial havestng of timber (or
other forest products).
(c)   initiation of timber sales and other private goods and services from publicly owned forest
lands, using a transparet, competitive and efficient biddig ssm  The system must:



Anue 3
Page 17 of 31
(i)    set a base price below which forest products may not be sold; and
(ii)   assure participation by the greatest possible mber of buyers in a corpetitive
manner.
(d)    present a Plan of Action for implementing the restructuing of APE that covers at least
the following aspects:
(i)    management of publicly owned forest lands (National Forests and Protected Areas)
for production, enviromental protection and nature conservation;
(ii)   supporting functions concerned with marketing by private forest-sector groups
(owners of private forest lands, foresty idustry, municipalities and ejidos, and
society at large);
(iii) sufficient autonomy and administrative capacity to regulate, monitor, and ensure
compliance with forestry legislation on both private and public forest lands, and
imposition of sanctions in the event of noncompliance with the pertinent law;
(iv)   establishment of a Price Informatlon Systm to provide data on domestic and
world prices for relevant forest products in different parts of the country;
(v)    establishment of a monitoring system to identify the impact of forest sector
reforms on the environment, the economic and social sectors, and the mesures
to prevent, mitigate, correct and compensate for possible negative impacts,
ensuring that the latter are dealt with in a timely and appropriate manner;
(vi)   a new personnel management system, and measures to promote decelntrization
that reflect operational needs in field locations remote from the capital;
(vii)  identification of fiuctions, such as extension, fire control, reforesttion, and
management of publicly owned lands, that can be contracted out to the private
sector; and
(viii)  establishment of the autonomy of ESNACIFOR.
(e)    preparation of terms of reference for evaluat  the relevance and relative importance of
existng Protected Areas and those proposed by APE.
(f)    presetaion of a satisfactory draft of the Forest Maagement Regulationsl (IManagement
Plans) to be issued by APE.
3.    To be completed by Febry 28, 1993
(a)    preparation of APE's new mamnal of functions and procedures.
11     TheSe should be snple and reus-orented, and d&efr uts and rqummem  should be dda_d by size of
pperty (rangln  rom minimmles and conte for vey sm  holdings, to di plans for lae propedes where
nsud mmhaet  is feasible).



Annex 3
Page 18 of 31
(b)    presentation of acceptable drafts of the following specific regulations to be issued by APE:
(i)    Regulations on Forest Protection; and
(ii)    Regulations on the Public Forest Management System.
(c)    approval and entry into effect of the Forest Management Regulations (Management Plans).
(d)    contract awarded for the evaluation of Protected Areas on the basis of agreed terms of
reference.
(e)    contract awarded for the technical assistance to monitor the social and environmental
inpact of the refonms.
4.    To be completed by March 31, 1993
(a)    identification of all public forest management units (PPMUs) in all departments where
cadastral data are available, marking the start of the Land Tenure Regularization Program
for such forest lands.
(b)   initiation of the process of regularizing comunities and individual families in PFMUs
in areas where cadastral data is available, and preparation of resettlement and development
plans, as appropriate.
(c)    preparation of an Action Pau to consolidate the Protected Forest Areas System, including
the regularization of tenure of the lands involved.
(d)    preparation of drafts of the following specific regulatons to be issued by APE:
(i)    Regulations for the Proted Forest Areas System; and
(ii)    Regulations for the Management of Municipal and Ejida Forest Lands;
(e)    present a Proposal for the Creaion of a Foret Bond System to finance technical
assistance from private consultants to small forest land owners. The proposal should
indicate the legal and fmncial reuiments for implementing the program;' and
(f)    present a mechanism for setding disputes over private forest lands that cannot be resolved
by the procedure agreed between COHDEFOR and INA; if necessary, regulations should
also be presented.
5.    To be completed by October 30, 1993
(a)    promulgation and entry into effect of:
2/     The system of bonds will be an alternative to directemployment of dle foresay service by AFE, as a means Of
providing technical assistance. It will allow for die disbursement of budget fun4s to eligible pardcipans to pay fbr
privately offered technical assisce services.



Annex 3
Page 19 of 31
(i)    Regulations on Forest Protection;
(ii)   Regulations for the Public Forest Management System;
(iii)   Regulations for the Protected Forest Areas System; and
(iv)   Regulations for the Management of Municipal and Ejida Forest Lands;
(b)   to be implementing the social and environmental impact monitoring system and to have
concluded the flights under this monitoring system;
(c)   to provide evidence that measures have been taken to transfer fully and to guarantee
ownership and use of timber resources to the owners of forest lands;
(d)   satisfactory implementation of AFE's restructuring Plan and, in particular, to be operating
under the new organizational structure and in accordance with the new manuals of
functions and procedures;
(e)   to complete the identification of all potential forest lands and officially adopt the resulting
operating level map;
(f)   to be conducing sales of timber from publicly owned forest lands using a transparent,
competitive and efficient bidding system;
(g)   to have identified and regularized at least 250,000 hectares of public forest lands,
established at least 10 public forest management units (PFMU), regularized the presence
of communities and individual families in at least 50% of such PFMUs, and be executing
any resettlement plans that may have been found necessary.
(h)   to have prepared management plans and be executing them in at least five public forest
management units;
(i)   to have completed the evaluation of all protected areas in the system in accordance with
agreed terms of reference;
(j)   to have prepared management plans for 10 protected areas, including programs to regular-
ize land tenure for public registration and to regularize communities and individual
families in the PFMUs, as well as resettlement plans wher needed;
(k)   to demonstrate that it is implementng the Forest Bond System; and
(1)   to demonstrate that it is executing the environmental and social impact monitoring system.
6.    To be completed by October 30, 1994
(a)   to have identified all public forest management units;
(b)   to have regularized the presence of communides and individual families in all public forest
management units in areas which have been surveyed;



Anmes 3
Page 20 of 31
(c)   to have management plans under execution for at least 70% of the total number of public
forest managemen units;
(d)   to have created, re-created or eliminated all the proteted areas needed to make the
Protected Forest Area System representative;
(e)   to have prepared management plans for at least half the number of protected areas and
started to implement at least half of these managemern plans;
(f)   to have regularzed the presence of comnities and individual families in 30% of the
total area of the Protected Forest Areas System;
(g)   to be executing any resettlement plans identfied as necessary and justifiable;
(h)   to have substantiatly completed the transition to the new AE in accordance with the
agreed plan; and
(i)   to demonstrate that it is execting the enviromnental and social impact monitoring system.



Anmex 3
Page 21 of 31
HONDURAS
AGRICUL            SECTOR MODERNIZATION
AND DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
RUTRAL FINANCIAL SECTOR
PLAN OF ACTION
1. OBJECTIVES
The main objectives of the Honduran Government's reforms in the rural financial sector are: (a) to assure the
provision of adequate financial services in the rural sector, especially for small and medium-scale producers; (b) to
imnprove the allocation of credit resources; (c) to reduce state involvement in rural sector fnancing; (d) to lower
the fiscal costs associated with subsidized interest rates and losses by BANADESA; (e) to increase commercial
bank participation in rural sector financing; and (f) to give small producers access to credit facilities for the
purchase of land.
To achieve these objectives, five areas of action have been defined:
1.    BANADESA: The objective with respect to BANADESA is to see its function of providing banking
services in the rural sector - particularly to small and medium-scale farmers - performed by a financially
self-sufficient, efficient and viable financial entity. To this end, it has been decided to divest it from the
public ;ector by selling it to the private sector, either wholly or by selling its assets separately. While
a suitable assessment of the agency is being obtained and the initial steps toward privatization are being
taken, the aim is to have BANADESA continue to operate under a restructuring program designed to focus
efforts on restructuring its capital and cleaning up its portfolio (in accordance with Decree-Laws 31-92
and 71-92), to avoid expansion, and to prevent further deterioration of its assets.
2.    LAND CREDIT FUND: The objective of creating this fund is to enable small-scale producers to buy
rural land on market terms, with the aim of expanding access to the land, developing an orderly and stable
land market, and fostering the emergence of a permanent private system of land financing.
3.    PRIVATE RURAL CREDIT BANKS: The aim of creating private rural credit banks (Cajas Rurales)
is to provide quick and timely financial services in the rural sector, for all the economic activities carried
out by the smallest producers. To this end, the Cajas Rurales must be solvent and financially self-
sufficient, operated on efficient business principles, including adequate provisioning rules, and supervised
by a competent ageac.
4.  INCENTIVES TO THE FORMAL FINANCIAL SECTOR TO EXPAND m INVOLVEMENT IN
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT: The objective in this area is to foster greater participation by the
commercial banking system and other formal financial intermediaries in the provision of financial services
in the rural sector, especially to small-scale producers.
S.  IMPROVEMENTS TO GUARANTEE SYSTEMS AND LEGAL/REGULATORY FRAMEWORK
TO EFFECT CREDIT CONTRACTS: The objective in this area is to remove deficiencies in the system
of guarantees (collateral, mortgages, etc.) and in the legal/regulatory system that hamper the effectiveness
of credit contracts, particularly in the rural sector.



Annex 3
Page 22 of 31
D[. TARGETS
Listed below are the minimum actions which the Government undertakes to carry out in order to achieve the
objectives outlined for the rural financial system.
Actions prior to release of the second trauche of the credit
1.    To have completed the study to develop a scheme to promote increased participation of formal financial
intermediaries in agricultural credit, under agreed terms of reference, and have presented a plan to
implement the agreed actions.
2.    To have initiated the agreed Plan of Action to divest BANADESA, based on the recommendations of the
evaluation carried out under the agreed terms of reference.
3.    Present evidence that Cental Bank funding to BANADESA has been limited to its August 30, 1991 level,
adjusted for inflation, and that there has been no additional Treasmuy funding.
4.    Provide evidence that the "land credit fund " to the extent that it is operative, is functioning in accordance
with the agreed regulations.
5.    To have approved the legal bases for operating the "Cajas Rurales' and established, as a minimum that:
(a) they will be financial institutions supervised by a competent regulatory entity; and (b) they will be
fnancially self-sufficient.
6.    Provide evidence that "Cajas Rurales' to the extent that they are operative, are fimctioning in accordance
with the agreed rules and regulations.
Actions prior to release of the third tanche of the credit
I.    Satisfactory progress in implementng the agreed Plan of Action to promote increased participation by
formal financial intermediaries in the rural financial markets.
2.    Substantial progress in implementing the agreed plan of action to privatize or liquidate BANADESA.
3. Present evidence that Central Bank funding to BANADESA has been limited to its August 30, 1991 level,
adjusted for inflation, and that there has been no additional Treasury funding.
4.    Provide evidence that the "land credit fund," to the extent that it is operative, is functioning in accordance
with the agreed regulations.
5.    Provide evidence that "Cajas Rurales", to the extent that they are operative, are functioning in accordance
with the agreed rules and regulations.
EL. STRATEGY
Listed below are the complementary actions that will facilitate ataim  of the targets indicated earlier. These
actions may be revised by mutua agreement between the Government and IDA.



Annex 3
Page 23 of 31
1.    BANADESA
The divestiture of BANADESA, combined with its critical financial and administrative situation, calls for
major efforts to clean up its portfolio and reorganize its capital position to avert further deterioration and
prepare the entity for sale, in whole or in part, to the private sector.
Pending actual divestiture, BANADESA will implement in full the provisions for cleaning up its portfolio
set forth in the Agricultural Modernization (Law 31-92 and Portfolio Reorganization (Decree 71-92); cut
its administrative expenses; transact its business at market rates of interest; restrict its indebtedness to the
Central Bank (net of any debt taken over by the central government), so as not to exceed, at any point
in time, the August 30, 1991 level, with adjustments for inflation on January 1 each year; and not receive
any budget allocation either to support its operations or as a capital transfer. Because of the transitional
process envisaged for BANADESA, mobilization of funds from the public will be handled with caution.
At the same time, as an essential step prior to divestiture, BANADESA will be fully evaluated and a
specific strategy will be defined for its full or partial sale to the private sector.
2.    LAND CREDIT FUND
To achieve the objectives sought in a reasonable time ftame and avoid inefficiencies and unwanted transfers
of wealth, the following basic criteria will be adopted in defining and implementing the land credit fimd:
(a)    no new state-owned institution will be created either as a real estate or finance instituton;
(b)   it will be a line of credit available to any eligible established financial intermediaries that wish
to participate;
(c)    Government financing of the fund will come solely from resources earmarked in Article 69 of
Decree-Law 31-92;
(d)    credit risks will be borne by the fianmc-ial intenmediaries, ot by the fimd;
(e)   financing will be at market interest rates;
(f)    participation by financial intermediaries will be conditional primanly on their solvency and
compliance with relevant provisioning regulations;
(g)   the mechanism will be sufficiently open to enable the private sector to cofinance land purchases
from the outset. It wil' also function as the prime mover behind a basically private system of
financing that is open both to beneficiaries and to non-beneficiaries of Agrarian Reform;
(h)   the land eligible to be purchased using fimd resources will be both public and private land suitable
for fanning;
(i)    qualification of beneficiaries will be by an automatic, objective and expeditious process; and
a,)   responsibility for supervising compliance with the rules will rest with the Superntendency of
Banks.



Annex 3
Page 24 of 31
3.    PRIVATE RURAL CREDIT BANKS
To attain the desired objectives, it will be necessary to use great care in designing the class of financial
entities to be known as private rural credit banks, and to determine what their regulatory, operational and
supervisory rules should be in order to reasonably assure their sustained viability over time.
The system will be built up out of private entities that are sufficiently strong and financially self-sufficient,
regulated and supervised by a competent agency. It will thus take shape as specific parties interested in
forming banks come forward with cash capital contributions, and its creation should not be artificially
forced.
To this end, the following basic principles vYi,' be followed:
(a)    account will be taken of the financial services that small-scale rural producers need. Accordingly,
a satisfactory diagnosis will be made of why those needs have not been met and the prospects that
the new land ownership conditions will stimulate interest on the part of traditional financial
intermediaries;
(b)    a clear understanding will be needed of how to resolve problems arising from the high degree of
homogeneity of the groups associated witi any particular bank: (a) bunching of credit risks (same
products, in the same region, at the same time); and (ii) deficits and surpluses occurring at the
same time for the entire group;
(c)    the approach to resolving possible conflicts of interest in the roles of lender and borrower will
be clarified (those responsible for lending policies are also the beneficiaries of the credit);
(d)    clear ground rules will be provided regarding the form of legal corporation they should adopt,
agreed property concentration, policies and methods of capitalization, and distribution of profits;
(e)    there will be specific requirements that prospective interested entities must meet to qualify as a
bank, including capital, legal, economic and fmancial, and human resource aspects, and, above
all, submission of a viable proposal. In particular, the only transfers from the Government to
be taken into account are those indicated in Decree 31-92 (up to 70 percent of the returns on the
Goverment trusts managed by BANADESA);
(f)    a satisfactory regulatory framework wili be defined that will assure its administration in line with
prudential rules generally accepted for financial intermediaries. This framework will include as
a minimum the following aspects:
(i)    minimum capital, and maintenance of its value in real terns (adjustment for inflation);
(ii)   capital adequacy (debt ratio);
(iii) diversification of assets (by borrower and by "equal-risk" economic activity);
(iv)   mandatory accounting policies;
(v)    mandatory external audit and related re(rArements;
(vi)   minimim rquments for intemal control systems;



Annex 3
Page 25 of 31
(vii)  activities permitted and prohibited (should be limited to the mobilization and placement
of funds);
(viii)  asset risk control and provisioning policies;
(ix)   regulation of financial caps, such as terms and interest rates;
(x)    policy on disclosure of information to associates and the public at large;
(xi)  specific restrictions on lending to directors, senior executives and, in general, to any
individuals or grou.ns having lending authority;
(g)    an efficient supervisory agency will be established (or an existing one will be used), with sufficient
powers, including:
(i)   the requirement that prior authorization be obtained to form a bank, and the power to
intervene and liquidate a bank with substandard management or problems of financial
instability;
(ii)   access to all books, files, documents, etc.;
(iii)   power to request general or special information both from the bank and from any of its
directors, executives, or employees;
(iv)   authority to issue accounting, asset and liability valuation, and regulatory guidelines in
general;
(v)    power to demand the creation of provisions for dubious debts and the write-off of
unrecoverable assets;
(vi)   authority to require capital increases, either through capitalization of profits or in the form
of additional special contributions;
(vii)  power to impose sanctions, including monetry fines;
(viii)  in general, all powers conferred on it by law with respect to entities under its supervision
under the Honduras' Suprintdency of Banks.
4.    INCENTIVES TO THE FORMAL FINANCIAL SECTOR TO EXPAND ITS INVOLVEMENT IN
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT
To achieve the objective in question, it is planned to conduct a study to define specific incentive schemes
for fornal financial intermediaries. Based on the results of this study, a Plan of Action will be drawn
up, and agreed with IDA, to implement any measures considered desirable in order to promote more rapid
penetration by formal financial iteredia   into the rural financial services market.



Annex 3
Page 26 of 31
5.    IMPROVEMENTS TO GUARANTEE SYSTEMS AND LEGAL/REGULATORY FRAMEWORK TO
EFFECT CREDIT CONTRACTS
To achieve the objective in question, it is planned to conduct a study to identify (a) the problems arising
from the system of credit guarantees (collateral and mortgages) and (b) the effectiveness of the legal/
regulatory system. This study should produce concrete proposals aimed at improving the system so as
to facilitate credit, particularly toward the rural sector. It is also planned to implement the proposals put
forward in the study.
Listed below are the complementary actions that will facilitate attainment of the targets and objectives indi-
cated earlier. These actions may be revised by mutual agreement between the Govermment and the Bank.
By January 30, 1993
(a)   approval of the regulations for the land credit fund, containing the basic principles set out above;
and
(b)    dernonstrate that Central Bank funding to BANADESA has been maintained at its August 30, 1991
level, adjusted for inflation, and that there has been no additional Treasury funding.
By March 30, 1993
(a)   to have tendered and initiated the evaluation of BANADESA with a view to its divestiture;
(b)   show significant progress in implementing Decrees 31-92 and 71-92 on cleaning up of the
portfolio, and present concrete evidence of having initiated actions to collect from delinquent
borrowers who are not beneficiaries of the portfolio rehabilitation program and from those falling
into arrears;
(c)    completion of an internal study on the profitability of BANADESA's offices, and of a plan and
specific strategy for closing those that are not viable;
(d)   present concrete evidence that it has begun to privadze the operation of BANADESA's sales of
inputs and started direct negotiations or prepared the final terms of reference for tender;
(e)   to have invited bids for the study on improving the guarantee system;
(f)   to have put up for bid the study on incentives to the financial sector; and
(g)   to have initiated the study on improving the guarantee system.
By August 30, 1993
(a)   to have completed the evaluation of BANADESA in accordance with the agreed terms of
reference, and agreed on the strategy for implementing the plan to divest BANADESA;
(b)    present concrete evidence of continued efforts to collect from BANADESA's deliquent
borrowers;
(c)   to have completed the privadzation of BANADESA's input 00eratioos;
(d)   show significant concrete progress in closing BANADESA's unprofitable offices; and



Annex 3
Page 27 of 31
(e)   to have completed the study on imprving the guarantee system, and prepared a plan of action
for carrying out the recommendations of the study.
By November 30, 1993
(a)   to have started the process of divesting BANADESA in accordance with the time frame contained
in the agreed Plan of Action;
(b)    demonstrate that Central Bank fnding to BANADESA has been mintined at its August 30, 1991
level, adjusted for inflation, and that there has been no additional Treasury funding.
(c)   show concrete progress in closing an additional number of BANADESA's unprofitable offices;
and
(d)   to have completed the study on incentives to the financial sector, and prepared a plan of action
for carrying out the recommendations of the study.
By July 30, 1994
(a)   to have made substantive progress in implementing the agreed Plan of Action for the divestiture
of BANADESA;
(b)   to be implementing specific agreed actions to stimulate participation in the rural financial sector;
and
(c)   to be implementing specific agreed actions to improve the guarantee system.



Anex 3
Page 28 of 31
HONDURAS
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR MODERNIZATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION AND EXPENDITURE
PLAN OF ACTION
I. Objectives
The main objectives of the Government's reforms in the area of public administration are to redefine the
role of the state in the sector and to improve sector planning and coordination by making more effective
use of the budgeting system to support specific priorities of the new sector policy. To this end, action
will focus on the following areas:
1.    strengthening the sector's planning, coordination and resource allocation capacity in accordance
with the new policy;
2.    ensuring that the policies, programs and organizational structures of institutions within the sector
are responsive to and supportive of the new sector policy; and
3.    improving the managerial and budgetary capacity of these institutions with a view to speeding up
the implementation of new programs and investments.
H. Targets
Listed below are the actions which the Government undertakes to carry out in the area of public
administration and government expenditure in order to achieve the objectives indicated above.
Actions Prior to Release of the Second Tranche
Present evidence that the policy on Institutional Strengthening and Government Expenditure is being
satisfactorily implemented, in particular:
I .    that the Annual Operating Plans (POAs) and budgets for 1993 (and for any other year previously
agreed between GOH and IDA) have been executed in support of the new agricultural policy.
2.    that the POAs and budgets (current expenditure and investments) for 1994 for the sector as a
whole, and for sector institutions (SRN, INA, IHMA, AFE, and BANADESA) reflect and support
the sector policies agreed under this credit and under SAL II. These are to have been approved
by the Economic Cabinet and presented to IDA before being submitted for approval to the
Secretariat of Finance and Public Credit.
3.    satisfactory implementation of the previously agreed Policy Support (PSP) Program to strngthn
the capacity of the sector's public institutions.
Actions Prior to Release of the Second Tranche
Present evidence that the policy on Institutional Strengthening and Government Expenditr is being
satisfactorily implemented, in particular:



Annex 3
Page 29 of 31
1.    that the POAs and budgets for 1994 (and for any other year previously agreed between GOH and
IDA) are being executed in support of the new agricultural policy;
2.    that the annual operadng plans and budgets (current expenditure and investments) for 1995 for
the sector as a whole, and for the sector insdtutions (SRN, INA, IHMA, APE, and BANADESA)
do reflect and support the sector policies agreed under this credit and under SAL H. These are
to have been approved by the Economic Cabinet and presented to IDA before being submited
for approval to the Secretariat of Finance and Public Credit.
3.    satisfactory implementation of the previously agreed PSP to strengthen the capacity of the sector's
public institutions.
M. Overad strtg for achieving the objectives
Listed below are actions which will facilitate attainment of the objectives and targets indicated earlier.
These actions may be revised by mual agreement between the Government and IDA. The objectives
will be achieved through integrated and complementary actions in the following areas:
1.    In the course of 1993, the sector's managerial capacity will be str hened by accelerating and
consolidating CODA/UPSA's current programs and improving the sectoral systems Oel program
planning and management and sectoral budgeting.
2.    In the first few months of 1993, a technical assistance package will be launched to define and
institutionalize the new organizational structures of the insdtutions and the new systems and
procedures that require strengthening in order to improve the managerial capability of the different
sector institutions.
3.    In mid-1993, preparation of the 1994 POAs and budgets will begin, with a view to defining and
initiating the new programs of services and investments in support of the new agricultural policy.
Actions to be completed by December 31, 1992
1.    complete the process of revising and adjusdng the institutioal POAs and budgets for 1993 so as
to assure adequate funding to implement the action plans in the areas of land tenure, forestry, and
the rural financial sector. These should be approved by the Economic Cabinet and the Secretariat
of Finance and Public Credit;
2.    propose definitive funding for the technical cooperation program to strengthen the capacity of the
public institutions in the sector (to plan, coordinate, admunister and implement the policy reforms
agreed under this operation and under SAL 11), and begin the process of selecting consultants;
and
3.    prepare an integrated summary of the technical cooperation projects in the agricultural sector under
execution or to be initiated in other sector institutions, with fumding from other donors.
Actions to be completed by March 31, 1993
1.    to have completed the evaluation of the 1992 budget and of the POAs and budgets for the sector
as a whole and for each of the insdtitons that comprise the agricultural sector; and
2.    the PSP for institutional strengthening and budgetary improvemens is opeating satisfactorily.



Annex 3
Page 30 of 31
'Acton to be completd by Jue 30, 1993
1.    to have complete the evaluation of the budget for the frs quarter of 1993 and of the POAs and
budget for the sector as a whole and for each of the insdtutions that comprise the agricultural
seaor; and
2.    presentaton of the instruction sheet for preparing the POAs and budgets for 1994;
3.    the PSP for institutional strengthening and budgetary improvements is opeaing satisfactorily.
Acdon to be complaed by July 30, 1993
1. presentation to CODA, for review and evaluation, of the 1994 POAs and bxudgets for the sector
as a whole and for each of the institutions that comprise the sector, in support of the new sector
policy. These should include a schedule of investnents.
Actions to be completed by August 30, 193
1.    presentaton of the 1994 POAs and budgets for the sector as a whole and for each sector institution
to the Economic Cabinet and IMA, prior to their submission to the Secretariat of Finance and
Public Credit.
Agtions to be completed by September 30, 1993
I1.    to have completed the evaluation of the budget for the second quarter of 1993 and of the POAs
and budgets for the sector as a whole and for each of the institutions that comprise the agricltural
sector; and
2.    the PSP for institutional strengthening and budgetaty improvemens is operating satisfactorily.
Actios to be compleded by March 31, 1994
1.    to have completed the evaluation of the 1993 budget and of the POAs and budgets for the sector
as a whole and for each of the institutions that comprise the agricultura sector; and
2.    the PSP for institutionat strengthening and budgetary improvements is operaing satisfactoily.
Actions to be comletd by June 30, 1994
1.    to have completed the evaluation of the budget for the fist quarter of 1994 and of the POAs and
budget for the sector as a whole and for each of the insdtutions that comprise the agricultural
sector; and
2.    presentation of the instruction sheet for preparing the POAs and budgets for 1995;
3.    the PSP for insdtutional stregthening and budgetary improvements is Opting satisfactorily.
Actdons to be completed by July 30, 1994
1.    presention to CODA, for review and evaluation of the 1995 POAiand budgets for the sector
as a whole and for each of the institutions that comprise the sector, in support of the new sector
policy. These should include a schedue of investments.



Ame= 3
Page 31 of 31
Ac0on to be cmpleted by Augut 30, 1994
1.    preseaion of the 1995 POAs and budgets for the sector as a whole and for eah sector insuion
to the Economic Cabinet and IDA, prior to their submission to the Secreiat of PFine and
Public Credit.
Actions to be completed by September 30, 1994
1.    to have completed the evaluation of the budget for the second quarter of 1994 and of the POAs
and budgets for the sector as a whole and for each of the institutions that comprise the agricultural
sector; and
2.    the Policy Support Program for institutional strengthening and budgetary improvent is
operating satisfactorily.
LlVHllAGSACLWAwUPP.uCY.1zr



Annex 4
Page 1 of 3
HONDURAS
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMEN  CREDIT
Implementation of Agricutural Sector Reorms
1.           The current administration headed by President Callejas that took office in January
1990, embarked on a bold program of economic reform based on fiudamental redefinition of the role
of the state. Within over three yeas of implementing its adjustment program, the Government has
accomplished major changes in macroeconomic and agricultural policies as outlined below. Reforms
have been implemented in foreign exchange management, fiscal and monetary policies, and tariff
structure and administatve trade controls. Agricultual policy reforms implemented during the last
two years as part of the overall adjustment program, and supported by SAL n, included reforms in
agricultural trade policy, agricultural price policy, marketing of basic grains, food subsidies and rural
financial sector.
Trade Poicy:
(a)    The temporary export tax for non-traditional exports was eliminated in October 1990
and that for traditional exports was reduced to 25 percent of its original level.
(b)    Tariff dispersion was reduced from its previous range of 0-90 percent to a 4-35
percent range as of January 1991; and to a 5-20 percent range early in 1992.
(c)    The 10 percent surcharge on agricultural products and byproducts was eliminated in
November 1991 among Cental Americavn countries and are expected to be eliminaed
worldwide before the end of the year.
(d)    Since May 1991, the private sector is allowed to fully participate in basic grain
imports, eliminating the import monopoly of IHMA.
(e)   Ihport permits and other restrictions imposed by the Ministry of Economy (WE) 'An a
number of agricultural products were gradually eliminated during 1990 and early
1991. Import permits for basic grains (corn, beans, rice and soybeans) previously
required by the Government's IHMA were abolished in May 1991. In addition, in
September 1991, IHMA ceased issung statistical registration forms for imports-
transferring this fimction to the Central Bank's External Financing Regulatory
Department.
(f)    Quantitative Export Restrictions imposed by the ME on a number of agricultural
products have been gradually eliminated during the last two years. Export permits are
required only for low-quality coffee.



Annex 4
Page 2 of 3
Nice PoHcy:
(a)    Guaranteed producer prices for basic grains set by IHMA were eliminated in February
1991. A price band system for corn, through the establishment of a variable levy,
was introduced in February 1992. Currently, Honduran domestic grain prices are a
reflection of international prices and are substantally higher, in real terms, than those
prevailing prior to 1990.
(b)    All price controls for the major agricultural products have been eliminated. The
Goverrnent eliminated price controls imposed by the ME on all agricultural products
and their derivatives except for low-quality coffee. This commodity is subject to
complex trade negotiations among Central American countries. The Goverment is
addressing price liberalization for this commodity in the context of a Central
American initiative on agricultural trade and price policy harmonization. Coffee
prices are expected to be liberalized during 1993. In October 1991, the domestic
price of ground coffee was increased and a 50 percent price band was intoduced.
This band allowed coffee prices to rise closer to free trade levels.
Basc Grain Marketng and Food Subsidies:
(a)   In May 1991, IRMA took steps to withdraw from two of its most important and
traditional activities: monopolizing imports and trading grain. During the third and
fourth quarters of 1991, all grain imports have been carried out by feed compounders,
industrial users and other small grain traders.
(b)    The Government has redefined the role of IHMA, and restructured it by partially
divesting IHMA's storage facilities, infrastructure and other assets related to inmports
and marketing activities. To that end, IHMA is in the process of seUling all its storage
facilities except the one in Tegucigalpa. The latter will be used to operate a strategic
food reserve equivalent to about one-and-a-half weeks (or about three percent) of the
anmal consumpdion of com and beans. At least four grain storage facilities is
expected to be auctioned before the end of May 1993, while the remainder will be
negotiated directly before June 30, 1993.
(c)   IHMA's role has been redefined -rom direct marketing of basic grains to
administering the price band systtbn, the strategic reserve, and to providing satistical
information of grain trade. The regulations to operate the storage reserve were
approved by GOH authorities by end of May 1993.
(d)    Untargeted food consumption subsidies have been substantially curtailed since the
initiation of the macroeconomic adjustment program. A pilot targeted food stamp
program has been successfully implemented and expanded under the second PHIS.
(e)    The Government is retring BANASUPRO. The latter is buying and selling
goods at market prices and is privatizing a number of its outlets. During 1991 and
1992, BANASUPRO did not receive any trasfers from the Central Government and
has only received loans which are being serviced. Instead, the BANASUPRO basic
food subsidy program has been replaced by a smaller, tageted food assistance
program developed through the Honduran Socal Ivemet Fnd (e.g., Family
Aceiatangp Pmroam and Fnnd Vnuchs for Sinde Mothers).



Annex 4
Page 3 of 3
Rural Finandcal Sector
2.           The Govenmnent has introduced a number of important reforms to the rural finacial
sector. Under the Fourth Agricultural Credit Project (Loan 2991-HO), the Government agreed to: (a)
pool together under the administration of UPCA all foreign-financed agricultural credit lines; and (b)
gradually adjust rediscount and interest rates on all agricultural credit lines (except for basic grains),
in order to first equalize the rates among credit lines, and then adjust them to reflect the marginal cost
of fimds to commercial banks and market on-lending rates. These policy commitments have been
complemented and deepened under SAL II in which the Government agreed to: (a) adjust rediscount
and interest rates on all agrcultural lines to the levels of other credit lines; (b) unify administration of
all agricultural rediscounted credit lines under UPCA; (c) adopt a program to eliminate directed credit
lines; and (d) restructure the rual financial system, in particular BANADESA. The actions taken so
far are described below.
(a)    The GOH has liberalized all the commeial bank lending rates except those
reliscounted by the Central Bank.
(b)    The GOH has equalized rediscount rates on all its caedit lines financed by the Central
Bank and is implementing a fully satisfactory program of quarterly adjusments of the
rediscount rate in accordance wih the marginal cost of fuIds for commercial banks,
effectively eliminating the subsidy element previously embodied in the rediscount rate.
(c)    As part of SAL n conditionality, the GOH is implementing a restructring program of
BANADESA. In accordance with this plan, BANADESA has: (i) laid off 45 percen
of its personnel; (ii) increased to market levels lending rates on a portion of its
portfolio and borrowig rates; (iii) stopped lending to public sector institutions and
providing loans in excess of US$50,000 equivalent to a single borrower; and
(iv) started to divest from its non-financial activities. While some progress in
inmplementing the r   eons of the restucturing plan were evident, GOR
during 1991 and early 1992 failed BANADESA to improve overall loan recovery due
to Government's announcent of a debt forgiveness program in the summer of 1991.
Due to the mixed experience in implementing the agreed restructing plan, the
Government has agreed to divest BANADESA during the execution of the proposed
AGSAC to allow greater pardciation and the development of more efficient financial
intermediaries in ural financing.
L:\HNOA5ACMSARXBUFW.PMNNM.bif



Ann  5
Page 1 of 2
HONDURAS
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDfT
Polcy Support Progiuk
1.    The proposed Policy Support Program (PSP) expected to cost about US$500,000 will be
implemented over approximately 15 month and would finance technical assistance for four major
areas which represent bottlenecks to policy coordination and implementation. It would:
(a)    Assist UPSA and through it also CODA in 1993 sector policy management by
providing needed skills in:
-     economic policy analysis
-     investment pipeline planning
-     budget planning and execution, and
-     institutional strengteing
(b)    Strengthen UPSA and Ministry of Finance understanding of technical sector issues and
assist the UPSA/Ministry "Comib6 Tkcnico' in sector budget management and
oversight during 1993 and 1994;
(c)    Provide practical problem-solving assistance in titling and cadastral work, banking
management, and natural resource policy planning; and
(d)    Help UPSA to follow-up imple ton of the actions to be taken in Land Temnre,
Forestry, Rural Finance, and Public Administration and Expenditure areas, as agreed
with the IDB and IDA as part of this operation. Also help UPSA to coordinate the
technical assistance provided by other donors to the sector insdtutions, in particular,
to the forestry sector (see Annex 6 Appendix A). It will also help UPSA prepare
reports and other information needed to supervise the two policy loans.
2.           The PSP would consist of:
(a)    National experts (81 person/m or $140,000)
-     Economist with policy management experience - 15 person/m
-     Budget systems and irformation management - 12 person/m
-     Organization and management - 12 person/m
-     Natural resources economist - 12 person/m
-     Land titling and cadastral systems - 12 person/m
-     Banking management - 12 person/m
-     Other short term assistance - 6 person/m
3.           Expatriate experts 36 person/m ($360,000)
-     Economist with policy management experience - 9 person/m
-     Oranizadon and management expert - 9 person/m



Ane S
Page 2 of 2
-     Tiding and cadastral systems expert - 3 person/m
-     Banking management expert - 3 person/m
-     Other short term - 3 person/m
The PSP would be financed by USAID as part of its Technical Assistance Program in support of the
implementation of the new agricultural policy emerging from the new LMA. Iternational and
national experts contraed under the PSP would be nomiaed by the Government in consultation
with IDA and IDB.
UMOSARWAC .BUM.MLANNW.Xf



Anne 6
Page 1 of 10
HONDURAS
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSThET CREDiT
Envronmenl and Ecoondc Impact Amsesment
of the Changes In Forestry Policy Embodied In Law 31-92
Introdtion
1.           This operation is clasvified as "B9 in tems of its environmental impact.  A fiFe-standing
environmental assessment exercise was considered to be inappropriate because the entire sector adjustment credit
is designed to create new policies and proccaures for environmentally sustainable management of forest and land
resources in the country. Instead, this Annex./ analyzes the expected economic and environmental impact of
the forestry policy and struural changes embodied in the Law for the Agriculture Modenzation and
Development of the Agricultural Sector (LMA) (Law 31-92) and which will be supported under the AGSAC.
Most current environmental analyses in Honduras are based on the 1989 Environmental i ofile, which in turn
is based on data from 1988 or earlier. However, since the new law changes the existing situation quite
drastically, trend extrapolation may be quite irreevant and this analysis is largely conjectural.
The Forestry Sector In Hondurs
2.            The forestry sector in Honduras has great potential. Over the years, only a small part of this
potential has been realized because of well-intentioned but misguided policies and most in an unsustainble
fashion. In part this was also due to lack of technical kaowhow and popuation pressure leading to agricultural
expansion on unsuitable lands. While data are scarce and unreliable (often not being much better than rough
estimates), the following iformation summazes the current staus of the forestry sector.
3.            Honduras has a surface of about 11.2 million ha, of which 7.6 million is charcteized as suitable
only for forestry. Of this 7.6 million ha with a forestry potential, 2.4 million ha are broadleaf forests, 2.9 million
ha are coniferous forests, and 2.3 million ha are deforested.2/ These figures refer to actual forest land use or
cover: no information is available about potential forest land uses, and there is only sketchy information about
areas classified or to be classified as national parks, bioreserves or protected areas.
4.            No firm data are available on forest land owneship. Mission esdmates are that about 30 percen
of the coniferous forests are-communally owned (or ejidal land) and about 27 percent is privately-owned, vry
litie of it in large blocks and almost nodting by the forest product industryj/ The staMowned forests (about
43 percent) occur in large contiguous blocks in Districts such as in Olancho and La Mosquitia. This makes them
very aacive from a forest management point of view.
5.            The same estmates place state ownerip of the broadleaf forests, including potential areas, at
over 70 percent. It is in this category where the encroachment problem is most prevalent. Some reports point
1/     This Annox is basd on a pae pepared by COHDEFOR 'AnAilsis de PsiMca y EsratS Porestles en el marco de k LeY
dt Modemizaci6n y DesaoMo del SectorAcola dated August1992  Ser repo prped by COHDPOR, PAO UNDP
and blaral donors acive in Honduas' fty sector, as well as mIs4 findinps durwn the course of ptoject prepuari
'Esadfcas Poresas 19899 by COHDEPOR and FAO/UNDP and mision stdmates based on GTZICOHDEFOR 1992
Honduras foresty lad use map deved frm satlte imay
3i     Land tue esdmates wer based on an 11 percent sample of 10:000 cadastal maps fom the seven DeParnen aey
survqed.



Anne 6
Page 2 of 10
out that as much as 200,000 fanilies in Honduras, or about one fourth of the county's total population, could
be living on these public lands.. Most are defacto owners.
Impact of the Privatizatlon Provision
6.           Forest resources were nationalized in 1974 without compensation to landowners and given to
COHDEFOR to manage. The privatization provision in the LMA foresees the return of the use of the forest land
to the landowners: This provision is likely to have the following impacts:
a.    Short-term Inpact on Income and Prodon. Private and communal owners will be able to sel
the smmpage in a free and open market to the highest bidder, and keep the proceeds for
themselves. Hence, the stumpage will generally fetch a higher price than the 25-35 lempiras/mt
that had been fixed by COHDEFOR until December 1992; also, the owner will receive the full
amount rather than just a small fraction.4/ Maintaiing the artificially low price on wood from
public lands could thus have lead to: (i) a temporary acceleration of the harvest on public lands
in a transition period (undl the stage fee on public lands is increased to at least its parity with
private lands) but in any case, only until April 6, 1993, when no timber can be cut on forest
lands (be they private or government-owned) without an approved management plan as providM
for under the LMA; and (ii) a dampening of the potental price increase on private lands if the
subsidy (undervaluation) of wood on public lands would have condinued. It is unclear, however,
whether the commercial harvest on public lands has accelerated recently; to minimize this
possibility, and supported by the the AGSAC, on December 1992 stumpage fee on public lands
were increased to its parity on private lands and starting May 1993 no commercial harvestng is
being allowed without an approved management plan in either public or private forest land.
Another development may take place m  the short run.  From  1987 onwards,
COHDEFOR has stimulated the usage of mobile circular sawmills to handle thinning. With the
present relaive lack of institutional supervision, use of these sawmills may shit to handling more
remunerative large trees (resulting in high grading rather than in thinning), and cuttig more of
these than permitted. In summary, in the short rnm (until the new land tenure system is accepted
and/or COHDEFOR can properly monitor the forest), some accelerated cuttig may be taking
place in the belief that the system may change again (as it has often in the past). To minimze
this possible short-term negative impact, supported by the AGSAC, COHDEFOR is benig
restruured and empowered to closely monitor forestry activities on both public and private land.
b.    Long-term Impact on Income and Producton. In the long rn, forest owners will have an
incentive to husband their land and forest resources, particularly in the case of the pine forest
where growing trees is financially attractive and can be done at minimal cost. The legiimization
under the LMA of forest usage is reinforcing secure ownership, which is essential for investing
and caring for trees, and which should have strong positive environmental impacts in the long-
run.5/
In the case of broadleaf foresu, the long-run impact is more problematic, since growing
trees for wood is not as economically auractive in those areas as in the pine regions. High rates
of return are possible for fuel wood plantations in broadleaf forests, however. Fuelwood in
If    Since 1974, COHDEFOR has managed al1 forest cover in Honduras (both on private and stt landa  has provded pve
forest landowners wih a mninimum (less dan 5percen) of income generated from holands.
'*AnMlsis de Poftdcas y Estrategias Forestaes en el Marco de la Ley de Modernimcon y Desario dd Sector Agicola.
August IM. prepared by COHDEFOR.



Anmne 6
Page 3 of 10
Honduras is increasingly in short supply, currently selling at 70 lempiras per m3 delivered, and
given the increasing population, it is unlikely that the price will go down. Planting fuelwood
under conditional long-term contracts would be encouraged among current settlers in the
broadleaf forest, provided the environmental impact is positive: where fuiewood production or
other nroducts is not feasible for ecological or ecmnomic reasons, only a light and very occasional
harvest will be possible. Enforcement of a minimum harvest would be difficult in view of
traditional considerations and current population pressures. Given the population pressures and
the curret weak monitoring of COIDEFOR, the environmental impact of the privatization
provision of the LMA on broadleaf forest would be either marginally positive or neutral.
On balance, both owners of broadleaf and of pine forests will be better-off financially. To the
extent that incentives work, the forest sector will be better-off because of improved husbandry
and control by the landowners, either private or the state. That means that on balance, the long-
term environmental ipact of the privatization provision of the LMA would tend to be positive.
c.     Impact on Social Foresty System.  The social forestry system was established at the time
COHDEPOR was also established in 1974 under Decree No. 103-74. The purpose was to allow
COHDEFOR to better integrate commnnities axid small farmers in the nmagem    of the fcrest
resource. Under social forestry, cooperatives and/or organized groups of farmers could sign
con s with COHDEFOR to use the forest resources of a particular land, be this private or
public. The LMA specifically protects roles and involvement of communities and small farmers
in the management of the national forest lands. Therefore, the regulations to the LMA provide
for the involvement of communities in forest management to the greatest extent possible; and the
greater the involvement, the larger the self-interest of the community to husband and sustainably
manage the forests. GTZ has reviewed the potendal impact of pratzatdon en social forestry
acdvities (primarily resination and mamnal harvesting/woodworking), and (oncluded that the
social forestry groups could be developed under the LMA on municipal and ejidal lands. It
reports, however, potentially negative impacts for 13 current social foresty groups involving an
estimated 500 persons on privately-owned land.2I If the number of people were to be small,
it should be possible to accommodate their activities on public lands-or even on private lands
against payment. These possibilites (as well as others) will be explored and developed by
COHDEFOR as part of its social forestry program, with the objective of minimizing the possible
negative impact of the LMAA on social forestry actvities and on people currently settled on
privately-owned lands. With the elimation of the right to lands currently assigned to the
forestry industry by COHDEFOR ("areas tributarias") as a result of the LMAA/, there is
considerable ;cope for the development of social forestty which should help counterbalance any
negative impacts for those social forestry groups active on the private lands or for people settled
/ Resultado de la Reubiaclon del Campesino como Consecuencis de la Ley de ModernlzacionAgricola y las Medidas a Tonar
Producto del Proceso," August 1992, prepared by GTZ.
j1     A more comprebensi-ve defininon of social forestry (Including harvesting with oxen and seed collection) is used in the earlier-
cited COHDEFOR report. That report lists 100 groups with a combined membership of 6,000, implying tha the persons under
the social forestry program who could be negatiely acted by the privadation of forest cover on private lands would be less
ta 1,000.
y      This proedure has been suppotted by COHDEFOR since 1978 altough   has no legal basis. It has ofken benoeed fot
product firms at the expense of communiy rgh.



Ane 6
Pag 4 of 10
on, and using the forestry resources of, privately owned land they do not themselves own.21
In other words, the limited number of adversely afected participants among the currn social
forestry progrms could be compesated by the private owners to whom the forest cover is being
returned and/or through their enlarged Involvement in socia1 forestry activities on public forest
lands, especially now that the LMA has eliminated the land curreny reserved for the forest
industry.
While the data available indicate only a small (and manageable) negative impact of the
LMA on social forestry, there is a fear among some donors and Hondurans that the LMA might
lead to a greater polarzation between lanowoers and the landless living in forest areas. This
is mainly because of the often fragile and informal relations that have developed between these
two groups with respect to land use. However, under the new law, these arrangements would
be made fimer through the formalization of the role of communities and small amners in
Management Plans for public land (which account for over 70 percent of the land area under
broadleaf forest and over 40 percet of dhe pine forest) and even in private forest, at least for
a transition period. These procedures are stipulated in the regulations to LMA.
Finally, socal foresty in Honduras is not a new concept. Several groups of indigenous
people (for example, in La Mosquitia) have been managing sustainably both broadleaf and
coniferous forests for centuries. Even though increased populationpressure, social considerations
and technology have changed the situation, valuable lessons can and are being derived from such
practices, as well as experience elsewhere, especially since the new law will affect the poor and
indigenous groups.
In summary, as a result of the implementation of the LMA, owners of both broadleaf and
pine forests will be, on balance, much better-off financially; so will the communities settled in
public forest to the extent that they can be (and should be) regularized and embraced under a
redefined and enlarged social forestry program, as is envisioned under the LMA. To the extent
that the incentives derived from secure ownship work, the forestry sector will be better off
because of improved husbanding and management control; the latter will also be further
encouraged through the Forestry Mangeme  Plans system (paras. 11 and 12). On balance, the
social impact of the application of the privatization provision of LMA would tend to be positive.
Iupact of Land Titliog and Rg      on
7.            The legitiumzation of forest usage reinforces secure ownership, an essential condition when
investing in and caring for trees. It further eliminates the idea that forest land, is "wild" land which is expected
to mean that induced fires to provoke changes in land use will decrease substa   y.  Therefore, the
environmental impact of land titling and regulaization under the law should be strongly positive. However, in
the short nm (until the new land tenure system is accepted), there may be some accelerated cutting in the belief
that the system may change again as it has often in the past.
8.            An additional concern is that given the limited coverage of the cadastal system and the complex
landownship situation1g/, the titling of the land accompanyig privatzaon could lead to an ilegal
2/     The Netherlnds and Fhnland a    also suppording social forestry projects, boh amd at die conirous fors and armed at
improvbg reson and the utilzaion of tmber and improving comnumity parciaon. PAO is presemly negotating a joint
cooperative assistance program wit COHDEFOR to estabish a social foresty and epsion system coveing al lands wilb a
forestay vocton and abned at incorpotdng the farmers and icm  the i tfott managemt plans.
lI    Only 7 of t 18 De parm   have ben Wy covered by th ca e system. n addition propery records ar deficint, and
coordtion amng INA, COHDEFOR, Cadro and Registro Nacional is not cealy defied



Amex 6
Page 5 of 10
appropriation of public lands. (At present, there is no data available on the extent of forest land that might be
on dispute.) The absence of up-to-date records on titles promises a period of legal wrangling; if not handled
properly, this could prolong and aggravate the uncertnty surrounding forest land ownership, which would have
negative implications for sound forest management. To counter these potental problems, under the AGSAC the
Government would speed up the cadastal work and support the development of an arbitration system that would
allow a fair representation of the farmers and a speedy resolution of conflicts without having to take cases to
court.
9.           The illegal appropriation of public lands could be most acute in broidleaf forest areas where the
state owns most of the land and where invasion by the landless has been most prevalent. In order to avoid
dislocation and severe social unrest in these conditions, there is little else that can be done but regularize, by and
large, the existing situation. This would be done by giving conditional titles or long-term occupancy leases to
the occupants if they indeed have occupied and used the land for a number of years, and if the area of individuals
involved is small (say, 1 to 10 ha); under such parameters, abou 200,000 families in possibly one million
h.ectares of broadleaf forest could be involved (para. 5). In many cases the forests in quesdon are not occupied
but used, more or less intensively, by groups of families. In such of communal usage, a community forestry
progran would be arranged using as a prototype the Intenive Management Area (AMI) approach (with which
both COHDEFOR and CIDA have considerable expertise). jJ Communry forestry would be formalized by
providing the communities with long-term usufruct leases as part of the social forestry program. Once the current
situation (which has grown out of COHDEFOR's old management system) is regularized through the provision
of long-term conditional leases, and which would realistically take at least a couple of years, strong political will
would be required to limit furather invasions.
10.          The regulaization of the status quo of occupants is painful since it would undoubtedly involve
land which should be forest, especially in broadleaf areas. GOH recogizes that in the regularization process,
it would need to be careful in providing security, perhps by providing conditional medium-term leases to be
exchanged in response to performance by the settlers for long-term ones. An absence of enforcement of public
land ownership after any regularition will need to be particularly guarded agamst. However, with sufficient
political will, the short-run negative (or neutral, recognizing the present status) environmental impact will be
outweighed by the long-na positive social and environmental impact associated with secure public ownership and
an orderly and well-managed community forestry arrangement for the udlization of the broadleaf forests.
11.          Removing occupants from either public or private land is a delicate and difficult task, and
therefore would be limited to extremely critical casem. Only in very critical cases would existing occupants of
forest land be removed or bought out (e.g., ia the case of core national parks and significant watershed areas)
as a measure of last recourse. It should be pointed out, however, that the LMA does not change the legal stats
of the protected areas and, therefore, does not require the Govermnent to resettle occupants. However, the
Govermnent could decide to exercise its current rights to preserve legally establshed protected areas in which
case it might consider defraying the costs of settlement in core protected areas. It is encouraging that
COHDEFOR has developed a methodology to handle resettdement in the Rio Platano Bioreserve. This reserve
was legally created in 1980. It is located in the Departments of Olancho, Colon and Gracias a Dios and covers
525,000 ha. The Government, with technical and fina l assistance from K&W, is currently reassessing its
relevance as a bioreserve to determne actions to properly protect the area. It has estmated the need to resettle
11/    Anlisis d Poliftcas y Estratlas ... by COHDEFOR, dtd Auus 19, noes dt in 1990 there were 47 AMJ in 8
brestry regions, involving 26 naal com es whh almost 136,000 persom  ctive on 185,000 ha. These AUMT arr mostk,
if not exclusively, bated in the bdlafWest and on public (nonal) forest lands.



Annex 6
Pag 6 of 10
about 90 families currently living in the core of this area.12/ Clear policies and rules to handle involuntay
resettlements consistent with the Bank's Operational Directive 4.30 on Involuntary Resettlement, are part of the
regulations of the forestry chapter of the LMA. These regulatirnns state: (a) the cas in which resettlement will
be considered; (b) the institutions responsible for resettlement; (c) that a resettlement plan must be prepared as
soon as the need for resettlement is identified; (d) that any resewllement action must include an appropriate
compensation package as part of the plan; ar. (e) that community participation must be an important element in
resetdement activities.
Impact of the ReqWremen to Submit Managemen Phm
12.           The LMA requires that private and public forest landowners submit a management plan for
approval prior to the use of any forest product after April 6, 1993. Rules and regulations for the submission of
management plans have been carefllly developed. If the requirements were too onerous, the small forest
landowner or user, in particular, will continue to lack incentives to sustainably manage the resource. On the one
hand, if the requirements were too liberal, an unintended de acto change in land use may result, especially in
the broadleaf forests. Therefore, the management plans will be output-oriented (i.e., providing incentives to the
owner and/or user in an economic way). The approved regulations leave plenty of leeway in determining the use
of forest management, including sylvo-pastoral, community forestsy, agro-forestry, shelterwood and partial-cut
and mono-tree culture in intensively-managed tree stands. The regulations for the management plans allow or,
in certain cases, recommend social forestry, community forestry, agroforestry, and sylvo-pastoral arrangements.
The approval process would be speedy (including automatic approval in case of bureaucratic default), transparent
and impartial. Finally, the monitoring by the refenred COHDEFOR would be consistent, ax4 include well-
publicized remedial actions in appropriate cases. Regulations contining sanctions for violating the forestry
aspects of the LMA have been approved by GOH. If carried out properly, the environmental benefits of forest
management plans would be highly positive at a cost which is not burdensome.
13.           Several donors have been assisting COHDEFOR in the design of standards and norms for forest
mnanagement plans, including IDA, IDB, CIDA and FAO. Under the AGSAC, It would be required that these
pls include: reforestation requirements; protection plans (against fire, insects, disease and cattle); involvement
of small farmers and communities (especially, but not limited to, public lands); the minimum standards for
logging, road construction and harvesting acdvities; and environmental statements in cases of large forest plots
(over 100 hectares). Management norms, standards and plans provide not only for sustanability but also for the
safeguarding of the nonmarketable or intangible goods and services (the externalities) provided by the forests.
One of these multiple products that is of paramount importance in Honduras IS the watershed function of the
forests; individual owners would be induced to take a more holistic view of a watershed through the nmangme
plans. In summary, the implementation of the management plans, if carefully done, is expected to be highly
environmentally positive.
Impact of Changes in the Mandate of the Public Forest Ad           (AfE)
14.           The LMA essentially takes the public sector out of forest product manufacturig, markeing and
exports. Given the inefficiencies and losses that have been incurred by the public sector in these areas over time,
this can only have positive economic benefits. The environmental impacts of the eliminated mandates are likely
to be neutral or even posidve if COHDEFOR-the new Public Forest Administation (APE) - is able to
concentrate on its refocused functions.
WI     Docwent by Arnulfo Mesn  and Luls Conales, dated Sept 1992, endded 'Pofcas y Estaegibs parm Rubicacidn de Colonos
del auqueNacina o Zona Ndcleo de la Biosra del Rio Platano. The domt is not a policy srategyd that can (or should)
readily be applied to the many diverse siutions whih ae likel to arise in Honduas, but it is impressive in its sansiivty, and
In its care and involvement of the communities and .persons concered, icldn suh other governmn agencies as INA,
CADASTRO, municipalities and dte army. Equally bnportant is de het tmat h appeas to have been found acceptable by dt.
persons ponially involved in the relocation and it appears to be a very low cost approach (as it was ineded to be).



Annex 6
Page 7 of 10
15.          Under the LMA, COHDEFOR is given a clear mandate to manage public forests with a multiple-
use goal, and to monitor and provide service to private forest landowners. Its mandate also includes the
husbanding, management and provision of many of the externality functions of forests. In other words,
COHDEFOR is moving away from its largelv exclusive emphasis on timber production and its predominant
concem with the pine fores=s. It would pay more attention to the protection role of forestry, biodiversity,
watersheds and national parks. With the elimination of COHDEFOR's role in commercW activities, it would
be easier for it to concentrate its efforts in strengthening its stewardship and management of protected areas.
Within COHDEF.OR, the Netherlnds is contemplating a program to help it deal with the management and
development of the protected areas; the German government has been involved in strengthening COHDEFOR's
remote sensing function, which is important for its intended monitoring role.
16.          Given the urgency of the restructurirg of COHDEFOR for the success of the implementation of
the new policies, the Bank and IDB have readied a package of technical assistance programs which has helped
COHJDEFOR develop an organization responsive to its changed mandate (see para. 26). Implementation of this
assistance (financed by iDB) started in August 1992. In summary, the change in mandate of the APE, if properly
implemented, would be environmentally positive. The need to restructure COHDEFOR to respond to its new
mandate under the LMA will be monitored under the AGSAC.
Effect of Allocating Public Forest Resources on a Competitive and Efficient Bass
17.          The requirement for open and competitive pricing of the stumpage on public lands and the implicit
elimination of "tributary rights' for industry is likely to lead to higher raw material prices for the forest product
manufacturing sector, especiaUy when coupled with free entry of foreign investment (which is permitted under
the LMA). This, in turn, is likely to lead to higher wood prices for private forest landowners. Higher raw
matenal prices are even more likely when one considers the lack of reforestation and sustainable forest
management practices that now characterize the Honduran forestry sector. Higher prices would lead to the
following:
a.    More intensive management and some presentiy uneconomic forest management activities may
become economic (e.g., reforestation; thinning; more effective fire prevention, detection and
control; weed control; and fuelwood plantations).
b.    An accelerated closure of the inefficient mils with a corresponding job loss; because of over-
capacity built up during periods of umustably high harvestmg rates (at least given the lack of
proper forest management), this trend is already underway.
c.    An increased utilization Qess waste) of the forest and more careful harvesting. In the pine forest,
as much as 40 percent of the raw material is presently left to rot. This increased utilization is
restricted economically to stems and large branches, leaving other materials in the forest.
d.    An increase in the recovery rates at the miUls by as much as 25 percent.
e.    An accelerated shift in utilization to the highest and best use of the raw material. For example,
the larger dimensions will go to those mills that can afford to pay the highest prices, to the
plywood mills rather than to the sawmills. Coupled with the elimination of marketing and export
controls, there till be no abnormal incentives to produce broomsticks (prev usly uncontrolled
by COHDEFOR) rather than lumber (which was controlled).
f.    An increased differentiaton in production for difent market segments (e.g., for the U.S.,
Europe, the Caribbean, and domestic markets), which could lead to lower product prices in the
domestic market for many forest products.



Annes 6
Pap 8 of 10
18.           in summary, in the short-rn while some segments of the forestry sector could be hurt financaWly,
others will benefit. In the long-rn, the forestry sector will be much better-off economically and e.
In the short-term, and in balance, there might appeat to be a negative enviromental impact due to higher raw
material prices since they might lead to accelerated cuttin, some of it illegal. While illegal cuttlg is quite
connon now and probably has been so since COHDEFOR's inception in 1974. However, illega cutting on
private land should be reduced given the owners' icentive to police. In the long-run, a more efficient inxuty,
less waste, and more intensive maagent and reforestation will have positive environmental befits.
Impact on Employment
Table 1: Potentoa hrpact on Emloymet
19.           Table 1 provides the best               and Industrial Units of the New Law
estimates of the impact of the LMA on
employment in the short-run. In the long-   AtifviSX           1212      Possible Inmact for 1993-98
run, say by the year 2000, employment in   si lvulture &        16,000  Inere in eplovent perhaps
forest activities and the number of mills or   Extraction              by 25X.
the total manufacturing capacity for the
dferetfor   p         ctsashould .        Satailting            5,300 Decrease  in  aployt,  probebl
different forest products should increase                              severe, by as asch as 30-iSOL
significantly (although there is an obvious
signficWy (lthugh her is n o ous Plywood & Secondary    9,200 Constant employmant or slight
trade-off between the number of mills sad   Pieing                     expansion, by as much as IOL
null capacity).  This would happen if
Honduras realizes more fblly its forestry   Other Direct Services   2,500  Constant eaployuent.
and sectoral growth potential: as forest  Fuelwood             23,500 Constant  eoploament  or  stighttl
management practices iemsify, more and                                 increased if fuetwood plantations ar
higher-quality wood could be grown on
the same or even a smaller area, thus   Woodshops, Artisans,   10,000  increase in epltoyment could be
increasing the potential for set-asides for   etc.                     cosiderabLe b as such as 25
national parks, bioreserves, watersheds.   Total Employment    66,500 An increase of 10-25w on balance.
No. of Sawnitll         92 Contraction by as much as 50-7St.
Impact on ftotected Foret Arsus
No. of Plywood Hills     2 No changes or expansion.
20.            Currenty  there are 51   No. of Uoodshops, etc.  4,000  Expanson could'be aoidosable.
forestry areas tha have been declared   go of Stfck Produer    11  Numer could  nd
legally protected, with an additional 27    .                      .
new areas recently proposed. The total   Note: Figures indicste persons employed or maber of establishmmnts.
area under this Protected Arm  SYstem   -        Both 1989 situations and possible Impacts are based an Vort
(already established and proposed) is about
1.2 million ha or about 10.4 percent of the nation's area.l/ At present there is no legal deinDition of what
constitutes a bioreserve; as a result, these are presety treaed as Protected Forest Areas, and as such are
administered as a special category under the forestry law, includig matters related to ownership status and
population relocation (if any).
21.            Another problem of the Promcted Forest Areas system is duth  notwithstandig the talk about
ecotounsm, protected areas will be costly rather than  come-    ting   activities, a fact that will have to be
reflected in COHDEPOR's budget. The international commnity support the program, as Asown by its
involveme  in helping the Government implement improved man ement practices in a number of protected
areas. Other donor projects are being prepared among them an important institutional development project aimed
at strengtenng COHDEFOR's abiliy to manage and develop protcted areas (possibly to be fimded by the
Netherlands) and projects aimne at specific national parks, wildlife refiges and bioreserves.
jVI    Self-analysis of COHDEPOR dated Augu 1992. AddWonab, the 1989 Perfil Ambient de Hondums" contains a is of
pmtected areas und lit six agencies responsible br dIe proced areas: COHDEFOR, SANBA, IA, FuOdadn CURO,
SALADO/UNAH and Bax.



Annex 6
Page 9 of 10
22.          COHDEFOR would evaluate for omission or duplication the present list of protected armas, a
review that could be easily fimded witi collateral donor assistance. There are indicatgor, for example, that the
bioreserves do not include the pine forest ecosystem and that midland areas are under-represent. Similarly,
some areas envisioned as bioreserves (e.g., Rio Plataio) appear to be too large. Under the AGSAC,
COHDEFOR is reqired to evaluate the relevance and relative importance of the existing and proposed protected
areas. In summary, the reorientation of the role of COHDEFOR supported under the AGSAC, if properly
implemented, could have positive environmental consequences for protected areas.
Impact of the Enforcement of the LMA
23.          The LMA does provide for law enforcement through its regulations. The 1984 Acu*o 634:
Reglameno General Forestal provided a good basic enforcement franework but its provisions were uot widely
used. It was Cierefore, imperative for the regulations of the LMA to specify the procedures, sanctions, penalties
and appeal process to enforce the intent of the new law, and that COHDEFOR be empowered with the
management capacity and political will to enforce the new policy.
24.          Without a stringent enforcement process-the regularization process envisioned to stop
encroachment and destruction, the management plan requrement before harvesting, the concept of protected
areas, the requirement to arrive at competitive prices for the raw material from public lands, in short the whole
structural reform envisioned by the law to stop deforestation, to provide inceives to engage in forest
management, and to eliminate wastefl practices and discretionality in resource allocation-will be nullified and
the past environmental degradation wil continue. The underpinning of stringent enforcement is an accurate and
up-to-date monitoring scheme. With remote sensing and GIS techniques, such monitoring schemes ( one at the
regional or district level, another at the national level) have been agreed with COHDEFOR; GTZ has provided
an initial proposal for a scheme at the national level through the elaboration of an actual land use map and the
provision for regular updates (to be provided shortl). In addition, GOH has ensured complement financing for
technical assistance to strengthen COHDEFOR's monitoring funcdon (see parm. 26). GTZ will also support
shortly the elaboration of a forestry potential land map. In short, the technological means to detect violations and
to monitor forestry activities are within COHDEFOR's capabilites. An unbiased and tmspae  enforcement
process has been developed (in fact, parts of it exist) with a strong political wiUl to carry it through.
impat of Ailowing a Tr ton PeMiod
25.          The allowance for a transition period (until April 1992 according to ae LMA) is an extremely
risky element in any law and particularly so in forestry in Honduras. On the one hand, it has been necessary for
the sector to continue its operations. But with COHDEFOR in relative disarray, its field staff demoralized,
considerable uncertinty about the near future as it relates to orgaization of the new agency and its funding, the
forest has been left largely unatended during most of 1992 and 1993. This was coupled with the act that
Honduran forest landowners have seen many changes in their lifet : from free forestry use before 1974, to
nationalization of the forest cover, to the provision of forestry rights to benefit the few (as in the case of tnbuty
rights), and back now to the use of the forest by the landowners, subject to an approved naee plam It
is therefore possible that in the short-run some landowners have tried lo maximize reurns without concern about
long-term environmental considerations. The provision for a transition period may have positive hort-nm
economic benefits derived from an acceleraing cutting; surely its enviomental consequences are likely to have
been negative, especially if people sense that the unceainty were to be prolonged. Therefore, regulations to the
Forestry Chapter of the LMA were issued prior to Board Presentation and COHDEFOR reuuhred with fU
mandte and strong political will to be able to enforce the new forestry policy.
Progrom              n and Technc  Al
26.         IIDA will monitor the implementtion of the foresty progrm by COHDEFOR. The key stategy
document to do this would be the Foremny Action Plan agreed to with the Governm  and attached to the Letter



Annx 6
Page 10f o 10
of Agriculura Developmt Policy. This is a con   ve program of phased policy actions and instutional
reform. Specific actions and performance criteia must be satisfactorily comphled with prior to each tranche
release. To eue proper Inhpi    on of the action plan and credit conditionalities, the Bank and 1DB, in
consultation with odter it  l             , prepared and agreed with the GOH on a Forestry Techical
AssuAmce Progrm (Appendix A). Finally, to provide a basi for evalating the success of the program, a
Forestry Mordroring System woui be implemetd by COHDEFOR to ensure that the policy reformi are having
the intded results (Appendix B). The latter would be financed as a complemet to the Policy Support
Program. The techical assistce program would be implemented with a combination of resources from PNUD,
GTZ, and CIDA and other bilateal donors. The role of IDA and IDB would therefore be to coordinate
intoenational technical assitane to COHDEFOR.
X 



Aeuz 6
HONDURAS
AGlaCULTURA.L SECTORE ADJUSUG CIMD 11
On-Going Technc  As         to the Forestry Setr
SUBJECT                    INSTiTUTION                DURATION
Forestry Policy Sttement.         PNUD/ FAO                 2.5 mouth
General Forestry Regulation.      PNUD/ FA0                 1.5 month
Identification of potenal forestry  GTZ                     2.0 mouth
areas.
Protected areas system:           CIDA, NedherlaDds,       to be detemined
consolidation, regulation, evaluation   GTZ/KFW, USAID
and implemtion
Regulatons to return forest resources  IBRD                 1.0 mouth
to forest land owners.                                             ._.
Establish the public foresty      PDFI CAPOR                6 months
management system.
System to allocate public forest  PAO                       5 monts
resources.
Management Plans, stadards,       C IDA, EDB                underway; totd not yet
procedures and regulations.                                 determind
Retruuing of the forestry public   IDB, FAO                 12 months
institution and institutional
development.
Social and Envionmental Monitoring  GTZ, IDB               to be dtermned
System
Orgnzation, techniques and        PNUD/ FAO                2 months
methedology to enforce the new
policy.                           _   -_
Social forestry and iion of       PNUD/CIDAJGTZ,           o"going projects being
comhmnities.                      Norway                    retuctured to adapt to new
I______________      ___  ,..legal fram ework.
@cU61l,pCtfhRd



Annex 6
Appendix B
Pae I of 2
HONDURS
AG1ICULTURL SECTOR ADJUSMi    CREDIT
Sodl and Eaviromental Impact of the
Fortr Sector Prorm  Monitorn Systm
L     Objuecve
To establish a so_o-envronent moniting system (SEMS) to evaluaW the Impact of
poliy-driven. reform  in Honduras' agr-foetry sector. Ihe purpose of SEM  is to provide
the GOH and the Bank wth: (i) an early waing system Idening areas where biodiversity
is dtatened; ad  ) wher lendtee conflicts may eerg  as a consequence of the policy
refom; and (ii) Infomadon usefW for evaluaion of polcy sdjustme  and its negative
Impact The systm must be sensitive to detct sor m changes in land use patterns, yet
Cost-O,ctvt  enOUgh to be Implemented by the APE (COHDEFOR). Ihe Informaion and
analysi geneted by the monitoring system will be the bsis for evuatig the impact of the
policy reforms and the r   n      of actions required to mitigae adverse social or
enomenW ip
M     Specos
The mnimum secifica         for the syatm should include the followvig:
1.    Integrated Monitor. Esablish proceures for close itgraton and coordinaon
Of socia and enl monitoring such tht the soca  nioring compoubut can
provie a 'must observ  notice to the envIonmental componen and vice-versa.
2.    Ail Monitoig. Develop an aeri photogrhy ad/or video component
combinng: (i) sel imagery, annualy collected for the GOB by GI2 and/or other
nternational donor agencies with i) rcighto over a stratified samling
of 20 sites based on the type of forest cover (Oowland broadeaf, bradeaf cloud
forest, highland pine foress, and lowlnd pine forest). Ident  populaion density
(derived frm the 198 ceus da at the lowes level of enumeraton) and setdeme
patterns in *bufer zon." Thes ffgt a  not Intended to provde a national
Iventoq, but rate to locate iible modficat In ground cover so as to Ientify
trouble spots.
3.    Fow  n Buffwr Zone. Conduct bi-annual 10day ran                  using dual-
video cameras along segme of aeas tha have been Identiied as the "buffer zones"
for human pentation into the fiest in the low-alttudo, broadleaf forest areas, low-
altiue pine fiorst areas, and hgheralttude pine fror, including sdected enclave
pine forest areas in the more dely populated areas of Ceral and Westen
Hondura.
4.     MM      n IMtoig. Based on analysis of  sr naance flights, follow up in the
fidd wit a socia Impat monitoring team to darmine the land tenure sitation of the



Anmex 6
Appendix B
Page 2 of 2
observed area and reasons for the observed environmental changes. Determine
whether the observed impact is linked directly or indirecdy to policy changes or is it a
consequence of unrelated social and/or enviromental changes.
5.    Soial Impact Indicators. Develop and maitain impact indicators to determine
extent and nature of social impact. SEMS should collect indirect indicators of social
forestry conditions including: (i) price of fuelwood in urban and rural areas; (ii)
number of land tenure disputes in selected areas most likely to be influenced by the
policy reforms; (iii) cases of forced or involuntary resetdements; and (iv) other
relevant socioeconomic data. Also, mainain an open communication with non-
governmental organiations (NGOs) who collect their own data on environmental and
social condidons of inhabitants of Honduras' forest areas. This should include the
stats of indigenous peoples and the designated protected areas to determine whether
or iot these changes are a result of the policy-driven changes or other factors (e.g.
local level, endemic disputes preceding the policy changes).
6.    Protected Areas. Monitor a sample of five protected areas with reconaisnce
(dual-video camera) overflights, followed by social  ments. Evaluate protecdon,
settlement encroacent or ot  huan forms of endangerment to the enviroent,
and any other significant developments related to changes in social or environmental
conditions of the area.
7.    Data Base Development. Create and maintain SEMS data in a format suitable for
use by the Bank and NGOs. The social monitoring unit should maintain
confidentality of source of information, in accordane with internationally- recognized
ethical standards of social science investigation, unless the informant requess
otherwise.
m.   Project Adn--1I tatlon nmd Reporting
The SEMS project is to be established by agreemen of the Bank and the Government prior to
Board presentation. It is recommended that the project be implemened by a suitable local or
international firm with experience in forestry monitoring systems. The project manager
should present reports to the Bank regarding the impact of the reforms on an "as advisable
basis" at a Minimum of twice a yeor. The reports should iden    issues for discussion with
GOH by Bank loan supervision missions. If roquested, the project manager will, twice a
year, present a seminar in Washington, D.C. to Bank staff and invited NGOs regarding the
arvroneaml and social impact of the policy reform programs. The design and operation of
the SEMS project will be included in the terms of refeence of the Bank loan suvision
missions. It should be noted that saisfactory implementation of the monitoring system is a
conditon of Second and Third Tranche disbursement.
c:\ul__amc.~.yI ib



Ann  7
Page 1 of 2
HONDURAS
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDff
Supplementay Credit Data Sheet
Section I:          Timetable of Key Events:
(i)    Time taken by the Country to prepare project: 32 months
(ii)   Project prepared by: Secretary of Natural Resources, Institue of Agrrian Refonn,
Agricultural Development Bank, Honduran Corporation for Forestry Development the Cenhtal
Bank, and the Superintendency of Banks
(iii)   First Presentation to the Bank: June 1990
(iv) Depature of Appraisal Mission: May 1992
(v)    Completion of Negotiations: December 1992
(vi)   Planned date of Effectiveness: August 1993
Section II:   Spea Bank Impl tatIo Acdo
None
Secton in:  Speial Condtons:
1,           The following actions have been taken before Board  h o:
(a)    Law 31-92 containing satisfactory modifications to the land tenure and foresty policies was
enaod 'ii April 1992 (para. 65);
(b)    Regulations to implement the enacted land tenure and forestry chapters of Law 31-92
satiactory to IDA have been approved by GOH (paras. 72 and 77);
(c)    GOH has initiated implemention of the agreed Land Tenure Action Plan (parm. 72);
(d)   Implementation of the agreed Forestry Action Plan has been initd (par. 72)
(e)    Satisfactory progrs in the implementation of the resrcuring plan of BANADESA (pam.
86);
(f)    Satisfactory basic prnciples to establish and operate rural credit bank and satisfactory
regulations to establish and operte the land credit fumd have been approved by GOH (para.
87);
(O)    Satisfactory 1993 POAs and budgets for the sector and for SRN, INA, IEMA, APE and
BANADESA (para. 91) have been approved by the Economic Cabinet; and
(h)    GOH has approved on the PSP and its financing, satisactory to IDA, to stregthen sector
planning, management and imlemation capabilities to underake proposed policy reforms
(pa. 92).



Annex 7
Page 2 of 2
2.         Second Trandie Relese would be conditional on satisfactory progress in implementation of the
Govermment's Agricultural Sector Modernization and Development Program, including the maintenance of a
supportive macroeconomic framework, and the following actions:
(a)   Satisfactory implementation of the Land Tenure Action Plan (para. 72 and Annex 3);
(b)  Satisfactory implementation of the agreed Forestry Action Plan (para. 80 and Annex 3);
(c) Satisfactory TOR to undertake a financial and operational audit of INA's and AFE's records and
accounts (paras. 72 and 80);
(d)  Evidence that the Central Bank funding to BANADESA has been limited to the August
30, 1991 level, adjusted by inflation, and that there has been no additional treasury
funding (para. 86).
(e) GOH has completed the study to promote increased participation of financial intermediaries in
agricultural credit as agreed with IDA, presented a plan to implement  ommended actions, and has
initiated implementation of the agreed plan of action to divest BANADESA based on the
recommendations of the evaluation carried out under agreed TOR (para. 86);
(f) GOH has approved satisfactory rules and regulations to establish and operate the rural credit banks,
based on the agreed basic principles, and provide evidence that, to the extent the land credit fund and
the rural credit banks are operational, are functioning in accordance with agreed schemes, rules and
regulations (para. 87); and
(g)  Satisfactory implementation of the agreed Public Administration Action Plan (paras. 91 and 92).
3.   Tird Tranche Release would be conditional on satisfactory progress in implementation of the Govermnent's
Agricultural Sector Modemization and Development Program, including the maitenance of a supportive
macroeconomic framework, and the following actions:
(a)   Satisfactory implementation of the Land Tenure Action Plan (para. 72 and Annex 3);
(b) Satisfactory implementation of the Forestry Action Plan (para. 80 and Annex 3);
(c)   Satisfactory audit report of INA's and APE's operations based on agreed TOR (paras. 72 and 80);
(d) Evidence that the Central Bank funding to BANADESA has been limited to the August
30, 1991 level, adjusted by inflation, and that there has been no additional treasury
funding (pan. 86).
(e)   Substantal progress m implementing the agreed recommendations of the study to promote increased
participation of flnarcial interediaries in rural financial markets and of the agreed plan to divest
BANADESA (para. 86);
(f) GOH has provided evidence that land credit fund and the rural credit banks, to the extent that they are
operational, are fimctioning in accordance with agreed schemes, rules and regulations (para. 87); and
(g)  Satisfactory implementation of the agreed Public Administration and Expenditure Action Plan (para. 91
and 92).
L:UEFAGSAMMUPf.PRANNM7.BUF



HONDURAS
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
ACTION PLANS:                 a   Pr
~AL
ACTIONS                                  TARGEr             STATUS                                  COMI4EI
|        .                                         ~~~~~~~~~~DATI;
LA TENURE__
.         ntificationof private teams to deli sevnices to be       12-3092       Complied.           INA has prepared a list of potnil con_a . They will prepre a
contrted out by INA.                                                        .                        more dealed list asgg specific services to ea  pinvte tm.
2.       o f         f NGOs and PDOse d im providing               1212.02       Complied.           INA has pepared a list of interested NGOs ad PDOs. However, there
-         litles.                                                                                    is lak of fms' berest to dcange provio  ddes for pmanen
ones.
3.      rmetab! of actvities of the Committee to coordinat dhe     12302         Partally Complied.   Agmen  betwee INA and Cadastre has been finalzd and a action
cadastr survey (INA. COHDEFOR. and tbe Deparment of Cadastre                                         pba prepared.
and te Itrior).
4.      EstImte for resoling and paying-off expopriatd land.       12930.2       In progress.        INA is rently prparing such estiate.
S.      Start evauting INA's information manageme  system.         12-3042       Complied.           INA bas stared dhe evaluadon. Tbis sod inrcde a detiled plan of
actm
6.      Mdi e of the procedur to be folowed by INA in              12-30.92      In Progres .        INA and Haiena   ae prepring a proposal. According with the LMA
solcit   poosas for ollecting its account paable.                                                    colection will be the responsibility of Hacienda.
7.      Steamined procedue to rplace poviond ties for              12-3092       Compled.            Procedre has been compleftd. INA wi investte appare  lak of
Per-anen ones.                                                                                       farmers' interost In changing provisa tiles for pemanet ones (see 2
_____ _____ ____ _____ ____ _____ ____ _____ ____ _____ __   __ ____ _____ _  __ _____ ____ _ aboaove)
S.     Implementadon of INAs orgnzatonl char, bsed on a            01-30-93      Complied.           As of end June 1993. DNA had 816 staff compaed to 1.900 in Jamny
maxinam staff of 800 persons.                                  _1992. As of August it plans to have less than 800.
Annex 8
ae 1.1o6



ACIIONS                                  TARGET             STATUS                                   COMMENT
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _D A TE
9.      AWova of TOR for tams of prate cons vho will               0103           Partialy Complied.   TOR for reconversion are being revewed.
be perfming sedcted functions contractd out by IDA._
10.    Agreements wih NGOs and PDOs that wM cooperate isuig        01- 3         In progrss.         Ageements wi  be sigped by end Angust 1993.
pemaet hand tidles._                                                                                         _       _      _      _       _      _       _      _
11.    Agreement of the two deparuments on which cadastral work    01.30-93      Complied.           The two Departents are Ocotepeque and Lempira.
will be udertk  on a prior  basis.
12.     Apovl of the crteria for the roster of conactor for        01.30-93      Complied.           Section criteria have been ppalred by INA and Cadstr D rmenL
cadstml survey.                                                                                       _
13.     Titling and deliy of at least 300 pemnent lnd tdes.        01-3          Complied.           As of end June 1993, INA had issued about 1000 pm t tiles.
14.    . Timetable to resolve cases involving exprop.atons.        01-3          In progess.          NA has prepaed a timetable but has to resolve some gal issues
concning the subject
15.     Stat implmenting  mpovements to INAs i_naton               01-93         Part   complied.   INA has prepared a partil diagnsis and fomulate aemes to
management S9Stem.                                             _____________                         improxe the sysem Mnas prpared are being adjuased.
16.     Appoval of TOR to invte bids to colect INAs clims.         01-30-93      Partaly compLied.   TOR under prepqario  Expee to be completd by end Sepmbe.
17.     Sa-up of stemlind system for regulrizig tides.             01-3          Complied.           NA has b ee using tde approved steamlne system sice fie begin
_________ ___   _____ ________ of  this  year.
18.     Inti  to bid, and contract awrd for slctd funchon to       0630-3        ParY compled.   Only pr   contrac  for aastre  work have been selftd. Invitation
be _oonctl out by INA.                                                                               to bid wi  be Isued by ead August.
19.     Sgipn of conats with ONGs and PDOs to pvide                60            Acdon must be       Aeatvs wil be sudied to im     replacement of prvional tdes
p laneltdes.                                                                     redefined.          for pemanent ones. Prom Jamary to May 1993, only 26 povisnal
tides have been replac  due to brmes lack of intest (see 2 above).
20.     Have requested bids and awaded the conta   for carying      639          In progress.        As soon as fnds are povided, bids would be ased immediat*. Work
out te adtl work.                                                                                    is expeced to stt in oarly Agus
Anne 8
Pags 2 of6



DAUTAL
ACTIONS                                 TAIGET             STATUS                                  COMMiWlS
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   D A T E  
21.      iling and del   of at las 13,COO pmtland titles.         063493        Prtiay complted.  Due to the lak of fimds only 1000 pmnti s have been delivered.
With adequate fning now avaible, i esmated that between 8 -
I ___________________________________________________          ______________                       10,000  permanent titls  wil  be  devered  befor  e  end  of this year.
22.    Iniation of stulem  proess of at ea  100 files nvolving    06%-33        In progress.        The  bave been some legal probkms l do Dis actvCitY. Howev.
expropriation.                                                                                      DINA estimates that 25 cae will be solved by mid July. and 75
e___                     _      __                                _a_d_ addiona ones by the end of August.
23.    Startup of INAs enhaced compte system at both centa        06-30-93      In pess.            INA wm review and  4mprove the proposed sohidon. Funds will be
and regional level.                                                                                 pvded for its implmentai
24.    Contract awad, and have staed colecto of INAs claims.      06-93         Not yet strted.     Accordg to LMA, fitnds must go to M. de Hacienda and nt to INA.
Hacienda is undertaking this acion.
25.     Finalization of sales of IAs nonessentalassets.           0643Sbs                y          There have been moe than 10 importt  assetalready sold or
advanced.          transfrred to other nstitio. Five less iporta are in pgss and
the rest should be sod in dte next 3 to S monts.
iFoREST  PLAN OF ACTION
r.      Aprval of the Reglto  on fresty aspecls of the LMA        01-30-93      Complied.          Satsactory reglato he been appoved by COHDEPOR. They
Decree 31-92 of April 6, 199).                                _were approved by the President on July 9, 1993.
2.      Apovl of the Work Plan for identi       potea frest       01-30-93      Parigaly compLied.   Methodology was agreed. Work plan is under implementio
land, usig a methodology to be agreed among AFB, INA and the
Nationm  Ckfastre.
3.     initiation of an auco  stem  for the sales of forest goods  01-30-93     Parutay compLied.   One aucton of wood pmducts from one publi firest was carried-out by
and sevys from publicly owned frest lnds.                                                           COHDEFOR on Febray 1993. However, due to legal claims from old
contracts the auction was declared vacant GOH has cay  u e
that accog to the LMA all concessions provided prior to the L.MA
have expired. A new auction is schoduled to be announced by end July
and three additonal ones by early August 1993.
4.      Pesent a Plan of Acion for impmenting the resttuing       01-3043       Complied.
of APE.
Annex a
Page 3.of6



INiTAL
AC1IONS                                  TARGET             STATUS                                   COMIMENT
________________________________________    DATE                                                                  '_. _
S.      Prepadon of TOR for evalting the rlevance and relative     01%.093       Complied.
Importance of existg Protected Areas and those prvposed by APE.                                                                    .        ___
6.      Presentto of a saisfactory draft of the Forest Management  01-30.93      Complied.           COHDEFOR is curently incpoatig IDAs comments.
Rguatons(Management Plans) to be Issd by AFE.
7.      Peparation of APE's new manua of finctons and              02-28-93      In progress.        Draft s now wnder review incorporating _WS comnts.
8.      Presenai  of acceptable drafts of (i) rgUons on Forest     02-28-        Complied.           Documets hae been approved by COHDEFORs Boad of Diretors n
Protctin and (it) regulation an the Publi Fors Mangement                                             eary JUly.
SYL_
9.      Approval and entry ino effect of the Forest Managemet      02-2893       Pardaly compled.   Mangeme  Regulaton aprved by COHDEFOR enered into efct
Regulaions (nagem       Plans).                                                                      in April 1993. Action plan to prepr maagement plans is beig
imphemend.
10.     Conta  awarded for the evalion of Ptmcted Areas on         02283         In progress.        Offers to evabt thee protected areas are under review. Process was
the basis of agreed ms of rfrence.                                                                   affected by budgetry constrains.
11.    Contract awarded for the tcna aSSine to monitor the         02-28-93      In progress.        GTZ and USA) have shown interst to finance this c   _mponen
social and envIonmental impac of the refoms.                                                         However, they caot commit resources m the shon run. Thereaoe.
needed finds to in   the system in 1993 will be provided by GOH1.
Conhtr  is expected to be tendered by mdd August.
12.     Idficaton of as publc fores magement unks in aR            03.81-93      In progress.        7 departments have been idendfied as having cadastal daa available.
|d _parte?here cadustral daa are available.                           _a_In mn  gathering in other departments will star by mid Augus
13.    Inldation of the process of regulariig c     and            03-31-3       In progress.        COHDEFOR has signed 19 contts with c mns. Con           need
individuelnfmies in PFMUs In areas wee ca ral data Is                                               import revsions which are being done by COHDEFOR.
14.     Preparton of an Actdon Plan to consoldate thProtected      03-31-93      In progess.         Program prepared wi  be approved by COHDEFOR after concludng
Forest Ans Sysm                                                                                      inenal conutadon now in progress.
Annge  8
P!aga 4 o. 6



flMAL
ACrIONS "                                TAlGEI             SrATUS                                   COMMNTS
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   D A T E                                            .
I5.     Preparatn of following specific regulatio  daft to be      03431-93      bn progress.        COHIDEFOR is incorporating IDA's commes. They wil be isued
issued by APE: (I Regulati for the Protected Forest Areas Systenm                                    befbre end July 1993.
and h Reguatios  for the Management of Municipal and Ejida
Forest Lands.
16.     Present a Propol for the Creation of a Forest Bond System  0"1-93        In pogress.         Based on successful schemes in other countries COHDEFOR is
to finance technical assistance from priate consultants to smal forest                               prepaig pwposal to str scheme on a pilot basis.
land owners.
17.    Present a mechanism for settng diputes over prat fPorest    03-31-93      In progrs.          Rules to opem  the mechanism established in the regulations are mnder
lands t  cannot be resolved by dte procedre agreed beween                                            peparao.
COHDEFOR and INA.
RURAL FINANCIAL SECITDR
1.      Approval of the reglation for the land aedit fond.         0-30-93       Complied.           Saftsfctory reguladons were apprved by the Cental Bank's Board of
Dieors on Ma  7, 1993.
2.      Dmaonsa tfat Central   k funding to BANADESA has           01-30-        Complied.
been mantined at its Agut  30. 1991 level, adjusted for  aion,
and 1hat there has been no addidona Treasury fumding.
3.      To have tendered and initiahtd the evaluation of           01-30-93      In progess.         Ltes of invitation to consuling fims were sent by end of May.
BANADESA.                                                                                            Contact is eped to be signed by ed luly.
4.      Sltqw significant progress In inmpementing Decs 31-92 and  01-3          In progress.        BANADESA is making substan   progss collecting from deiquent
71-92 on cleaing up of tde portolo, and present evidece to collect                                   borrowers.
from deqent beowes.
S.      Competn of an intrnal study on the proftability of         01-93          Compied.           Based on that study, BANADESA is restructuring its branches and
RANADESAs offlce.                                                                                    operaions. lt has reduced its peoel from 1.082 in 1990 to 57S by
_._   June 1999.                                                                 --
6.      P    t concret enene dt t has begun to ptvat  the          0133          Complie.            Contract to prvatize these serviceswas signod on Jmue 9, 1993.
opmaon of ANADESAs saes of hiuts.
pap 5 of 6



5F - 7= l- * = _
!i  I  I  ji   q     
X~   310 ..i
&Sk1@^~~~~~~~~~*'



