Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.: 19372
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
HONDURAS
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(Credit 2540-HO)
June 8, 1999
Sustainable Development Sector Management Unit
Central America Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in
the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed
without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of July 1997)
Currency Unit    =  Lempiras (Lps.)
Lps. 1.0         =  US$0.076
US$1.0           =  Lps. 13.15
SDR1.0          =  US$1.37
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
(metric)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS, ACRONYMS AND GLOSSARY
AFE-COHDEFOR    - Corporacion Hondurena de Desarrollo Forestal
(Honduran Forestry Development Corporation)
AMDP               - Agricultural Modernization and Development Program
AGSAC              - Agricultural Sector Adjustment Credit
BANADESA           - Banco Nacional de Desarrollo Agricola
(Agricultural Development Bank)
Cajas Rurales         Small scale, private rural credit banks
ESAF               - Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
FAO/CP                Food and Agriculture Organization Cooperative Program
GDP                - Gross Domestic Product
GNP                - Gross National Product
GOH                - Government of Honduras
IDB                - Inter-American Development Bank
IMF                - International Monetary Fund
INA                - Instituto Nacional Agrario
(National Agrarian Institute)
LMA                - Ley de Modernizaci6n Agricola
(Agricultural Modernization Law)
PSP                - Policy Support Program
SAG                - Secretaria de Agricultura y Ganaderia
(Secretariat of Agriculture and Livestock)
SAL                - Structural Adjustment Loan and Credit
SEMS               - Social Environmental Monitoring System
SMP                - Staff-Monitored Program
UPSA               - Unidad de Planficaci6n Sectorial Agricola
(Agricultural Sector Planning Unit)
USAID              - United States Agency for International Development
Vice President:             Shahid Javed Burki
Country Director:           Donna Dowsett-Coirolo
Acting Sector Director:     John Redwood
Sector Leader:              Mark Cackler
Task Manager:               Silvia Castro



HONDURAS   FOR OFFICLIL USE ONLY
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJIUSTMENT CREDfT
(CR. 2540-HO)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Table of Contents
Preface
Evaluation Summary .......................                                           i-iv
Part I: Implementation Assessment ........................1
A.   Introduction ......................................................1
B.   Program Objectives and Design ......................................................2
C.   Achievement of Progran Objectives ......................................................4
D.   Implementation Record ......................................................8
E.   Main Factors Affecting the Program ......................................................8
F. Program Sustainability                                .9
G3. Performance of IDA .10
H. Performance of the Borrower .11
I. Assessment of Outcome .12
J. Key Lessons Leared .12
Part II: Statistical Tables ................                                           14
Appendixes:
A. Mission's Aide Memoire
B. Key Actions Taken and Targets Achieved
B. 1   Land Tenure Action Plan
B.2    Forestry Action Plan
B.3    Public Administration Action Plan
B.4    Rural Finance Actions
C. Borrower's Evaluation of the Project
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



HONDURAS
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(CR. 2540-HO)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Agricultural Sector
Adjustment Credit in Honduras, for which a Credit 2540-HO in the amount of SDR 43.3
million was approved on August 5, 1993 and became effective on November 10, 1993.
Additionally, FY94 IDA reflows of SDR 20.08 million were attached to the first tranche
of the Credit, and FY95 IDA reflows of SDR 18.6 million were attached to the second
tranche.
The ICR was prepared by Ms. Silvia Castro of the Latin American and the
Caribbean Region with the assistance of Messrs. Richard Owen and Juan Morelli of the
Food and Agriculture Organization Cooperative Program (FAO/CP). The ICR was based
on a final supervision/project completion mission, material in the project file and
discussions with IDA staff and Government officials involved in project preparation, as
well as with officials of the executing agencies. The completion mission Aide-Memoire is
included as Appendix A.
The Borrower contributed to the preparation of the ICR by: (i) discussing major
points included in the report; and (ii) providing its evaluation of the project, which is
included as Appendix C.



HONDURAS
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(CR. 2540-HO)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Evaluation Summary
INRODUCTION
1.    The Agricultural Sector Adjustment Credit (AGSAC), for SDR 81.98 million (US$120.8
million equivalent, including FY94 and FY95 IDA reflows), was approved August 5, 1993 and
became effective November 10, 1993. The original Closing Date for the Credit was
June 30, 1995, and was extended three times, for a total of two years, until June 30, 1997. The
first tranche of the Credit was disbursed upon effectiveness on November 10, 1993. The second
and third tranches, originally scheduled for disbursement in June 1994 and March 1995, were
disbursed in April 1995 and July 1997, respectively (paras. 32-33 of the main text).
2.    The Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) confinanced the AGSAC Program through
a US$50 million Agricultural Sector Loan. IDB disbursed the first two tranches of their
Agricultural Sector Loan, totaling US$30 million, but canceled the third tranche for US$20
million at the Borrower's request (paras. 34).
PRoJEcr OBJECriVES AND COMPONENTS
3.    The objective of the AGSAC was to support the Government of Honduras' (GOH)
medium-term Agricultural Modernization and Development Program by: (a) improving land use
by supporting modifications to the Agrarian Reform Law to secure property rights, supporting
the development of property markets and consolidating the process of agrarian reform; (b) laying
the basis for sustainable management of the country's rich forest resources by improving forest
property rights and reorienting the role of the public forestry sector toward the protection and
management of forests and the promotion of forest biodiversity conservation; and (c) helping to
improve sector planning and coordination by strengthening and making better use of the
budgeting process. The AGSAC was also designed to consolidate reforms supported under the
Second Structural Adjustment Loan and Credit (SAL n, Loan 3257-HO and Credit 2208-HO) in
agricultural trade, pricing policy, grain marketing, and rural finance (paras. 4-5).
IMPLEMENTATioN EXPERIENCE AmD RESULTS
4.    Achievement of Program Objectives. The Program succeeded in achieving most of its
objectives and expected benefits. The reforms undertaken with the support of the AGSAC and
the SAL II contributed to robust agricultural GNP growth of 3.8% per annum between 1993-97,
higher than the overall annual GNP growth of 3.2% during the same period. Responding to
clearer market signals, resource allocation shifted toward the tradable sector, nontraditional
agricultural exports expanded, and rural employment and the purchasing power of the rural
population improved (paras. 13-16).



5.    AGSAC reforms in the land titling and forestry sectors achieved substantial results and
met objectives. The Land Tenure Program increased the demand for land titling, and contributed
to a better sectoral investment climate. The Forestry Program helped to improve institutional
efficiency, strengthen the political and legal frameworks for the sector, increase stakeholder
participation in natural resources management, and improve transparency in the marketing of
wood products (paras. 17-18).
6.    The sector planning and coordination component was less successful. Although the
Unidad de Planeaci6n Sectorial Agricola (UPSA) did implement the actions of the Public
Administration and Expenditure Action Plan, the objective of "helping improve sector planning
and coordination by strengthening and making better use of the budgeting process" was not fully
achieved because the Ministry of Finance gave inadequate weight to UPSA's recommendations
(paras. 19-21).
7.    The objectives of the Rural Financial Sector Action Plan were not satisfactorily achieved.
The original plan called for the Banco Nacional de Desarrollo Agricola (BANADESA) to carry
out a restructuring program, with a view to its ultimate divestiture. However, during Program
implementation, the Borrower decided that the divestiture of BANADESA in the short to
medium term was no longer appropriate. IDA accepted this position and worked with
BANADESA to develop a set of actions that would refocus its main efforts on small and
medium-scale farmers, while becoming a leaner, more sustainable institution. BANADESA
carried out some of the agreed actions, particularly as regards improving attention to small
farmers, but overall progress was limited and IDA requested a waiver from its Board to release
the third tranche of the Credit, which the Board of Directors approved on July 16, 1997 (paras.
21-25).
8.   In addition, prior to negotiations of the AGSAC, the Agricultural Modernization Law
(LMA) provided for the creation of Cajas Rurales (small scale private rural credit banks) and a
Land Credit Fund. However, subsequent laws approved by the Government then in power
mandated a design for these financial intermediaries that departed from some important aspects
of the Rural Credit Action Plan, and, with the support of IDA, the original plan for Cajas Rurales
was not implemented. The creation of the Land Credit Fund also suffered from problems in
finalizing its design, and never materialized, a decision also supported by IDA. As a
consequence, to release the second tranche of the Credit, IDA obtained a waiver from the Board
of Directors based on the Borrower's changing priorities and strategies for rural finance (paras.
26-28).
9.    Major Factors Affecting the Project. Although many project targets were achieved, it
was not possible to carry out the AGSAC reform program in the time originally planned. One
major obstacle was the change of Government that took place in early 1994 that led to both
political and staffing changes. Second, GOH's financial support to implementing agencies for
undertaking investment activities related to the program was inadequate (para. 35).
10. IDA and Borrower Performance. IDA's performance during project identification and
preparation was only marginally satisfactory, and appraisal performance was unsatisfactory. The
design of the Program was operationally flawed, especially with respect to the excessive number
of technical targets included in the action plans and incorporated into the legal covenants, and by
the time of appraisal and negotiations it was clear that Borrower commitment to at least some of
the AGSAC reforms and actions was wavering. Nonetheless, project processing and approval



continued. Although the quality of oversight during implementation was technically sound,
regular, and constructive, supervision is also rated marginally satisfactory because IDA could
have made a stronger effort to support the GOH in developing a new and more feasible strategy
for rural finance, beyond the emphasis on BANADESA. Moreover, during the final two years of
implementation, supervision of the public administration and budget component was limited
(paras. 43-46).
11.   The Borrower's performance during program formulation is rated marginally satisfactory.
The Borrower showed considerable courage in its willingness to take on sensitive, complex
issues of both a political and social dimension, but it too was overly optimistic about the scope
and number of reforms that could be implemented. It also proceeded with Credit negotiations
despite the fact that official support for a sound macro framework and some AGSAC reforms
was eroding. During implementation, the Borrower's performance and compliance with
covenants is also rated marginally satisfactory. During the first year of implementation, Program
activities were below expectations as economic policy first faltered and then collapsed during the
election cycle. The new Administration that took power in early 1994 committed itself to return
Honduras to a path of sustained economic growth and poverty alleviation by stabilizing the
economy, accelerating structural reforms and privatization, and increasing social expenditure and
the effectiveness of social programs. However, a lack of funding to carry out Program activities
delayed compliance with second and third tranche covenants, and the Borrower was not prepared
to confront the problems of BANADESA aggressively (paras. 47-49).
12.   Assessment of Outcome. The overall outcome of the AGSAC is rated marginally
satisfactory, although this overall rating masks quite different levels of performance among the
several components, with land and forestry being fully satisfactory, public administration and
budgeting marginally satisfactory and rural finance unsatisfactory. Since the AGSAC closed, the
Borrower's macroeconomic policy framework has continued to be consistent with the objectives
of the reform program supported by SAL II and AGSAC. Finally, it is worth noting that the
AGSAC, even if temporarily, probably helped prevent a further deterioration of BANADESA.
In its own Project Completion Report, IDB rates project implementation as "highly satisfactory"
(paras. 50-52).
PROGRAM SUSTAINABILIrY
13.   The overall likelihood of the sustainability of the reforms is uncertain, again masking
different assessments for the different components, which are likely for land, forestry and public
administration and budgeting, and highly uncertain for rural finance. It is interesting to note that
those components with better prospects for sustainability were followed by investment and/or
other adjustment projects (the Rural Land Management Project and the Public Sector
Modernization Project), which are contributing to consolidating achievements and building the
institutional capacities to make the reforms more enduring. In its own Project Completion
Report, IDB's rating for development objectives is "highly probable" (paras. 36-42).
KEY LESSONS LEARNED
14.   Key lessons learned from the AGSAC are (para. 53):
(a)   Coordination with international development agencies. A positive lesson from
the AGSAC is that close coordination with other donors can improve the chances
of success of a project, especially one with a strong policy content.



iv
(b)   Incremental costs of implementing reforms. Although they provide significant
balance of payments support, adjustment operations do not earmark funds to
cover incremental costs associated with investment activities. In countries with
severe fiscal problems, IDA should ensure that the implementing agencies do
receive the necessary funds to carry out the related investments in a timely
manner.
(c)   Flexibility of action plans. The flexibility of action plans, which are by nature
evolving tools, should be carefully designed. Action plans and the relevant
sections of legal agreements should include provisions that permit technical
adjustments to targets that could be made during implementation without
excessive bureaucratic requirements. This would facilitate Program
implementation and allow management and staff to adapt promptly to changing
circumstances.
(d)   Complexity, scope, and duration of an adjustment operation. The complexity of
implementing an operation involving four different subsectors in addition to
overall sectoral policies, with numerous and detailed actions to be taken under
each different subsector, should not be underestimated. In retrospect, a lesson
learned is that, despite the merits of a comprehensive design, it may be more
prudent to unbundle a set of reforms into smaller operations that address each
subsector separately. It may also be appropriate to add a parallel investment
project that would provide the funds for the implementing agencies to carry out
the investment activities associated with the adjustment operation(s).
(e)   Links between adjustment operations and investment projects. A positive lesson
of the AGSAC is that an adjustment operation of this type can lay the policy
framework for follow-up investment operations. This was the case with the
AGSAC and the follow-up Rural Land Management Project, in which the World
Bank's Quality Assurance Group concluded that the links between the two
projects represented "best practice" with respect to the land administration and
forestry components.



HONDURAS
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(CR. 2540-HO)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PART I: IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A.   Introduction
1.    The Agricultural Sector Adjustment Credit (AGSAC) was designed between 1990 and
1992, at a time when Honduras was facing severe economic problems characterized by slow
economic growth, mounting fiscal deficits, trade imbalances, and increasing external debt. The
Government which took office in 1990 embarked on a far-reaching economic and poverty
alleviation program supported by the Second Structural Adjustment Loan and Credit (SAL II, Ln.
3257-HO and Cr. 2208-HO). Key elements of this adjustment program were fiscal reform, trade
liberalization, removal of price controls, and liberalization of the foreign exchange system.
2.    The agricultural sector also became a major focus of the reform program because
Honduras is largely rural, agricultural products generate 80% of export earnings, and an
overwhelming majority of the poor earn their living from agriculture. The initial sectoral policy
reforms, supported by the SAL II, focused on the liberalization of agricultural trade and prices of
agricultural products, replacing guarantee prices for basic grains with a price band system,
eliminating interest rate subsidies on all rediscount lines for the agricultural sector, and on
reducing government intervention in the purchase of agricultural commodities. These and other
sector reforms were later embodied in the Agricultural Modernization and Development Program
(AMDP), which became law in April 1992 under the Agriculture Modernization Law (Ley de
Modernizacion Agricola - LMA).
3.    Implementation of the AGSAC, however, started in 1993 under a very different economic
and policy scenario. By mid-1993, much of the progress achieved from 1990-92 was jeopardized
as the Administration reversed the course of economnic policy in the run-up to the Presidential
elections of November 1993. The fiscal deficit--which was targeted to fall in 1993 to 3.8% of
GDP--reached over 10%, the current account deficit reached 14.4% of GDP, while GDP itself
grew at 6% as a consequence of fiscal expansion. Attempting to control an accelerating inflation
that reached 13% in 1993, the outgoing Administration also imposed price controls that were in
effect until February 1994. As a consequence of these events, the implementation of the AGSAC
would be concerned not only with taking agricultural sector reforms to the next level, but with
avoiding backsliding on the earlier reform programs.



2
B.    Program Objectives and Design
1.    Statement of Objectives
4.    Objectives. The objective of the AGSAC was to support the Government of Honduras'
(GOH) medium-term Agricultural Modernization and Development Program by: (a) improving
land use by supporting modifications to the Agrarian Reform Law to secure property rights,
supporting the development of property markets and consolidating the process of agrarian reform;
(b) laying the basis for sustainable management of the country's rich forest resources by
improving forest property rights and reorienting the role of the public forestry sector toward the
protection and management of forests and the promotion of forest biodiversity conservation; and
(c) helping to improve sector planning and coordination by strengthening and making better use of
the budgeting process. As noted above, the AGSAC was also designed to consolidate reforms
supported under SAL II in agricultural trade, pricing policy, grain marketing, and rural finance.
Proceeds of the Credit were to be disbursed in three tranches over two years, each disbursement
being made against a calendar of agreed reforms, and a macroeconomic policy framework
consistent with Program objectives.
5.    Benefits. The Program was expected to benefit the agricultural sector through: (a)
improved resource allocation resulting from the elimination of distortions associated with price
and trade policies, credit subsidies, and existing regulations and legislation related to land use and
forestry; (b) an improved investment climate caused by changes in land and forestry legislation to
guarantee security of land tenure and private property rights in forest resources; (c) increased
employment as a result of the expected acceleration of agricultural growth and the expansion of
more labor intensive activities; (d) a more rational management of forest resources, and better
protection of forests by improving the system of land and timber property rights and eliminating
legal provisions that promote deforestation; and (e) support for equal rights for women in the
agrarian reform process by eliminating discriminatory provisions in the access to land. The
agricultural sector was expected to grow at an average of at least 4% per year during Program
implementation compared to 3% experienced during the previous decade. To achieve the
Program's overall objective (para. 4), the Borrower designed four action plans (land tenure,
forestry, rural finance, and sector public administration) which were included in its Development
Policy Letter, and are described in Appendix B.
2.    Evaluation of Program Objectives and Design
6.    General. Program objectives were timely and relevant to the needs of Honduras at the
time of Program preparation. Both the overall strategy and Program objectives were carefully
discussed and agreed with the Borrower, stakeholders, and the major development agencies in
Honduras.
7.    Specific Objectives. The specific objectives of each action plan were reasonable for a
comprehensive program of reforms that would transform the sector and bring about policy
changes conducive to private investment, although, as discussed below, in hindsight there were



3
too many targets and too many legal conditions. On the positive side, the objective of the Land
Tenure Action Plan of titling state-owned land occupied by settlers was important to bring about
more efficient land use and greater investment in the agricultural sector. The objective of the
Forestry Action Plan of laying the basis for the sustainable management of the country's forest
resources was relevant to the needs of the country where deforestation, forest degradation and a
loss of biodiversity were, and still are, serious issues. The objective of the Public Administration
Action. Plan of redefining the role of the State in the agricultural sector, and improving sector
planning and coordination, were needed for consolidating the sector adjustment process, including
the sector reforms implemented during 1990-92 and supported by SAL II. Finally, the objectives
of the Rural Finance Action Plan, of helping to improve the efficiency of rural financial
intermediation and to increase access of small farmers to credit were sound, although the plan to
close the Banco Nacional de Desarrollo Agricola (BANADESA), and to seek alternative
mechanisms to increase the flow of credit to small- and medium-scale producers was, in
retrospect, politically too difficult.
8.    Design. Nevertheless, the design of the Program had some serious operational
weaknesses, such as: (a) a short implementation period for a complex operation that included far
reaching policy changes and major institutional reforms; (b) overly complex technical tasks to be
carried out by weak institutions; and (c) a comprehensive, all inclusive program covering four
different subsectors as well as sectoral trade and price policy which, despite the merits of all the
reforms sought, made the operation difficult to implement.
9.    Another important operational drawback that could have been avoided was that the action
plans against which progress would be measured contained too many technical details that became
legal covenants. These and the lack of a provision to adjust the actions and targets without
arduous bureaucratic processes increased the complexity of Program implementation. (See
Appendix B for an example of the detailed actions required to disburse the third tranche.)
10.   Although in general the design of the AGSAC action plans was technically sound, there
were some technical design problems, mostly related to actions to be carried out in the forestry
sector. On the positive side, the design of the forestry action plan supported a package of
mutually reinforcing activities which struck at the heart of the problem in the forestry sector, that
is, insecure forest tenure and property rights, institutional and policy shortcomings and the need to
involve forest communities in the forest management process.
11.   Nonetheless, in hindsight, a few weaknesses of the design of the forestry action plan
become evident. For example, the complexity of the land tenure situation in state forest areas was
underestimated. This made both the regularization of settlers and the introduction of timber
auctions more difficult than expected, and caused implementation delays. Furthermore, the
AGSAC required the Corporacion Hondurena de Desarrollo Forestal (AFE-COHDEFOR) to
identify and map all land with a forestry vocation (i.e., land with over 30% slope and-with
shallow, fragile soils). This was an unfeasible task. Because of its mountainous terrain, 80% of
Honduras falls into this category, about half of which is settled and has very little forest left. A
more pragmatic approach would have been to concentrate on identifying forested areas (which
cover 40% of the country) and classifying these in accordance with their sustainable land use



4
potential, for example, protection forestry,. rehabilitation forestry, production forestry and
agriculture. Moreover, IDA and GOH counted on bilateral support to finance the mapping
activity, but such support never materialized.
12.  In addition, the Forestry Action Plan required the design and implementation of a Social
Environmental Monitoring System (SEMS). The SEMS was an innovative tool that was
considered to be effective in using geographic information systems to provide an early warning on
unexpected impacts of structural reform on the environment. However, this proved to be a
complex technical task, which should have been excluded from the Program in view of the weak
technical capacity available in the country to monitor and manage such a system. At the very
least, GOH and IDA should have ensured that technical assistance, whether financed by IDA or
other donors, was readily available to oversee its design and implementation.
C.   Achievement of Program Objectives
13.   Despite the above design issues, the Program succeeded in achieving most of its objectives
and expected benefits, despite implementation delays and the need to request two waivers related
to rural finance. Physical achievements were impressive, and the degree of adherence to policy
objectives may be considered remarkable, especially in view of political and other pressures in
favor of backsliding that existed during the Program period. A brief description of the progress
made in each area follows. Details, including a summary of physical achievements, may be found
in Appendix B.
14.   Agriculture. The reforms undertaken with the support of the AGSAC and the SAL II
contributed to a robust agricultural GNP growth of 3.8% per annum during 1993-97, somewhat
below the SAR target of 4%, but higher than the overall annual GNP growth of 3.2% during the
same period and the 3.0% in the agricultural sector in the decade prior to the project.
15.   Responding to clearer market signals, resource allocation shifted toward the tradable
sector and non-traditional agricultural exports expanded, caused mainly by the depreciation of the
real exchange rate and the changes in nominal protection rates. Compared to the 1989-91
average, 1996 agricultural sector production volume grew by 34%. While grain production fell
by 5% in that period, traditional agricultural exports grew by 27% in volume and non-traditional
exports by 89%.1
16.   Finally, rural employment also showed positive results: employment in agricultural
activities grew about 19%, from 570,000 workers in 1992 to 680,000 in 1996, and per capita
rural income purchasing power, which fell by -1.3% per year during the 1980s, grew at an annual
average of 0.5%.
17.   Land Tenure. The land titling program obtained substantial results, and the objective of
improving land use by supporting modifications to the Agrarian Reform Law to secure land
property rights, support the development of land markets and consolidate the process of the
agrarian reform was met. Some 42,090 titles were issued to smallholders, of which 10,202 (24%)
1     These and other figures in this report exclude the impact of Hurricane Mitch in October 1998.



5
benefited women as direct owners, an original goal of the project (para. 5). This and other
actions (see Appendix B) taken under the land titling program contributed to a better investment
climate and an acceleration of nontraditional agricultural exports. Moreover, an increasing
demand for titling land is creating a land market to mobilize resources from other sectors into
agriculture where non-traditional activities offer attractive investment alternatives, and follow-up
activities are being supported by the Rural Land Management Project (Credit 2940-HO),
approved in 1997.
18.   Forestry. The objectives of "laying the basis for the sustainable management of the
country's rich forest resources by improving forest property rights and reorienting the role of the
public forestry sector towards the protection and management of the forest and the promotion of
biodiversity conservation" were met. For example, AFE-COHDEFOR was restructured,
management plans for 350,000 ha of national forest were prepared, the regulations to formalize
the usufruct of communities in national forests were approved, and forest resources are now
allocated through public auctions. These and other actions taken and reforms made under the
Forestry Action Plan (see Appendix B) helped to improve institutional efficiency, strengthen the
political and legal frameworks, and increase stakeholder participation in natural resources
management. As with the land component, further strengthening in these areas is now being
supported by the Rural Land Management Project.
19.   Public Administration. The Unidadde Planiflcaci6n SectorialAgricola (UPSA) of the
Ministry of Agriculture (SAG) satisfactorily completed the actions included in the Public
Administration Action Plan. Nevertheless, the objective of helping improve sector planning and
coordination by strengthening and making better use of the budgeting process was not fully
achieved. UPSA's budget recommendations were given inadequate weight by the Ministry of
Finance, which continued to allocate resources according to previous years and by general
budgetary restrictions. This has an important delaying effect during the first two years of
implementation of the AGSAC.
20.   On the positive side, the Policy Support Program (PSP) of the AGSAC helped define,
develop and institutionalize the managerial capacity needed to implement the new sectoral policies
agreed under the SAL II and AGSAC itself The PSP, which was financed by the United States
Agency for International Development (USAID), consisted of 15 months of technical assistance to
strengthen the capacity of UPSA, and other sector institutions of the SAG.
21.   Rural Finance. The objectives of the Rural Financial Sector Action Plan of the AGSAC
of "helping improve the efficiency of rural financial intermediation and to increase access of small
farmers to credit facilities" were not satisfactorily achieved. Of the four rural finance related
disbursement covenants of Schedule 3 of the Development Credit Agreement (DCA), one showed
satisfactory progress, one had partial progress, and the other two became irrelevant.
22.   BANADESA. When the Program was designed, the plan was for BANADESA to carry
out a restructuring program, with a view to ultimately divesting it in the post-project period, when
alternative mechanisms for delivering credit to small and medium-scale farmers would be in place.
It was originally expected that an important vehicle for promoting these alternative mechanisms



6
would be the establishment of small scale private rural credit banks (Cajas Rurales). However, in
view of changing priorities and strategies for rural finance, in April 1995 the Borrower decided
not to proceed with the plan to create Cajas Rurales, but to develop other mechanisms for
addressing the needs of small and medium-scale farmers, consistent with the original plan,
ultimately divest BANADESA.
23.   The development of such mechanisms, however, proved more difficult than expected, and
the Borrower later decided that, in the absence of either Cajas Rurales or an alternative delivery
mechanism for small and medium-scale farmer credit, a plan committing itself to divesting
BANADESA in the short to medium term was no longer appropriate. IDA agreed with the
Borrower and worked with BANADESA in developing a set of actions that would focus its main
efforts on small and medium-scale farmers while becoming a leaner and financially viable
institution.
24.   On the positive side, BANADESA now operates with internally-generated resources (i.e.,
without transfers from the treasury or Central Bank discount lines), and its participation in total
agricultural financing from the banking sector has dropped from 16% in 1993 (prior to the start-
of the AGSAC) to 10% in 1996. In addition, BANADESA reduced its assets and repaid its debt
to the Central Bank. BANADESA is now a smaller institution, having closed 8 branches and
reduced its staff by 10% from 1993 to 1997. Moreover, BANADESA opened 15 small offices
primarily to receive deposits from the public in rural areas where other banking services are not
available. In keeping with its mission to focus on small and medium-scale borrowers, the
maximum loan size for a single borrower has been limited to US$7,000. The mean average loan
size is now US$2,100 and the. median loan size is US$1,200.
25.   Despite this progress, BANADESA cannot yet be considered a sustainable financial
institution. BANADESA's financial condition is poor, portfolio arrears are very high (52%), and
the increasing deposit base could entail a large loss to the treasury, should BANADESA
eventually fail and close down. Moreover, BANADESA's new offices, located in small towns
without banking services, do not provide, as intended, a full range of banking services to the
marginal rural population, but serve primarily as an outlet to collect deposits from the public.
Consequently, to release the third tranche of the Credit, IDA requested a waiver, approved by the
Board of Directors on July 16, 1997.
26,   Action Plan to Increase the Participation of Financial Intermediaries in Rural Finance.
Prior to the second tranche, the Borrower presented an action plan to IDA to increase the
participation -of financial intermediaries in the rural sector. The major action was to liberalize the
margins on the Central Bank rediscounts of agricultural loans. This action became unnecessary
because of an even more positive development, namely the enactment of a revised Central Bank
Law in December 1996, which mandated the Central Bank to divest all its re-discount operations.
27.   Cajas Rurales. Prior to the negotiations of the AGSAC, the LMA provided for the
creation of Cajas Rurales. Subsequently, Law 201-93 of October 1993 set out the legal basis for
operating the Cajas Rurales. IDA and IDB carefully studied the provisions in this law--prepared
by the-Administration then in power--and concluded that the design departed from some aspects



7
of the Rural Credit Action Plan,2 which IDA and IDB considered to be sound. The main
inconsistencies in this regard were: (a) an unsatisfactory regulatory and supervisory framework;
and (b) government funding exceeding the amounts mandated by the LMA. In any event, the
Borrower decided not to establish Cajas Rurales as planned, and to instead refocus its strategy
for rural finance, a decision supported by IDA. Consequently, prior to the release of the second
tranche of the Credit, IDA obtained a waiver from the Board of Directors on the Cajas Rurales
conditionality.
28. Land Credit Fund The creation of the Land Credit Fund suffered from similar problems to
those of the Cajas Rurales. Prior to the 1993 presidential elections, Congress passed a law
setting out a detailed scheme for the Land Credit Fund, which both IDA and IDB found
unacceptable because the stipulations of the law went against the regulations already issued by the
Central Bank, and submitted to IDA as a condition of Board presentation. As with Cajas
Rurales, the Land Credit Fund never materialized during the project period, although work on the
land fund concept is now being supported by the Rural Land Management Project.
29.   Macroeconomic Framework When the new Government took office in January 1994, it
inherited an impending fiscal crisis, which had been brought on by a series of actions by the
outgoing Administration during the run up to the election (para. 3). The new Govermment
managed to contain the fiscal deficit to just under 7% of GDP by end-1994 and reached
agreement with the Intemational Monetary Fund (IMF) on a second year of the Enhanced
Structural Adjustment Facility (ESAF). The contractionary policies led to a fall of 1.5% in GDP
in 1994. The Government maintained progress in macro management during 1995 and
successfully completed the second year of the ESAF. In 1995, growth recovered to 3.6% and the
fiscal deficit was more than halved, although inflation continued to rise, reaching 30% in 1995.
Prospects for further progress in the stabilization agenda, however, started to become uncertain in
mid-1996, especially in terms of further reductions in the fiscal deficit. The IMF was unable to
reach agreement on the third year of the ESAF, largely due to weaknesses in the energy sector
and the need for stronger revenue measures.
30.   Largely reflecting political pressures related to the electoral cycle, the fiscal effort that
would have been required to bring performance under the ESAF back on track in 1997 was not
feasible. In late 1996, the Fund began discussions with the Honduran authorities on a
macroeconomic program that could be supported by a Staff-Monitored Program (SMP) for 1997.
The program would aim to re-establish a record of performance and policy implementation
during 1997 that would lay the basis for negotiating a new program with the new Administration
that would take office in February 1998. On April 8, 1997, i.e., about three months prior to the
AGSAC Closing Date, the Fund and the Government reached agreement on a 1997 SMP. As
hoped, performance of the Honduran economy improved in 1997 and the Government met or
exceeded the SMP targets. Government is now implementing a comprehensive economic reform
and stabilization program supported by a 3-year IMF Extended Structural Adjustment Facility
arrangement.
2     See Memorandum of the President, July 14, 1993, of the AGSAC, Report No. P-5923-HO.



8
D.   Implementation Record
31.   Program Effectiveness and Closing. The AGSAC was signed September 27, 1993 and
became effective November 10, 1993. The original closing date for the Credit was June 30, 1995,
but this had to be extended three fimes, for a total of two years, to June 30, 1997. These
extensions were considered justified because the second tranche release had been delayed for ten
months due to: (i) a change of Government in February 1994; (ii) the difficulty of mobilizing
funds to carry out Program related activities; (iii) the steady progress being made with the
reforms; (iv) the need for more time to reform BANADESA; and (v) the fact that the Program's
objectives remained appropriate and were considered achievable.
32.   Program Financing and Disbursements. An IDA credit of SDR 81.98 million
(US$120.8 million equivalent) was made available under the AGSAC, including the original
amount of SDR 43.3 million (US$62.1 equivalent), and two IDA reflows attached to the first and
second tranches for SDR 20.08 million (US$29.4 million equivalent) and SDR18.6 million
(US$29.3 million equivalent), respectively.
33.   The first tranche of the Credit was disbursed upon effectiveness on November 10, 1993.
The second and third tranches, originally scheduled for disbursement in June 1994 and March
1995, were disbursed in April 1995 and July 1997, respectively. The original Closing Date for the
Credit was June 30, 1995,and was extended three times, for a total of two years, until June 30,
1997 (see Tables 3 and 4).
34.   The Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) cofinanced the AGSAC-supported
Program through a US$50 million Agricultural Sector Loan. IDB disbursed the first two tranches
of their Agricultural Sector Loan, totaling US$30 million, but canceled the third tranche for
US$20 million at the Borrower's request, since it wished to avoid contracting additional
nonconcessional debt (see Table 7).
E.   Main Factors Affecting the Program
35.   Although many project targets were achieved, it was not possible to carry out the AGSAC
reform program in the time originally planned. Two major problems were encountered:
(a)  Political Transition. The change of Administration in February 1994 led to political
changes and some staff discontinuity. The main negative impact of this was that the
members of the Economic Cabinet who had supported and agreed to the reforms
included in the Program were not those who had to implement it, and it took time
for the new Cabinet members and senior staff to understand and embrace its
objectives.
(b)  Funding. A major factor that affected the Program was inadequate financial support
for undertaking investment activities (such as identifying land with a forestry
vocation, establishing a SEMS, the preparation of forest management plans, and
cadastral and land titling activities). During Program preparation it was expected



9
that funding for these activities would be provided from savings resulting from other
actions taken under the Program, as well as from bilateral financing. GOH,
however, did not initially reallocate these resources or otherwise provided the
required funds, and bilateral funding did not materialize as expected. As a result, the
funding shortfalls of the implementing agencies to carry out commitments
established by the Program were a continued source of delays.
F.    Program Sustainability
36.   The overall likelihood of the sustainability of the Program is uncertain, although this may
be considered a conservative assessment which masks quite different assessments for the different
components, which are likely for land, forestry and public administration, and highly uncertain for
rural finance. It is interesting to note that those components with better prospects for
sustainability were followed by investment and/or other adjustment operations (Rural Land
Management and Public Sector Modernization), which are contributing to consolidating
achievements and building the institutional capacities to make the reforms more enduring. In its
own Project Completion Report, IDB's rating for development objectives is "highly probable".
37.   Macroeconomic performance continued to be satisfactory following disbursement of the
third tranche of the AGSAC in July 1997, although Honduras' economy was devastated by
Hurricane Mitch in October 1998. In terms of sectoral policy, GOH has been implementing a
policy framework to improve resource allocation, stimulate agricultural growth, and strengthen
the institutions in charge of environmental management. The implementation of the new
exchange rate regime in the early 1990s, the liberalization of the agricultural sector which
included the dismantling of administrative price and import controls, the elimination of public
monopolies in the external grain and timber trade, and the abolition of generalized subsidies on
food distribution and on direct credit continue to have a positive impact, although the future
direction of the agricultural sector now depends in large part on the effectiveness of Honduras'
reconstruction efforts following Hurricane Mitch.
38.   Land Administration. Sustainability of the land administration actions taken under the
Program is likely. With an appropriate policy framework in place, GOH is initiating an IDA-
financed project of land administration (Rural Land Management Project, Credit 2940-HO) that
will register public, ejido3 and private forest and nonforest lands and adjudicate land rights
systematically. It will clarify the tenancy status of forest lands, and simplify and reduce the costs
of land titling. An interinstitutional commission is working under the Supreme Court to guide this
modernization, providing judicial as well as political support. To address uncertainty over land
property rights, GOH will pilot the modernization of the land administration system, integrating
titling and cadastral work into a parcel-based registry system, and building institutional capacity to
maintain the system.
39.   Forestry. Sustainability of the forestry actions taken under the Program is likely. The
AGSAC has improved institutional efficiency, strengthened the political and legal frameworks and
3     Ejidos are municipal lands allocated during the pre-independence period for communal use and urban
expansion.



10
has increased stakeholder participation in natural resources management. Prospects for
sustainability are enhanced by the follow-on Rural Land Management Project, which continues to
support many of the initiatives launched under the AGSAC. In addition, the introduction of
timber auctions has led to an average real increase in the price of standing timber of 27% per year.
As a result, Government revenue from timber is rising steadily. Higher timber prices, together
with increased security in forest tenure, have also served to stimulate interest in the improved
management of private forests.
40.   The Program's long-term sustainability in the forestry sector, however, will depend largely
on AFE-COHDEFOR's capacity to recruit, train and retain competent, motivated staff, and to
provide them with favorable working conditions and logistical support. This will depend largely
on AFE-COHDEFOR being both adequately funded and soundly managed. In addition, because
many of the logged areas are presently not regenerating as expected due to pressure from fire and
grazing, sustainability will also depend on AFE-COHDEFOR's ability to involve local
governments and communities in forest management.
41.   Rural Finance. The modest progress made in the rural financial sector is not likely to be
sustainable under current circumstances. Much stronger actions need to be taken to reform the
rural financial system and to focus GOH interventions on providing the enabling environment for
the development of private finance in rural areas, and on improving the access to financial services
for small, rural entrepreneurs.
42.   Public Administration. Sustainability of the public administration actions taken under
the Program is likely. The GOH has shown its commitment to reforms in the public sector by
passing a new Public Administration Law in December of 1996, which is consistent with the
actions take under the AGSAC, and supported by IDA's ongoing Public Sector Modernization
Adjustment Credit (Cr. 2816-HO).
G.   Performance of IDA
43.  IDA's performance during project identification and preparation was only marginally
satisfactory, and appraisal performance was unsatisfactory. A positive feature of IDA's
performance during the Program's formulation phase was a widespread consultation with a broad
spectrum of interest groups, and a close and constructive dialogue with GOH maintained
throughout. IDA also helped ensure that the major development agencies in Honduras were
involved in the process.
44.   Despite these positive aspects, the design of the Program was operationally flawed,
especially with respect to the excessive number of technical targets included in the action plans
and legally covenanted. Moreover, by the time of appraisal and negotiations it was clear that
Borrower commitment to at least some of the AGSAC reforms and actions was wavering.
Nonetheless, project processing and approval continued.



11
45.   The quality of supervision was technically good, regular, and constructive. IDA staff
successfully worked with the new Administration to gather support for the benefits of continuing
with the AGSAC Prograrn, showing the necessary flexibility to adapt to changing circumstances.
When implementation delays occurred, IDA was firm and brought pressure to bear, but where it
was obvious that IDA had overestimated GOH's capacity to deliver or underestimated the
complexity of certain activities, it showed flexibility by adjusting targets and extending deadlines.
An important aspect of supervision was IDA's continued coordination and cooperation with other
bilateral and multilateral donors, especially the Program's cofinancier, IDB, and USAID.
46.   Despite the above, supervision is rated only marginally satisfactory for two reasons. First,
although, as noted above, IDA generally showed an appropriate degree of flexibility with respect
to changing circumstances, in the case of rural finance IDA may have acquiesced too easily to the
Borrower's requests to relax the actions necessary to truly reform the rural finance sector,
especially with respect to BANADESA. Later, IDA could have made a stronger effort to support
the GOH in developing a new feasible and sound strategy for rural finance beyond the emphasis
on BANADESA. Second, during the last two years of implementation, supervision of the public
administration component was fairly limited, focusing primarily on a relatively mechanistic check
of whether targets were met.
H.   Performance of the Borrower
47.   The Borrower's performance during program formulation is rated marginally satisfactory.
The Borrower showed considerable courage in its willingness to take on sensitive, complex issues
of both a political and social dimension (e.g., in the forestry sector), but it too was overly
optimistic about the scope and number of reforms that could be implemented. It also proceeded
with Credit negotiations despite the fact that official support for a sound macro framework and
some AGSAC reforms was eroding.
48.   During implementation, the Borrower's performance and compliance with covenants is
also rated marginally satisfactory. During the first year of implementation, Program activities
were below expectations as economic policy first faltered and then collapsed during the election
cycle. Public sector savings declined by over 2% of GDP relative to 1992, as expenditures for
goods and services and particularly transfers and subsidies to the private sector increased sharply
and public sector tariffs declined in real terms. By mid-1994, the new Administration committed
itself to return Honduras to a path of sustained economic growth and poverty alleviation by
stabilizing the economy, accelerating structural reforms and privatization, and increasing social
expenditure and the effectiveness of social programs. Due to the deterioration of the economic
situation, the change in Administration in early 1994 (two months after effectiveness), and the
persistent low funding of Program activities, there was a slow implementation of INA's titling
activities and AFE-COHDEFOR's forestry activities during 1994. With respect to rural finance,
the Borrower's performance may also be considered less than satisfactory, especially with respect
to its willingness to confront the problems of BANADESA.
49.   Lack of funding to carry out Program activities was also a problem during
implementation. In a number of cases, especially early in project implementation, GOH did not



12
provide the implementing agencies the funding necessary to meet the incremental costs associated
with carrying out the required tasks. Had it not been for the assistance of bilaterals (mainly
USAID), compliance with several targets in the'land tenure, forestry, and sector public
administration action plans would not have been possible.
L     Assessment of Outcome
50.   The overall outcome of the AGSAC is rated marginally satisfactory, although this overall
rating may be considered conservative and masks quite different levels of performance among the
several components, with land and forestry being fully satisfactory, public administration
marginally satisfactory and rural finance unsatisfactory. After the AGSAC closed, the Borrower's
macroeconomic policy framework continued to be consistent with the objectives of the reform
program supported by SAL II and AGSAC. In its own Project Completion Report, IDB rates
project implementation as "highly satisfactory".
51.   In sum, IDA took a calculated risk in going ahead with such a comprehensive and
complex operation after carefully evaluating country needs, the commitment of the Administration
then in power to undertake the reforms, the interest and support of other donors (mainly 1DB and
USAID), and the complementarity of the proposed reforms with the SAL II.
52.   The risk has largely paid off. The AGSAC has been quite successful in at least two of the
four subsectors covered by the Program (forestry and land administration), as well as in
preserving the progress already made in sector policy (e.g., trade and prices) supported by SAL
II. Furthermore, the AGSAC, even if temporarily, prevented the further deterioration of
BANADESA, and made a small, but important contribution to public administration in the rural
sector.
J.    Key Lessons Learned
53.   Key lessons learned from the AGSAC are:
(a)   Coordination with international development agencies. A positive lesson from
the AGSAC is that close coordination with other donors can improve the chances
of success of a project, especially one with a strong policy content.
(b)   Incremental costs of implementing reforms. Although they provide significant
balance of payments support, adjustment operations do not earmark funds to cover
incremental costs associated with investment activities. In countries with severe
fiscal problems, IDA should ensure that the implementing agencies do receive the
necessary funds to carry out the related investments in a timely manner.
(c)   Flexibility of action plans. The flexibility of action plans, which are by nature
evolving tools, should be carefully designed. Action plans and the relevant
sections of legal agreements should include provisions that permit technical
adjustments to targets that could be made during implementation without
excessive bureaucratic requirements. This would facilitate Program



13
implementation and allow management and staff to adapt promptly to changing
circumstances.
(d)   Complexity, scope, and duration of an adjustment operation. The complexity of
implementing an operation involving four different subsectors in addition to overall
sectoral policies, with numerous and detailed actions to be taken under each
different subsector, should not be underestimated. In retrospect, a lesson learned
is that, despite the merits of a comprehensive design, it may be more prudent to
unbundle a set of reforms into smaller operations that address each subsector
separately. It may also be appropriate to add a parallel investment project that
would provide the funds for the implementing agencies to carry out the investment
activities associated with the adjustment operation(s).
(e)   Links between adjustment operations and investment projects. A positive lesson
of the AGSAC is that an adjustment operation of this type can lay the policy
framework for follow-up investment operations. This was the case with the
AGSAC and the follow-up Rural Land Management Project, in which the World
Bank's Quality Assurance Group concluded that the links between the two
projects represented "best practice" with respect to the land administration and
forestry components.



14
HONDURAS
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(CR. 2540-HO)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PART II
STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: Summary of Assessment
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/ IDA Credits
Table 3: Project Timetable
Table 4: Disbursements
Table 5: Project Studies
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 7: Project Financing
Table 8: Status of Legal Covenants
Table 9: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 10: Bank Resources: Missions



15
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives      Substantial      Partial        Negligible      Not applicable
Macro Policies                    El              El              El               El
Sector Policies                   E              [                a                E
Financial Objectives              a              [                E                E
Institutional Development         5              [A               5                [
Physical Objectives               5              [A                a                a
Poverty Reduction                [                9               a                 5
Gender Issues                    [A               E               E                E
Other Social Objectives          E                E               E                [A
Environmental Objectives         [A               El              E                E
Public Sector Management          E              [                E                E
Private Sector Development       [A               E               E                E
Other (specify)                   Cl              E               E                [
B. Project Sustainabilitv            Likelv                 Unlikelv                Uncertain
(Continued)



16
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
(Continued)
Highly
C. Bank Performance                   satisfactory         Satisfactorv               Deficient
Identification                     a                                                 i
Preparation Assistance             a                                                []
Appraisal                          5                       0                        [3
Supervision                        a                       2                        C
Highly
D. Borrower Performance                      satisfactory   Satisfactorv    Deficient
Preparation                                  ]                             U
Implementation                               ]                             5
Covenant Compliance                         5                              5
Highly                                           Highly
E. Assessment of Outcome             satisfactorv   Satisfactorv  Unsatisfactorv   unsatisfactory
5              21               5 E



17
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/credit title        Purpose                   Year of              Status
approval
Preceding operations
1. Structural         Stabilize the economy and lay the   1988      Closed in December
Adjustment Loan       basis for longer-term structural              1989
(Ln. 2990-HO)         change.
2. Fourth Agricultural   Improve the agricultural credit  1989      Closed in June 1994
Credit Project        delivery system.
(Ln. 2991-HO)
3. Second Structural    Initiate longer-term structural   1990      Closed in December
Adjustment Loan and    changes in the economy in several            1993
Credit (Ln. 3257 and    areas, including fiscal, monetary,
Cr. 2208-HO)          trade and exchange rate policy and
production incentives.
Following operations
3. Public Sector      Policy formulation support to design  1996    Under irnplementation
Modernization         reforms under its public sector
Technical Assistance    modernization program, and
(Cr. 2814-HO)         implementation support to develop
the means and information
necessary for the reform process.
5. Public Sector      Increase private sector participation  1996   Under implementation
Modernization         in provision of public services,
Structural Adjustment   restructure public institutions, and
(Cr. 2816-HO)         improve public management.
6. Rural Land         Modernize the system of rural land  1997      Under implementation
Management            registration, strengthen forest
(Cr. 2940-HO)         administration, improve agriculture
and forestry practices in upland
farms, and rationalize the national
protected areas system.



18
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle          Date Planned         Date Actual/
l_______________________________________I                 j    Latest Estimate
Identification                           n.a.              1990
Preparation                              n.a.              Sept. 1990-March 1991
Appraisal                                June 1991         May 1992
Negotiations                             August 1992       December 7-9, 1992
Letter of Development Policy             n.a.              December 8, 1992
Board Presentation                       October 1992      August 5, 1993
Signing                                  n.a.              September 27, 1993
Effectiveness and First Tranche Release  August 1993       November 10, 1993
Second Tranche Release                   August 1994       April 25, 1995
Third Tranche Release                    March 1995        July 17, 1997
Credit Closing Date                      June 30, 1995     June 30, 1997
n.a. = not applicable
Table 4: Credit Disbursements
(million of SDRs)
IDA Fiscal Years               FY94       FY95    FY96   FY97   FY98
Cumulative Disbursements
Appraisal Estimate             28.9       43.3      43.3    43.3
Actual                         18.1       28.9      28.9    28.9      43.3
Actual as % of Estimate        63%        67%       67%     67%      100%
Annual Disbursements
IDA Reflows                    20.1       18.6
Date of Final Disbursement:    July 21, 1997



19
Table 5: Studies Included in Project
Study            Purpose          Status            Impact of Study
1. Increase small To evaluate methods  Completed  The study recommended setting up
farmer access to  to encourage the  in February  a complementary guarantee fund
formal credit    formal financial    1995       and freeing interest rates on
sector to expand its           agricultural loans. Although IDA
involvement in                  disagreed with the
agricultural credit.           recommendations regarding the
Based on the results            guarantee fund, GOH proceeded
of this study, a plan           to set it up. The impact of the
of action would be             study is questionable as guarantee
drawn up to                    funds have not proved to be an
implement                       effective mechanism to increase
appropriate                    small farmer access to credit.
measures.
2. Improvements  To identify (a)     Completed  Provided an effective basis for
to Guarantee    problems arising    in March    further work on the issue.
Systems         from the system of   1995
credit guarantees
and (b) the
effectiveness of the
legal/regulatory
system. To produce
concrete proposals
aimed at improving
the systems to
facilitate credit,
particularly in the
rural sector.'
3. Evaluation of  To evaluate methods  Completed  The impact of the study was useful
BANADESA's  to divest               in March   as it helped GOH understand the
net worth       BANADESA.            1995        potential fiscal burden of
continuing operating BANADESA
under its current mode, although
BANADESA will not be divested
in the foreseeable future.



20
Study            Purpose          Status            Impact of Study
4. Enhancement  To evaluate titling    Completed  Helped to streamline database for
of automated     procedures.         in October  titling procedures. a/
mapping and                          1994
information
systems to
support small
farmer land
titling
5. Forestry      To put priority     Completed  Provided a basis for managing
management       forest blocks under   in July   national forest areas. a/|
l           ~~~~~improved         1996l
management.l
6. Institutional   To prioritize     Completed  Quality of study was low and study|
development -    government          in August   conclusions were rejected.
National System   resources for      1996.
of Protected     SINAPH.
Areas of
Honduras
7. Policy        To evaluate whether  Completed  Demonstrated significant
reforms and the   adjustment reforms   in June   percentage of small producers
income of the    did increase small    1995      benefited from structural reforms.
rural poor      farmer income.                   a/
8. Strategy for   To evaluate        Completed   Supported further reforms in forest
sustainable      reformed forestry    in         sector. a/
forestry         sector and its      November
development      prospects.          1996
9. Effects of    To study land use   Completed   Showed limited knowledge of
Policy Reform    decisions.          in          reforms and lack of titling access
on Land Use                          December   of marginal producers. Guided
Decisions and                        1994        improved government intervention.
Community                                        a/
Forest
Management
10. Land        To study land        Completed  Demonstrated limited registry
Market and       markets.            in October  records of transactions and
property registry                    1994        evidence of large informal land
market. a/



21
Study            Purpose         Status            Impact of Study
11. Technical    Technical audit to    Completed  Demonstrated that while mix of
audit of        measure impact of   in July     staff had changed and some
COHDEFOR        COHDEFOR            1996        administrative reforms were
reforms.                       effective, there had not been a
decentralization to field offices as
planned. a/
12. Social      To design and pilot   Completed  Showed evidence of some changes
economic study   SEMS.              in         in forest cover and quality, but also
November  difficulty of measuring change in a
1996       cost-effective way. al
13. Rapid       To pilot SEMS.      Completed  Led to design of Telespazio pilot
assessment                          in 1995     for two sites in Honduras. Led to
input in national forest information
system being developed. a/
a/ Contributed to preparation of Rural Land Management Project.



22
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
No key implementation indicators were included in the President's Report at the
time of Board approval. A proxy for such indicators is a summary of the targets to
be met in each of the four action plans of the project (forestry, land tenure, public
administration, and rural finance.) For a detailed description of each target and
status at project completion, see Appendix B of the ICR.
Table 7: Program Financing
Latest Estimate/Actual
Source           US$ million    US$ million
IDA                        60            120.8 a/
IDB b/                     50             30.0
TOTAL                    110             150.8
a! Including FY94 and FY95 IDA reflows.
b/ IDB canceled US$20 million at the Borrower's request.



23
Table 8: Status of Legal Covenants
Text        Status             Description of Covenant                   Comments
Reference
Section 5.01       C       Satisfactory progress in carrying out the  Satisfactory.
program, and macroeconomic policy framework
to remain consistent with program objectives.
Schedule 1,        C       Satisfactory progress in carrying out the  Satisfactory.
Para.                      program, and macroeconomic policy framework
4(a)(c)(d)                 and SAL II Program, as applicable to
agricultural sector, to remain consistent with
program objectives.
Schedule 3,        C       Progress in implementation of the Land Tenure   Satisfactory.
Para. 1(a)                 Action Plan.                                                          l
Schedule 3,        C       Progress in implementation of the Forestry  Satisfactory.
Para. 1(b)                 Action Plan, including the carrying out of any
resettlement actions.                     ___
Section 3.04       C       Presentation, for approval, of the terms of  Satisfactory.
and Schedule              reference to carry out the annual audits of INA
3, Para. 1(c)              and COHDEFOR's records and accounts.
Schedule 3,        C       Progress in the implementation of the Public  Satisfactory.
Para. 1(d)                 Administration Action Plan.
Schedule 3,        C       Presentation, for its review, of an action plan to   Satisfactory.
Para. 1(e)                implement recommendations of the Agricultural
l________   Credit Study.
Schedule 3,        CD      Progress in the implementation of an action plan  Done, but delayed.
Para. 1(f)                to divest BANADESA.                         Ultimately, the Borrower and
IDA agreed to eliminate the
divestiture of BANADESA as
l________                                             a long-term objective.
Schedule 3,       NC       Issuance and publication of all legal instruments  The Board of Directors
Para. 1(g)                to implement Cajas Rurales (Article 44 of   approved waiver prior to
I_____________ __________ Decree 31-92).                              release of the second tranche.
Schedule 3,        C       Evidence that, if operating, Cajas Rurales are    The system of Cajas Rurales
Para. 1(h)                 operating in accordance with the provisions of   planned for the project is not
Decree 31-92, and legal instrument referred to    operating, as agreed with
l ____________             above.                                     IDA.
Schedule 3,        C       Evidence that, if operating, the Special Land  The Special Land Credit Fund
Para. 1(i)                 Credit Fund is operating in accordance with the  is not operating, as agreed
l____________ _________  provisions and regulations of Decree 31-92.  with IDA.
Section 3.04       C       Presentation of an audit report of proceeds of the  Satisfactory.
and Schedule              first tranche release.
3, Para. 1)



24
Text        Status             Description of Covenant                   Comments
Reference                                               _____
Schedule 1,        C       Satisfactory progress in carrying out the  Satisfactory.
Para.                      program and macroeconomic policy framework
5(a)(c)(d)                 and SAL II Program, as applicable to
agricultural sector, to remain consistent with
I_________ program objectives.
Schedule 3,        C       Further progress in the implementation of the  Satisfactory.
Para. 2(a)       _         Land Tenure Action Plan.
Schedule 3,       CD       Further progress in the implementation of the  Done, although delayed
Para. 2(b)                 Forestry Action Plan, including any resettlement
actions.
Schedule 3,        C       Presentation of certified copies of the annual  Satisfactory.
Para. 2(c)                 audits referred to in CA Section 3.04
Schedule 3,        C       Further progress in the implementation of the  Satisfactory.
Para. 2 (d)                Public Administration Action Plan.
Schedule 3,        C       Further progress in the implementation of the  Satisfactory.
Para. 2(e)                 action plan referred to in Part I (e) (Agricultural
Credit Study).
Schedule 3,       NC       Further progress in the implementation of the    IDA and GOH agreed not to
Para. 2(f)                 action plan to divest BANADESA.            divest BANADESA, and on
an action plan to reorient
BANADESA's operations to
serve small rural borrowers.
BANADESA has taken some
actions, but IDA considered
that progress made was not
sufficient. The Board of
Directors approved a waiver
to this condition on July 16,
1997.
Schedule 3,        C       Evidence that, if operating, the Cajas Rurales    The system of Cajas Rurales
Para. 2(g)                 are operating in accordance with provisions of   planned for the project is not
Decree 31-92, and the legal instruments referred  operating, as agreed with
in Part I (g).                            IDA.
Schedule 2,        C       Evidence that, if operating, the Special Land  The Special Land Credit Fund
Para. 2 (h)                Credit Fund is operating in accordance with the  is not operating, as agreed
provisions and regulations of Decree 31-92.  with IDA.
Section 3.04,      C       Presentation of the audit report of the proceeds   Satisfactory.
Schedule 3,                of the First and Second Tranches (CA Section
Para. 2 (c)                3.03 (b) (ii)).
Section 3.01       C       The Borrower and the Association shall from  Satisfactory.
(a)                        time to time exchange views on the progress
achieved in carrying out the progress and the
actions specified in Schedule 3.



25
Text        Status            Description of Covenant                   Comments
Reference              _            _
Section 3.01       C      Prior to each exchange of views, the Borrower   Satisfactory.
(b)                       shall furnish for review and comment a report on
the progress achieved in carrying out the
progress and the actions specified in Schedule 3.
Section 3.02       C      Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,  Satisfactory.
procurement of goods shall be governed by the
provision of Schedule 2.
Section 3.03       C      Maintain separate records and accounts for  Satisfactory.
expenditures financed with proceeds of the
Credit, and submit audit reports, including
separate opinion on SOE's, as stipulated.
Section 3.05       C      Prior to executing any resettlement action, the    No resettlement has taken
Borrower shall furnish to the Association for its  place.
approval a plan to resettle the affected
population.
Section 3.06       C      Borrower, through SRN, shall cause INA,    Satisfactory.
(a)                       IHMA, COHDEFOR, and BANADESA to
furnish by August 30 of each yiear, starting on
August 1, 1993, for its review, until the Closing
Date their annual budgets approved by the EC,
for the upcoming year.
Section 3.06       C      The Borrower, through SRN, shall and shall  Satisfactory.
(b)                       cause 1NA, IHMA, COHDEFOR, and
BANADESA shall furnish by 3/31, 6/30, 9/30,
and 12/31 of each year, starting in June 1993,
quarterly reports concerning SRN's evaluation
of their annual budgets.
Status:
C        -Complied with
CD       -Compliance after Delay
NC       -Not Complied with
SOON    -Compliance Expected in Reasonably Short Time
CP       -Complied with Partially
NYD      -Not Yet Due



26
Table 9: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of                                         Actual
Project Cycle                   _
Staffiveeks                US$
Preparation to approval                     285.9                1,013,202
Supervision                                 194.6                 607,489
Completion                                   7.5                  29,703
TOTAL                                      488                  1,650,394
Table 10: Bank Resources: Missions
Stage of                         Month/                       Days in
Project Cycle                        Year                         Field
Preparation through approval        1/87-9/93                     25.4
Supervision                         9/93-6/97                     66.7
Completion                          6/97-9/97                      4.0



APPENDIX A
Page 1 of 5
HONDURAS
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
Project Completion Report
Aide Memoire
ICR Mission: June 30 to July 4, 1997
(Translated from Spanish)
L. INTRODUCTION
1.   A World Bank mission comprised of Ms. Silvia Castro (Mission Leader, World
Bank) and Messrs. Richard Owen (Forestry, FAO-CP) and Juan Morelli (Economist,
Consultant FAO-CP), visited Honduras June 30-July 4 to initiate preparation of the final
completion report of AGSAC. During their stay, the mission members held interviews
with the Minister of Agriculture and Livestock, the Chief of the Economic Cabinet, the
Chief of the Planning and Evaluation Unit of the Agricultural Secretariat (UPEG-SAG),
the President and Managers of the Agriculture Development Bank (BANADESA), the
Manager and staff of the Forestry Development Corporation (AFE-COHDEFOR), the
Chief of the Agrarian National Institute (INA), the Vice Minister and staff of the Industry
and Commerce Secretariat, the Vice President of the Central Bank and representatives of
the Honduras Wood Workers Association (AMADHO), the Agricultural Policies
Program (PRODEPAH), the Rural Areas Administration Project (PAAR), the Inter-
American Development Bank (1DB) and the Agency for International Development
(AID).
2.   The mission thanks the interviewees for their hospitality and for the important
support received during their stay in Honduras to carry out their work.
1.  MISSION'S PRELIMINARY OBSERVATIONS
3.   The AGSAC was prepared during 1992 and 1993 and implemented between the
end of 1993 and mid-1997, during which period profound structural changes were made
in the Honduran economic policy, with the initial support of the Sector Adjustment Credit
(SAL H). The AGSAC constituted the instrument for the continuation and deepening of
the reforms within the agricultural sector. The objectives of the AGSAC were: (i) to
improve land use through support for modifications to the Agrarian Reform Law, to
insure land property rights and to develop lands market; (ii) to set the basis for the
sustainable management of forest resources; to improve the capacity of planning and
coordination of the agricultural public sector, and (iv) to consolidate the reforms on
commerce, agricultural price policies, commercialization of grains and rural credit
supported by the SAL R.
4.   The program entailed a series of actions and reforms of profound structural
character that were very difficult to implement in the short period of time originally
envisaged (20 months). In addition to the political, social and technical complexity of the
actions envisaged, there arose the difficulty of a government change a few months after
Credit effectiveness, which involved greater delays than those arising from the reforms'



APPENDIX A
Page 2 of 5
own complexity. Additionally, incremental costs for related actions were not properly
budgeted, which made their implementation difficult when needed resources were not
readily available. Equally, the institutional capacity of AFE and INA to implement the
foreseen actions in the expected short time was overestimated, which resulted in
additional delays.
5.   The outlined difficulties produced delays in the attainment of minimum goals
foreseen as disbursement conditions, which, considering the progress accomplished in
spite of it all, resulted in the agreement to three successive postponements of the credit
closing date, originally foreseen for June 30, 1995. The first postponement was for a year
and the next two were for six months each, so the final closing date was June 30, 1997.
6.  In spite of the difficulties and delays, in general terms, the mission as well as the
GOH representatives interviewed, consider that the AGSAC implementation has obtained
positive results since most of the goals and conditionalities foreseen were accomplished.
Only one of the conditionalities for the third disbursement - the case of BANADESA
disincorporation - had not been met, which caused the request from the World Bank to its
Board of Directors for the waiver of this commitment in order to disburse the third
tranche of the Credit. The observations made by the client's representatives interviewed
were mostly about the excessive number of subconditionalties and their level of detail,
that many times prevented a more flexible implementation of the program. Also pointed
out was the World Bank's excessive rotation of supervision personnel that resulted in
changes in the interpretation of some of the Credit conditionalities.
7.   Below follows a brief description of the mission's preliminary evaluation of action
areas foreseen by the AGSAC.
8.   Land Administration. Through the INA a successful land titling program has
been implemented and its progress surpasses the foreseen goals for the original closing
date, given that it has: (i) surpassed the goal of 35,000 new issued titles; (ii) completed
the cadastral work in more than 25,800 km2, more than the 30% foreseen; (iii) cancelled
activities unrelated to titling and sold assets unrelated to the activity; and (iv) reduced
personnel to less than half of the original number of staff. After a slow initial period,
caused by a lack of resources and the natural methodological adjustment that the process
was requiring, the process of titling began to accelerate to the point that, while it took two
years to issue the first 5,000 titles, in the following 18 months more than 30,000 were
issued. At present the process is being carried out successfully by the people involved in
the titling process.
9.   Forest Action Plan. In spite of some delays in the forest plan implementation, the
Government met most of the foreseen goals, although two component conditionalities
had to be modified. The number and area of the management plans of the national forests
and protected areas were reduced, and the SEMS work for the monitoring of the AGSAC
environmental impact is still to be completed. The reason that the mentioned goals were
not completed was the nonexistent cadastral information in some areas and the
complexity of implementing an effective environmental and social monitoring system as
foreseen.



APPENDIX A
Page 3 of 5
10. In regards to the design of the forest action plan, the mission considers that the
identification and delimitation of officially classified forest land (80% of the country's
land area) implied a disproportionate effort in comparison with the benefits. It would
have been more effective to concentrate efforts and scarce resources in the areas of
officially classified forest land with actual forest coverage (45% of the country's area).
At the same time, the mission understands that a need to delimit the classified forest land
would arise from the need to delimit the agricultural area which could be subject to titling
by INA. In addition, the mission believes that the current uncertainty with respect to land
possessing in forest areas was underestimated and consequently complicated the process
of forest auctions, the preparation of management plans and regularization of settlements
in said areas.
I1. Public Administration and Budgeting. The AGSAC strategy in this area was to
ensure the existence of financial and technical resources needed to comply with the
mandate of the Agricultural Modernization Law and the adjustment program. The
Government of Honduras turned in the operation plans and evaluations in a timely
manner. However, the sought effect was not totally accomplished due to the fact that the
Ministry of Economy did not always accept the budgets presented by the Agricultural
Ministry and did not provide, throughout the program, the requested resources to carry
out the foreseen actions. On the other hand, the coordination with other donors allowed,
after a significant initial delay, for donor funds to initiate the corresponding actions at an
acceptable pace.
12. Credit. The Rural Credit strategy of the program included the gradual closing of
BANADES and the creation of rural cash desks (Cajas Rurales) and a land fund, and the
implementation of incentives so that commercial banks would increase their participation
in agricultural finance. The creation of rural cash desks did not materialize and the land
fund did not get implemented because of a lack of resources. The incentives to the
commercial banks did not materialize as expected at the time of project preparation
(through temporary transaction cost subsidies to the banks), except for the submission to
the National Congress of a draft law on guarantees. It is expected that this draft law, if
approved by Congress, will contribute to promote financial markets, facilitating the use
of securities.
13. In regards to BANADESA, the World Bank and the Government of Honduras
agreed not to close the institution (since rural cash desks would not be created) and,
instead, to concentrate the activities on the small rural borrowers. Towards this end, a
plan of action was agreed, which BANADESA carried out partially. The mission
considers that although BANADESA's apparent situation is better, there is still much
more to be done in order for the institution to be financially viable to attend to its target
population.
14. During a meeting with BANADESA's authorities, BANADESA's president stated
that the design of the strategy for the rural credit program had not been adequate, since
not enough study had been done of the long-term financial viability of BANADESA,
which the institution has been demonstrating in recent years. For this reason, the closing
of BANADESA should not have been considered, nor the plan to establish in its place
rural cash desks, with which scheme he does not agree. To the contrary, he stated that the



APPENDIX A
Page 4 of 5
design was contradictory to the Law of Agricultural Modernization, which stipulated a
transfer of the Treasury to BANADESA, indicating the Government of Honduras'
intention of giving permanence to the institution.
15. On his part, the Central Bank Vice President also expressed his disagreement with
the system of rural cash desks, but concurred with the program plan regarding the closing
of BANADESA, given the financial condition of the institution when the AGSAC was
prepared. At the same time, he stated that at that time there were various initiatives in the
credit area and that it would have been better for the Government to concentrate on
consolidating these initiatives instead of creating new mechanisms.
16. However, the mission and the Government of Honduras recognize the importance
of developing a strategy for providing rural financing to small farmers and encourage the
authorities to work in the development of a global strategy instead of carrying out
isolated interventions. In this respect the Minister of Agriculture and Livestock requested
the technical support of the World Bank in order to start the preparation of a strategy for
the rural financial sector.
17. Sustainabilitv of the SAL II Reforms. In compliance with the commitments
assumed by the SAL II, except for short periods of time the freedom to export and import
agricultural products, as well as the free setting of prices in the internal market (except
for coffee), was sustained. In the case of beans and corn, to avoid distortions that could
affect nutrition security, a system of band prices has been in place, limiting interventions
to when the internal price goes out the band of prices. The role of the IHMA is limited to
the managing of a strategic reserve of the above-mentioned basic grains, while
BANASUPRO only sells some products at market prices. IHMA completed the sale of
its warehouses installations, except the one in Tegucigalpa, which would be kept to
manage the strategic reserves, and the one in San Pedro Sula, whose privatization was
stopped because of noncompliance with agreed payments by the buyer.
18. Between January 1994 and November 1996 the number of public employees in the
Central Government and in state agencies was reduced in 14%. In addition, the Law of
Public Administration approved in December 1996 limits the Government power to
create new institutions and prevents the duplication of functions in public service.
19.  Sustainability of Progress. The mission considers that the progress of the reforms
supported by the AGSAC show high probability to persist and advance in the future, due
to the following reasons: (i) a general awareness has been created in regards to the
advantage of the new political and institutional for sustainable development; (ii)
recognition of the significant value of natural resources (land and forests) represents a
strong incentive for their use and sustainable management; (iii) participation of rural
communities in the benefits from titling and resource use constitutes an assurance of
irreversibility of the initiated changes; and (iv) the implementation of projects related to
the activities initiated in the AGSAC (PAAR, State Modernization, etc., which are
financed by the World Bank, IDB, GEF and other donors), provide a framework of
permanence and intensification of the accomplishments attained.



APPENDIX A
Page 5 of 5
mI  FOLLOW-UP ACTIONS
20. Upon its return to Washington, D.C., the mission will prepare a draft final AGSAC
Completion Report, which will be sent to the GOH for its review and comments.
21. Simultaneously, the GOH (UPEG-SAG) must prepare it own evaluation of the
closing of the program, including: (i) an analysis of evolution of the budgets of the sector
institutions involved in the program; (ii) an estimate of the cost incurred by the
institutions involved in the implementation actions required by the program; (iii) the
future operational plans related to areas in which AGSAC focused its activities (cadastre
and titling, forest action plans, rural credit and sector planning and budgeting); and (iv)
identification of indicators for the monitoring of post-implementation progress, in
accordance with the World Bank guidelines given by the mission.



Appendix B
Page 1 of 5
HONDURAS
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(CR. 2540-HO)
KEY ACTIONS TAKEN AND TARGETS ACHIEVED
B.1: Land Tenure Action Plan
The Land Tenure Action Plan sought to: (a) bring about more efficient land use through
development of a stable, secure land tenure system in which the State seeks to ensure property rights,
whether public or private, thereby achieving greater investment and thus greater employment in the sector;
and (b) improve the efficiency of adjudication and titling process, with due regard for the preferences of
beneficiaries, and to speed up this process with a view to completing it at medium term, estimated at three
to four years. This latter goal would be achieved through the approval and subsequent implementation of
the regulation to the Agricultural Modernization Law and the restructuring of the Instituto Nacional
Agropecuario (INA), which would focus its activities on providing permanent titling of land to complete
the Program as quickly as possible.
ACTIONS/TARGETS                       Targets Reached by July 1, 1997
Third Tranche
(1) At least 35,000 additional land titles have been    NA issued 35,361 titles.
provided to eligible beneficiaries.
(2) Cadastral work has been completed in at least    INA finalized the cadastral work of 25,976
25% of the area without cadastre as of June 30,  km2, which covers about 30% of the area
1992.                                         without cadastre as of June 30, 1992
(3) All INA's portfolio in arrears of June 30, 1992,   INA transferred its delinquent portfolio to
arising from its land titling program under the LRA,  the Ministry of Finance, which contracted
has been privately contracted to specialized  FINACOOP to collect delinquent loans.
collection agency.
(4) Funds for the seed capital scheme budgeted  SRN has not given INA any seed capital.
within the Ministry of Natural Resources (SRN) do
not exceed 25% of NA's total budget in any
particular year.
(5) INA's work force does not exceed 800 persons   INA workforce is currently 664 permanent
staff.
(6) All INA's assets and activities not related to the   All assets and activities not related to the
land titling program have been divested.      land titling problem were divested.



Appendix B
Page 2 of 5
B.2: Forestry Action Plan
The Forestry Action Plan sought to: (i) restore forest user rights to those who could prove
ownership and introduce management plans in private forests; (ii) introduce participative forest
management plans in state forests which would also safeguard the rights of communities and settlers in
affected areas and protect their biodiversity conservation functions and amenity values; (iii) introduce
transparent and competitive procedures for the sale of timber from state forests; (iv) consolidate the
Protected Areas System and protect representative samples of all ecosystems in the country; (v) monitor
forest cover and intensify punitive efforts to discourage environmental degradation; and (vi) reform the
Honduran Forestry Development Corporation (AFE-COHDEFOR) by converting it from a commercial
forestry corporation to an agency with regulatory and advisory functions.
ACTIONS/TARGETS                     I
Third tranche                       Targets Reached by July 1, 1997
(1) Implementation of the plan to restructure AFE is  IDA and GOH agreed on a decentralization
substantially completed.                           plan which COHDEFOR started to
implement in January 1997.
(2) All Public Forestry Management Units (PFMUs) have  AFE-COHDEFOR has identified the
been identified.                                   administrative boundaries and national
forest blocks to be included in the 40 agreed
PFMUs.
(3) Finalize at least eight management plans for about  COHDEFOR completed management plans
100,000 ha of national forest, and formalize all usufruct   for 350,000 has. of national forest in less
rights of the communities in that area.            than one year, and the regulations to
formalize the usufruct rights of communities
in national forests were approved by
executive decree in March 1997. The
preliminary work necessary for the
regularization of usufruct rights of
communities in national forests was
finalized. Such preliminary work consisted
of a census of the population settled in and
around the national forests.
(4) Operational plans for at least 15 protected areas are    COHDEFOR prepared operational plans for
being established.                                 priority protected areas through a
participatory process, with grant funds from
USAID.
(5) Satisfactory execution of resettlement plans, if any.    No resettlement was necessary.
(6) Satisfactory implementation of the agreed program to   COHDEFOR completed the Social
monitor the social and environmental impact of the  Environmental Monitoring Study (SEMS)
forestry reform program.                           for which an evaluation of alternative
____________________________________________    methodologies was carried  out.



Appendix B
Page 3 of 5
B.3: Public Administration and Expenditure Action Plan
The Public Administration and Expenditure Action Plan sought to redefine the role of the State in
the agricultural sector and to improve sector planning and coordination by making more effective use of the
budgeting system to support specific priorities of the new sector policy, by: (i) strengthening sector
planning, coordination, and resource allocation and targeting, (ii) ensuring that policies, programs and
institutional structures were responsive to and supportive of the new sector policy, and (iii) improving
managerial and budgetary capacity of sector institutions.
ACTIONS/TARGETS                         Targets Reached by July 1, 1997
Third tranche
1. The POAs and budgets for 1994 (and for any other  UPSA has submitted its evaluation of the
year previously agreed between GOH and IDA) are being  POAs every year of the program, but the
executed in support of the new agricultural policy.  Secretary of Finance did not give adequate
weight to UPSA's recommendations.
Consequently, INA and COHDEFOR's
annual budgets were not adequate.
2. The annual operating plans and budgets (current  The annual operating plans and budgets for
expenditure and investments) for 1995 for the sector as a   every year of the program, and budgets were
whole, and for the sector institutions (SRN, INA, IRMA,  received and reviewed.
AFE, and BANADESA) reflect and support the sector
policies agreed under this credit and under SAL II. These
were to have been approved by the Economic Cabinet and
presented to IDA before being submitted for approval to
the Secretariat of Finance and Public Credit.
3. Satisfactory implementation of the previously agreed    SRN has hired several consultants with a
PSP to strengthen the capacity of the sector's public  USAID grant, and received additional
institutions.                                     technical assistance through
USAID/PRODEPAH. Assistance was
provided in four key areas: (i) Sector Policy
Management (policy analysis, investment
planning, budgeting, institutional
strengthening); (ii) Sector Analysis and
Budgeting; (iii) Land Titling, Cadastre,
Banking and Natural Resources Policy
Planning; and (iv) progress monitoring,
action plan follow-up and reporting.



Appendix B
Page 4 of 5
B.4: Rural Finance Action Plan
The Rural Finance Action Plan sought to help improve the efficiency of rural financial
intermediation and to increase access of small farmers to credit facilities by supporting: (i) the divestiture
of the Banco Nacional de Desarrollo Agricola (13ANADESA) from the public sector to reduce state
involvement in rural sector financing and eliminate the fiscal costs of BANADESA' s losses; (ii) the creation
of a land credit fund to enable small-scale producers to buy rural land on market terms; (iii) the creation of
private rural credit banks (Cajas Rurales) to provide quick and timely financial services in the rural sector;
(iv) the provision of incentives to the formal financial sector to expand its involvement in agricultural
credit, especially to small-scale producers; and (v) improvements to the guarantee system and the legal and
regulatory framework to effect credit contracts.
ACTIONS/TARGETS                         Targets Reached by July 1, 1997
Third tranche
(1) Progress has been       This action plan contained two important actions. One action was to
achieved in the implementation  present to Congress a bill of law on secured transactions satisfactory to
of the Agricultural Credit  the Association, which the Borrower did on November 27, 1996. The
Action Plan.                other action-- to liberalize the margins on the Central Bank rediscounts
of agricultural loans- became unnecessary with the enactment of a
revised Central Bank Law, which provided that the Central Bank had to
divest all its rediscount operations not later than July 25, 1997.
(2) Further progress has been   The Board of Directors granted a waiver to this covenant for the
achieved in the implementation  release of the third tranche.
of the action plan to divest
BANADESA.
[During project             [BANADESA reduced its assets and repaid its debt with the Central
implementation, the Bank and   Bank closed eight branches, reduced its staff by 10 percent from 1993
GOH agreed that BANADESA  to 1997, and opened 15 small offices primarily to receive deposits from
would not divest in the short   the public in rural areas where other banking services are not available.
term because small farmers  Maximum loan size for a single borrower has been limited to
would be left with inadequate   US$7,000.
financing options. IDA
worked with BANADESA to    BANADESA is in better shape than when the project started.
focus its main efforts on small  However, BANADESA cannot yet be considered a sustainable
and medium-scale farmers as a  financial institution. BANADESA's financial condition is vulnerable
leaner, more sustainable    and its portfolio arrears remain high.]
institution.1
(3) The Cajas Rurales, if in    The Cajas Rurales proposed under the project are not in operation. A
operation, are carrying out  waiver to issue the regulations for the Cajas Rurales was granted prior
their activities in accordance    to the release of the second tranche.
with the provisions of LMA,
and the legal instruments
necessary to implement its
operations, based on the
principles set forth in the Rural
Credit Action Plan



Appendix B
Page 5 of 5
ACTIONS/TARGETS                         Targets Reached by July 1, 1997
Third tranche
(4) The Special Land Credit   The Land Credit Fund is not operating.
Fund, to the extent it is
operating, is carrying out its
operations in accordance with
the provisions of Legislative
Decree No. 31-9 and the
regulations to such Legislative
Decree.



Appendix C
Page 1 of 4
HONDURAS
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(CR. 2540-HO)
BORROWER'S EVALUATION OF THE PROJECT
(Translated from Spanish)
I. PROJECT OBJECTIVES
Question A.    Although at this stage it might be difficult to accurately assess the results of the
project, kindly indicate what are the objectives that, in your opinion, have been accomplished and to
what extent.
General Project Objectives: To widen the process of policy reform in Honduras, in order to establish
the basis of a modem agricultural sector that will result in productivity
increases, as well as in new investments in traditional and non-traditional
activities.
Comments: Through the project's execution, the general objectives described above have been
accomplished in a high percentage, as a result of the establishment of a policy framework
oriented to establish a modem and dynamic agricultural sector. However, still pending is
the definition of mechanisms and instruments to consolidate the sector modernization,
which is being worked on at present.
Specific Project Objectives:
a) To develop sustainable forest resources utilization and improve natural resources management.
Comments: As a result of the forest policy implementation, currently the forest resource is being
utilized largely under the application of management plans, which allow rational and
sustainable utilization. A ministry has recently been created for the management of natural
resources.
b) To improve land utilization methods and guarantee the security of private property rights.
Comments: The land policy emphasizes land titling with the purpose of extending credit to the land
owners to guarantee a more efficient usage of adjudicated land, and to secure private
property rights. In addition, the transaction procedures have been reduced and are more
transparent.
c) To improve financial intermediation with regard to agricultural credit and to reduce the fiscal deficit
caused by subsidies, interest rates, and lack of credit discipline.
Comments: The operations of the National Bank for Agricultural Development (BANADESA) were
reoriented to rural zones, with the opening of branches in areas without the presence of



Appendix C
Page 2 of 4
commercial banks, and to the small and medium producers. There has been a financial and
operational stabilization of BANADESA, specifically in the stabilization of the portfolio
and personnel reduction.
d) To improve the definition of work programs and budget planning of the public sector institutions.
Comments: Since the approval of the Agricultural Modernization Law in 1992, the SAG Planning Unit
has adopted a sector wide outlook, incorporating operational plans and budgets in the
agricultural public sector institutions in a consolidated document that is consistent with the
new framework of agricultural policies. Therefore, this objective is being largely
accomplished.
Question B.    In your opinion, are there any objectives that do not have any possibility of being
accomplished? If the answer is affirmative, why?
The original project was seeking the disincorporation of the National Bank for Agriculture and
Development (BANADESA) and putting in its place Rural Cash Desks [Cajas Rurales] and a Land
Fund.
Because the funding expected under the laws regarding Rural Cash Desks and Land Funds did not
materialize, in the case of BANADESA it was decided in conjunction with the World Bank and the
Inter-American Development Bank to orient BANADESA toward operations in rural zones where
there is not a commercial banks presence.
The operation of Rural Cash Desks, under current legislation, is very difficult, because it would require
a very high fiscal contribution, which would put the state finances in a precarious situation. However,
there are initiatives from the international community towards the creation of Rural Cash Desks.
II. PROJECT DESIGN AND EXECUTION
Question A.    Which aspects of the project's global design contributed the most to the success
and/or failure of the project? Why?.
In our opinion, the project's global design has contributed to the accomplishment of the project's
objectives and to agriculture in general. Its focus on critical policy areas (land property, agricultural
credit, agricultural marketing and forest resources) is oriented to solving the sector problems in an
integrated way. In addition, the reform process is being complemented with new projects financed by
Bank in the areas of creation and transfer of technology and state modernization.
Question B.    Which aspects of the project's execution contributed the most to the successes
and/or failures? Why?
The most outstanding aspect that made the project's execution easier was the establishment of an
action plan for each policy area, which clearly specified each involved institution's responsibilities,



Appendix C
Page 3 of 4
goals and timeframe set for its accomplishment. The work of monitoring and following up by the Bank,
as well as by the SAG Planning Unit, should also be mentioned.
Question C.    Were there major problems during project execution? If so, which were the
problems and what measures have been taken to try to solve them? Were the measures successful?
There has been a certain level of resistance to the policy reforms proposed in the sector adjustment
program, mainly due to lack of technical knowledge of the new agricultural policies and their overall
purpose. This is the result of the constant change of actors who do not have the background, nor the
necessary knowledge of what led to the agricultural sector adjustment program.
Question D.    As a result of the project, has the institutional capacity of the institutions and
participating agencies been strengthened? If yes, how?
In some cases the project's participating institutions and agencies have been strengthened with the
execution of the various technical instruments generated by the program application, such as State
Corporation for Forest Management (AFE/COHDEDOR) and the National Agrarian Institute (INA).
In the case of AFE/COHDEFOR the institution has been strengthened by the provision of financial
resources and technical personnel for the creation of management and control plans and the supervision
of protected areas; and, in the case of INA, it is receiving support to complete the process of land
titling through cadastral surveys and the modernization of property registry mechanisms with the
implementation of the Rural Land Management Project (PAAR).
Question E.    Were there events outside the control of those responsible for project execution that
adversely affected the project and its probability to attain its development objectives? If the answer is
affirmative, please explain.
The project design did not consider the lack of some of the basic instruments necessary for the
fulfillment of the conditionalities, such as the lack of a complete cadastre at the national level that
would allow carrying out massive land titling and the definition of the proper land use designation in
agricultural and forestry areas. In addition, the absence of complete technical infrastructure in the state
forest administration did not permit the exploitation of the national forests to be carried out through the
management plans, nor there was an exact definition of the national and private forest lands to establish
possession. In addition, at the time of the state storage facilities sale, prospective buyers made offers
below the market value, and in some cases there were no bids.
The establishment of the Rural Land Management Project (PAAR) should help answer these problems
in the diverse areas supported by the AGSAC.
m. BANK PERFORMIANCE
Question A.    During project preparation and execution stages, how satisfactory was the Bank's
performance? Was the Bank and skillful and efficient administrator? Did it offer sound and timely
advice? Did it maintain an effective dialogue with the executing body and with the institutions or
agencies that participated in the project?



Appendix C
Page 4 of 4
In our opinion the Bank's performance was sound and satisfactory for the fulfillment of each of the
commitments through the use of an almost permanent communication among all the institutions
involved, especially the SAG Planning Unit, which acted as coordinator of the entire process.
Question B.    What important impact -if any-was the Bank's performance on the project's
results?
The Bank contributed significantly to attaining the project's positive results through its perseverance
and presence in each of the project areas.
IV. LESSONS LEARNED
Question A.    With respect to the Bank's performance in this project, what lessons can be drawn
that can be used to improve future projects? If there are, which are they?
It is important that the Bank considers the inclusion of detailed action plans per component for
future projects. An action plan gives clarity and facilitates the assignment of responsibilities to an
institution or group of people for the fulfillment of their commitments. This would be a good
project execution strategy.
Question B.    Are there additional comments or recommendations on the project and/or the Bank
that should be mentioned and/or should be taken into consideration in future projects?
Projects of this type in the future should consider a strong component of dissemination and training
of the participants from the various institutions involved in order to obtain their support and thereby
facilitate the project's execution.



